 [?] Equal pay week I jSj here again j jQUAL Pay Week is on the . agenda again. Coming ud in May, and sponsored by the ACTU, Trades and Labor Coun cils in each State are making .this the main topic of discus sion and trade union activity. One big metal factory in Sydney has observed the male rate for women since the war. Now another factory seeking female employees for the first time, has agreed to pay them the minimum male rate. A CAR worth three homes! That's the new model £12,500 Mercedes Benz, reported In a Sunday newspaper last week. One Sydney buyer, say the agents, is the Chairman of Rothman's the multi-million cigarette monopoly bas ed on cheap apartheid labor in South Africa, from whose sweat and suffer ing comes "money to burn." It's said that Mercedes only sells to approved customers in the "upper crust". At that price, certainly no African worker— or Australian worker — could even put the deposit down. e TN the long, humane struggle to free women from continuous child bearing or suffering the equally cruel frustration of married celibacy, two women led the way. Margaret Sanger and Marie S topes were advocating family planning long before the First World War, These courageous women will long | be remembered, as will the stubborn, | "and inhuman .. attitude of certain | Churches on this question. | . ... | yyiTH a French Presidential elec- | only six months away, te Gaulle | has already started to woo the nation's i 17 million eligible women voters, who | .incidentally outnumber the men by | two and a half million. j Under a proposed new bill, a mar J ried woman for the first time can take a job, open a bank account with out her husband's permission. Choose her children's school, retain her personal possessions if there is a divorce and cancel his plans to sell her property. TIME has been extended in West Germany to net Nazi murderers and murderesses so far not brougn to justice. But let's hope no more ar acquitted as were the 14 femaleswn i had worked as nurses at the I aide mental hospital in Brandenburg- i Between therm these miserao i creatures killed 8C0 adults and cnu' I dren fhoCP I Whimpering and sniffling, tn | criminals said they were only earn" n ing out orders and this defence w | accepted by the court. . I "What about the' reaction today | West German communities, w«r | such people live after having Sot | scot free? They are by no mearw | ostracised. In fact it's more of a | grace"' to have been a conjuration | camp inmate, witnesses- said' I 