 IBBBBWBHI1 A KEY ISSUE IN COLLAROY ! SYDNEY: "A key issue in f-he Collaroy State electorate I is the need for a railway for Warringah. j "This has been talked about for years", said Mrs. | I Elfrida Mo r com, the Commuroisf candidate for Collaroy, j J ""R. t I | Mrs. Morcom is standing against the leader of the j I Liberal Party, Mr. R. Askin. I While all parties support the railway the sincerity of the Liberals can be gauged by lead ing Liberal politicians like W. C. Wentworth refusing to serve on a local committee to cam- 1 paign for it, because there were I two Communists on it. I The Collaroy electorate com- I prises about half of Warringah 1 Shire, which has a total popu- Ilation of 113 thousand. The Warringah Shire is serv- ed only by motor transport, ! buses and private cars. ! As new land becomes avail- I able the population steadily I increases at the. rate of more | than 1,000 per year, and the J transport position becomes I worse. There are constant j traffic jams in peak hours. | Full buses sail past waiting S passengers while many passen- | gers have to stand for the 5 whole Journey. Out of peak hours, buses are few and far | between. | A railway is a necessity be- | fore roads become completely ! choked. I In socialist countries, when new residential areas are planned, railways, roads, trans- I port, sewerage and other I amenities are established first, I houses and flats are built later. | Under capitalism houses | come first and then comes the I struggle for amenities. A railway would be more ef- ficient, safer and cheaper, j especially for school children I who travel free on the railways j but not on the buses. j The Railway for Warringah j Committee, which I am at member of, is not concerned I with the merits and demerits I of particular railway systems j or with difficulties of resuming j expensive residential land. Its job is to show that some sort of .railway feasible ..to .press I for its construction, and to I leave the rest to the experts, j 