 [?] than the Olympics What the Soviet workers are doing with ,, j electric power . . . 1 AV. yyf By Alt Watt, Tribune's Moscow correspondent who has personally investigated vast Siberian construction works. ELSCTE3G power galore : . . slnioci force vl'/.ics tEcc pre- scr? Ut:ive&lt;J SIg-Jcs oufi'p'J'3 by 1930 . . . almes J as nuxii again as 'lie res/ ct «"ie world gectcra-'cd !n 19j3 . . 10 times as m'jcli as the Soviet Union itself generated in I960 . . . This is a hey target the Soviet people have set them selves in building the material and technical basis of a Com munist society. Siberia, whose vast and icy ex panses are fabulously rich in hydro power potential and coal, is to play a major role in this dazzling plan. The United States is also putting its best foot forward, for between the two giants there is a race for suprem acy in the field of energetics. "America is still ahead of us," grey- haired, quietly-spoken Konstantin Knaysev, director of the Bratsk hydro power station, whose father was ex iled to Siberia after the 1905 revolu tion, said to me. But tor how long will it keep its lead? United States production has doubled in the last 10 years, but Soviet production has trebled, and it has moved up. from 24 per cent, to 38 per cent, of the American figure. (At the same time it is worthy of note that Soviet industrial production has moved up to 65 per cent, of the U.S. total.) Vhal does it mean? What does this race for supremacy in energetics mean to mankind? Knaysev discussed this question with me as we stood looking up at the towering dam of the Bratsk station: "If we are to win in the peaceful competition with capitalism we must generate more electricity more cheaply than it can," he said. The Bratsk station is the biggest in the world. With a capacity of 4,500,000 kilowatts, it is more than twice as big as the Grand Coulee, and its out put will cost less per KWH. Knaysev recalled Lenin's words that victory will go to the social system that reaches the highest labor produc tivity, and then stressed that in Bratsk, for the first time, the whole industrial complex will produce more cheaply than any in the United States. "Not only in isolated enterprise," he pointed out, "but the whole com plex, the hydro power plant itself, the aluminium plant, wood processing factory, and the big iron ore refinery at nearby Zheleznogorsk will produce more cheaply than the U.S. Modern industry requires huge quantities of cheap energy, because petro chemicals, wood chemicals, coal chemicals and fertilizers, ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy are terrific consumers of power. I The highly complex machinery that will produce everything from soap, textiles, durable consumer goods and housing, to spaceships, in such quanti ties that, under Socialist control, work ing hours can be reduced to five and four a day and still provide an abund ance to satisfy the needs of man, literally eats and ks electricity. Automatic jpBant "The greatest cost in aluminium is electricity," Knaysev continued, 'and most of the Bratsk output will be used by the automatic plant now being constructed. "It will be the biggest aluminium plant in existence'," he said, and "to gether with the smaller but equally modern factory at Irkutsk, we will be able to supply the European market. British buyers have already said they will place their orders with us." The wood processing factory is an other giant that will operate on Bratsk electricity. Another is to be built near Lake Baikal, and the world produc tion of cord cellulose, for which, Knay sev stressed, there is a growing de mand, will be doubled. Besides cord' cellulose, the Bratsk plant will produce wood alcohol, food yeast for cattle, cardboard, plywood, building timber, joinery and furniture. To feed it, timber will have to be cut from 50,000 acres a year, but. while reafforestation will proceed alongside felling the resources are so great that the timber consumed will be only one- third of the natural growth in the Irkutsk region, which is as big as N.S.W. Clearly, electricity, sometimes called White Gold, means wealth, and the Soviet people are pushing ahead with their plans at great speed. 100 power stations One hundred power stations are cur rently under construction. By 1980. their stations will have an aggregate capacity of over 540 million kW, gen erating annually almost 3,000,000 mil lion KHW of energy. Much of it will come from the new electric suns being built in icy Siberia. There is something romantic, some thing that catches the imagination, about big and difficult construction. Australians, stirred by the unique and difficult features of the Snowy scheme, will be stirred, too. by the plans for the gigantic. 20 million kW Nizhnelenskaya station to be built on the lower reaches of the mighty Lena. Let me add, only to help give an idea of its size, that its capacity will be three times as great as the combined capacity of all Australian power stations. Their interest will be aroused, too, by -the design of the new Sayanski station, to be built on the Yenesi near where Lenin was exiled. Its dam, instead of being thrown straight across the river and holding back the waters by its own strength, will be in the form of a giant arch with an 1,800 foot radius, designed to throw the weight of the waters against the surrounding mountains. Hunting region They, will admire the construction of two small — less than one million kilowatt — stations being built on the Khantaika and Vilyvi Rivers, in God forsaken spots where only occasional hunters used to go, and where because of the permafrost and the very severe climate the hydropower plants are to be housed in tunnels cut through solid rock at a level lower than the river bed. The first will supply additional power to the northern Norilsk mining and metallurgical combine, the second will enable the Yakutian diamond in dustry to go full steam ahead. Two other stations, big but not as big as the Nizhnelenskaya giant, are scheduled for the Lena; two more the size of Bratsk will span the Angara, as well as the five million kW Kras noyarsk station there will be four others, of six million kW capacity each, on the Yenesi. In southern Yakutia, where big coal and iron deposits have been found, a 3,500,000 kW station will be built on the Aldan River, with some smaller ones in the district's mountain gorges. Stations with a' total capacity of 4 million kW are planned for the Katun, a tributary of the Ob. Five stations with a total capacity of 5 million kW will be built on the Vitim, a tributary of the Lena. Another three will be built on the Kolyma, in the far north-east of Siberia. And that list does not exhaust the plans. On the map of Siberia in the Hydropower Research Institute there are dozens of small and big circles marking the sites of plants-to-be. Power from hydro stations is cheaper than that produced by the coal burners, but the plants cost more and take longer to build, So, because the Soviet people are in a hurry, more big thermo plants will be built in the 20 years than hydro stations. Brown cocaS basin Siberia's most spectacular contribu tion will be on the West Siberian brown coal basin, stretching for hund reds of miles along the Trans-Siberian railway, where about 10 big plants with an aggregate capacity of over 40 million kilowatts will be sited. They will supply power to Urals in dustry, to a chemical, engineering and non-ferrous metal industry being plan ned for the area itself, as well as feeding into the all-Union grid that will be completed by 1971. Konstantin Knaysev is a hydro man, and it was with a touch of regret that he said, "We know that the future belongs to atomic power." But he ! brightened as he added, "We can't: j wait for that, we must build now." j And the Soviet people are building j at a rate that is more vividly apparent : in Siberia than elsewhere. In fact, the ' overall rate of development is three j times greater in Siberia than in the ! European part of the U.S.S.R. I They are building for the future, ! bringing frequently to my mind the j statements of many, "the more we do ; today, the more we have tomorrow." ! That is the essence of the race with : the "private enterprise" systems of ! the West. j They are out to prove that, in build ing the material and technical basis i of Communism, they are using the progress of science and engineering, the natural wealth and resources, more effectively for the people than capitalism can ever do. "THE stafor of ihe first 530,000 I kilowatt generator ' made by machine-builders of the ELEKTRO- SILA works in Leningrad for the hydropower station in Krasnoyarsk. The water-cooling system used by this stator, instead of the usual air- cooling system, has made it more economical to run. .Note two men standing inside it (TASS photo). 