 Soviet reply on demo, in Moscow From ALF WATT MOSCOW: The first Soviet comment on the March 4 demonstration outside the US Embassy here was. published ' in Fravda on March 13. MEANWHILE there had been a big Chinese campaign j accusing the USSR of support j for US imperialism and of bru- 1 tality against Chinese and Viet- i namese demonstrators. , The published note, from foreign Minister Gromyko to the Chinese j ambassador said that the Chinese J piopaganda barrage distorted the facts. T The Chinese had even organised a demonstration against the Soviet embassy in Peking on March 6, a step that had no precedent in the history of relations between social ist countries. s Gromyko referred to the practical help given by the USSR to strength en Vietnam's defences, to the Gov- einnient statements and mass meet- i mgs exposing and denouncing the 1 US aggressors. "The Chinese Government knows I weU that international law 1 piaces a responsibility on all govern- g ments to ensure the safety of diplo- matic missions in their countries, v Grmyk0 noted that in all the I history 0f the People's Republic o'l -I Cn|na the Chinese authorities had | allowed any demonstration iinat threatened damage to imperi austic embassies The March 4 events showed tha&lt;- Peparations had earlier been made provoke people to use forces '3th the foreign embassy th'- representatives of Soviet Power. Soviet militiamen requested er,n 1 1 mnstrators in a correct and vnn rnored manner not to -go be- 4trac the limits of political demon " d-mUt l:he. Chinese citizens in cue i I dirertliF113 mad an organised. 5 | ktn attack on the militia, struck fj enp-l'l ,them shouted insults and e ! tlv»ve-i er actions for which fkl " should have been taken so pi its h .j court. (Eight people were in fact taken to a militia station and re leased without being charged after two hours there). Provocative elements brought sticks, iron rods, stones and sharp instruments with them and used them against the militia. Over 30 militia and military men in charge of public order suffered seriously four with serious wounds. Gromyko said that, to support their - version of the so-called sup pression of the demonstration, the Chinese Embassy had organised a MA... « 4-1A.1 uni. AV A A 1A A Tl A4- new uubuuiou UJ. viuiciiee in me JDUL- kin Hospital, Moscow. A letter from the directors and doctors and wardmaids of the hos pital complained of "scandalous" out bursts by a group of Chinese stu dents who came to the hospital at 10.25 p.m., several hours after the demonstration finished. The doctors insisted on an ex amination but could not find any serious wounds needing hospitalisa tion. Gromyko said: "These actions oi the Chinese authorities can help nobody but those who want to see a worsening of relations between the two countries, but believing that our common interests are above all else and striving for an improve ment in relations, the Soviet Gov ernment have no intention of tak ing a similar road. He rejected a note from the Chinese embassy as being withouv, proof, using intolerable language. The Soviet Note demanded that the Chinese embassy take all neces sary steps to prevent a repetition 01 similar acts. Gromyko notified the Chinese embassy that in future all breaches of public order and all disturbances no matter who organises them, wu) be decisively stopped and the guilt v people taken to court in accordant with Soviet law 