 Lively issues in Cronulla poll campaign SYDNEY: With six candidates nominated in the Cronulla riding by-election for the Sutherland Shire Council, great interest is developing in the outcome. APART from the Communist candidate (Mr. Alex Elphin- sron; mere are candidates Trom the ALP (Mr. R. Thorburn), Ratepayers' Committee (Mr. J. Weir) and three Independents (Messrs. K. Hewson, A. Molanis and H. Spurway) . The Communist candidate's vigor ous campaign is centred around the growing arrogance of the present Council majority. The recent decision of Council to support the breaching of a pro claimed area by erection of flats has aroused widespread public oppo sition. A petition launched by the Com munist candidate has received the support of 85 per cent of the resi dents of the area concerned. Many residents said how pleased they were that someone has taken up the question. It was pointed out that parti cular councillor with a financial in terest in the flats project had to leave the Council meeting during the discussion. I As a result of the petition, the local riding councillor has now given assurances of getting sufficient sup port in the next council meeting to oppose the proposal. However, in a bulletin to local resi dents, the Communist candidate has urged the utmost vigilance and attend ance of all residents at the next Council meeting on June 28. This however is only one of many questions now agitating the minds of Sutherland Shire ratepayers. The many occasions recently on which Councillors have been com pelled to leave the Council Chambers (because of their financial interest in the matter being discussed) is causing concern. At a street meeting on Saturday, Communist Party policy was attract ing increased support. The policy called for rate reductions through Federal aid, a full program of work planned in conjunction with people's organisations, opposition to the use of Council by vested interests, full rebates of rates to pensioners, adequate playing fields, youth centres, vacation play centres and other ameni ties. It was pointed out that many of these things could be achieved only by united action to win a peaceful foreign policy, control monopolies and in the struggle for socialism. Mr. Elphinson also launched on Saturday a Shire-wide petition for more recreation and play areas for young people. in this snire, tne number of young people under 21 is about 30 per cent of the population. Many people queued up to sign the petition and over 200 signatures were obtained on the spot. ! At the same time, six sellers sold I 19 Tribunes and £3 in donations was ! given or promised. Two new Tribune sales points have been established, one of them by a new member of the party. Need help The Cronulla Communist campaign director (Mr. T. Holley) said this week that with polling day only a few weeks away (July 3), the cam paign needed increased support. He asked supporters to come from other areas to help at street meet ings each Saturday in Cronulla, a mass doorknock canvas on next Sun day, June 20 (meeting at Woolooware station), leafleting teams, and on polling day itself. Telephone 523-4487 for details. The meeting next Saturday is at Cronulla Commonwealth Bank Cham bers, at 10 a.m. Mr. A. Elphinston 