 UNIONS PROTEST ON RAIDS in VIETNAM [?] [?] Powerful organs of the Australian labor movement have answered the repeated American bombing of Vietnam towns by demanding a peaceful settlement and an end to Intervention. They reflect- an international wave of revulsion at- the American attempts to spread the war, in which only the Men- zies Government and the puppet Khanh regime have openly approved US actions. At the same time in Australia, a new extreme rightist conspiracy aimed at collaring the Australian Labor Party and binding it fully to aggressive war policies, has broken into the open (see Page 2). The Labor Councils of New South Wales, Newcastle, the NSW South Coast and Western Australia are among the trade unioh organisations which last week called for a Vietnam peace settlement. The NSW Labor Council unanimously called for the ending of all forms of foreign intervention in Vietnam and establishment of the right of the , Vietnamese people to manage their own affairs. It called on the Menzies Government to support the ces sation of hostilities in Vietnam. The Australian Council of Trade Unions is asked to "immediately approach the Federal Government for instant action by the Prime Minister in support of. world leaders who have urged Britain and the Soviet Union, as co-chairmen of the 1954 Geneva Conference on Indo-China, to initiate talks immediately". Council expressed its "deep concern at the danger of world war arising from recent events in Vietnam". Its action was sponsored by the NSW executive of the Building Workers' Industrial Union. The Newcastle Trades Hall Coun cil unanimously called for the with drawal of al foreign troops from Vietnam, the end of military hos. tilities and the negotiation of a peaceful political solution to the pro blem, based on the Geneva Agree ment of 1954. The Western Australian Labor Council expressed alarm at the sit uation, called for a cessation of hostilities and requested the ACTU to demand that governments take action towards a Geneva settlement. Other WA actions were those of the Painters and Dockers and the Union of Australian women mem bers and friends. NSW South Coast organisations actively protesting included the Lab or Council, peace committee, and unions of wharf ies, building work ers, miscellaneous workers, painters and seamen. The NSW Peace Committee has circularised all members and sup porters urging them to write to poli-r tical leaders and newspapers calling for peace. "Hit hard. Hit hard again. This is the shortest way to sanity!" ("Sun day Telegraph", Sydney, February 141 &lt; 