 Some good programs on off-peak periods [?] By EILEEN ALLISON T"HE programs to be seen dur- ing the off-peak viewing periods on Sydney channels usually are not very attractive, but a few are worth watching. On Sundays, ABC-TV offers at 4.15 p.m. "University, of the Air" (The Study of Man), and at 1 p.m. there is the repeat showing of "4 Corners". From Monday to Friday at 5 p.m. TCN-9 has "The Samurai", a half-hour series from Japan. Although this is dubbed with American voices it is a well-directed action film with a mini mum of dialogue. ABC-TV has an English comedy pro gramme, "Two of a Kind", on Tuesdays at 6.25 p.m. This is well scripted and very funny in the English tradition of comedy. "Quest -Under Capricorn" (ABC-TV, Sundays, 6.30 p.m.) is a series produced by David Attcnborough for the BBC. The films are about people in Northern Australia and the wild life found in this region. It is an exceptionally inter esting and well-made series. A programme called "Look" (ABC- TV, Wednesdays at 6.25 p.m.), made by well-known naturalists for the BBC, is also intensely interesting, telling of animal and bird life in different part of the world. These adult programmes are very suitable for children. Most of the American comedy scries are not worth watching; they follow a set pattern of situation and character which are familiar and dull. However, "The Lucy Show" (Channel 9, Mondays at 8.30 p.m.) is an excep tion. The farcical situations are expert ly handled by Lucille Ball and her partner in fun, Vivian Vance. The pro gramme is hilariously funny with a Chaplincsquc quality. The "Moscow State Circus" (ABC-TV last Saturday night) was a fast-moving programme of acts given by the superb performers of this famous troupe. This film, made during its British tour, is excellent entertainment. If you missed it last Saturday, make certain of catch ing up with the repeat. Better still, phone the ABC and ask when it will be next shown. Reg Lyc, who was trained at New Theatre, Sydney, during the late 40's and remembered for his excellent per formance in the Elizabethan Theatre's production of "One Day of the Year", had a field day last Saturday night when he appeared in two British TV shows. He gave an excellent comedy per formance in the police series "No Hiding Place" (TCN-9, 9.30 p.m.) and earlier in "The Saint" (ATN-7, 7.30 p.m.) he appeared with many other well-known Australians, including Grant Taylor, Dick Bentley and Ray Barrett. In fact, the cast in this latter show was a strong comment on the loss that Australian stage and television has suf fered by the exodus of our artists over seas. 