 I WH ARTIES PROTEST | gYDNEY: Since last I Thursday, Sydney wat- 1 erside workers have been 1 penalised more than 1 £45,500 in loss of attend- I ance money payments by | the Stevedoring Industry I Authority. I The heavy fines followed walk- offs in protest against the Authority's failure to insist that shipowners provide replacements to allow ships to be worked by the normal number of men required. Last Thursday the Authority fined 4,000 men six days' attend ance money, or £8/9/6 a man, for a port stoppage on July 7 in pro test against heavy fines imposed on 200 members. On Monday of this week a further 1300 men. were penalised I a total of £11,000. The whole Sydney member ship is hostile against the im position of the "hostage" penalty against almost 500 men. Most of these men were given three days' suspension from w&lt;yk and must remain on suspension without pay until the port is free of any dispute for three days. Sydney Branch secretary of the Waterside Workers' Federation (Mr. T. Nelson) said these men, contrary to all common justice, are -being held as "industrial hos tages" for a period which has | no defined limit. | "Men originally suspended for B three days have already lost | 10 days' work' through this dia bolical penalty. "This system is inevitably compared with methods used by the Nazis in occupied countries during the second world war. "Such parallel is unavoidable since in the industrial sphere there exists no precedent for Continued on Page 12 PHOTO shows wharfies on their | way to protest to the Australian I Stevedoring Authority in Sydney. 1 Wharfies protest Continued from Page 1 such measures against trade unionists," Mr. Nelson said. Last Friday 200 of these "hos tages" marched through the city to the plush offices of the Authority's chairman (Mr. Hood). I A deputation which met the chairman accused the authority of deliberately planning to pro voke a port-wide stoppage. I Mr. Hood said he thought the imposition of penalties would | help establish "peace on the I waterfront." I The men being held as "host- I ages" have set up a committee g to organise workshop and factory I meetings throughout Sydney and | produce leaflets. 1 I Other members of the Sydney I Branch of the Federation have 8 levied themselves 10/- to pro- 1 vide wages for the men. | The committee is also asking I for financial assistance from other unions. A leaflet issued by the Sydney waterside workers said that in I the last month members in Melbourne and Sydney have been "robbed of over £150,000 in per sonal fines." "The ASIA (an arm of the Menzies Government) in attack ing Australian workers in this way, is acting as an agent of the overseas-owned and con trolled shipping monopolies. "These combines not only ex ploit waterfront employees but in fact exploit the whole Aus tralian community. "They force freights up 'to what the traffic will bear', dam aging primary producers, export ers, and consumers, and as a smokescreen smear their em ployees who resist their labour 1 reductions and speed-ups." I The leaflet shows that &lt; from J 1955 to 1963 freight charges have increased from £200 million to £430 million. Dufing the same period wages paid to waterside workers have decreased from £22.2 mil lion to £20.8 million and the ton nage of cargo handled has in creased by about seven million tons. 