 AN ASSESSMENT OF "The Lucky Country" [?] From MALCOLM SALMON in Melbourne According to press reports, Donald Home's book, The Lucky Country, registered record sales over the holiday period. I do not think it is hard to see why. Whether one "agrees" with this book or not, it is a noteworthy attempt to define the Australian national condi tion in the 'sixties, and an authentic part of the quest for new and viable concepts of our relations with one another and with the world. Given this fact, plus an attractive presentation, a butter-up-youv-rcaders kind of title (there are few things more pleasurable for individuals or for nations than to be called "lucky"), and a shrewdly-timed prc-Xmas re lease, its success would seem to have been assured. I do not propose to write a review of Home's book, but merely to suggest some ideas as to how it might be approached: it is selling well still, and ' is likely to continue to do so for some time. Donald Home is a representative of the new group of post-war Aus tralian intellectuals who, in contrast : to most Australian intellectuals who grew up in the 'thirties, stand to the political right. (Where the intellectuals of the 'thirties went hatless, Donald Home and his friends wear pork-pie : titfers.) Indeed, Home's credentials as a man of monopoly are impressive. He is a former editor of Sir Frank Pack er's Bulletin, and present co-editor of Quadrant, journal of the U.S. spon sored Congress for Cultural Freedom. Of course, people on the left are at perfect liberty to write off this group and all their works as hope lessly reactionary; some do just that. But it seems that a rather more constructive approach, an endeavour to consider their work on its merits, is more in keeping both with principle and with the actual social influence exercised in modern Australia by the opponents of the left with whom we are concerned. Donald Home's The Lucky Country is an essay in what might be called impressionistic sociology. Like the rest of his work, it is brash, bright and opinionated. But having said that, it should at once be added that much of the brightness is real insight, and many of the opinions of real value; the radicalism of this "right wing radical" is not all camouflage. Take his appraisal of Australia's role in its international environment: "Despite its internal democracy, Aus tralia plays an aristocratic role in the society of Asia — rich, self-centred, frivolous, blind . . ." Or his prescription for the future: ". . . To take our ideology of f rater- nalism seriously, and apply it to Asians could lead to a creative awakening among Australians." Or look at this picture of the Cab inet underlings of Australia's only Knight of the Thistle, "who jostle for honours with some of the energy of nobles in a petty German court in the eighteenth century . . ." Perhaps the unifying theme of Home's book is an attack on our national characteristic of amateurish ness, the "she'll do" mentality which, for all that it is historically evolved, is becoming increasingly anachronistic. In castigating Australians for this quality, he is caustic, snobbish, and as arrogant as the same Sir Robert Menzics whom he takes so eloquently to task for arrogance. But none of this detracts from the validity of his point for -all of us, whether our loyalties are to the right, left or centre of the political world. Home's attempt to generalise our national situation — our strategic en vironment and the manner in which we are (or are not) meeting the de mands of the new technology — has value in itself. Despite its rightist centre of gravity, its implicit assumption of the "natural ness" of monopoly rule, the picture it paints of modern Australia is, for this reader at least, highly recognis able. For people of the left it should not, it seems to me, be seen as some thing to be rubbished, but rather as a stimulus — a challenge from a good performer on the opposition side which we can only meet by doing the same job better. In fact the only lomparable piece of work to which the left can point is Brian Fitzpatrick's The Australian Commonwealth. But that work, for all its great merit, is already eight years old. 