 The fiasco of 'Nasho' llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll (By Roger Milliss, who was one of them . . .) "IlilllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllM IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1IIIIIIIIIIII11I1IM Late in 1964 there was wide opposition,, especially by young people, to the Government's decision for 2-year conscription of 20- year-olds to fight in wars of intervention in S.E. Asia or elsewhere As their registration date approaches, the opposition will grow Below, a timely article recalls . . . JN case there's anyone, young or old, who thinks that Sir Robert the Thistle's conscription for over seas is really aimed at defending the nation and preserving peace, the recollections of . a veteran of ... the Grey Eminence's previous scheme for the war-indoctrination , of Australia's youth may help to dispel a few illusions. I was inducted into the 13th National Service Training Battalion in January, 1953, and, together with about 1,000 other equally unwilling . 18-year-olds, embarked upon 14 weeks' "basic training" at Ingleburn Camp to save Australia from the Red Threat — with a bit of the Yellow Peril thrown in by innuendo for good measure. It was a difficult time. Cold-war hysteria was at its height. Two years earlier, in 1950, Ming the Merciless had gazed into his crystal ball and confidently predicted "war within three years." According to his sched ule, we trainees were approaching the Year of the Big Bang. It never came. But we were obliged to play our part in trying to make it happen. Left, right, ieft . . ./ We marched up and we marched down. We got rid of World War II surplus ammunition by firing it in great quantities but with little ac curacy at other trainees' targets. We almost suffocated in obsolete gas masks running around a gas-filled room carrying full gear. We threw grenades at terrified random out of insecure pits. We listened wearny to unsubtle war propaganda that masqueraded as the C.O.'s Hour. We slept through Church Parades because the alterna tive, as the more intrepid discovered through bitter experience was an hour's heavy gardening. Point, withdraw . . ./ And we learnt the delicate art of slaying with the bayonet. Two inches kills a man. Thrust, withdraw and put in the hoot as he goes down. Our instructors — mostly Korean veterans — exhorted us to greater things by yelling "Kill them Chinks", and we imagined that the sandbag into which we plunged the blade was a man. After eight weeks, we'd finished the basic course — with six weeks to go. For the rest of the time, we re hearsed for the Brigade, Gymkhana, carried rocks and broke rocks, white washed everything in sight and con structed various amenities for the Regular Army Men. It was widely believed that had we been in camp for another fortnight we would have completed the Officers' Golf Course. I myself, after being thrown out of the Battalion Physical Exercise Squad for a congential inability to keep in time, spent four weeks help ing to make an ornamental fish pond outside Company Headquarters, from which, when it was first filled, the water emptied as quickly . as it entered. Finally and thankfully, we put on civilised clothes again and walked back into the normal world, a little more hitter; a little more cynical, and a hell of a lot more unwilling. The Fantasians But the highlight of my service as a reluctant infantryman was un doubtedly the subsequent compul- sory annual C.M.F. camps with the Sydney University Regiment. These three-week circuses followed a regular pattern. Each year about March, the mythical Fantasians in vaded Australia and swept over the continent, taking in the course of a few weeks Darwin, Alice Springs, Perth, Adelaide and Brisbane, and then converging near Newcastle for the final onslaught southwards to Sydney and Melbourne. Here, at Singleton, the S.U.R. and a few other units made a valiant last ditch stand, completely routing the enemy with out fail and thus liberating the country from foreign yoke. . The Fantasians themselves, though never precisely identified, were gen erally acknowledged to come from the Far North, to have yellowish complexions and to be of Commun ist persuasion. Even then there was little doubt as to where Australia's "defence" was to take place: the rain-forest area around Singleton had been specially chosen as most closely resembling the jungle conditions of Asia. The gentle art . . The few days before the manoeuv res the troops spent practicing a cunning kind of passive resistance against which the pleadings and in timidations of "conchie" officers and N.C.O.'s were of no avail. One soldier, now a successful Sydney lawyer, achieved undying fame by overturning three bren-gun carriers in a dry creek bed in three days. Others "lurked" all day after morn ing parade in the bush, or occasion ally went A.W.L. and undiscovered for a day or two hitch-hiking. The approach of the counter offen sive against the Fantasians cast an air of gloom over the camp. In an effort to avert the imminent ten days' playing the fool in the bush, the troops gathered in large numbers on the parade ground at night for corroboree-style rain-making cere monies, flinging themselves to their knees with loud incantations to "Send 'er down, Hughie!" Real casualties One of the rare occasions when Hughie did actually send her down resulted in tragedy. In 1954, torren tial rain drenched the Hunter River area and extensive flooding occurred. But as the Governor-General, Sir William Slim, was scheduled to ob serve that year's manoeuvres, an advance party was sent out to Mount Royal, deep in the jungle. The rain continued and after a few days the advance party was cut off. In a desperate attempt to get hack to camp, a truck was overturned while trying to cross a swollen river and three young trainees were drowned. The Governor-General's visit was cancelled and the Fantasi ans sportingly went home for an other twelve months. Worse today it may he argued that the new two years' course will eradicate the colossal schmozzle and fiasco of Menzies' previous National Service project. But it won't. It'll only be infinitely worse. Instead of being compressed into a merciful six months over three years, the soul-destroying bore dom, monotony, aimlessness and in efficiency and the enormous waste of time, money and manpower -will be extended over twenty-four months straight. And there'll he four times the dose of crude but dangerous, racist, anti- Asian brainwashing of youth. And all for what? To try to prop up a few crumbling colonial dynas ties in South East Asia. To help the Yanks stop the people of South Viet- nam winning their freedom. To an tagonise neighbouring countries with which Australia should be making friends. To run the risk of dying in a foreign land unwanted and for nothing. There's a deep vein of opposition to conscription and militarism run ning right through the Australian character, and it was this that led to the collapse of the previous National Service Scheme in 1957. Today, when mankind is faced with the alternative of co-existence or non-existence, instead of fighting mythical Fantasians, Australia should he holding out the hand of friendship to actual Asians, Africans and Rus sians. And this is something the Knight of the Burning Thistle must be told. ... — .... — — — TRIBUNE will welcome con tributions from other readers who have personal experi ence in the armed forces under the Menzies policy of armed intervention in Asia r— r ii " HI" "in\iTH 