 Taxes on NG, Aust. workers not companies By JIM COOPER |N implementing the report of the World Bank Mission to New Guinea, the Menzies Government has given first priority to those re commendations which worsen the position of the New Guineans and enhance that of their exploiters. For example, the Pioneer Industries Bill proposes a five-year tax-free period for new industry and also that shareholders' dividends in these com panies be tax-free for this period. It even goes further and provides that any company losses be allowed as a tax deduction in the first year after the tax-free period. The Territories Minister, Mr. Barnes, said: "The proposed tax incentives are directed especially to the development of new manufactur ing industries. Some service industries such as tourism, building construction and transport will, however, be elig ible for concessions." This would mean that Clementsons Ltd., successful tenderers for a £12 million defence contract, would, by the simple device of floating a New Guinea company, be eligible to tax- free profits on this contract. As we may anticipate that Clement- sons would not be tendering for anything less than 10 per cent, profit (£1,200,000), the waiving of tax is real "dough" to them. But, of course, the tax holiday is not only slanted to Clementsons. Last year the Australia-New Guinea Corporation Ltd. was formed as a company promotion organisation. The tasks they set themselves were to promote investments, mostly Aus tralian, in companies floated by them. This company, with only £250,000 capital, has the backing of the major finance organisations and hanks in Australia and it is evident that they intend to secure control- of the major industries and raw materials supplies ir the Territory. The New Guinea press anounces that the next few years will see con siderable development, so these tax concessions will mean greatly en hanced profits to the private investors who seek to exploit New Guinea's greatest asset — its people. What of fhe people? Mr. Ray Melrose, an economic expert engaged by the Pacific Islands Monthly to make an economic survey of New Guinea, stated: "It is certain that more money will have to be collected in taxes in the Territory and it is expected that this I will be done initially by attempting to impose taxation on a wider section I _ r> A.X- A. 1 91 ui wage-eaziitsjrs uian au present. He sees difficulties in this arising from the low incomes of the New Guineans. This expansion of industry will mean greater Administration expendi ture on road building, wharfage facili-; ties, and the less tax that is raised in the Territory the greater will be contributed by Australia. So it would seem that both Austra lian and New Guinean workers will have to dig deeper in their pockets to finance the expansion, while big business exploiters rake off tax-free profits. Australia is committed to large-scale capital investment in the Territory, but only for profit. The aim is to exploit the labor-power of the New Guineans and not to train and develop them to handle their own industry. Significantly, the WBM's recom mendations say that hospitals and education programs in the recent past have been made in accord with the standards of highly developed coun tries overseas and are quite unrealistic in Papua-New Guinea. A quote from the United Nations Trusteeship Council, 1964, shows the Menzies Government's position: "After almost 50 years of virtual Australian domination of the Territory, the people are still illiterate. Reforms just carried out cannot conceal the true state of affairs — that 80 per cent, of the population is illiterate and that 60 per cent, of school-age children are not attending school." 