 p Down frhiQ il s pEOPLE in Sydney Domain S| showed a keen interest in n Communist policy in Vietnam Eg when they crowded around the | main speaker, Ship Painters & H Dockers' Federal Secretary Mr. p Terry Gordon, last week. | A number of very young boys tried H ®nouting "there is no - freedom in 1 Russia" and "all the opponents of jf Communism are slaves in the salt I mines of Siberia." 1 P The cheers aroused by Terry 1 ordon's sharp replies to this non- 1 atrace many more people. I , w Jen ne young lad said "Eight 1 undred Australian troops were not I enough," the speaker won general I support with the reply: "And there I fn8 J1? enugh troops in the world I ViD at tlle lil)eration forces of i Amam and Dominica and Latin I America and Africa." I The crowd applauded the state- 1 ments of A.L.P. leader Calwell, the i Rev. Alan Walker and the political j committee of the Communist Party ! of Australia, as read out from . Tribune. . " # : When Mrs. Colleen Bullen a Mt. Isa mother, accepted an invitation to speak from the Communist plat form she gave the crowd the facts on high living costs and low wages for hard and dangerous work at I Mt., Isa mine. g She explained the reason for the j demand for increased pay and con- j demned the employers for locking j the men out. She was given a very j attentive hearing. s She said she may have to move i from her home in Mt. Isa and take g her six children to a new place 1 because the Police State, the mil- g lionaire company and the AWU I lackeys had combined to refuse her 1 husband re-employment at the mine g — for fighting shoulder to shoulder j with his fellow men. j Sc j Another speaker was Mr. Jack j Munday, popular Builders' Laborers' organiser, whb is facing a prosecu tion for demonstrating against the Menzies decision to send Australian j soldiers to fight with the Americans ! in their dirty war. j The crowd spontaneously threw in j £3/10/-. ! It was a good meeting — people do \ come to the Communist Party for j leadership on serious questions. j W. GOULD (Chairman). ! I 