 - 1 «7QJ. as a " tragic failure . Bv JIM COOPER A PORT MORESBY hous - ing project for New Guinean workers has been described as a "tragic failure after two vears". by Mr. N. D. Oram, a - member of the Australian National University New Guinea research unit. Quoted in the "Post" (Oct 29) Mr. C"im said: "Despite what the Adminin istration mav c'p.lm to have done in Port Moresby, little is being done to improve the housing of the Papuan popu lation and to provide them . with services. "More serious there are no opportunities for people some of whom are highly responsible who have settled in town to improve the conditions in which thev live." I Mr. Oram claimed that there was no overall policy for the development of the town and that this stemmed from the unpleasant economic facts that the standard of housing and services enjoyed by the major ity of the population is likely to be low for a long time to come. Low wage policy The housing failure stems from the low wage policy of the Administration and will only be improved when the wages of the New Guineans begin to approach something near a reasonable liv;n; stan dard. _ In. all the territory there are only 723 workers who rece've a total wage over £12 per week, while the great" majority of New Guinea's 80,269 workers — 62 631 — are in receipt of wages £3/10/- a week or less. With prices on a similar scale (or higher) to Australia it is an impossible task to pro- j vide sufficient food for the I family So the prospect of I providing a home is put of I the question. J This is the reason for the I collection of shanties which | pass as suburbs around Port I Moresby and the major reason for the failure of the Sabama project. : A previous attempt by the Administration -to provide hous ing for New Guineans working in Port Moresby was made at Hohola. But two years ago the houses built there were des cribed as "absolutely sub-stan dard and not worth a penny" by Mr. Maori Kiki, president of the Hohala Progress Assoc iation. "There is no room for child ren, they have no place to study so cannot expect to pro gress in their schoolwork "There Is no privacy, as the house consists of just one room, women have to change in full view of everyone in the house; the toilets are inside the house. As a pan system is used this is very dangerous to health practice. "Danger fo feeelfh" j "The walls have small holes 1 for the circulation of air. In the wet season water pours in these holes flooding the floors. As there is no room for beds sleeping mats must be used. With wet floors this is a great danger to health." For the privilege of living in one of these inadequate and insanitary hovels, the New Guinean is asked to pay 30/ - a week, a sum which in most cases is half or more of the wage earner's income. Theoretically there is noth ing to prevent the New Guin ean from living in Boroka or other desirable suburbs and in fact there is an ordinance which guarantees his rights, but there, are few, very few, New Guineans in receipt of salaries which would meet the the cost of living in other than the shanty towns. The obvious and only solut ion is a substantial increase in salariies. But this would be a direct contradiction to the Ad ministration's policy which only ?Tst year introduced cuts | in the salaries of public ser- I vants. Caught up in their own con tradictions the Administration is proving unable to find the solution 