 Real story behind bomb threat CONTRIBUTED) SYDNEY: Behind the recent Children's Court hearings involving three boys in connection with home-made bomb incidents lies something far more than just a "kids' prank". "THE Court, which was not open to the press, under the NSW Crimes Act, heard charges against three boys in connec tion with incidents last Nov ember, when: — A powerful gelignite' bomb was discovered on a window-sill of a building at 93 Sussex Street, Sydney, one of the offices of the Communist Party of Australia. A school teacher received a bomb through the post, and was injured by blast when it exploded. Discovery by police of a huge quantity of stolen gelignite, bat- teries, etc., plus two other made- up bombs, in the Parramatta River. The Press, which splashed the original incidents, has been silent since the announcement of the Court's verdict — two boys, found guilty, received 18 months' on a bond; the third was judged not guilty be cause of conflicting evidence by .the other two boys. However, unofficial information in dicates that the culprits were work ing to an elaborate plan to "wage war" with bombs, against the Com munist Party of Australia. The bomb found at Sussex Street was actually timed to explode at 10.30 on the morning it was found. By a one-in-a-hundred chance, it was discovered in time to prevent the destruction of buildings and the almost certain loss of life in the immediate vicinity. Next step in the plan was to wreck 168 Day Street, the head quarters of the CPA, with two bombs the following week-end. Despite the failure of the first bomb, the subsequent plan might have succeeded, had not police rapidly traced the authors of the scheme. Since the discoveries were made, there has been widespread concern among Sydney parents of high- school children, including many Catholic parents, as the boys were stated to be pupils of St. Aioysius' College, North Sydney. The question most widely asked I is. who is responsible for the de- ' velopment of such wrong ideas — leading to major crime — in the minds of these youngsters? Is the responsibility mainly that of the parents concerned, or of members of teaching staffs, or does it come through certain publica tions? It is no secret that an emotional and rabid anti-communist campaign has been conducted for years by cer tain extremist elements in Catholic as well as non-Catholic circles in Australia. For example, those .associated with the right-wing Catholic extremist B. A. Santamaria seek to make anti- communist hatred the most import ant question in Australian politics. Irrespective o.f religious leaning, many parents fear the effect of these influences on their children. There is also the question of what action is to be taken to re-educate the boys who have already beer driven by such influences into thi "bomb-war" plan that was uncoverei in time. 