 [?] These recent quotes reveal the reality of the thinking of top circles | of the Liberal Party, R.S.L. and National Civic Council, the main S sponsors of the "White Paper on Communism" plan launched for ! the Government by the Liberal Party last week. \ SIR ROBERT MENZIES: "Inten tionally or unintentionally some Australians are conducting a prop aganda campaign for the desertion of South Vietnam ... If the agit ation succeeds . . . North Viet nam and its terrorists, the Viet Cong, will be vastly encouraged and aided." (The Crimes Act prescribes the death penalty for "a person who assists by any means whatever, with intent to assist, an enemy . . ... whether or not the existence of a state of war has been de clared . . ."). "The real enemies of world peace are those who . . . pro mote hatred and distrust of America at eyery opportunity. There are some such in Australia who talk of peace as if the mere wish for it is sufficient . . (August 19). MR. W. McMAHON (Fed. Minis ter for Labor): Union criticisms of the national wage case decision are "an attempt to disrupt the Australian economy as part of a trial of strength of International Communism" (August 16). R.S.L. STATE COUNCILLOR S (N.S.W.) A. PORTER: "Com- \ munists should be put behind | barbed wire or given a one-way g ticket out of Australia . . . drive ! them underground — about six I feet under . . ." (August 11). j MR. J. JESS, M.H.R. (Lib., \ Vic.): "I do have a lack of con- 1 fidence in Mr. James and a small I section of the Opposition who in j my opinion are likely intentionally I or otherwise, to sell this country f out." (Parliament, May 4, 1965). j SENATOR COLE (D.L.P.) re ferring to the Congress for Inter- | national Co-operation and Dis- j armament as "a real Communist j front" and to the participation in it of Dr. J. Cairns, M.H.R. and ! Senator Cavanagh (Lab.): "That | sort of thing has to be stopped J if we want to save this country." (May 5). | JUDGE GALLAGHER (Common- j wealth Arbitration Commission), j commenting on waterside work- ! ers' stoppages on political issues I such as Vietnam: "There is a j Commonwealth Crimes Act . . . j and if a declaration were made I under it, this sort of situation j could be. handled." (May 25, 1965). j - „ 