 [?] . With Tribune's Industrial i Roundsman "THE Miners' Federation this ; month and the BMP New castle steelworks kst month both chalked up 50 years of aoe. Miners and otner workers Know the HHP's years have been spent gettmcr richer and taking over com petitors. As an arrogant and ruth less employer the company followed the declared intention of John Dar ling II "to devote his life to beating Unionism out of existence." , One thing is a g-ood bet — when the miners score their 100th birth day it will be done in association with a socialist steel industry! Steel workers say they don't ex pect the birthday to snark off a ultra -generous nerve in the BHP by granting the workers' demand for a £5 industry and higher shift allow ance. And why this demand? The company's profit last year was £18 million af.tcr allowing £28 mil lion for "dccepriation" and a pre- . dieted "real bonanza" for the share holders! ? "yORKERS at a big enterprise in Sydney (out Drummoyne way) tell a good fish story about the "missing lobsters". A large number of these unfortunate sea creatures were left over from a social function at the works for the elite. Someone at the party knocked them off but brought the shells back to he deposited in the company's garbage tins! ' ? THE strike this week at Dairy Farmers and Fresh Food ov er a £2 a week wage increase had some interesting side issues. Much was said by the newspaners about the school kids being der rived of their third of a pint of milk. The Dah'y "Hners' THcome bot tling plant (the biggest in Sydney) usually starts bottling Monday's school milk' at 7 a.m. oh Sundays. ' ' By 11 a.m. last Sunday, the -time v/hen the workers decided to hold a 24 hour stoppage, not one kid's bottle was filled. In fact, the drivers who usually deliver the school milk had' been rostered on picking up employees to try and beat the transport strike. The reason why the school child ren missed out is the higher profit margin on the other deliveries! ? YVorkers at John Sands | (printers) in Sydney say they v got to the top in less than six weeks. A £3 wage demand was decided on . by the workers and first raised with foremen in every section. Then the supervisor took it up. From there the demand went to the production manager and then the general manager- - Now .a . committee of the directors are to meet with officials of the two printers' unions. « 