 Left gsiins in Crenels elections From RUPERT LOCKWOOD MOSCOW: The massive weight of the 7,655,042 votes cast for Francois Mitterand, chairman of the Democratic and Socialist Resistance League, in the French Presidential election, will profoundly influence future French and in ternational politics. k/ITTERAND'S 32 per cent of the vote, compared with 43 per cent for De Gaulle and 1 6 per cent for Centrist Leca- nuet, was much higher than his opponents had expected. It represents a triumph for the Communist Party over those who had predicted its failure. The united left forces campaign for Mitterand against De Gaulle has laid the basis for closer unity of the workers and other democratic forces than France has known since Hitler's defeat. The French Communists in the campaign pointed out that a heavy vote for Mitterand would shake De Gaulle's personal power regime. The stubborn battle by the united Left forces, as Communist general secre- tary Waldeck Rochet pointed out, was "an important stage on the way to a strong alliance of the democratic forces, to the creation of a leftist majority government in Parliament and to forthcoming battles for gen uine democracy." All major forces of the French left — the Communists, the Socialist Party, the Unified Socialist Party, The Radical Party, the General Con federation of Labor, the National Union of Teachers and smaller dem ocratic. groupings— backed Mitter and. The MRP and other semi- dissident Right groups ran their own candidates. ' Mitterand, in policy speeches, cal led for restoration of government re sponsibility to Parliament and res toration of civil and trade union lib erties, particularly the right -to strike. Mitterand demanded the scrap ping of the French nuclear strike force and the switch of nuclear in dustry to peaceful production, French adherance to the Moscow test ban treaty, French support for disarmament and non-proliferation of- atomic weapons, observance of the ; Geneva agreements to end the war in Vietnam, approval of Poland's Oder- Neisse frontiers and conclusion of a I.German peace treaty. The Communists differed on points like his proposals for "revision" of NATO and the Common Market. Nevertheless the breadth of agree ment was unprecedented in modern French politics. For comparison, De Gaulle was or iginally able to command 80 per cent electoral support to establish his regime of personal power. 