 \MORlfo\MWniNifE £ i him m — «»a»o«»fl«»o«»oa»o«»Hi WHARF LAW IS "ANTI-UNION AND ANTI -AUSTRALIAN" The Federal Labor Party's stand last week against the Govern ment's waterfront legislation means the way is open for a victori ous mass struggle by a limited iabor movement to frustrate this at tack on trade unionism Last week, Labor leader Mr. A. Calwelf said in Parliament: "Australians won't accept attacks on the fundamental rights of unionism." Other speakers declared that the workers would rally to defend their unions and leaders. The previous week, the Australian Council of Trade Unions called on all sections of the trade union movement to act with the Waterside Workers' Federation and the ACTU on the issue. i THE legislation sets out to: — I v | O Take away from the WWF its j long-standing right to recruit labor. i | ® Increase disciplinary powers of j the Stevedoring Industry Authority ! and make appeals more difficult. ! ® Make government deregistration ! of the WWF and registration of scab j unions simpler. j Mr. N. Docker (WWF Industrial Officer) told last week's NSW Labor I Council that it is possible if two j members of the WWF acted in breach of the award for the Minister to order deregistration of the union. The Minister can then after six months establish another organisation with as little as 15 members. Unions act Trade unionists throughout Aus tralia are branding the legislation as an attack upon the whole trade union movement. Following the Government's rejec tion of an "all-in" conference as pro posed by the ACTU, the Executive will now hold a special meeting on Ocotber 14-15 to determine further trade union action against the legis lation. Already the Bill has been con demned by the Trades and Labor Councils in NSW, Queensland, Mel bourne, Hobart and West Australia. The Queensland TLC last week called a meeting of affiliated unions to plan a campaign to resist attacks on trade union rights. The West Australian Labor Council called for "such united action as to render the legislation inoperative and ineffective." Job meetings The 250,000-strong Federal Metal Trades Federation of unions last week called on the eight unions in the Federation to support the campaign in opposition to the legislation. The AEU Commonwealth Council called on all its Districts to rally in defence of the WWF. Mr. J. Kenny (ACTU senior vice- president) called on all unions in NSW to oppose the legislation. In West Australia, the Fremantle maritime transport unions, and in South Australia a one-day conference of 100 metal union delegates, con demned the Government for "union- busting" and "fascist-like laws." Boilermakers and Building Workers' Federal Unions have made strong protests. Many workshops, jobs and factories in Sydney have condemned the legis lation at lunch-hour meetings. Calwell speaks Mr. Calwell branded the Bill "a piece of anti-Labor, anti-union and anti-Australian legislation." The Government's purpose was to break the Federation. Political or "loyalty" tests would be imposed on watersiders. "This monstrosity will never be accepted," said Mr. Calwell. Contrary to what McMahon had said, the latest figures showed an improvement in waterfront handling; 1964 showed only half the loss due to stoppages of 1963. Rain caused more losses than strikes on the waterfront. "The Minister's own figures neither explain nor justify shipowners in continually raising freight rates and holding Australian exporters to Continued on Page 12 WATERFRONT Continued from Page 1 ransom," said Mr. Calwell, adding that the shipowners were "rapacious" in their demands. Mr. Calwell was supporting an amendment moved by Mr. Webb, of Western Australia, that the bill be redrafted "to provide for public enterprise to be established and extended in the stevedoring industry and for joint Commonwealth-State provision and operation of wharf facilities and equipment." Affects all Labor MHRs united in warning the workers that if the Government was able to replace the Waterside Workers' Federation with a scab union or unions, as provided for in the bill, they could do the same with any other unions whose policy they dis liked. In a passionate speech Mr. Rex Connor, Labor, NSW, said that the "security" police would be used for the purpose of industrial espionage. Mr. E. J. Harrison (NSW) said that the Australian Railways Union would be target No. 2 and the Seamen's Union No. 3. - "It is the first step to totalitarian ism," he said. Deputy Opposition leader Whitlam said that the. Government was taking over the powers of the judiciary for registration, which could be used against the Public Service Associa tion, against ships' captains, against airlines pilots, engineers or any other groups taking industrial action. Mr. W. C. Coutts, Labor, Queens land, said: "If there is anything that will rally the Australian workers to a man it is the feeling that he is being victimised." The defeat of the 1951 referendum showed that the rights of the Com munist Party were now "accepted." The Communists the Government was trying to remove from the WWF leadership had been elected. People must be allowed to elect the officials i they desired. There was no more tyrannical section of employers than the ship owners — "they are known for their ability to extract the last penny from Australian primary producers." 3D 