 UJH ! SPORT AND YOUTH WEEK j By "THE CHALLENGER" j To many of the young delegates taking part j in NSW Youth Week, one of the most memorable j occasions of the week was the reception for the j delegates at the Public Service Association Hall j at which a number or the world s leading Rugby I League players were present. j "yHE players were Reg Gas- | nier, Johnny Raper, | Mike Cleary, Fred Griffith, j Mick Veivers, Ken Mc- j Caffery and Graham Lang- I lands. j During the reception, the play- I ers were mobbed by the young I league fans (the majority of the I 300 present) who fired questions I at them concerning the finer I points of the game. | After drinks and a chicken buf- : fet, the delegates were shown a | film of the Second Test of the | 1963 tour of Britain, in which the | Australians won the Ashes. The S film was of proud significance j to league fans, as pointed out by j Reg Gasnier, as it was the first | time in 52 years that an Austra- I lian touring side had won the I Ashes in England. | Earlier in the Trade Union | Youth Week program, Olympic | Gold medalist sprinter, Betty l Cuthbert and footballer Ian I Walsh had attended a Civic Re-' j ception at the Town Hall. | Taken altogether the sporting ! side of the Youth Week was as | one young League fan put it, | "terrific". i St. George- i Budapest j shows how | QUERENT leaders In the New I South Wales State Soccer j Premiership, St. George Buda- | pest, are drawing increasingly S large crowds due to their ability I to play fast, entertaining and at- j tractive football. | Players such as inside right j John Warren and right half Man- j fred Schaefer, are playing a | brand of football equal in stand- ! ard to that shown by visiting in- ternational teams. The clever ball control of in- side left Vic Fernandez, the dah. ing play of wingers David Told and Alan Hillhouse, and the 6s. fence penetration of centre to ward George Yardley, help 'i make this team the glamor foot ball team of Sydney. Soccer in Australia is develq, ing rapidly, due in part to tbJf enthusiasm of our Isew Austral |k lian management committee® coaches and players. "'J| The Management Committee of! the St. George Budapest Club, have set a good example by al lowing their ' full-time coach Laurie Hegyes to give instruc tion to St. George Junior plavers. It is proposed that any St. George boy over 15 years of age may try-out for the St. George Senior teams next January. Already over 2,000 boys have registered with the St. George District Junior Soccer Associa tion this year, which is twice the number for Rugby League. With this growth, which is 35% above last year, the Association has gained some new clubs, which in clude Hurstville R.S.L., Arccliffe R.S.L., Beverley Hills and St. George Eureka Youth League js Soccer Club. |B The latter club, St. George jt E.Y.L., began the season with ft many players new to the game, but soon settled down and gradu-ijj ally overhauled the other teams® in the Competition. A timely win® over Ramsgate Club in the Round ft Robin event now gives St ft George E.Y.L., the Pennant in theft All Age Division. R Rugby League From Ron Mackerras CATURDAY's Match of the Day proved a real thriller and held the crowds interest until the final minutes, with the honors jj going to Norths in points ana I match play. ! Four tries to three takes some | discrediting. 1 Sunday's game at Leichharm | was a reversal. The reserve graa z game was brilliant, the PaasU: ! and handlnig . was a deligh j watch and both sides excelled m ; defence. The first grade game W most of us critical. Bad hancum,, I brought more than its saI? .. j scrums, and off-side p!ay b? i sides was glaring. Scrum breaches I were monotonous and some | tactically stupid. | The St. George versus fl = game next Saturday & (K I Cricket ground .will bnn= |H | gether the two leading re. &lt;h | grade sides. ja | My choice for the grand || I in the two top grades mee H J Saturday; -St. George, fiftt H I premiers for their tent $e 9 ? slve win; Balmain to g I Reserves and of cours 9 | for third grade honors. Jj 3 . _ 