 Humes, jobs: Problems put bv Aborigines SYDNEY: A special conference of Sydney and country Aboriginal delegates, organised largely by Aborigines them selves, last weekend dealt with housing, jobs, police brutality and other problems. i "J"WO hundred delegates, in cluding 100 Aborigines, took part. Assisted by the Aboriginal-Australian Fellowship, the Aboriginal sponsoring committee raised £400 in 2£ months towards financing the conference. Many speakers criticised the State Aboriginal Welfare Board's policies. The conference urged the Board to build houses which conform to local government standards, to be inspected by the Public Works Department. It also made demands that: — Local Aborigines be consulted on all aspects of the work of the Board. The NSW Government honor its promise to set" up a parliamentary committee on Aboriginal conditions and that two Aboriginal members be included. (Press reports since the con ference indicate that the NSW Government has already had to speed up its attitude to establishing such a committee.) The Chief Secretary be asked to inquire into allegations of police brutality and victimisation of Abori gines. One delegate, Mr. A. Marr, of Pur- fleet Reserve, Taree, was a recent I victim of the lightning evictions i many Aborigines are suffering at the | hands of the Board. | Mr. Marr, who has nine children, : four of them going to school, occu pied a. State home on Purfleet. He ! was away six months looking for j seasonal work. "When I came back," he told the ; conference, "the house was locked j up. The manager told me I'd been | evicted. Why? I asked. He said I ; was £23 behind in the rent." Mr. K. , Brindle, member of the I Fellowship Executive, reporting on i his recent tour of reserves in NSW, | said: j "Aborigines are forced to hunt for : seasonal work and must travel hun dreds of miles to get it. They cannot I look after their homes or even pay j the rent under these conditions," | Mr. Brindle said. ; Mr; Brindle pointed out that the Tenancy Agreement for Board houses | has clauses allowing one week's ; notice to quit, which can be ad- | ministered by anybody authorised by I a welfare officer and can be effected without warrant. | SEE ALSO PAGE 10 I Urged to join unions (From Page 1 ) AAR. RAY PECKHAM, of Syd ney, told the conference that a number of Aboriginal, reserves had been closed down by the Board. They included Pillaga, Moonachul- I lah, Bulgangaramine, Burrabadee, Weilermeringle and Murrum Bridge. Of the 950 acres at Murrum Bridge, 520 acres were leased by the Board : to a business in Lake Cargelligo. A : large portion of Coomaditchie Reserve at Port Kembla was taken over by the Wollongong Council. Mr. R. Peckham also said that the fight for equality, including wages, should be linked up with the struggle of the Australian trade union move ment. "Automation and mechanization has outstripped unskilled labour like ring barking, and cutting lantana. Machin ery does this now. "At Dubbo and Moree there is mech anical spraying of burr. This loss of work has forced us to work in the city and to join trade unions where we can struggle alongside other mem bers for higher wages and conditions. Mr. C. Dixon: "The people on the river bank are just a source of cheap labuor for the cow cockies. Put a white man on £1 a week and see how well he educates his children." Mr. J. Frost, Condobolin: "I'll ad vise anyone here to get a Union ticket and always demand the award wage." Mr. J. Towns, over 80, of Coff's Harbour, reported that there were eight houses for about 70 people at the Wilgoolga Road Settlement. Mrs. Margaret Morris, of Kempsey, said that 300 people at Burnt Bridge Settlement had been promised new houses two years ago hut they would not be ready for four years. "The homes are 30 years old and falling to pieces," she said. "They are ice chests in winter and ovens in summer. How can the people learn ned habits pf cleanliness and hygiene if they don't get good homes?" she said. Mr. Greg Davis, of Nambucca Heads, said that houses there were "like stables". Mrs. Pearl Gibbs, of Dubbo, spoke about Gulargambone Reserve. She described houses without bathrooms or water supply. She said the sanitary depot was less that a 100 yards from the reserve. Mr. H. Penrith, of Wagga, said that 20 families at Brundle, between Tumut and Gundagai, lived in 16 shacks and four houses built by the Board. 