 From 54 countries they discussed women's rights Mrs. J. Emerson. who is a Trustee of the Miscellaneous Work ers1 Union, offended on infernofionol women's conference in Buch arest, Rumania, Bosf year. INTERVIEWED last week about the conferees anH the associated question of equal pay, Mrs. Emerson said: "The Conference was held under the auspices of the World Federa- - tion of Trade Unions and discus- " sed the Charter for Working Women, dealing basically with women's rights.". "There were 302 delegates from 54 countries at the Conference, 26 being observers. . "AS the Australian Council of Trade Unions is not affiliated with the W.F.T.U., the Australians at tended as observers. "An international Labor Organi zation report last year states, that 27 out of every 100 .women work and about one-third of the total work force is made up of women. "The main decisions of the Con ference were: O Equal rights for women should be made the law of a coun try, this to include equality in work, pay and promotion. Elimina tion of wages on racial grounds. Paid maternity leave before and after confinement. € More kindergartens and , cre- hes to be provided for working mothers. ® Working hours to be advanta geous to working mothers. The conclusions reached by the Conference were that women were . used as a' soured of cheap labour in certain countries. "Women's wages were found to be as low as 40 per cent of men's," she said. "In Australia they were 75 per cent of men's," Mrs. Emerson added. "Certain things were found to be common to Western countries." "Elderly women were the first to be put off at work and found greater difficulty in re-employment. Because of home circumstances, many women were only able to take part-time jobs. There was no security in work and at the first sign of a slump, the women were the first to be put off," she said. Mrs. Emerson said: "The result of unequal pay put grave restric tions on the scope of women's work, with no chance of promo tion."' "In Australia," she said, "em ployers have a tendency to create new categories of work, said to be . women's work." In addition to equal pay, women need equal opportunity. Mrs. Emerson gave the example of the Sydney County Council, where due to a new , industrial agreement although male and fe male cleaners receive equal pay, the women who retire will not be replaced, as this would create a precedent. Automation "At the Conference it was noted that in the advanced countries, with the spread of automation and the introduction of new processes, less young people, but with a higher standards, will be called for, particularly in the clerical ' and commercial fields. This can be seen today in Aus tralia," said Mrs. Emerson. "In the African and South Ameri can countries job opportunities were very poor, as there was very little industry, the economy being based on agriculture," she said. "The Conference had stressed the importance of women's partici pation in trade unions, said Mrs. Emerson. "Women should be urged to par ticipate in unions and to become job delegates and take other lead ing positions, or even accept honor ary participation. "They should be encouraged to be more active and to put forward their demands," she said. "One of the big demands of the Conference," said Mrs. Emerson, "was a greater need for kindergar tens, day nurseries and paid mater nity leave, both before and after confinement. "In western countries, where this was not available, the Con ference stressed that the employer should provide these facilities out of his own pocket." Mrs. Emerson (left) during a discussion at the Velveta textile factory in Czechoslovakia. j 