 Arabs welcome Ulbrichf's visit United Arab Republic by the chairman of the German Democratic Republic State Council will prove anew the friendly rela- tions between our countries. GDR foreign minister Otto Winzer said this in a press intervieyv when asked to comment on Ulbricht's com ing visit to the UAR. Last week the UA rebuffed an attempt by the West German Gov ernment to stop the visit. The West German militarists be lieve that full democratic recogni tion of the GDR by the UAR would be followed by similar action by the other Arab States. Also last week strong protests by the UAR compelled the West Germans to halt the supply of arms to Israel. Winzer said that by its attacks against President Nassar and Premier l""-richt the West Germans were showing they opposed peaceful rela tions between states. "Th" vigorous rebuff given to Bonn's impudence by the Arabs seems to have made it think again about its policy towards the UAR", he added. "They are scared by the prospect of complete isolation in the Middle East and Africa." Mr. Winzer said there was a secret miliary agreement under which West Germany was delivering large amounts of weapons to Israel to try to turn it into an imperialist military base spear-headed against the Arab peoples." The GDR was firmly on the side of the Arab peoples, said Winzer. Hostile to Queen The GDR believed that the normalisation of relations between the states of Europe, Asia, Africa, a: d America with both German states would facilitate the strengthening of international security and Ger man mutual understanding. In the Sudan, hostility to British policy in the Congo seems to have inspired hostile demonstrations against the visiting Queen Elizabeth of England. The British Labor Government made Ascension Island available to assist in the transit of the Bel gian paratroops who attacked the Congo patriot forces in Stanleyville last year. This enabled the Belgians to avoid touching African territory on their way. The British action was resented throughout Africa and particularly in the Sudan, whose Government has declared full support for the Congo liberation forces in their struggle ag 'nst the U.S.-baeked hombe regime. This government took power last October after a popular rising ousted the dictatorship of General Abboud. However, imperialist agents and local reactionaries have not stop ped working to restore a pro-West regime. 