 NSW Labor Council backs wharfies in j registration fight I _ SYDNEY : Supporting the stand by wharfies against Australian J Stevedoring Industry Authority moves to interfere with their right J to recruit taborf the NSW Labor Council has asked the Australian j Council of trade Unions to seek a Federal Government investi ga- i tion. . ' " . . A RESOLUTION carried by the Labor Council last Thursday night said that the facts "reveal a position en tirely unacceptable to unions affiliated to this Council". Last Thursday wharfies in Sydney and Port Kembla, on the New South Wales South Coast stopped work for four hours in protest at the ASIA'S rejection of seven applicants to work on the waterfront in Sydney. Port quota Last July the Sydney branch of the Federation recruited new mem bers to bring the port quota to the strength required by the ASIA. Not enough applicants completed their registrations and a further group later completed their medical examinations and were passed as fit. Seven of these men were informed by telegram from the ASIA Chairman (Mr. J. Murphy) that their applica tions to become waterside workers had not been successful. In a letter to the .Sydney branch of the WWF he said, "These men, al though medically examined and passed fit, have not yet made applica tion for registration. They have been advised by telegram not to re port on Tuesday.", When branch officials inquired as to the reason they were told that the ASIA did not have to give any reason. The branch admitted the men to membership, sent them to be rostered for work and they were . rejected. One of the victimised young men Simon Morcom, was unable to have his medical examination on Monday, August 23. A request from the acting secre- I tary of the Sydney branch, Mr. S. j Barrett, that he be examined on the i following Wednesday or Thursday was j to be considered by the ASIA chair- 1 man. I When Morcom presented himself on j the Thursday he was told that he ! was too late. I But an ASIA spokesman later in- j formed his mother by phone that he j would be medically examined on the j Friday. j A phone call to Mrs. Morcom, a few j minutes later inquired as to what office she worked in. I The caller ,ws told it was the j Miners' Federation. Within ten minutes Mr. Barrett ' was told by phone that Mrs. Morcom = would be informed that her son I would hot be medically examined. j Mrs. Morcom is_. a well-known mem- j ber of the Communist Party and j her late husband. Mr. Don Morcom, I -was a, full time worker for the Com- | munis t Party for many years. j ; "Branch News," official job sheet j of the Sydney branch of the WWF, I says that the action of the ASIA, | allied with the call upon the Federal j Government to bring down a White S Paper on Communists, heralds the I re-birth of McCarthyism in this j country despite the defeat of the 1950-51 Menzies Government's Com munist Party Dissolution Bill. 