 | "Control prices I" 1 I workers sav j - - — - M ( SYDNEY : A recent meeting of the Central | Committee of the Communist Party of Australia I adopted an economic program as the centre of an 8 immediate national campaign to raise the living j standards of the Australian working people. I main demands are - — j OA £22 basic wage as a family i living wage margins adjusted ' in accordance with tlie 1947 | formula with control of prices. I Other points of the program I are — 5 I A 35 hour week. J Equal pay without discrimina- S tion of sex or race. Abolition of anti-union penal | clauses. 1 Tribune, last week talked to i workers at Mortlake gas works I about the program and here are i some of their comments. = "I couldn't agree more with I the Communist Party program," | said Mr. Wally Smith, the Amal- | gamated Engineering Union co- 1 delegate at the works, "there is | no justification for price in- | creases with the colossal profits I being made." , ' | Wally who is due to retire in 1 about three years, said that price 1 control was of major importance. I "Even during the depression 1 years a worker could not afford | the prices." 1 Wally has a grown up family | of six and was once a member | of the Australian Labor Party. | Bill, a fitter, said the program | "is excellent, right on the ball, | particularly the demand for price | control." I He pays £6/6/- a week rent and | his wife works part time "to 1 make ends meet." I Eric, a blacksmith, thought I price control and the abolition oi | the anti-union penal powers were | the most important demands of | the program. | He was concerneo about the j proposed increase in doctors' fees as his wife was not in good health. "I can only get back the same amount from the medical bene fits irrespective of whether doc tors charge two guineas or three. Workers are the people who real ly need a wage increase," he said Tradesmen at the Australian Gas Light Company's Mortlake works are demanding a £2 a week wage increase, plus four weeks annual leave. "This is a low wage industry, said Fred Wallace the president, of the Combined Unions Dele gates' Committee. The unions on the committee include, Blacksmiths, Building Workers Industrial, Amalgamated Engineers, Boilermakers, Elec trical Trades and Gas Employees. Fred, who is the AEU delegate, said even with a £2 wage increase the average gross wage would only be £25/18/6. The NSW Labor Council has now agreed to call a meeting oi unions to press this claim. Fred said the men on fhe jot are also sick and tired ol the long delays in negotiations on their four weeks annual leave demand. Bob Watts, the boilermakers delegate, said the claim for £2 ? week is based no what mos' tradesmen in other industrie; are getting. He fully supported the pic gram particularly the call fo; abolition of penal clauses iroir both the Federal and State Arb tration Acts. "This is of real concern to me I have been pressing this mattei over a long period through my branch of the ALP," he said. I Fred Wallace, the president of the Combined Unions j j Delegates Committee at the Mortlake gas works. j 