 [?] Short story by KEN SETTER I yHE day had all the pro- | mise of being a hot r one, for- even at 9 o'clock % the sweat was beo-inninir v to run down the backs of I the men who sat drink- | ing morning tea. (I They sat in "the shade out- 1 side the plant, not that there H was any breeze but at least the shade was a help. Inside it was always hot, and even when the machines ' were switched off it was still noisy with the constant hissing of the air-chucks and the cool ant, running .into the drip- trays giving off its strong, al most overpowering smell. A newcomer might say that it was medicated and rather pleasant, but the men who worked the I machines knew too well that it was medicated only to overcome the, outbreak of 'dermo' that had been sweeping the plant. There were five in the group, an assorted lot drawn from many lands, each with his own hopes for the future, turning their backs on the past, reshaping their lives to the Australian way, yet each giving a (little someunng wj w«; v_»uuni,y. "Jonny not back yet?" enquired Peter, the only Australian in the group. jonny was the shop steward. He ; had gone in to see the foreman long before tea break. "Reckon they'd let them out for 1 a cuppa, wouldn't you?" Fritz came back at him. "It's always the same: gets in the office before tea break and the foreman earbashes him j silly with what a good bloke he is and all the time you know it's only him being in the right lodge that keeps him in the job." 1 Joe the Greek looked up from | the huge sandwich he was eating I and said: "Since when has any | foreman been able to give such an | earbashing to send him silly?" "You know what I mean; anyway, | a bloke should be able to have his | tea with his mates." They all knew that Jonny was in the office about the sackings taking , place in the plant and probably he wasn't thinking about the time. The previous day, just before knock-off time, the foreman had come around with white envelopes for fifteen men. All of them were to go off at the end of the week. "Do you think there, will be any more tonight, Pete? I don't under stand it, there seems to be plenty of work about," said Fred, the Eng lishman of the section. I "That's the point,, there is a lot of work about, only the company reckon they can't sell enough cars, so they don't want any more gear boxes." Jan, who had finished his tea and was looking on quietly, said in an angry tone of voice: "They could sell one to me if they weren't so dear. I must have made close on a million side gears in the five years I've been here — that's half a million cars. Blessed if I know where they all go. "They can dump, them in the middle of Botany Bay if they "like, so long as we get paid." The whistle blew and Fritz got up from his box as if he had been hit on the back by a slave driver's whip. ' "Jeze, you're keen," commented !Joe. "Must be on a good bonus job, eh!" Bill, who so far had not joined m the discussion but preferred to rest before starting again, said: With sackings in the plant, we shouldn't be working for bonus, just working ourselves out of a job, that's all we're doing." "That's all we ever do. The boss holds out the carrot and we try to catch it." IBack on the job, they each went a little slower, thinking they would old off the day when -they, too, would get the company letter. Surprisingly enough they found it wasn't at all easy to go slow. For years they had worked at a back- breaking speed, each movement per formed almost by instinct. Now they found to go slow they had to think of the movements. More than once Joe, who worked a copy lathe, had to slow himself down. Speed-up was so much a part of him that he had to battle with himself to go slower. He would pick up a pinion, place it in the ficher drive, press the air valve with his foot, and in would come the centre. Put the ficher drive in, press the green button at the same time, pull the guard closed, down would come the tool, fast. Then slowly start cutting, sending a stream of blue chips hitting the guard like machine-gun bullets. Back would go the tool, pull the guard back, release the centre, put the part on the - bench; in goes another one, then another, till there is a pile on the. bench. "Now there I go again," he said to himself. "It's as though the machine has taken over." Jonny came back from the office, his face grim. He worked on a breach, and as he put on his long plastic apron some of the men went over to ask him how things stood. "They're putting more off at the end of the week. We have a com mittee meeting: at lunch time to see what can be done." "What's this, Bush Week?" None had seen the foreman approaching. "Come on, break it up!!!" he almost bellowed. While working at his breach Jonny was thinking about the coming meeting of the committee, weighing up the situation to see which way the members . would go tm/lni vwneenrA' fni ntmn ciiaTi uiiuor jjx ooouxv; AVA UJ.A ISIIWAA a clear-cut issue as this there were some right-wingers who would try to confuse the issue. He'd been working on side gears broaching the splines at 128 an hour, 'so by lunch time there was quite a big pile in the tray — all washed in kero. and waiting to be loaded into the box. The committee decided. to call a . mass meeting. As the men poured into the can teen they were grateful for a little rest from the toil, yet at the same time knowing it was not for a rest. They knew only too well the happenings of the past, when it was a common thing to be put off just before Christmas only to be re employed in the New Year so that the boss would save paying out holiday pay. . Jonny gave the main report in his strong voice, which seemed to com mand attention and respect of even those who did not see eye to eye with him. Not that he was a big man, but he had a voice that seemed to come up from his boots, vibrating through every part of him and bringing alive each word as if it were part of him. "Twenty more to go off on Friday .unless we can do something about it," he finished up, leaving it to the men to decide. In the report he had made a few proposals; now it was up to the men. Speaker after speaker got up and condemned the company for its speed-up the use of multi- machine operations as part of their problem. It was a common thing for men to work more than one machine. In fact, there were meri working five and six-macjurxes— running from one to another, feeding in rough forgings to the ever-hungry ma chines at one end and taking out the finished product at the. other. A vote was taken on the banning of all overtime until the men were all returned on a first-off first-ori basis. Now the men were looking for a reason for the sackings. Some blamed the company for bad manage- . ment and "other things. One little Greek got up and stated, "I've been working here for six years. The first year I work one machine, next year the boss say, 'You work two machines.' I work two machines. Now I work five machines. Maybe if I work here long enough to get long service leave I'll be working the lot!" To wind up, the discussion Jonny got up and said: "Without doubt the working of multi machines was a factor to the sackings, but this in itself was not the reason, neither was the overtime . the men were forced to work by the rising cost of living. No, the reason went a whole lot deeper than that — it went to the very depths of society itself, with all its corruption and greed. As long as there was a system based on profit there would be periodic unemployment. There would always be this boom-bust type of system. As long as there were men using the workers to make money from them. Until we were able to replace this system with ohe which outlawed the profit-making from the people's labor, we would always be faced with -these prob lems. As the men left the canteen there was a lot of talk among them, and one was heard to say, "It might not be a bad idea at that to get rid of the boss." "Yer," replied his mate. "Who needs them, anyway?" 