 In Politics From ALF WATT — ... MOSCOW: Dolores Ibarruri, heroine of the peoples' forces in the Spanish Civil War, great I woman orator and Spanish Communist leader who 1 has lived in exile since '39, has asked for permis- ! sion to return to fascist Franco Spain to give evi- I dence at the trial of Jus to Lopez de la Fuente. 1 "kAY conscience compels me to do this, for the J life of a man is at stake", she told a tense, crowded press conference in Mos- ' cow last week. Replying to the question did she not fear the risk of being arrested and placed on trial her self, she said:— "In my country we have a saying that those who don't take risks cannot swim rivers. I am ready to take all the risks. It is true that I will also 1 feel that I am "among my peo- 1 pie." With her hair now grey and her face lined, Dolores Ibarruri spoke with the same passionate convic tion that caused her words to ring round the world in the dark v hut heroic years of the Spanish , war against fascism, when she > became known as La Pasionaria. She read to the press confer ence her telegrams to Menendez Telosa, Minister of War, Madrid: 0 "As an active participant in and one of the. closest witnesses of the Republican popular resist ance to the fascist mutiny which plunged Spain into a blood bath in 1936-39, I request to he allow ed to act as a witness for the defence at the pending trial of !the Communist, Justo Lopez De La Fuente. "He is facing a charge of hav ing directed military operations in his capacity of a leader of the People's Army which defended the Republic." And to Don Fernando Maria Castiella, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Madrid, asking permis sion to enter Spain to give evid ence at the trial. Both telegrams were signed by I Ibarruri as chairman of the Com- I humist Party of Spain. j "Why have I done this?" she | "You all know that last J December a group of Commun- j" ists were sentenced in Madrid to |t terms of imprisonment ranging 6 from eight to 28 years on charges I of having conducted illegal activ- | rties and illegal propaganda. 'One of that group was Justo ' hopez, who was sentenced to 23 I years imprisonment. ; , 'Now new proceedings have f been instituted against him on the charge that he directed mili- HBI V tary operations in defence of the Republic. "Insofar as there are no legal grounds whatsoever for the im pending trial, whose objective is not justice hut revenge all the way to the death sentence. "I desire to attend that trial as a witness for the defence of Justo Lopez and everybody else who fought for the Republic. "In this light and without the j least hesitation I am prepared j to bear full responsibility for the ! popular resistance of the lawful I Republican regime, in which I j was active and which I helped j to guide as a leader of the Com- j munist Party of Spain. j "I am certain that history will I . side with us against those who continue to use their steadily crumbling power to put a cloak of legality on the most heinous acts against human life, rights and dignity. "I ask you to inform the peo ple of your countries of my in tentions and help us to save Justo Lopez, and in this way put an end to the gory drama which the Franco judiciary is trying to drag out interminably, with the object of delaying and preventing j the inevitable changes that are j now taking place in Spain." j Answering juornalists' ques- "j tions about the latest position in J Spain she said the position of ; the Franco regime was deterior- " ating. Metal, building, rail work ers and also students were par- . ticularly active. The Govern ment's decision for a plan of economic development met cri ticism from all walks of life, be cause it did not include freedom Justo Lopez is 56 years of age, and commanded the 36th Brigade of the Republican Army. He came from a revolutionary family, his father was a Socialist who was victimised and persecuted by Franco" and died in gaol. His brother was killed during the war. Lopez is a building worker and active trade unionist. He joinec. the Communist Party 33 years ago., After the war he was intern ed in France. Later he came- to the Soviet Union where he work ed as a building worker. He re turned to Spain to assist in the fight for freedom and democracy. DOLORES IBARRURI ! . .. . seen speaking at the j Women's Conference in Mos- I cow last year. I 