 There are fathers I . . . and fathers I HEN "Father of the Year" awards are handed out next year, men like Bruce Steele, of Yagoona, ought to be high on the list. Bruce, —a...c.ity storeman, showed me- the weekly budget for his family of seven, five of them at school. There it is in biack type. No wonder Eric Baumq, who does so much to "help" the trade union movement, can only afford, to live or. £275 a week. Sir Robert Menzies, the trim father of the year 1964, was also seen put ting another notch in his belt with a table fork at a recent society guts- up. Rob's Liberal Party has just told Australians through its recent budget that they must eat less and die more. Someone said that all these little wars are being fought because of the scarcity of parking policemen. A grisly thought! but it's quite obvious that the bare wage earner -is paying for them, out of his own and his wife's health and the future of his own children. Juggling the bills "Because of a storeman's low wages," says Bruce, "a bill has to be skipped some weeks so we can get another one out of the way. But this way we only get further and further behind." As you see Bruce's minimum estim ate for the week's costs is £23.1.6. This means buying a side of hogget and the cheapest fruit. "As far as clothes go we have al ways had to rely a lot on hand downs," Bruce says. " The financial straight jacket of the bare basic wage causes family hard ship and social problems in Bruce's street of fifty houses. "I have seen up to four gas sup plies cut off in one day because of the inability of the residents on their low weekly wage to pay the bills due," says Bruce. "Some blokes who are short are chasing round after a bit of copper or brass to sell to the scrap merchants for their beer and tobacco money," he says. For the kids at school, uniforms and sport's gear is a- big item (£45 p.a. for one child). Luxuries like see ing the dentist are. not easy. Because of these low wages and galloping high prices many house wives are "not receiving" when hire purchase collectors knock on the front door. "They've got to kid they're not at home," Bruce says. "One cash order" inspector "had the women terrified. He'd come down throwing summonses . right and left like the paper boy. Many collectors pick up the habit, no doubt part of the procedure they are taught, to har ass housewives with continual threats of legal action." Bruce and the 50 other homes in his street certainly don't have to worry about the water restrictions on priv ate swimming pools. "The kids have to have multiple baths to save on the gas and water bill," he says, "and any sheets I've got to worry about are not for my yacht/, but for the family beds." Bruce's eldest boy had to leave school, despite his ability, to get a job to help support the family. The high cost of fares make it al- ( most impossible to have- weekend | outings. Bruce estimates that a trip : | to . Manly could be a thousand miles (j away because the fares alone from \1 Bankstown would come to about v| £2.10.0. I If Menzies' "guns before fun" i| budget is any indication Bruce and I his family and the fifty homes in his 1 street have got the "battle" ahead of I them. 8 "I don't mind a bit of hardship," 1 says Bruce, "that can be overcome. And I can see how. If my kids can have a life free from bombs and war, there'll be more than enough money available to give me and all other workers a living basic wage. "The present estimate of the trade union movement for a living wage is £22 a week. But, as you can see, even that has to be looked at."— -D.K. MR. BRUCE STEELE 