 1 You'll get a good 'I run for your money conno,sseurs (ke hey . j highbrow or the average 9 bloke in the street) who feel n JS inclined to partake of current I aesthetic offerings would be well advised to take along their quota of aspros and epsom salts when they visit the exhibition of young "con- i S temporary's", paintings, at; the 1 lit 'ax'anc! Galleries, Farmers, i 111 Sydney. I 1|1 Prizes offered by the "S. M. Her- ! ||| aid" went to Mike Kitching (Class A) W for his creation "Conscription", and , 111 to Stephen Earle (Class B) for his I ||g "Patriarch and Tiger", i 11 In answer to my question, "In 111 what way does Mr. Kitching's work 1 H assorted welded, nuts, bolts, . W chains and washing-wringer-come- , H| dilapidated-tank) convey the image i |B of conscription to you, madam?" a H middle-aged housewife replied: "I think the young man is-er-trying to show us what a grand place the fvmy s. or yun people (tapping the wringer) and how it teaches 1 ?em to he well disciplined, clean, fi Lld:" anc g0d (prodding at the nuts, s 1 holts, and chain) and to serve our H government and — er — country!" . H Running through the catalogue I i 5 ond that the titles of the paintings 1 | were fascinating in a way which s 1 aS n?t so hvious in the work H themselves. 1 „_Pieked at random thev ran— | Frelude , "Figure", "The Boy", Hi Vlan Fairweather in Hairy Weather", "Mum Cast Out From the Black Forest", "Electrosymphonie", "Flop- House", "Watch the Opera House", "For Your Conception", "Typist Recovers". Earle's : "Patriarch and Tiger" had a certain liquid quality which made it seem to melt into the wall behind, and if it were not for the frame around it, it might easily have been the wall. A point that distressed me was that the Patriarch was nowhere to be seen. I suppose the tiger must have satisfied his appetite and trotted off into the wall to ease his digestion. For those males who suffer from chronic frustration I would suggest they take a peek at Makin's and Shead's crude nudes. Those with an appetite for the macabre can lick their chops over Van Wieringen's and Firth Smith's colourful and ecstatic displays of squirming intestines. Even the kiddies were not over looked. Seven-year old Christopher Sawk- ins of Kellyville ( whose painting was chosen for prominence, and hung with 88 other "adult" artists out of 200 entries) summed up his attitude towards the current ignoble trends in the plastic arts with these few fine words: "I like painting, but I wouldn't like to be a painter when I grow up. I'd rather be one of those horse guards for the Queen". — Pierre. The author of "Matilda Hangs on the Peg", Tom Doran lb. 19041 gives this background to himself: j "I am the son of a railway construction worker, educa tion none. If I know anything I learned it the hard way — blood, sweat and tears. I had personal experience of the latter years before Churchill ever thought of it. This blood, sweat and tears accom panied me for many years as I worked as a navvy, wood cutter, farm laborer, powder- monkey and loco, driver. "For some years after I gave up hard work owing to ill- health I carried a sweat rag in my belt. On the many jobs I worked on, I always found myself rep. of the union. This put me in direct holts with the boss and the sack on many occasions. But why worry about background? There is no background; the present is also the past. . » [?] 1 Young Contemporary's Exhibition 