 Liberals selling 'heritage'-McEwen ! Conflicts between the Liberal and Country Parties burst out again sharply in Federal Cabinet last week as reports circulated that Liberal Prime Min- iste Menzies might soon retire. HEPUTY Prime Minister Mc- I Ewen v Country rarry ieaa- er) followed up his recent cri ticism of Reserve Bank policy toward drought-stricken farm ers by a sharp attack on the issue of foreign capital and oil search rights. He told the Country. Party confer ence in West Australia "that Australia was in danger of selling its birth right by allowing too many industries under foreign control." Mr. McEwen also said hfc. was thor oughly unhappy about the extent to which oil search rights in Australia had passed to overseas hands. "It is not good enough for this country to ur coliino- q hifv nf 'ite-'hAritflcro IJLVC t-jy QWiiliQ Mr ry-w w-. every year." Immediate, legislation The Conference with Mr. McEwen's support, passed a resolution demand ing immediate legislation to stop Aus tralian industrial undertakings passing to outside control. Senior Liberal Ministers Holt and Paltridge immediately delivered sharp public retorts to McEwen, defending existing policy. The "Financial Review" commented early in July on "the public impres sion of dissidence within the Cabinet." The conflicts are basically connected with the exploitation of farmers by wealthy, city-based finance, marketing, machinery and other companies, but are being aggravated at present by growing public resistance to the" Gov- ernment's foreign policy and economic policy. Another area of conflict is the wool industry, in which the Wool Board's reserve price scheme, favoured by some leading Country Party circles, is Under heavy attack by Sydney-based marketing and brokering interests using the Liberal mouthpiece the Daily Telegraph. This situation presents an opportun ity for united action by organisations of the labor movement. This is a rea son why employer and government attacks on the waterside wrokers, trade unions generally, and on the Communist and Labor parties have risen recently. Federal Labor leader Calwell ap pears to have recognised this when he said last week that he might make a move in the coming sessions of Par liament along lines recommended by the West Australian Country Party, conference. Mr. Calwell wrote in the Melbourne Herald (July 31) "Our major known natural resources have been sold or given to foreigners It is theirs to develop or not to develop; it is theirs to decide Australia's future. The role of Australians is to do the work,' and to work under labor conditions judg ed suitable by foreigners." The conflict between the Liberal and Country parties exists in all States. McEwen himself has stated that the Liberal Party had made it recurringly clear all over Australia that they wished there was no Country Party. 