 NSW STATE PARLIAMENT: GERRYMANDER IS A PAYOFF TO BIG BUSINESS SYDNEY: The Askin Government move to reduce the City of Sydney boundaries to bring about the ending of the Labor Party control of fhe City Council is part of their payoia to their big business backers. "THIS week the State Cabinet made a decision to reduce the city boundaries. On December 4 the City Council elections are to be held oh the pre sent boundaries. Before the end of the electoral term the Government will call another election based on the new boundaries. Last Tuesday there was a tense atmosphere in the NSW State Parlia ment as questions asked and motions of urgency tentatively raised by the Labor Opposition indicated that the Government may postpone the elec tions until March. This was to be coupled with the. removal of the entire Council and installation of an administration until the elections in March on a basis that would defeat the present Labor administration. This has been urged by the Daily Telegraph as recently as September 12. Parliament last wees echoed with the angry protests of Opposition members as the Government gagged the debate on the first reading of a Bill to gerrymander the method of local government elections. During the debate Mr. Pat Hills, Deputy Leader of the Opposition, charged the Askin Government with having no mandate for its Bill, and of making the change on the demand of their supporters, like Elizabeth St. (Packer press), anxious to do some thing about the control of local gov ernment. The aim of the move Is to break Labor control on the Sydney City Council, and place the outer Councils firmly under the control of big business interests. The Bill proposes to abolish— Candidate groups on the ballot papers. The election of Mayors or Presi dents by popular vote. Proportional representation. State Cabinet is also proposing legislation to eliminate Labor's majority of 5 to 4 on the Sydney County Council, and create a non- Labor majority of 6 to 2. The aim of the abolition of com pulsory voting is to narrow down the voting to the advantage of big business and land interests. At the last Council elections BEFORE the introduction of compulsory voting there was a vote of 47 per cent, compared to 80 per cent, in the most recent polls. The ending of candidate groupings would help the Liberal Party. While there are genuine independents who stand in local Council elections, Liberal Party tactics is to use inde pendents and Civic Reform groups as a front. 'The ending of proportional voting would make it very difficult for minority parties to be elected to Councils. The Labor Opposition has already decided to use its new majority to the Upper House to block these anti democratic moves. If this is linked with a movement outside of Parliament— from unions, jobs and localities — this blatant gerrymander can be prevented. 