 [?] i NG shanty towns j | are official policy | By JIM COOPER j i Official shanty towns have been recommended for Port j | Moresby by a sub-committee of the Council of Social g S Service of Papua. ! j QOLONIAL Administration i everywnere nas snown nine i interest in the housing of the | people they exploit, but it is very | unusual for them to give official I endorsement to a program of S shanty housing. New Guinea Is must be unique in this regard. Possibly no other failure on the part of the Administration | could so clearly demonstrate g their incapacity or lack of in- ! tention to carry out the provi- i sions of the Trusteeship Agree- ment than this. g This also provides further I evidence— if, in fact, this is I needed— of the Administration's I stand on the question of im- I proved living standards, housing, J wages, etc. | New Guineans, m Increasing 1 numbers, understand that the improved conditions will only be won by organisation and I struggle and they are building I their organisation to achieve g this I The sub-committee in a report | to the Council, advises that land W>— »ll U should t allocated for very low I cost housing and that building I regulations, if any, should be g kept to a minimum. 1 - "The result would be an offi- | cial shanty towns," the report | said. | .The report further stated that | 23,800 Papuans and New Guineans j lived in Port Moresby, of whom g almost 3,500 lived in shanty 1 settlements. | There were 20 of these settle- j ments organised on village lines, j Most of the settlements visited I had inadequate water supply and j lacked sanitary and garbage g services. I The report said it was envis- j aged that the area could be pro- j vided with roads, footpaths and | drains, possibly a minimum of street lighting, allotments of ( about l/15th of an acre each, g Communal water points, earth ! closets and the cheapest garbage . ( disposal consistent with health j requirement would be provided. I "It Is thought that the house ! sites should be available at a I weekly or fortnightly rent which i include land rent, rates and Tiwue tevfis nnri wfttpr. parbapft nnri 1 — — - ' , O"- o— " V sanitary services. It is hoped I that this would not exceed 10/- g to 12/- per week." I Monopolies 1 This is the proposition, formu- j la ted in an official way, for the j housing of indigenous workers | in Port Moresby, the gateway of j the Territory and the long- g established stamping ground and g headquarters of the major plan- 1 ter and trading monopolies who | exploit the human and natural g resources of New Guinea. j Big organisations -ike Burns ' Philp Ltd. and W. R Carpenters g i Ltd., whose mercilo. s exploita- = I tion has resulted in sne accumu- ! lation of vast fortunes over the | years and are increasing at an g ever-rising tempo. Anything less ! than 20 per cent, dividend is I ! scorned by these people. j ! This is the other side of the g j medal and provides the reasons I , for the impoverished conditions I : of the New Guinea people. g ! It is becoming increasingly g I evident to New Guineans that I j greater accumulation of capital I and profits is closely related to g I reduced wages and conditions. g i ® 