 Vietnam women want help JJYDNEY: The women 0f Vietnam welcome any help Australians can give but most of all they ask for the biggest possible cam- paign to stop the war. Mrs. Phyllis Latona, vice-president of the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament, said this when she returned to Sydney last week after conferring with Viet namese women in Jakarta. Mrs. Latona released the text of a Joint Appeal issued after the talks in Jakarta last month between the Australian delegates and two women representing the women of north and south Vietnam respectively. The appeal called for peace on the basis of the Geneva agreements and the withdrawal of US troops from Vietnam. Mrs. Latona was accompanied in the talks by Mrs. Rita Jamieson, ALP member and municipal councillor in Victoria, and Mrs. Edna Hutchesson, secretary of the ICD in South Aus tralia. Vietnam women Representing Vietnam in the talks were Mrs. Nguyen Thi Binh, of the South Vietnam Liberation Women's Union and Mrs. Le Chan Phuong, of the Vietnam Women's Union. Mrs. Latona said the peoples of _ the north and south were now com pletely separated— in touch by radio only. After liberation the south would follow a different policy from north — it would remain non-aligned and neutral in foreign policy. After her interview Mrs. Latona told a peace rally that the Vietnam ese people lived under constant threat of death. Burned alive "Every hour of the day and night planes go over, bombs are dropped, children are burned alive. \ "Tens of thousands of families have been broken up." The main plea of the Vietnamese women to Australian women was to develop a large protest movement to stop tn war. In their Joint Appeal the Austra lian and Vietnamese women sam the war was not only a calamity the Vietnamese people but threaten ed also the- lives of many young Australians bein drafted by the g ernment into south Vietnam. "Deeply concerned, we women from north and south Vietnam Australia have met in d three days' discussions to the situation and to find ways end the aggressive war.' The women declared that to re store peace it was essenti; oorT,ents plement the Geneva agreement which meant withdrawal of eign forces from Vietnam, war against north Vietnam to stop and the Vietnamese settle their own affairs. "We women from north and so . Vietnam and Australia ca tJ Australian people, ioving people of the US and all p j0 countries to help bring a . the Vietnam war" says the app "We urge the Austraiian go ment to change its policy its troops. untij "As women, we cannot Jtralian -Vietnamese " cildTen',cnrld's chil children and all the eace dren are free to grow up m f d;and:>security".' . 