 [?] SYDNEY : The federal executive of the Vehicle Builders Union has condemned General Motors Hol- den as "inhuman and uncivilised" for the way they dismissed their employees. | N Melbourne the Amal gamated Engineering Uni on said the 2000 workers in recent weeks were part of the Australian labor force that made £19 million nett profit for GMH in 1964. The AEU said the urgent question now is support of the £3 a week wage claim, a 35-hour week and op position to sacking and lay-offs. A leaflet asks GMH workers to support union calls for mass pro test meetings at all GMH plants. 35-hour week The South Australian Branch ot the VBU has called on the company to: Implement a 35-hour week with out loss of pay. Pay severence money to dismis sed employees the same as paid by the parent company in America. O Grant the unions' claim for a £3 a week wage increase. Guarantee continuity of service. End all overtime at the two S.A. plants. VBU protest The federal executive of the IfahinlA "Etni1#4rTc> TTninn lirhinh mof in Sydney to discuss the sackings decided to protest to the company. This protest was made to the company last Wednesday in Mel bourne. The union's executive said the sackings had taken place despite the fact that earlier this year consider able overtime had been worked which resulted in over production. The management had applied con tinued pressure tactics to speed up work and had called on employees to contribute their best, the union said. A resolution said that the Federal Government had been responsible for the acceleration of production in the car industry and demanded that the Government hold an immediate in quiry into the importation of cars and car component parts. A further demand called on the Government to table the Tariff Board report, which among other things deals extensively with car im ports. Wage claim This week in Melbourne the Com monwealth Arbitration Commission will begin hearing the unions' claim for a £3 wage increase. This demand sparked off a four weeks' strike by GMH workers last October. The unions will press that Mr. E. D. Paterson, an executive member of the United Automobile Workers' Union of the USA, be allowed as a witness. Mr. Paterson has told A -tralian unionists that GM workers in America are better paid than here do ite the relatively high rate of produo tivity in Australia; 