 Don't you know "folks" when you come across them "THE New Lost City Ramblers heard at the Trocadero in Sydney last week brought the American people back into folk music. The Trocadero audience was soon bouncing on the seats to the rhythms of fiddle, banjo, guitar, mandolin and autoharp played by Mike Seeger, Tracy Schwa rz and John Cohen. Each of the trio plays a couple of the instruments at least, and others which were not used in the perform ance. Songs like "Meat-Skin on the Wall", "Kock Knack Song", "The Orange Blossom Special" — with in strumental mimicry of a train jour ney—the bawdy -"Roll Up Her Little Ball of Yarn" (learnt from "an eighty year old grandmother"), "Man of Constant Sorrow" and "Miss Me When I'm Gone" . . . were only some of their jug-bubbling re-crea tion of southern Appalachian music. John Cohen's recitation of "the hard luck story" to guitar strum ming . . . "I've been red crossed, white crossed, black crossed and double crossed . . : etc", was a new style straight from the experience of the poor farmers. . They say they do not sing just for money. Indeed with their exclusion, with Bob Dylan, Pete Seeger, etc., from "Hootenanriy" in the States they have missed the best pickings of the folk boom. Tracy Schwarz bought a farm last year when they were going bad just in case they were promoted off the scene. Slap in the middle of the program came a song about Cuba— "Remem ber the Maine". "This is about United States Im perialism." . . when the battleship "The Maine" was blown up as a pretext to invade Cuba. They did it then, and they're doing it now in .Vietnam. What am I saying? . . . The song tells of one of Teddy Roosevelt's "roughriders" who didn't want to die in nobody else's war. "You ask me why I'm running, I H tell you the reason why. Now the reason I am running is because I cannot fly." This song received strong applause from the potential conscripts in the audience. The jokes, skylarkings and spoof ing of commercialism made this program live, but best of all was the "fair dinkum" attitude of these three plain, simple "folks" . Their photos give you no idea o the straight forward, easy to ge on with personalities they projec across the footlights or over a beer. Appalachian songs are extremely simple in their wording but tne feeling is preserved in the voic of the trio, as is their attachment to the real American Tradition. They said later they did not like to see Australia copying the d aspects of Hollywood showbiz ana were soon on the track of the Australian folk songs. ' They are the best imports w had from- Uncle Sam since ones-. . . and they were folk smbe lw' x -D.K. 