 J Literary schools I should listen to H "B I each other & " CONTRIBUTED it - - , VSi ""THE development and en- lli richment of the realist « tradition remains the central. :« problem of Australian litera- ''ml ture" author Frank Hardv Jfi said at the Seminar on litera- S ture in Australia at the Uni- lli vers'ty of New England, Jan- ,S uary 25 to February 1 . 'SB !;|||| To reject realism and create ec- 1 centric literature ws.' on the other fl an&lt;' narrow dovn the range of ' %f realist writing to pedest>on natural- ,;||! istic forms which would holu back $11 the development of literature -in fill Australia, Mr. Hardy continued. "H ' ' 'iM He was speaking on "Environment 1il anci Tdeology in Australian Liter- /'!$» ature". After stressing the influence of ;i|| physical and intellectual environ- -fl Pen on Australian' writing and the :%M Geologies expressed in literary fM trends, Frank Hardy concluded by f!g| advocating that the various literary schools should begin to listen to jg each other to see if some kind of ill hterary synthesis were possible. I "This did not mean that the vari ous schools need to surrender theii ideological positions. This is neither possible nor desirable, but Austra lian literature will be enriched if they study each others concepts and methods." Papers were delivered at the Sem inar also by Max Harris, Clement kemmler, David Forest, John Thomp son, Dr. Andrew Fabinyi, Mr. Don ald McLean, Miss Judith Wright and Dr. Colin Roderick. Dr. Roderick analysed Australian legislation on defamation and ob scenity, and advocated reforms . ill nr' Serbmler dealt with Australian i -jg uterary criticism, tracing the devel- Nl ill opment of humanist criticism from A. G. Stephens to the present day. Dr. Fabinyi spoke of social and economic problems of publishing. At some sessions the Seminar broke up into discussion groups dealing with "The influence of en vironment", "The teaching of Aus tralian literature in schools" and "Problems of earning a living in writing in Australia". . Plans are in hand by the University to publish the findings of the dis cussion groups with the various papers presented at the Seminar. This Seminar once again demons trates the progressive policies pursued by the University of New England, which intends to conduct further literary seminars and schools in the future. FRANK HARDY 