 [?] Unionists should be on guard to frustrate attempts ' \ by the Menzies Government to use Australia's woj I sening trade position as an excuse for the Court to refuse a wage increase. >. j By E. W. Campbell "THIS is particularly topical as we approach the Febru ary hearing of the new national trade union application for an increase in the basic wage be cause of persistent price infla tion. Australia's overseas trade figures for the December 1964 quarter show ed a rise of £31 million in imports and a fall for £5 million in ex ports. War spending When the Federal Budget was brought down in June last year dniy a slight fall in international re serves was expected, but now a fall of £100 million in expected by June this year. t Huge expansion in overseas arms buying is one of the reasons. When similar trends appeared In the past the invariable response of the Mtenzies Government was to clamp down on consumer spending Bank warns IP; >. | The ANZ Bank warns that a tight ening of credit conditions can also be expected in the next few months. The Menzies Government's own Budget policy will contribute to this. For tha first six months of the financial year the Government's ex penditure has exceeded its income by £155 million, which was covered by bank credit. Withdrawal To meet Budget requirements this £155 . million deficit will have to be converted into a £10 million surplus by June 30, which means a with drawal of £174 millicn from circu lation. The Menzies Government's war spending is also aggravating inter nal economic difficulties, especially in the building industry. An additional £23 million is being spent to construct camps and bar racks for the 19,000 national service trainees — an average cost of £2339 for each trainee. Building trades spokesmen say that civilian construction will have to be scaled down to permit the Army's construction to go ahead. Contradictions This sharply exposes the contra dictions in the policy of the Menzies Government. On the one hand the Government, through the Reserve Bank, tries to maintain tight credit control and puts official emphasis on the de. suability of avoiding undue pressors on resources, which sends up costs i and prices. On the other hand the Govern ment's Budget methods lead to al ternating periods of over expansion and over contraction of credit sup ply, while its war spending puts to. flationary pressure on resources. Workers should strongly resist any attempt to foist the cost of this policy on - to them and press ahead &lt; with their claims for wage increases. 