 "Spotlight" on new slander KA ELBOURNE : Water side ! workers going into their June 9 stopwork meeting at Festival Hall were treated by a few pavement handers-out to free copies of a publication called "Spotlight". This publication purported to give aw +1-»A I7irttr\om nricie iiUUlillotlUU UAl Wio V ICWlOUi on which wharfies were to vote inside their meeting. Expensively produced, with lavish illustrations, "Spotlight" faithfully echoed the US State Department line on the Vietnam war (witness its title. Arms and Men from the North). But it was the small typewritten insertion that really caught the eye. It said: "Published by. the Free Trade Union Publication Service, P.O. Box 275B, Melbourne, . Victoria." This mysterious body, virtually unknown in trade union circles, was the subject in a leaflet issued last year by the Trade Unionists' Defence Committee at Melbourne Trades Hall. Commenting on an earlier number of the mysterious and occasional "Spotlight" — this time devoted to attacking left-wing forces in a trade union election — the Committee re vealed: The Free Trade Union Publica tion Service is registered at the G.P.O. in th0 name of U. Z. Rosenbes, of 22b The Esplanade, St. Kilda. .This U. Z. Rosenbes is a delegate to the Trades Hall Council of the Motor Transport Union, one of the four unions in Australia asso ciated with the Democratic Labor Party. A predecessor of "Spotlight," called "News and Views," also put out by Rosenbes, was ban ned from circulating in the Trades Hall by the late THC secretary, Mr. J. V. Stout, be cause of its slanderous anti union contents. "Spotlight's" predecessor, "News and Views", had been published by a so-called "Social Democratic Group in Melbourne." (Persistent rumors linked the name of far- Rightist University lecturer, Dr. F. Knopfelmacher, with this "Group.") The Trade Unionists' Defence Com mittee summed up: " 'Spotlight' is an organ of disruption, designed to mis lead all those who bother to read it. "It maligns every anti-Grouper and puts forward the case, for the real enemies of the trade union movement and the Australian Labor Party." Melbourne wharfies had little diffi culty in coming to a similar conclu sion when confronted with the latest "Spotlight" effort on Wednesday of last week. All the efforts of the Free Trade Union Publication Service and their wealthy backers netted them just SIX out Of THREE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED votes when the matter came up for the big vote. 