 Seventy five \ years of May Day j By W. A. WOOD HEN Austra 1 i a 11 workers march through city streets in their thousands on May z, tney will oe carry ing on a deeply-rdot- Ied Australian tradi tion. , Although the numbers attend i ng May Day cere monies have fluctuated since the first one was held in Australia in 1890, the tradition has .contin ued without a break. There have always been Aus tralian workers who realised that their interests were bound up with those of their fellow workers overseas. The solidarity of the workers everywhere is the only basis for their' prosperity anywhere. Aus tralian workers have " been re minded of that fact very often in their history. As soon as the Australian workers began to improve their standards — by winning an eight- hour day, for example — the erriployers'tried to break it down by swamping Australia with im ported "cheap labour", white or coloured. Similar attempts still go on — witness the mass migration pro gram in force since 1945. A new threat is now posed by Singapore's alleged "Socialist" Premier, Lee Kuan Yew, who in Sydney the other day blatantly appealed to Australian manufac turers to take advantage of what he admitted (or boasted) was "cheap labour" in Singapore. The appeal will fall on willing ears. The Australian monopolists, not always able to bring cheap labour to work here, will be only too delighted (where possible) to . take work to the cheap labor in nearby Asian lands. Only when the low wages and I conditions in various other coun tries are overcome by the wor- kers' action will this manoeuvring by employers be pointless. Some v idea of this truth may I welL Have inspired the Australian I workers who answered the call of J the Second International, at its first Congress in Paris in 1889, to make May Day a day of inter- il national working class struggle. 1 Historian ten Fox, writing ' lately in Labor History, awards -I ' Melbourne the honor of holding $| . Australia's first-ever May Day $ meeting. ' He quotes The "Melbourne ' Age? as reporting "a large atten- dance" at a "public meeting of i| working men" at the Trades Hall, $ Lygon Street, on May 1, 1890, to advocate the eight-hour day prin- If ciple. It was chaired by Dr. 1 Maloney; MLA (later MHR). ' (In Europe, the first May Day rallies were centred on the de- II mand for an eight-hour day. In i ® Australia, where this had already 111 been largely conceded in prin- -I ciple, the main demand was for ! its extension and consistent appli- cation.) ' ' v.--" That seems to have been Aus- ; - tralia's first May Day meeting, 1 says Mr. Fox. But the first march was in Barcaldine, Queensland, struggle-centre of the 1890s strikes where, on May Day 1891, the "Barcaldine Labor Bulletin" re ported: "the working community" celebrated "Labor's chief festival" with a procession in unison with the great cosmopolitan army of Labor. . "In the procession every civi- j lised country was represented, doing duty for the Russian, i Swede, Frenchman, Dane, etc., j who are germane to him in other J climes, showing that Labor's cause is one the world over, fore- shadowing the time when swords g 6hall be turned into ploughshares \ and Liberty, Peace and Friend- | ship will knit together the nations | of the world." | 4 That great day, marking the J era of world socialism, is nearer J than it was when an Australian j worker wrote those words back >@ in 1891. The demonstrations J being organised all round the \ world for the coming May Day will bring it nearer still. | 