 N.6. CHILDREN "EDUCATION-HUNGRY" Bow over Bl 1111111 H IB »U IIIIIIB lll'lll I ill llllll 'il II W cgaf-regfe teachers SYDNEY: Two representatives of the Australian Teachers' Federation last week attacked II ordinances which give New Guinean teachers only 40 per cent of the wages received by II Australian teachers in New Guinea with equal qualifications. MR- W. B. BALL, secretary Aus- tralian Teachers' Federation ana inr. l. u. Lancaster, maw state secretary were speaking at a press conference called by the Teachers' Federation for a review of .their im pressions and experiences during a visit to New Guinea at the invitation of the Teachers Occupation Group of the Public Service Association of Papua and New Guinea. As a result of their visit, they said, they would recommend the Federa tion to press in New Guinea for: Equal pay for equal qualifica tion; Parity of working conditions and holidays - for New Guinean and overseas teachers; Increased education allocation and improved working condi tions; The establishment of an Educa tion Commission to control -edu cation. "Desperate" "Teachers in New Guinea are des perately in need of assistance," Mr. Lancaster said. "Steps should be tak en to separate education from the Public Service Commission. "We were impressed by the teach ers and administrators who wanted to do a job of work, but felt that they were being hamstrung by . the Public Service and lack of finance." Mr. Lancaster also stressed that the children were education hungry. They, had a real purpose in going to school and this is a feature in all developing countries. Of the 2,000 teachers in New Guinea, quite a large number were below the standard of Australian teachers in the Territory. This is a legacy of past neglect in the field of education and should rapidly disappear under the New Education Ordinance. This did not alter the fact that New Guinean teachers with comparable qualifications were on vastly lower salaries. As an example, Grade 1 in digenous teachers start on a salary of £460 per year, the Australian teach er. in New Guinea, Grade 1, starts £1053 a year. The salaries advances j maintain similar relationships. Vhis discrimination in salaries for equal qualifications is destroying much goodwill and this is reflected in the setting up of the Local Teachers' Association. Last year's budget which cut the indigenous Public Servants' salaries forced the teacher trainees to demon strate. Arising from this the Menzies Government made an allowance to teachers who had entered the service earlier than September of last year, which made their salaries up to the rate they were receiving before the cut. However, should the teacher ad vance in the service to a higher sal ary, the allowance is cut correspond ingly, leaving the teacher with added responsibilities and the same salary. One case cited by Mr. Lancaster was a teacher, Mr. Vincent Eri, who would have to advance five grades to obtain a higher salary. The Public Service Determination of September 1964 was the basis of discontent which could affect gooa relations between overseas and loca teachers. This determination is base on an alleged ability of the economy to pay. Salaries for overseas teachers who were" in great demand were less than the rates which apply in NSW. Mr Lancaster said that every teaching position advertised had two salary rates— one for New Guineans ana on for overseas teachers. | A Government allocation of £7-5 jil- H lion was being spent in New Gu E to educate about. 60,000 ohildren Administration schools and 133, uuu subsidised Mission schools. fl To make a realistic attack on ilhter- acy in the Territory, Mr. Lancaste said, the education allowance sho be doubled and continually mcreasea until the majority of teachers w B New Guineans. „ en 18 At the present time more than | per cent of school-age children have, an opportunity, of an educa Adult illiteracy is a general feature. 