 | You've read lots of | \tales—now read the I ! j [?] By MALCOLM SALMON in Melbourne J "The main thing that has transformed . the | situation in Mt. Isa is the terrific support from the j Australian trade union movement. . . | pHE people of Mt. Isa | have suddenly real- | ised they have friends 1 throughout the country — . | that they are part of a .j great and responsible, bro- s therhood all over Austra lia, . ." 2 That is Pat Mackie speaking | in Melbourne, with . the elo- | quence of. a down-to-earth and | intelligent man with passionate | convictions as to the justice I of the cause of those who do | the world's work. | Pat Mackie was horn in New | Zealand — "in a little place I somewhere in the hills in the | middle of the North Island" | — in 1914. | He went to sea at 16, driven S "&lt;a terrific desire- to know 1 10w people lived in other parts jj of the world." | He was ashore in Canada for | a short time in 1933, then for i AAears remained at sea, I sailing mainly out of" United j States ports — New York, I Leltimon and New Orleans. S In 1949, he came back to New I ;faland, fed up with sailing j the world in other people's ships | and determined to build a boat | oi his own. f .Bat tIle N-Z. government had j l . fr,0zen all sales of the | aim timber he was seeking. So he came to Australia and for eight years,1 from 1951 to 1959, he had his own tiny lead- " mine in the black soil coun try near Burketown, not far from the Gulf of Carpentaria. Even with his own mine he was battling Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. The company's not-too-subtle method with his kind was to fix a quota on the amount of ore they" would buy from a parti cular mine, bringing it down to a point where is became quite uneconomic to continue opera tions. They bought him out and he went to work for Mt. Isa. Of the Mt. Isa company, he says: "ASARCO, the Yankee mono poly that owns Mt. Isa, have introduced new production methods and a new adminstra- tive set-up which constantly cause friction. "Using their vast experience 'of exploitation in America, they have introduced an administra tive system which provides for one supervisor to every four men. "Think of it. At Mt. Isa, there are 780 staff men in a work force of about 4,000. "Everything to get the ore . out of the ground — . no pro tection for unions — that about sums up the approach of the M.I.M. management." Dealing with the present dis- J pute, he said: — i "The most annoying thing is I the way the papers keep on | talking about 'Mackie and his g dissident, breakaway group'." 2 "We are not dissidents and not. a breakaway. All of us f have acted at all times as mem- | bers of the A.W.U. g "Dating from ' July 5 last year, f I was chairman of the normal | monthly meeting of A.W.U. | members. The chairman's job 2 rotates every six months. . As | from July 5, I had that respon- £ sibility. | "Anyone knows that a chair- I man has only one job to do — | to keep proper order, to see j that speakers observe the rules 2 Of debate, and stick to the sub- I ject and don't go off talking jj about the old woman's opera- g tion and that kind of thing. g "I was concerned about the ! way meetings were conducted j and encouraged members to j study the rules of debate. 2 "I suggested they hold I monthly informal get-togethers j to learn how to run meetings jj — I didn't want union affairs I to be run like a secret society. | I wanted to take the mystery j out of union business. g Of his personal situation (he I has been sacked by Mt. Isa | Mines and expelled from the A.W.U.,) he says: — g "If things stay as they are, f anybody could have his head | chopped off just going in there g and representing the workers. 2 "That's wrong and that's the jj only reason the fight is on about 9 my situation." 3 On the future in Mt. Isa, g he said: f "Now there is unity in the trade j union movement up there. jj "For the first time the unions 2 have acted collectively and as a I force. | "1 think it will stay that | way." ! Of the three Australian com- I munist newspapers, he says: | "Remember I am not interested 2 in politics. I "But these papers are the only jj ones that have carried the slaves' jj point of view ... I won't for- = get that and Mt. Isa won't for- f get it." j 