 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman 0BVIOUSLY Mr. S. Imer (general secretary of the Administration and Clerical Officers' Association) doesn't agree with Mr. Justice Gal lagher that all gains achieved by workers have come from arbitration. This week Mr. Imer warned that the patience and loyalty of public servants is being strained to break ing point by the Public Service Board's refusal to negotiate. "When they see the advantages gained by those who take direct ac tion, they are increasingly cynical and- discontented at the alleged advant ages of constitutional processes," he said. President Johnson of the United States said that the U.S. are not concerned about performing "stunts" in space. Although this could hardly be re garded as a scientific evaluation of the latest soviet space eitort, it does show however that it was not passed unnoticed by the President. Prime Minister Menzies pn the other hand was able to open a new tracking station near Canberra and not crack a boo. ? About 100 boilermakers and iron- orkers stopped work today (Wednes day) to back up 19 apprentices who had been cited to appear before the Apprenticeship Commission by Aus tralian Iron and Steel in Sydney. The lads were cited for stoping work with the men in support of a wage demand on the company. This earlier stoppage was held in protest against the company's refusal to allow union officials to take part in any negotiations. The men will attend today's hear ing of the Commission. ? Some employers really think that penal clauses should be imposed on their workers forever. A good example is the Coalcliff Colliery on the N.S.W. South Coast. This company succeeded in having a six months' clause, banning indus trial action, imposed on the work ers by the local Coal Authority and endorsed by Mr. Justice Gallagher. This ban ended on March 28 and the company applied to have it con tinued. On this occasion the court refused the application. When the ban was imposed It sparked off one of the biggest de monstrations ever seen in Wollon- gong. Who can say what might have hap pened had the ban been extended! Printed and published by D. B Young, 168 Day Street Sydney at 21 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. 