 [?] CYDNEY: NSW Liberal Premier Askin and his Cabinet are looking forward to a break when Parliament adjourns on December 9. It's been heavy going, not only from an effective Labor Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and from Labor's majority In the Legis lative Council, but also from numer ous protests, deputations and de monstrations from trade unionists, women's and other organisations. I Last week a bill aimed at break ing Labor's majority on the Sydney County Council, was defeated in the Legislative Council. The Bill aimed to reduce the Syd ney's City Council representation on the County Council by one, and eli minate Marrickville Council's repres entation as a separate Council. Both Sydney and MarrickviUe Coun cils are controlled by the Labor Party. It's no secret that the Askin Gov ernment has instructed the Bound aries Commission to break up the existing Sydney City Council. q. s a Pay-off to newspaper tycoon cur Frank Packer, and the big retail stores and business interests, they are going to set up a city ; business tn81?n as Sydney Council elec- orate, and make new fringe councils | out of the rest. I tions8y en ca for new elec- f # fHE H.G. Palmer crash and other I up. comPany failings are continually I raised in the New South Wales I rarliament. I mitfiJSuer "Justice Maddison ad- 3 the &lt;sf arHament last week, that 8 in J, SuPerannuation Board had I 0f £550'000 in H.G. Palmer. I Hg £400»000 bad been put into I a ViK«>-.rmer AFTER they became J ®bs"imry of MX.C. i the c MaUam (Lab.) called on 8 elermJ Government to take the I ohanep gambling on Stock Ex- I ' annugtok Boa7 fcm 0,6 ?y|R. L. J. FERGUSON (Labor, Fair- 1VJL field) touched off a heated scene in Parliament last week when he referred to a recent Government inspector's report on companies with which the Justice Minister, Mr. Maddison, had been associated. The question was: "It it a fact that you receive numerous requests for earlier releases of prisoners? "Is it a fact that many inmates of these prisons are persons guilty , of shady company transactions and fin ancial machinations and claim in their defence that they were duped by other people and their only crime was apathy? "Is it a further fact the report of inquiry into the affairs of Collier Moat Ltd. and Kwikasair Freight Lines reveals that you were guilty of 'apathy' in regard to certain transac tions in these companies? "In view of your experience in these matters, can it be expected in the application for release from prison of any person who claims he was only guilty of being 'apathetic' will receive your favorable consideration?" Mr. Maddison "I have been con- AmtMA ITVIA vnwrtrf rafdiH! VlUtCU U1 UU GAUUC. A lv VAVM to apathy, it does not mention me specifically as being apathetic." « -THE new editor of the, Sydney Sunday Mirror, has cut out The Whip's page of snippets from State and Federal political life, and has axed in mid-course the interesting series of reminiscences by veteran NSW Labor politician, Billy Shee- han. The articles published, on such sub jects as the New Guard, and Justice Piddington, aroused considerable in terest in N.S.W. political circles. Many people were looking forward to read another that was to have dealt with some of the influences that tur ned Billy Sheehan to politics. (He was at one time going to a Jockey and actually did track work.) It's believed that this article was written but not published. Among other things it dealt with the influ ence of early Labor leaders like W. A. Holman, and Aridrew Fisher. 