 Garbage J READ with amazement the let- v/fL o£ M Hurnham (Tribune 4-ba) on garbage disposal. „ Does Mr. Burnham imagine that , guixxes ana ravxnes are placed on earth by God to make the -cenery look more interesting? Gullies and . ravines . are the. result of millions of. years of water erosion, and serve a material physical function dictated by the material action of nature, and disaster follows when, they are filled in by people who know nothing of geology or ecology. Take as an example Renown Park, Mortdale, a former swampy river gul ly, that has been filled in by rubbish, where nearby residents put up with the smell and filth of a tip for many years, on the promise that they would eventually get playing fields. Of course, when the filling was com pleted, a great portion of the area was sold for building blocks, but the remainder, the so-called "park", is washed away every time we have a week's heavy rain, a recurring feature of our climate of alternating dry spells and torrential rainfall. The cost of repairing the damage caused by the week's rain we had iast . June (this work has just been com pleted) was approximately £12,000, and this has occurred many times. The total cost has now run into tens of thousands of pounds, more than it would have cost to incinerate the rubbish, and the water - erosion and subsequent expensive repair, will continue as long as our climate re mains as it is today. The water action which carved out the gully in the first place is still functioning at this present tihxe," at an even greater rate,., caused by the removal of natural vegetation, and . the substitution of non-absorbing roads, footpaths and buildings. This is but one example of what can be seen all over Sydney after wet weather, where "reclaimed" areas, many built over with cottages," are regularly flooded. Anyway, why do we need to "re claim" land with the smallest popula tion per land area in the world? As to the cost of incineration, the installation and maintenance of a sewerage system, according to this line of . thinking, is wrong, because, it is more expensive than dungheaps in the backyard (still in use in some countries). But this is absurd, as the improved national health and longer life, following the removal of dung- heaps and rubbish tips, is a priceless asset. Many capitalist countries, including some parts of Australia, recognise this, , and have banned rubbish tips in fav- . our of incinerators. The prime consideration is not cost in money but the welfare of human . Vip>inor«! (Mrs.) R. Staples (Oatley. NSW). 