 : gpyvrTinfBnwrirMiwi— ' j with Noel Counihan Catching an art fraud t . | ATE last year the Daily Mirror ran a story of a supposed recent interview with Picasso by a Phillip Barris. An account of this interview was published in the Paris quarterly "The Living Museum", journal of The Friends of the Louvre Society. It sparked off a fiery debate in art circles and seriously disturbed many admirers of Picasso. Picasso received over 2,000 letters from-miany countries g where the interview was published, several of them letters of abuse. 1 Barris claimed, the Mirror stated, 1 that Picasso told him how, as ai young I man, he discovered that the path to | success in our age was "any kind of f iantasy and intellectual charlatanism", >$ and that he became rich and famous I through fooling the wealthy and the ;J critics with bizarre, extravagant I ideas. 4 | 'The loss they understood it the || more they admired it," Picasso alleged- I ly stated, adding, "When I am alono g with myself I have not the courage i to consider myself as among the greats 1 like Ciotto, Titian, Rembrandt and | Go)'a" i 1 hese were only a few extracts H bom an interview which, if true, || amounted to a devastating attack on jgmuch 20th century art as wanton in- gjtellectual humbug and pointless ex- I! pet lmentation with new forms. H i.J\ «avc Jy to the apologists for a pce.Kl academicism. This whole "inter- new and all Picasso's alleged per- gsonai statement has been exploded as ||a blatant fraud and forgery, Hie Hungarian Quarterly (Vol. 5, Hp0, 1"1, . !964) contains an article by m tno Mihalybi which includes a letter Joni P'casso's close friend, the famous g icnch painter Eduard Pignon, to |another of Picasso's friends and fellow |jpainter Georgy Ruzicscay. iit-n0n Avrote: "In about 1952 an l.nf" "amed PaPini published a |Book"ln man>'' entitled "The Black "This book contained imaginary in terviews with a number of famous people, including Walt Whitman, Picasso, etc. "For some time various papers have been publishing the article in a iorm which suggests that it did not origin ate with Papini but with Picasso him self. "As you can see, the truth is quite simple, this notorious article is nothing but a new. and particularly sinister form of attack on Picasso." Having received some time previous ly, from what purported to be an honest source, a short extract from this 1952 "statement", whose terms tallied ; word for word with those reported in the Mirror story of the Barris "in terview" — I was naturally suspicious of the latter. , But knowing full well the enormous prices paid on the art market for the slightest sketch bearing Picasso's sig nature, and knowing how the ignor ance of art of many wealthy collectors and investors created countless op portunities for "leg-pulls", I did not, to my deep regret, realise that . the original extract itself was fraudulent. Fraud, forgery and conspiracy are far from strange to the world of art, despite the denials of some critics and academics. Lovers of ' art need to be alert in her defence, and in defence of the in tegrity of precocious and brilliant artists like Picasso,- who, as I have stated often, has reflected the dark moments and crises of our times more immediately than has any contempor ary. At every critical turn in recent history Picasso has expressed vividly, if strangely, his feelings of outrage at the debasement of man by fascist ideas and war. His best works express a love of life, of peace, a hatred of death, pain and injustice. Picasso's influence has been such that one feels it not possible to work as though Picasso never existed. 