 PUBLIC DOUBTS ANN % Militarism not wanted ! in Aniac Pay LAST week the Sydney Morning Herald pub lished the text of a discus sion on the nature, repu- tation and future of An- Anzac Day observances. Participants wer:. a girls' school. headmistress, (an Eng lish ex - servicewoman) , a. leader of the Returned Ser- : vicemen's League, an ex-ser vice alderman (prisoner of war in Chang i) and a. univer sity student. The very fact that the "Herald" v thought such a discussion necessary sheds light on the growth of public doubts about the content of typical Anzac Day publicity, now at its height in connection with the 50th anniversary of the Gallipoli landing. Against war More significant were the repeated statements that public opinion is . swinging against modern war and the -use of the Anzac anniversary for militarist and misleading purposes, as these extracts show:— Mr. David Griffin, Civic Reform ; alderman of Sydney City Council said Anzac Day was associated in many people's minds with a glorifica tion of war. ; "There has been a tremendous change in attitude to wards war" he- added. People of 20 today "have a much greater horror of war than the peo ple who were 20 after the first World war . . . Where people have always said they deplore war, now they are really believing it ... I am only trying to find out what has happened in the community to bring Anzac Day under fire at all. "And I have a feeling that some thing very profound might he hap pening." Miss B. Archdale, Sydney head mistress: "I think Mr. Griffin is right. I think the. changing attitude is partly because of the change in the war." Mr. G. Graupner, Sydney student: "It is not so much Anzac Day that tends to remind young people of the militaristic ogre but the RSL itself. ... I think the RSL has a valid point of yiew to put with regard to the defence of the country and any danger that the country may he in. "But a lot of young people think that this is militarism and war mongering and that there is no real basis to it. And they tend to see Anzac Day as a sort of epitome of the whole militaristic outlook of the RSL ... "There is probably a stubborn, deep down feeling among young peo ple that they don't want to particip ate in a war arid that a war is just somehow too horrible to behold. A war today is so much more horrible to contemplate than the wars of the past. This is a feeling among young people that is not expressed but it is felt . . ." Horror Sir . William Yeo, NSW President of the RSL: "Nobody knows the hor rors of war more than the man who has been in it and no man would do more to prevent it than a man who's been in it, if he possibly can." Miss Archdale: "It isn't the man who has " been, but the young man sitting right here who is going to know what war is. This is my ob jection to Anzac Day as it is now. It is commemorating a type of war- fare which has gone. It gives a false idea of war". "'i Sir W. Yeo, NSW president of the ! | RSL, said Anzac Day did not succeed | to the extent he would like. He -a believed, however, that every child if should he taught what Anzac Day means. "I mean by this the idealistic J phase of it— the sacrifice, the cour- f| age. These things I think should be ifl taught." s|g TRIBUNE COMMENT: The real story of the tragic Gallipoli mili- j tary expedition contains lessons \ y too rarely told. The men displayed 1, courage, determination, co"?ctive ; self-reliance and mateship ti are 1 always inspiring. But the sacrifices - i of life in a hopeless and useless i enterprise were in fact imposed by i '« inefficient British political and ' j military leaders, in the unjust ( 1 cause of a war between rival im- ' i perialisms. J Today again, Australian life is | threatened by involvement in war J in South-East Asia in the wrong and hopeless cause of American and British imperialism. Today, Australia needs a radical change : of foreign policy and not the pro motion of jingoism, whether in of- |j ficial publicity around Anzac, or in |j any other form. (See also page 7). -! 