 — — — j More on the pills : 1 o ' I Exploitation J for young and old\ By KATH OLIVE, B.Sc., A.I.D. ! I HIGH LEVELS of profit and expansion by the United States drug industry as compared with Industry generally, since 1957, can be related to successful exploitation of ' the very young and the elderly. j Between 1962 and 1963, the U.S. ! total population increased by 1.5 | per cent, but in addition the age j distribution is changing. Tbe in I creased birth rate means a larger I proportion of infants to total J population. \ In 1940, infants under 5 years » were 8 per cent of . the total popu- j lation and 11 per cent in 1964. This is just fine for the drug interests, as the major number of respiratory and chest infec tions occur in the very young and the very old. On an average, each infant visits a doctor 6.2 times per year, whereas the population as a whole only 5 times per year ( Chemical and Engineering News figures). A further cause for jubilation on the part of' the drug com panies is the increasing number of people surviving past 65 years of age.. Modern medical science has lengthened the life span, so that the over 65's now constitute 9.3 per cent of the total U.S. popula tion, as against 6.8 per cent in 1940. This is wonderful, because there is more chronic ilness in the aged, and they visit a doctor 6.8 times per year, as compared with the average 5 times per per son by the total population. Total personal spending on medicines reached 25 billion (thousand million) in 1963, nearly double the figure for 1955, and four 4times that of 1947. "Another indicator of growing concern for' health is the bull market for health insurance." This direct quote from "C. and E. News" leaves little doubt as to whose "concern" for health I is growing, and why. 2 More than 77 per cent of all j Americans have some form of | hospital insurance, 70 per cent have surgical insurance and 55 per cent have medical insurance, j and premiums totalled about 5 ! billion dollars, in i960. | Surgeons appear to have I greater cause for rejoicing than j physicians however. . ? This is apparently not due to j Ben Casey, as the same relative I proportions obtained in 1947, j though the actual percentages j were much, lower. | Prescriptions filled in the drug ! stores doubled since i945, being j an average of 4.3 per cent per person in 1963. ? In dissecting the sales of S drugs, the order of spending ; showed Antibiotics a. clear win- ( ner. j With 400 million dollars worth j splashed around, it is no wonder I that the problem of increasingly | resistant bacteria gets more | acute i It is well known that many | antibiotics are prescribed for j conditions in which they have no = effect, and against organisms I which are insensitive to them. ( Psychotherapeutics (i.e. drugs for treating . mental disorders) S are also in heavy demand, as are g other drugs for the central ner i vous system., | The effect of the stress and = tension of ,the "western" way I of life is clearly seen here, as j the number of patients with men- j tal disorders increases daily in j our society. I "The prognosis (forecast) fof | contraceptives other than oral is ; negative." I However, a recent report in the j journal Scientific American (Jan j 1965 outlines, experiments of fit- = ting cows with contraceptive ap- I pliances, aimed at solving the | problem of India's huge wander | ing population of ownerless, hun- j gry, scavenging, : sub-standard : sacred cows, which use up pre- | cious stock food and reduce the | milk ' production of herds by j _ inter-breeding with them. ; j They cannot be destroyed or ' neutered according to Hindu I beliefs. I So perhaps this field will re j vive the flagging prospects of the ' conventional contraceptive com- I panies. I While business has never been I better for the industry as a | whole, the small firms are find | ing the going tough and being swallowed by the giants. Competition is cut-throat, and astronomical sums, up to H million dollars by a single firm, are being spent on research into new products to be pressed on to a public already conditioned to an exorbitant usage of medicines Such research is by no means useless, and has produced much valuable knowledge. But being conditioned first and all the time by the profit needs of the company, it at best falls far short of research carried out by govenment agencies, univer sities and institutions. At worst, it has led to con viction of some firms by U.S. grand juries of concealing harm ful and dangerous effects of new drugs in order to ensure F.D-A (Federal Drug Administration) approval to market them. 