 Three aspects of human behavior "Short Novels" by Chinghis Aitmatov. Available from New World Booksellers, Price 6s. Posted 6s5d. IN these three short novels, Aitmatov examines three aspects of human behaviour, its impact on the community and the individual. It is said that actions speak loud er than words. Should action, then, precede words, discussion, thought? In "To Have and to Lose" Ilyas, transport driver attatched to a depot in the Tien Shan mountains believed it should: this was his personal tragedy. It was the drivers' job to haul materials up over the Dolan Pass to the farms on the other side. They had to he tough and enduring men: in summer the road was a challenge, in winter an icy threat; delivery was an ever-present, urgent problem. Ilyas decided to solve it in his own way, by direct and independent ac tion. The experiment ended disas trously. We share the danger and excitement of- the motor road as the story moves inevitably towards its immensely moving climax. "Duishen." In the hungry year 1924 a stranger appears in the village of Kurkureu. He has been sent he says, to establish a school in the village. The young man, modest, determined, goes about the task entrusted to him. Scarcely able to read and write himself, with en ormous courage and patience, he sets out to break down the barriers of prejudice and ignorance. He restores a ruined stable and finally - establishes the school. The story Is told by a former "pupil, now a distinguished education ist who returns to the village to open a grand new school. Duishen, now an old man and the village post man is not a guest at the splendid function. He brings the congratula tory telegrams and is off with a clatter of his horse's hoofs: -the mail must be delivered on time: the spirit of the young stranger still resides in the old postman. "Mother Earth" is a story of cour- age, endurance and treachery in ar tUThe setting is a collective fa a0ntJ the prose has the simple stren0 and beauty of a pastorale, w vividly aware of the sme sounds of the farm. _ ,,,«ring Central character is the to figure of Tolgonai. War takes husband, her sons, but fan d quench her courage. Her t daughter-in-law becomes P s - I to a roving shepherd but | not quench her love. .. .fthsiie | When Aliman dies in cWdlgtn „ accepts the burden of the lhe | looks unflinchingly towards | future.— M.B. 1 i 