 _ _ — Replies on Angel's 'Alley RECENT LETTERS In Tribune regarding my observations on the Tribune review of "Ballad of Angel's Alley" have ignored my basic political critic ism of the play and have centred their main targets on the ques- M tin of hawdiness and "alleged -iff Philistine prejudice" regarding m Bex. | This latter term and others were i;| quoted at length from Engels by Frank Hardy. Although he disclaims any sug gestion of applying them to me, he does conclude that my views "re flect an unhealthy puritanical ten dency which is an infantile disorder of the revolutionary movement as it comes to power historically." I do not wish in these columns to engage in an argument with Frank Hardy (and the other writer who contributed under the pseudonym of "Old Theatre Fan" on the treat ment of bawdiness and earthy humour in literature and theatre. However, for the record, it is worth remembering that: the last two plays I produced at New Theatre were notable for their em phasis on these factors. The Greek play "Lysistrata" is regarded as the bawdiest of all classic comedies and in the adap tation by Ewan McColl (presented under the title of "Operation Olive Branch") New Theatre and I gave it the broad treatment dicta ted by its writing. I understand that my production of this play was recommended to the World . Peace Council for a peace prize. Shakespeare's "Othello", the other play referred to, is notable for its treatment of sexual jea lousy as aroused in one of the greatest and most noble charac ters in drama. This play is so frank in its dia logue that it is never stddied by children in Australian schools. Only the universities have it in the syllabus. These two productions would never have been handled by me if I had not felt sympathy with the attitudes of their authors. In fact, I wished to produce them when asked to do so. _ My premise regarding "Ballad of Angel's Alley" is that it is not in decent in a moral (i.e. sexually moral) sense but, if such a term may be used, that it is indecent politically. By no stretch of the imagination can audiences read into it, as Frank Hardy evidently does, "that capitalist society and its laws are corrupt, that the criminal gang leader may be equated with a monopolist bent on a take-over bid." This is wishful thinking on Frank's part. Further, for him to liken "Bal lad" with "The Sentimental Bloke" and Brecht's "Threepenny Opera" is straining our credulity to absurd lengths. "The Sentimental Bloke" is about a tough character (sentimental withal) who, because of his love for his girl Doreen, manages to rid himself of his past and its asso ciations. In the "Threepenny Opera" Brecht in hard hitting prose and song attacks capitalist society and uses projected slides and other de vices to underline his political message. Frank's reasons for comparing these works with "Ballad" are hard to fathom. Perhaps he and I have read' dif ferent versions of "The Sentimental Bloke" and "The Threepenny Opera". It's all very strange. "Old Theatre Fan" suggests that my views should have had endorse ment by a General Meeting of New Theatre. These views were expressed in answer to a printed review in Tri bune and even "Old Theatre Fan" should allow every Tribune reader, inside as well as outside New Theatre, to agree or disagree with a published statement. In conclusion, I feel sure that my first letter has aroused interest in "Ballad of Angel's Alley" and thlat many Tribune readers have gone to a New Theatre production with a wish to deliberately and critically assess the content of a play. In my opinion, it can do nothing but good for the Theatre. Edmund Allison (Sydney). pRANK HARDY, who should know better, quotes Engels out of context to prove that prostitu tion is one of the "natural, inevit able and highly pleasant things . . ."Engels is talking about natural sexual love, which in his time was treated with hypocritical moral prudery. "The Ballad of Angel's Alley" is a musical about prostitutes and the criminals who batten on them. No amount of rationalising, debat ing skill or double talk can turn the content of this story into any thing else. It is competently written and cleverly acted, but has no more effect than a rather funny "blue" joke. "The infantile disorder" does not lie in Edmund Allison's criticism of the play, hut in Frank's woolly- minded confusion of sexual love and prostitution, which is the very denial of sexual love. "The Ballad of Angel's Alley" is not an important piece of entertain ment. I cannot believe "it will have a place in our independent cul ture" — such a statement is senti mental nonsense. What has become important is the otherwise intelligent actors and writers rushing thoughtlessly to the defence of a worthless idea in or der to show themselves "modern", "tolerant", "with it", "avant garde". If Frank, and other champions of "Angel's Alley" really want to know what Engels meant by getting rid of "the last trace of philistine prejudices and hypocritical moral prudery" they should go and study Pietro Germi's "Seduced and Abandoned". This film is everything Edmund Allison says it is, and his excellent review in Tribune ridicules Frank's suggestion that Edmund Allison wants to censor and ban "natural robust sensuousness in literature and theatre." Joan Hendry (Helensburgh). NOTE: This discussion, which has been valuable, is now closed. —Editor, Tribune. 