 Trade union anger at Whitlam's attack By a Political Correspondent [?] If The strongest attack on the trade j! union movement by an Australian || Labor Party leader for over a quarter I! of a century was delivered by ALP Federal Deputy Leader E. G. Whit- lam last week. IN a prepared lecture read at j ' Newcastle on June 22, he is reported to have accused some ALP trade union officials of being "men without honor or courage". Mr. Whitlam said that this was because they co-operated with fellow trade union members who are Com munists. "They put their own interests be fore those of the Party .to which they and their unions owe allegi ance." Angry reaction Mr. Whitlam's attack has aroused an angry reaction among trade unionists at the official and rank- and-file level. Significantly, it was applauded on June 24 by the Sydney Morning Herald, a major Australian big busi ness organ, which said: J "There was certainly nothing to criticise in his (written) state ment." The speech was . part of a two- pronged attack now being developed by right-wing circles generally against the role and influence of the trade unions in the affairs of the broad labor movement. The essence of Mr. Whitlam's consistent campaign on this issue is to increase ALP party-political inter- I L 5 - ' I jiuiciiue m Littue uxuuns, I The trade unions, according to Mr. Whitlam, must be subordinate \ to the ALP. Only approved unions are OK Only those unions, unionists, and union officials approved by right- wing ALP politicians are, accord ing to Mr. Whitlam, fit to be in union office and associated with the ALP. Mr. Whitlam, who lacks experience of the trade union movement, denies the -role of trade unions as the main mass organisations developed by the i workers to serve their own interests. Ignoring the fact that the trade I union movement gave birth to the | ALP and continues to provide its |f working class base, he stands his- 1 :?ry on its bead and proclaims that the unions must owe allegiance ' to i the ALP. I The essence of trade unionism in J | this country is that, despite differ- 1 | ences of religious belief, political I | Party and other views, workers need I to stand together in day-to-day I struggles against the employer and 1 Policies based on exploitation. I State labor councils and the ACTU 1 the same character. |g So policy of both the trade union 1 S!Sent and ALP is that EVERY 1 uRKER — not just ALP members H rfould a member of the appro- | Priate union. H I Split the unions Flowing from that, a Labor Govern ment wrote into the Arbitration Act provisions that all workers must nave the right to be admitted to me union of their calling, and that wuhin each union all financial members should have equal rights elections Vote democratic f ?Jever' Mr. Whitlam and his eds want to discriminate between members of a union, if members of a union elect to m,!e/n ALP man» and a Com- r other non-ALP men. then ms ALP officer should reject the j ft democratic decision of his fellow unionists and either resign or face Mr. Whitlam's condemnation as a collaborationist, a man without honor or courage, a self-seeker refusing to place the ALP before his members' interests. Those unionists who still maintain the ideal of unity, according to Mr. Whitlam, "do not realise the tsars and warlords do not press Austra lians, that bankers and landlords have been tamed." Mr. Whitlam should talk to Mt. Isa mine workers, General Motors employees, and others in recent major disputes. In the Mt. Isa men's struggle, which won the support of an enor mous body of Australian trade unionism, the' leadership of the dis pute was mainly conducted by the Queensland Trades and Labor Coun- 1 cil. The QTLC president is an ALP executive member and the secretary is a Communist. This body won great prestige by representing the basic needs and interests of the workers. In contrast. tho Australian Work- "f w I ers' Union leadership (led by ALP right-wingers according to the Whit lam pattern) did not collaborate with Communists but DID sabotage and break the unity of the struggle thus serving the American millionaire owners. Second line of attack The second line of attack on the trade unions is a scheme to weaken union influence from the top con trolling authority of the ALP. Public figures connected with this plan include Messrs. Whitlam, Oliver and C. Wyndham (Federal Secretary). Significantly, this trend too has the support of the Sydney Morning Herald. The ALP was developed in the period of Federation in Australia, with a national body consisting of six delegates from each State, elected Iby the State conference at which both trade union and local party or ganisations are represented. Now this national conference — dubbed by anti-labor forces the "faceless men" — is to be reorgani- sed. Part of the initial ("Wyndham") plan was reported to be a heavier parliamentary loading in the confer ence without direct election. Now the N.S.W. right-wing group have proposed to increase the Fed eral conference by a further 124 delegates drawn from Federal elec torate councils — the political machine. , Parliamentarians would in practice predominate, especially from outly ing states. The main trend is the -weakening of trade union influence, a basic violation of the ALP character and of the actual position in the States. Why these attacks now? Why this stepping up of the at tack on trade union influence? Leaving aside the question of per sonal conflict and ambition concern ing the Federal leadership, certain facts are clear. In the unprecedented public concern and opposition to the Men- zies Government's military interven tion into Vietnam, the parallel posi tions of the Communist Party, trade union movement and ALP in opposing the sending of troops have caused great concern to Australian monopoly capital, its government and apologists. A hymn of hate is being sung by them and by the NCC and other extreme rightists against the trade union role in particular. A similar anti-union attack is be ing developed by the Government over struggles for higher wages, price control and union rights aris ing from the worsening economic situation. It is as part of this situation that the attack by Mr. Whitlam must be seen. Every unionist in Australia should see the need to take action to defend tne independence oi tne trade unions, to ensure that they play a still stronger role for these vital interests of all the working people. MR. R. SCOTT . . . "no doubt Mr. Whitlam's background I as a barrister . MR. M. O'BRIEN . . . "con cerned at interference in the internal affairs of trade unions. . ." 