 |E22S9j i "Sunny Lake"! is missing j "BUNNY LAKE IS MISSING" (State Theatre, Sydney) is a mystery story about a little girl taken one morning to a day nur- 1 sery in London by her j mother. Later when the j | mother calls to pick Bun- I ny up she has dirappeared. I The school where Bunny is ! left must surely be one of the ! strangest in the world, but gives opportunity for interesting searches for the child and to meet some of the queer char- I acters connected with the in- j I stitution. j I There axe somo fine actors ! in the film. Sir Laurence Oli- j vier plays the role of the 1 superintendent of police in | charge of the .search. He is I dignified and convincing and ! in his handling of the case J wins sympathy for the dis- j traught young mother. \ Pretty Carol Lynley portrays | the part of the mother quite j effectively. j Keir Dullea, recently seen in I "David and Lisa" at the Syd- | ney Gala, again plays the part j ! of a young man badly in need j | psychiatric treatment. Twice ) running in this type of role I should surely be enough for j I Any actor! | I , Noel Coward, looking dread- j j ful, plays the peculiar part of j ! an old roue who even in the j ! midst of the mother's misery | | at the disappearance of the 2 | child tries to seduce her. j I Altogether, while the film is J | slight and one is able to work ' | ! out half way through who is j ! responsible for Bunny's dis- | J appearance, it's entertaining for ) | those who like a mystery and 2 seeing Sir Laurence in his role I | is an experience in itself. I j With the main picture is a j j Soviet film which tells the ' story first about the origin of S clocks. This is followed by a j visit to an1 area of the virgin j lands. | In beautiful color, the film I is both informative and enter- j Gaining, particularly the part j about clocks. 1 # I "MY fair LADY" With Aud- j rey Hepburn, Rex Harrison and Stanley Holloway (Century, 8 Pitt Street, Sydney) is recom- I mended entertainment. j If you missed the live show j or even if you saw it, you'll en- | joy the delightful music and the j fine acting and production. j Only one scene is a bit over- ! done, that is where the old man I sings "Get me to the Church on 2 time". — J. M. g 