 Australia slugged for millions by British drug manufacturers Contributed British drug manufacturers are soaking the Australian people with inflated prices for medical drugs . Compared with prices for fhe same drugs in Britain the rake - off amounts to millions of pounds annually . THE cost of drugs sold to the ' Australian Government by British drug companies up to 1 964 was £43 .3 m i 1 1 ion a year. The Commonwealth Director-Gen eral of Health's Annual Report of 1963 stated that from July 1, 1962 to June 20, 1963— Broad Spectrum Antibiotics cost £8,2 millions; Penicillins £3.9 mil lions; Diurectics £3.05 millions; Anti-Histamines £1.45 millions. The total for expenditure in these four categories of drugs was £16.6 millions. currency of examples of these four drug groups are as followws: A four day course of Tetracycline costs £1/3/11 in Britain, £2/13/8 in Australia, A four day course of Phenoxy- methyl Penicillin, costs 8/1 in Brit ain, 13/8 in Australia. 50 tablets, if 100 mgms. of Mepyra- mine Maleate cost 4/5 in Britain, it/- in Australia. One month's treatment with Bend- rofluazide costs 6/11 in Britain and £1/4/7 in Australia. If similar price differences are true of the average throughout the four groups of drugs mentioned, the fol lowing comnarison would be correct The comparative costs in Australian (in Australian currency): Cost to If costs in Autralian Britain applied Difference taxpayers in Australia Broad Spectrum antibiotics 8.2 .3.57 4.63 Penicillins 3.9 1,79 2.11 Diurectics 3.05 - 1.38 . 1.67 Anti-histamines 1.45 0.81 0.64 16.6 7.55 9.05 The table was drawn up by the Australian Medical Association in 1964. These figures show the astonishing rake off by British drug companies I of £9.05 million (some prices have been reduced a little since then). This money comes out of the peo- 1 pie's pockets. Class distinction in druas No one would think of running a Rolls Royce on kerosene as an eco nomy measure. But some in Canberra are happy enough to see workers given so-canea cneap drugs on a umuea National Health Service list to "save" the Federal Government a miserable couple of million pounds on its drug hill. While the present "five bob list" includes a wide range of essential and proven drugs, there are many intel- ligently compounded preparations out side the list which even the most j ardent anti-socialist doctor would be glad to see available for the mass of his patients. These products are available for J those who can afford them, a fact I that cuts a harsh class-line . through the subject of national health. This is wisely held to be a subject from which advantages of "privilege" should be excluded. The Federal Government may take ; care to avoid scandals by ensuring access by ordinary patients to drugs I ?!, .h1 the treatment of rare and 'atal illnesses. ! ,„BleFe are hundreds of thousands uttermg from such excruciating ill- sses as asthma and rheumatism? j m?! iny general practitioner could fipirfc fe,.or four products in these vnJna' ksted, which represent ad vances on what is available. Adequate safeguards against wealthy libera? ?pame? cashing hi on a more fancv .lift (with highly-priced by Lnt ? could he maintained oS0UrCe of quality products 6overnmpn?XPeilSees n exPanding j Production r f5Prise in the drug Mansion ofiethP ? moreTsupport and These 'are ®erum Laboratories. e Policies which only an ( anti-Liberal NSW Government can ef fectively press on Canberra. Research needs to be done on the incidence of illnesses, including the common ones, in various regions and even suburbs in NSW. Where a high incidence of an ill ness can be reasonably related to local features a basis exists for action by the people, aided by the professional co;iimunity and. backed by State Gov ernment action, to strike at the mater ial cause. . There are thousands of sore throats in Port Kembla, whilst nearby A.I: & S. smoke-stacks belch clouds of sul phurous acid into the atmosphere; there is hepatitis in Berkely, which is beyond the limits of a slow-growing sewerage system. These are out part of a great patch work of. illnesses which a; little inves tigation may prove to be very much influenced by "politics" and partly curable by a poultice of a few million pounds pumped from the non-produc tive sector of the Australian economy. 