 Beware the seditious Rabhie : YOUR correspodent Ron Mackerras (Tribune let- I ters, October 18) says that | leaders of the RSL, DLP I and NCC would see sedi tion in Robbie Burns' | poems". I This should not be a matter j for surprise for they ARE sedi- j tious! | In fact, because of the power- j ful influence they exert on all I Scots and their descendents, I even down to the tenth genera- I tion, they are a menace to the welfare of our nation. They bring to this country a foreign ideology, written in a foreign language, in fact, a code, understood by only a select few. To win his objective when "The world wad live in peace mon . . . The sword wad help . to make a plough . . . The din of war wad cease mon" this I godless poet, to befuddle our thinking, praises heavy drinking: "Gie him strong drink until he I wink, That's sinking in despair." j To corrupt the morals of our. j young he gleefully and encourag- ! ingly tells of his seduction of the I innocent: j "I laid her doon wi right good ! will among the rigs of bar- ! ley, | I'll not forget the happy, happy | night among the rigs wi ! Annie." | And further, the cohorts of | this atheistic ideology, in their ! - drive for power", are not satisfied j to sit contentedly, each under j his own vine and fig tree, and ! take what the good God sends ! them in this affluent society of | ours, but have infiltrated into every nook and cranny in the ! community. They now exert a powerful ! influence in the Society of Book- I sellers. For here in this highly I moral city of Melbourne, where | Mr. Bolte and Mr. Rylah won't j even let good people read a g decent bawdy love story, the f subversive works of Burns are ! displayed in every bookshop. I Not covered up decently, under | the counter, like dear Lady J Chatterly or the lovely Loh'ta, | but openly and proudly display- I ed among the classics! i Here we see him sitting cheek j by jowl with . Browning, Long- j fellow, Wordsworth and Milton. ! Surely a case where guilt by as- I sociation can be proven. I And it is well known that this I is an Important ritual when | Scots assemble in secret to j honor their national bard. j And at a certain stage of these | subversive orgies they propose j a toast to themselves— "Here's g to us! There's none like us." A ! studied insult to Australians! j Some suspicion may even rest j on Prime Minister Sir Robert j Menzfes, who is known to drink ! Scotch. But since he has ac- I cepted the Order of the Thistle j from our gracious Queen, no doubt this has made an honest. I man of him. I But even on such sacred mat- j ters, Burns has had a say:— | "What of earls with whom you ! have supt l And of dukes you have dined j with yestreen? j Lord! a louse is a louse at most I Though it crawl on the curls of | a queen." j It is clear there is a most j urgent need for a Royal Com- S mission or a White Paper. I Andy Wallace, S Melbourne (Vic.). j 