 Writers, artists protest against repressions CUMMING up at the Euro- pean Conference in Rome for the release of political pri soners and democratic libert- ies in Venezuela, Jean Paul Sartre said: ' "I am happy to join your efforts to win liberty for the political prisoners of Venezuela. The Leo ne Venezuelan government has made gestures to placate world opinion but nothing has changed. Some of the prisons are emptied one day only to be filled again the next. The country Is In the hands of foreign interests. Noth ing will change in Venezuela un til those foreign interests are thrown but. "Iron ore and oil are exploited by "Yankee" companies that rob Venezuela of three quarters of its annual output, with the collabor ation of a feudal class that repres ents three per cent of the people and possesses ninety per cent of the land. "Politicians, with good principles at the outset of their career, soon learn to sell themselves when they see that the national sover eignty of their country is a farce. "The structure of this society is. comparable with Cuban soc iety during the time of the dic tator Battista before the revolut ion, a comparison which shows clearly enough that - nothing will be improved until this structure is broken.- . "This structure is now being challenged by groups of revolut ionaries showing courage and ten acity and supported by the pop ulation. "I wish to take this opportunity today to pay testimony to those heroic fighters, and my profound admiration and to tell them that I have confidence in their victory. "I wish at the same time to tell them that the .delegates to our conference are united with me in assuring them of our complete solidarity with them". Yeygeni Yevtushenko, Soviet poet, sent a strong and impas sioned m sage of sympathy and solidarity to the Venezuelan people. "The Soviet people are also with us here today. The peoples of the world can no longer suffer separately. If the Venezuelans -uffer, then t1 e Italian people, the Soviet people and all other peoples suffer. Today it is dif ""It to believe in a friendly world but we must believe in it. Today it is difficult to save the world, but we must save it." "#nezuela is the most exploited of all the Latin American coun tries by foreign capital, mainly from the United States. The Un ited States monopolies invested 1,343,800,000 dollars in the last five years and pumped out 3,096,100,000 dollars. There are about 600,000 Venez uelans unemployed, 1,000,000 chron- ically underfed, and 1,390,000 il literate. , Some other delegates to the conference ; were. Mazzacurati Guttoso (Italian painters), Bassoj Dario Puccini, Terracini, Carret- toni, Pier Paulo Pasolini, Jose Vincent Abreu (Venezuelan writer), Enrique Batista Gomez, Antonia Pesenti (Dominican writers), Alberto Moravia,, Derrick Page, Christopher Norwood, Paul Rose, Russel Kerr and , Ruth First (journalist of the liberation move ment of South \frica). 