 CONSCRIPT IN COURT CYDNEY: A member of the Communist Party, Robert Kitching (20), was refused exemption from national ser- vice training at a Special Court hearing in Sydney on Monday. He was ordered to serve as a non- combatant. Reports of the hearing appeared under such headings as: "Communist would not fight for Australia" ("Aus tralian", July 24). Giving his reasons for objection to service, Mr. Hatching made it clear that his grounds were based on the pacifist standpoint. For example, he said that allied nations, including Australia, should have surrendered to the German and Japanese fascists in World War II. Both in- newspaper reports and in the court hearing, attempts were made to suggest that Mr. Kitching's views are the views of the Communist Party. Mr. Kitching stated however that, while he was a member of the Eureka Youth League and had re cently joined the Communist Party in Perth, he did not agree with "a lot of the things they believe in.". He made it clear his grounds for objection were not based on Com munist policy. Communist policy A C.P.A. spokesman said yesterday that, as stated in the party's consti tution, it is the duty of Communists to defenced Australia's independence and promote world peace. This was, is and will remain one of the party's foremost tasks, he said. Before World War II, the Com munists were the most consistent in warning against the threat of fascism and fought against the pre war Menzies policy of supplying scrap- iron to Japanese war furnaces and otherwise encouraging fascism. Some 4000 Communists took up arms in defence of Australia's inde pendence in that war. If necessary, as in World War II, Communists would again support conscription of men and wealth to ensure the independence of our country. Sympathy A spokesman for the E.Y.L. said the League's policy on the present con scription, stated when the N.S.T. Act was introduced and also endorsed by the C.P.A., had recognised that many young people opposed conscription but for different reasons, including pacifist, moral, religious and political views. The policy expressed sympathy with all — whether objectors, con scripts or regular troops — who are being faced with the possibility of fighting in wars not for the de fence of Australia's independence but to prevent others from attain ing independence. The war 'in Vietnam was an ex ample. The spokesmen said that Com munist and EYL opposition to the pre sent N.S.T. scheme of conscription for overseas service was political — based on opposition to the whole of the government's foreign policy of taking part in wars in support of United States imperialist policies. It saw the solution to these prob lems in a change to an independent and peaceful foreign policy and it did not embrace pacifism, they said. The C.P.A. and E.Y.L. support the widespread demand in the labor movement, including parents' and men undler voting age, for a referendum on overseas conscription and the re peal of the present . Act. Return troops The C.P.A. and the E.Y.L. seek an end to intervention in Vietnam and the return home of Australian troops. The present Government foreign policy each day sharpens tensions between Asia and Australia, reducing our nation's security. Defence of Australia's independence requires respect of the independence of the neighboring nations. A correct foreign policy would remove the basis for the. present conscription and the danger to our regular troops. To achieve such a change in foreign policy, Communists would continue in every circumstance to develop political opposition to the Menzies Government and to act for the independence of Australia and for world peace, the Com munist Party spokesman said. 