 World opinion isolates US-Aust. Latest news from many mparts oithe world shows the utter Isolation of the US aggressors from pub- lic opinion even in coun tries where the Govern ment officially supports them. |N Japan, says the London Times Tokyo correspondent, envoy Lodge was warned of the "anti- American turn taken by public opin ion . . . Most Japanese newspap ers are insisting oiji seeing the con flict as an anti-colonial struggle . . .. they are near unanimous in calling for an immediate halt to the bomb ings." In Britain the Manchester Guardian reports: "The Union of Shop, Distributive and Allied Workers, the fifth largest trades union in Britain, called on the Govern ment on Tuesday 'to dissociate itself from present American policy in Viet- . nam'. "This could mark the beginning of a build-up ' of anti-American resolutions culminating in an embarrassing situa- . tion at the Labor Party conference in October ..." In Australia the Tasmanian Council of Churches decided to oppose the Govern ment's decision to send troops to Viet nam. ? From Moscow Tribune correspondent Rupert Lock wood sends this message: "THE very desperation of America's diplomatic and military situa tion in Asia and Latin America has heightened world fears of a resort to nuclear attack in the Vietnam crisis. "A satisfied Goldwater is roaring with laughter and Nixon is rubbing his hands" writes Pravda's Yuri Zhukov in warning that the USA rulers are "deliber ately and systematically" indoctrinating people for nuclear war. "There's not a minute to lose" declares French Communist Party Political Bureau in an appeal for speedy mass action to block Americans who are "playing with atomic fire". The London Observer, seeking urgent British preventive pressure, says "When you see your friend like a lunatic walk ing along the edge of a precipice holding four only child in his arms it is your duty to try to awaken him even if you have to raise your voice and make a strong noise". Soviet permanent UNO representative Fedorenko said "The United States has gone so far in its desire to suppress by force the National Liberation Movement in Indo China that it is ready to risk nuclear war. "The United States is not averse to testing action of nuclear explosive on people of Asian States just as it once tested it before and earned disgrace forever." Defence Secretary McNamara has ob viously reserved for himself the 'right' to unleash nuclear war". The New York Times emphasises that Washington policy does not accept any bans or restrictions on the types of weap ons which may be used in Vietnam. Omens are that nuclear plotters can be defeated. The profoundest significance is the long-awaited and dramatic ascent of the indigenous- American Peace Move- ; ment. This lately reached levels far beyond direct left influence — from army reservists to rightist union officials. As Governor Rockefeller rose to speak at Cornell University's . hundredth anni versary, students waved banners at him and chanted "End war in Vietnam, halt the killing, bring troops home". . Four thousand five hundred prominent public figures — Nobel prize winners, authors, poets/ scientists, union and civil rights leaders — sent a Declaration of Civil Disobedience to the White House describing the American war in Vietnam as dirty, immoral, and denouncing "in human torture and senseless killing". They risked five year gaol, five thousand dollars fine each for the Civil Disobedience pledge. The Federation of American Scientists, unanimously asking for peace, stressed the grave threats of nuclear war and direct clash between major powers due to the war's extension. The Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Fullbright admitted several com mittee members objected to escalation. Bonfires blazed last week on American- held Okinawa, largest nuclear missile base in the Far East, and Yoron Island, south ernmost Japanese island across the water illuminating crowds and slogans demand ing Americans cease using Okinawa as an anti-Vietnam base and its restoration to Japan. Eighty-five thousand attended the de monstration in Okinawa's Naha city against the shipment of supplies and troops from Okinawa to Vietnam. Pravda editorial says: "A remarkable example of solidarity was shown by Jap anese seamen who refused to steer ships loaded with American cargo destined for military operations in Vietnam". The General Council of Trade Unions, Japan's greatest federation demanded America halt air strikes, withdraw troops and cease using Okinawa as an anti- Vietnam base. Prominent Italian doctors, trade union ists, youth socialists, communists and catholics are raising money — forty mil lion lire were collected in first four days — leading Italian . artists donated paintings for medical aid for North Viet- .nam, victims of bombings. These were only a few examples ol the rising international tide that can sweep invaders from South East Asia. 