 A family living wage is a basic workers' need By L. J. McPHILLIPS A demand for a full family living wage as a minimum basic wage, together with immediate substantial cash increases, won widespread support from workers in 1949-50. gEFORE the filing of this claim with the Arbitration Court and during the hearing of the claim there developed the very best campaign yet con ducted in support of a basic wage claim. The result was £l increase won at the end of 1950. This was approxi- mately 14 per cent of the then cur rent basic wage. If today's basic wage was increased by 14 per cent workers would get a rise of approximately £2 per week. Although the Court awarded £1 in crease it rejected "needs" as a basis for assessing the basic wage. Subsequent to this increase the employers developed the initiative on wage matters. This initiative against wage stand ards won by mass action was assisted by the decision of the Conciliation Commissioner Galvin in February, 1952, freezing margins, and by a 14- point program advanced by the late Chief Judge Kelly. Judge's proposals Judge Kelly's proposals included restriction of public holidays, .reduc- Hnn r\F nirorfimA vPrhipHfm nf the basic wage, "freezing" of mar gins. These proposals were rejected by j the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I Inspired by Judge Kelly's proposals and Commissioner Galvin's decision, the employers launched an attack on the workers and applied for a re duction of 46/- in the basic wage and an increase in hours to 44 per week. This application was not granted by the Court but instead the system of regular quarterly adjustments was abolished. ACTU gatherings in 1951, 1952 and 1953 were marked on the one hand by efforts of left wing forces to de velop a counter initiative and mass campaign by the ACTU, and on the other by defensive decisions almost totally lacking in wage demands ad vanced by the officers. It is worth noting that this period marked the first years in office of the Menzies Government, its attacks upon militants and the associated rise . of the Industrial Groupers in certain unions. However, the Court's decision on "freezing" the basic wage was pro tested against and in January 1954 the ACTU Executive declared "The Court's assertion that the basic wage is now completely divorced from the 'needs' principle is not acceptable to the trade union movement.'' ACTU policy In 1955 the ACTU Congress gave force to this declaration by adopting the policy of a full family living j wage as a basic wage. This has beeri ! constantly repeated and is the cur rent policy of the ACTU. ' ! Each agenda for the last three congresses has contained resolutions calling for implementation . of this policy of a full family living wage. However, applications to the Arbi tration Commission have since 1953 been aimed at restoring the basic wage to its 1953 purchasing power and gaining some increase to com pensate for increased productivity. The ACTU Executive has adopted a recommendation to abandon the formula on which basic wage claims have been based since 1953. The way is now open to replace this with the demand for a full fam ily living wage, i.e., to implement in practice the current policy of the ACTU. L. J. McPhillips 