 "Hey, G uas t a vino T" i h From ERIC AARONS and PETE THOMAS fter their recent visit to Chile. "T"0 walk along a street of ' Santiago or, especially, of Valparaiso with Luis Guastn- vino is to proceed almost at a standstill. Not that Luis Guastavino is a slow-moving "mam far from it. But so many people" know him, and stop to talk to him. Every few yards, someone calls out "Hey, Guastavino!" or "Hey, Lucho!" (the affectionate diminutive of Luis) and grabs his hand or throws his arms around him— and there's another few minutes' talk launched on the footpath. ? GUASTAVINO has, since earlier this year, been a Communist mem- ber of the national Parliament of Chile. He is one of the two Communists among the 12 Deputies from Val paraiso (which is Chile's biggest port, about 100 miles from Chile's capital, Santiago). Before becoming a member of the national Chamber of Deputies, Guastavino was a member of the Valparaiso Council (at the last Council electron in 1963, he topped the poll). In Valparaiso, it seems, almost, everyone knows him. Walking with him, you hear al most as many greetings as you take steps. A policeman gives him a salute (though at other times police have given him a very different kind of salute). Gj Perhaps most impressive of all, v' you hear youngsters point him out - to each other and say, "It's Guas- v tavino," as he goes past. Guastavino (it's pronounced | something like "Wustaveeno") is \v. an easy man to pick out. | A lively, athletically-built 33-year- old, he is one of the very few in \v Chile with yellow-golden hair. Among his dark-haired and often | swarthy compatriots, he stands out V like the snow on the Andes. y Guastavino lives with his wife V; (a teacher) and three young child- \; ren on one of the hillsides in Val- | paraiso. f V\» Guastavino's exuberant persona- p lity; his sometimes sly, sometimes . boisterous sense of fun; his un- i selfconscious ability to mix with everyone; his eagerness to listen; |\ his practical commonsense and his || zeal when things are to be done — |j all these help towards making him 1 so popular a figure among both | Communists and non-Communists. |! He acknowledged to us that his |j work is both within and outside | Parliament; that he regularly speaks | at street meetings; that he addresses | any gathering he can go to on Com- | munist policy (one such meeting was | of Jesuit students at the Catholic | University), that he takes a vigorous |\ and direct part in local campaigns. | . What campaigns? » Well, for example, the Valparaiso waterside workers' struggle in June- July this year. For 40 days, the watersiders clashed head-on with the authori ties over Government plans to in- , filtrate and dilute the labor force (an anti-union tactic of the type which is so familiar to Austra lian waterside workers and others). It reached the stage where the Gov ernment closed the port and put armed police at the gates. Waterside workers refused to be cowed. They marched and demon strated day after day. Truncheons, firehoses and electric prods were used against them. Guastavino was there, with the workers, in the thick of it all. When police seized a worker, Guastavino would intervene, in whatever way seemed to offer the best results. His status as a Deputy did not give him immunity from being hit with police truncheons and jabbed with electric prods. Guastavino's fellow-Communist De puty from Valparaiso, Manuel Can- tero, was in it all, too. Like Fred Paterson (then Com munist M.L.A.) in the 1948 Queens land rail strike, Guastavino and Cantero showed what is the right place for geniune working-class Parliamentarians. Then Gaustavino and Cantero would take their place in Parlia ment, to contradict the propaganda against the workers, to give the facts of the struggle. The watersiders won some points by their struggle, even though they . could not achieve full victory against the forces around the Government. ? SCARCELY had that port dispute been resolved than Valparaiso (like other Chilean centres) was hit by another crisis; the furious storms which swept in from the Pacific. Huge waves smashed Valparaiso's sea wall and foreshore into rubble (washing away some of the cherish ed beaches) and poured across the road. Gale, - rain, .waves - and flooding caused terrible devastation. Fami- lies were homeless); many were des titute. The Communist Party chose Guastavino as leader of its work for relief. In Valparaiso, as elsewhere, Com munists' immediate relief work for the homeless took many forms. One form was a "squatting" cam paign. Some 500 Valparaiso families were moved on to Government or Coun cil land and established there. Then the Party helped to build homes for them there, resisted schemes to put the people out, and headed the campaign whiclj won agreement from the authorities to provide money towards water and light services. One night, a deputation came to a Party meeting from 64 families. They had been told that the build ing where they lived had been con demned because of storm damage and they were being ordered to leave. Guastavino and others went to have a look straight away that night. The next step was a deputation to the authorities to demand that, in stead of evictions, the necessary repairs be made. It was a lively deputation: "every one came, the men, the women, the children, the cats and the dogs," Guastavino gleefully recalls. And they won. In Parliament, faced with Govern ment pretence that there was not enough money for a full-scale pro gram for relief and for works pro grams to prevent recurrences, Guastavino and other Communists presented a detailed program on how the money could be obtained. Copies of the Communist pro gram were widely circulated, and it was featured in a supplement of . the, .Commiinist daily, El Siglo. On Communist initiative, the Val- paraiso Council called a public meeting at which this and the pro grams of other parties were put be fore the people. (Guastavino was the Communist Party's spokesman at the meeting). So far, the Government has been able to stall the program. This is scarcely bolstering the Government's somewhat-sagging prestige. The storm-relief campaign is con tinuing. The people, and the Communists, are seeing to that. ? THERE are lots of other Valpa raiso campaigns, too. For example, the Communists have been active in the campaign which has retained the twice-a-week market in the city; a remarkable institution, in which stalls are set up over a length of about 500 yards in the broad "island" which divides one of the main streets. There all sorts or goods (veget ables, clothing, hardware, etcetera, etcetera) are sold cheaply. The big retail interests don't like that. But they haven't succeeded in stopping it. As a Deputy, Guastavino handles an almost endless variety of day- to-day problems of the people. Perhaps as this is being written, that woman is calling out in a Val paraiso street: "Hey, Guastavino! Hey, Lucho!" and telling him more about it. If it's not her who is calling him, then someone else almost certainly is: "Hey, Guastavino!" We asked him to tell us what be himsjlf thought was the main rea son why he is so popular. We got an answer, a typical one. "It Is, said Guastavino, "because our Communist ideas teach "us fp work with the people and to help them." GUASTAVINO (left In a Valparaiso street during one of the many halts to Talk to people who hailed him. 