 ' 1 1 1 1 1 " ' 111 " 1 1 C|giuLiijjj|_|BiigTLJ ITfiWrTr — niinilBinrM»HTiTKWniniWW»MWWMWiMW»iW»WF WWwr»wBWMBBMMMWWMMIlPWBl''ii» i inwiinrrn rwnm wwirlilMWTOaWPBWPPBMIilMWBBIw111 ! The Hammer Men | ; A short story by KEN SETTER 'I I'd been on the job a few ! days now, and I was beginning I 11 to get settled in. I'd teamed j up with a few of the boys and I ; :i got onto a couple of good j lurks. | it was dinner time and we sat on j the grass at the back of the factory, . | I eating our sandwiches arid discussing S 1 Saturday's game, when a, little bloke I I came up chewing a bread roll. He | jj was joe, the shop steward; J I'd met him before; about lan hour J 11 after I'd started he'd come along I .1 to see my union card. 1 1 I was travelling about the country J a fair bit and I kept my union . | fl card in my tool box, with- the result ! 1 that it got a bit on the dirty side. - j | . After looking at the card, he'd I « gone on t0 say that hed been I 1 the union forty years' and still had | 1 his first card; and it was still clean. ( J And see if I couldn't do ' better with mine. n : "They're getting a girl in to do t the office work,"- was all he said, '( M letting it sink in. x jl ' But some of the boys were ahead I of him. S : ' v I "Good on 'em," from Bill, a curly I headed youngster, "it's about time J| they brightened up the place a bit." j J "That's alright for you, but what a ;:J| about the drop hammer men, and '|| their washing time?" replied Joe. d M It was a small, factory, and the m forge shop was under the same Jl roof as the lathes and mills, a set a ||| up I'd never seen before. pf It made the whole place dirty to || the point where "it was almost im- possible to breathe clean air. And I the noise got on your nerves. I The men working, on the drop 1 hammers, due to the heat, and the i rate at which they had to work, I were bathed in sweat. | Well, with all the dust flying | about, one can imagine just how r dirty they got. We. had only one. washing shed, and that was at the opposite end of the plant. ..... The men on the hammers had only one locker to hang their clothes, so instead of getting their clothes full of dirt, it was the prac tice for them to undress at the ey J hammers, then walk across the he P in full view of the office, have a shower, then get their clean i ,H?es on- In this way, their ia j clothes did not get dirty. :t- I I could see what Joe was I getting at. >n- I r ben's this sheila starting Joe?" ey -m + , ed' seeing that Joe was not iut i v 5 it: to he a matter to be taken li 1 "8htIy- ne a "Tomorrow." 116 l j t ' the drop hammer men II ti lne7. n saytng that he'd always H ought it wrong but had gone II Tv,n wi as there were only ou I working there. lll H rir,"NW'" he went on> "it's time to 8 something about it." 1 in„Vhat we should have, is two i -and five Hriiiutes washing is 1 T'rf ?lped UP a chap with glasses, si- 1 not seen him before. i Wrd had sPread. Now there , j 8 ere a dozen or more. lst I! ahnm0 lime we had a meeting iey. i ut ltj lf yu ask me." 3 Yeah, what about it, Joe?" 9 it T6:1; have one now- What about linb 1 whole lot h almost got the the 1 CQl1eer now," said a new " A theAreilg' Give us ti;me to get 3 ffl 1 the chaps out. Don't Bil know why they sit inside the plant and have dinner, anyway." And so- it was that the meetirig was held and it was decided to call on the management for a five minute washing up time and two lockers for the hammer men. There was a general outcry about a whole host of other things, but Joe in" his wisdom and experience in these matters, said it was better to just go for the most immediate things, so's not to cloud the issue. When the whistle went 'we went back to our machines. Joe and another man went in to meet the boss. On occasions like this, when the steward is in with the boss, there, is a certain expectancy in the shop, and men glance up at the office window to see how it's going. Word is spread around to the blokes on the other side. "Joe's giving it to him good. See him shake his fist." "Just you watch old Grimeses face. Don't like it a bit." We hadn't long to wait, till they come out of the office. By the look on their faces they hadn't got far. "Might as well all go out on the grass again, boys." We switch off our machines, glad to see some action on the matter. Joe made the report back short and to the point. Old Grimes had refused to hear about the men's claim. He also said that the practice of walkinjg through the shop before going for a shower must stop. "Oh, it fnust stop, he said," one of the hammer men shouted. "Well, I for one, say we should all stop as from now. Why the old devil has seen us walk through the shop for years, and because we want a few conditions about the place, he thinks he can push us around." "Now, hold your horses, Pete. Let's see what some of the other men think about the matter be fore you go moving motions like that." Other chaps then spoke. Tjje general tone was one which called for action. We sent Joe and the other bloke in to see the boss again, while we stayed out on the grass to wait the reply and to generally put a bit of weight behind our stewards to show that we meant business. While the stewards were in with the boss, we took the opportunity to get a bit of sun, and talk about what was happening. Frank, a young lad just out of his time, was saying that all the workers had to do, was to go out on the grass, to show the boss we meant what we say and we would get almost anything. They spoke of past struggles; how old Grimes had stood them up over the tea break; the time they had gone but on strike to defend the steward's job; and had won. "There, just like I was telling you before, about going out the gate." Ted, who had been listening to all this, took his pipe from his mouth. "Reckon you've forgotten some thing, Frank," he said. Ted, who was just on retiring age, and had been active in the union for years, was very highly respected among the men. We all looked at Ted to find out what it was that young Frank, in his enthusiasm, had forgotten. "Yes," he went on, "I reckon you've forgotten all about UNITY. Without it you can't get anywhere. Without it the boss has got you beat." He went on to speak to all of us, not just to Frank. "There's two things, that from the time a worker is born, he has to fight; that's the boss and old age. "There's not much we can do to beat old age, as you can see with me; but we can beat the boss, if we stay united. "Don't forget, Frank, that workers can do without bosses, but bosses can't do without workers." The deputation came back then, without much success, and we all went home for the day. After a few more meetings and a day or two outside the gato, we won our fight and returned to work. Then, in time I moved on to try my hand at .some other thing up north, but I will never forget the words of the old man with the pipe. He was right. 