 . | Discrimination I I in sport on way out By "THE CHALLENGER" ! THE field of sport has 2 often been used as a ! kind of subtle proving ! ground for discrimination I on the basis of color and 1 sex. 2 \ I Birt over the . last two | weeks the d i e h a r d s | (though still resisting) | have been more and more | rebuffed by an increas- S ingly hostile public reac- 1 tion. S At a 1,500 strong anti-apartheid I meeting held recently at Trafal- t gar Square, London, the Queen S was called upon to boycott the I South African cricket tour, be- | cause of the apartheid policy. I In Brisbane last week, the I touring African Ballet members S refused to accept in. the same I dining room the South African &lt;j white-only footballers, the Spring- boks, who had booked into the I same hotel. I . Also the great "West Indian 1 cricketer Leary Constantine, has 5 refused to cover the South Afri- | can cricket tour for an English | newspaper, because ' of South | Africa's apartheid. 2 In the other direction, sex dis- 1 crimination victimised Miss Lor- | etta Lewitzki, a 17 year-old Soc- 2 cer . referee from Fairymeadow, ! who has become a familiar figure j refereeing this season in South ! Coast (N.S.W.) junior matches. 1 Last week, just before she was | about to have her field test to 2 become a fully fledged referee, 1 she was barred from controlling j any future matches by the II- 2 lawarra District Junior Associa- ! tion. I Miss Lewitzki claims the reason | is "just because I'm a girl". 1 She says that what started her 2 off on refereeing was the fact 1 that her father (himself a referee | for 25 years), was off work for 2 six months last year after being I attacked by a senior team. I Such things, she said, would I not happen if a woman were in | charge. " i Many would agree and. it is in- j teresting to note that Mr. Ian 1 McAndrew, the secretary fo the 2 Australian Soccer Federation has 1 informed Miss Lewitzki that she | will be able to appeal against the 2 decision to the N.S.W. Amateur ! Soccer Association. 1 Also at Elizabeth South, in | South Australia, Mrs. N. J. Pratt 2 has encroached upon another of. J man's sacred domains by coach- | ing a score of youngsters in Aus- 1 tralian Rules football. 2 These and other examples are S but signs of the times that wom- | en are finished with the role of I playing second .fiddle in sport or any other aspect of life. ! Rugby League From Ron Mackerra9 uuimrni my earner lurecast that j St. George and Balmain would ! fight put this year's grand final | with the same results as last j year. ! I Want to repeat that St. I George with Gasnier, Langlands, j : Raper and Walsh (the world's ' best footballers in their positions, ' though some would have Billy I Smith and Kevin Ryan added to » this brilliant line up) have ! nothing to worry about. | . Balmain's .strongest features j commence With their coach and 1 sole selector Harry Bath. He is I ' backed up -by a good, solid, con- f sistent, team, whose main pur- 1 pose seems'to be clean hard foot- hall. To support this statement fans need consider the flare-up amongst players sent off in this year's fixtures, in which Balmain "'have taken; part; ..H Jack Danzey's breach was silly and inexcusable, but one not I likely to be repeated. His previ- j: ous record . is of the highest j order. I George Piper's hard, barging j runs drew three or. four tacklers . j and in these he is often treated ! to snide punches which go un- J noticed by the referee and lines- j men alike. S "His dismissal", on Saturday | seemed to shock him and quite j a few spectators. | Ron -Clothier's dismissal and I subsequent penalty some weeks | back was warranted and spoilt a | previous good record. j With the return of Peter Pro- j van, Jack Danzey and Bob Ridley j ; no Balmain. first grade can afford ! a silly incident in which an op- | position point is scored or a j match suspension incurred. j Before leaving Balmain, a word for their captain, Keith Barnes. An inspiring footballer and sportsman of the highest order. If I am to be proved wrong in my premiership forecast, it would be good for Rugby League if Parramatta does the job. Readers whovare supporters of j other clubs/ excepting myself j (Balmain) and Jim Sharrock = (Souths), should contribute their I , points of view to Tribune, main- j ' ly in support of their particular j club. Who will give Newtown a | boost or make a defence of | North Sydney? j WORLD UNIVERSITY GAMES ) IN BUDAPEST j Thirty-five countries will be j taking part in the World Uni- I versity Games from August 20- £ 29 to be held in Budapest. j Biggest team will be the Soviet j ? Union (185 contestants) and;' 'j Britain (106). -I j A small but strong team of 13, I from Canada will include the jo ) Olympic 800 metres silver medal- I | list W Crothers and 100 metres j I bronze medallist H. Jerome. d J Algeria is sending a contingent! | of 149 and Tunisia one of 126. I | Hungary is entering a team of '( I around 130, to be selected from j J 200- competitors at present in : | training -for the games. I | The Budapest games will cover j S nine branches of sport— athletics, j I swimming, diving, waterpolo, . | gymnastics, tennis, basketbai , | . j volleyball and fencing. | : j..; — 