 [?] A seaman looks at Groote Eylandt The SS Iron Derby was recently laid up at Groote Eylandt in the Northern Territory by a strike of the workers employed by the Mineral Development Company. A SEAMAN aboard the ship sent this letter exposing the existing conditions there and h© exposes some of the lies peddled concerning the Aborigines. We publish part of his letter. Firstly, let .us give you some of the background. Mineral Development Co. is a fully owned subsidiary of the BHP Co. and is engaged in developing (for their own very extensive profit) manganese deposits on Groote Ey landt and, port, facilities to ship this manganese to Bell Bay and also to Port Kembla. There are about 700 aborigines of three tribes living on the Island and until the coming of the BHP, some year or so ago, they had had remarkably little contact with white men except for those associated with the mission, stations. . They are renowned for their bark paintings. Since the coming of BHP, about 25 have been employed regularly on the project on such diverse jobs as bulldozer driver, truck drivers, fitters' laborers and kitchen and camp help. Since " our arrival here, no mem ber of the ship's crew has been allowed ashore and to justify this illegal and entirely unwarranted detention on board in contravention of sub-clause: (a)' of clause 60, SUA Award, the delegates and other members of the crew have been subjected at some of the weirdest and most , fantastic stories to be found outside, of Yankee comic books. These. , are some of them: (1) That there exists deep antag onism between the Mission aborigines and the Mining Development employees. (2) That part of this antagonism stems from interference with native women by white workers. (3) That antagonism on the other side is caused by the refusal of the aborigines to join the Union. v (4) That' the antagonism of the natives was so intense' that they had deliberately set: fire - to the. bush in an attempt, to burn v out the construction camp. (5) That the Army had had to intervene and that an Army security order was; preventing us being, allowed' ashore. (6),That the "Iron Derby" might, be ; called on to evacuate all white- personnel from the Island. (7)' That the Mission natives were shiftless and only wanted., to work for a few weeks, then would go back. -to the Mission and live high, on the hog. In our discussions yesterday with Messrs. Carroll (NAWU), Rose (NAWU) and Thompson (AEU), we found that not one of these stories was true; but- arc all the result of a distorted imagination. One of basic causes of the strike was the use by the -BHP of non union. labor,, especially on the job of unloading cargo — but the offend ers were not natives, but white men.. . There are spme 300 workers here now, all living in tents still, with galvanised mess halls. The working force— indeed, the whole community on the mining lease— is all male. They must stay three months to get their fare paid back to Darwin, -six months if they were recruited in Sydney or Brisbane, etc, .... Laborers receive less than: £20 per week. Even fitters get only a little over £22 per week. Anywhere else in the Territory a fitter, can be sure of at least' £30 for his basic hours. The BHP laborers, employedi dis charging cargo in lighters, in an open roadstead with the barge sometimes bouncing; up and' down three or four feet , and crashing into the1 ship's side— a decidedly- hazar dous occupation— receive 9/6 per hour. The wharfie in Darwin gets 16/- for off-loading on to a stable jetty. This treatment by the, BHP is further highlighted when it is realised that the employees, of private contractors living and work ing alongside under the same con ditions receive considerably higher pay. For instance, eimployees of Dow- setts receive up to £6 per week more base pay. We are; Fraternally yours, , (Sgtt.) A. IS. WILSON, for crew members s.s. "Iron Derby." 