 \Aboriginal art at I the Moomha Festival [?] with Noel Counihan 1 yMONG the many Moomba 1 art shows in Melbourne 1 is one of traditional Abolri- ;i ginal art organised by Mr. Jim 'i Davidson. . Much of the work I has been used in tribal cere- fj monies and includes fine ex- | emples of such outstanding | painters as Mungaraway, Biri- 'J gidji and Mawalan. J Proceeds from catalogue sales will i purchase hand tools for the first |j Aboriginal Technical School estab- m lished at Yirrkala, in Arnhem M Land, last year; 14 students will II study in the old tin shed, sitting on il boxes at locally made desks. | A promised Government subsidy H of £7500 has been cut to £1500 for || this year and £2000 for next. Il Melbourne citizens are providing || the essential power tools. If if A SPECTACULAR demonstration || of support for modern Austra- II j1.011 ai'b and for more cultural rela- I .tlons between the USA and Aus- II tralia has come from New York art M llector and business man Mr. H. H Merz. |j He has become so wrapped up in m uUl ai'k during his current visit, that 1 flf is buying pictures, from more 1 representative painters, 'to | nd on tour through 60 American ft cities, effectively catalogues, and to be established finally in a perman ent exhibition in New York. "DUSSlAN literary personalities Daniil Granin and Oksana Kru- gerskaya, have also shown a keen interest in our art during their brief visit -as guests of the Fellow ship of Australian Writers. Mr. Granin, formerly a physicist and now an eminent novelist, also sculpts. He likes the work of Dickerson and Arthur Boyd, also that of some of the younger painters in the Georges Invitation Prize Exhibi tion. He responded warmly to the pro mising talent and strong human ism of the 24-year-old Michael Morgan, who is having his first one-man show at Melbourne's Ath enaeum Gallery. # # A N important exhibition of art for peace will take place this year (20th anniversary of the anti- fascist war, and United Nations' Internationa Co-operation Year) in association with the 3rd Interna tional Book Art Exhibition at Leip zig. It will consist of a large show of drawings and prints from artists all over the world. Australian artists are urged to send work, preferably reflecting the ideas of international co-op eration and solidarity among the world's peoples, but not necessar ily so. Original work should be sent to: Sekretariat der Internationalen Buchkunst-Austrellung Leipzig 1965, Grafikaustellung, Leipzig C 1, Mes- serhaus am Markt, by the end of April. Medals will be awarded for out standing work. Picasso was award ed a Gold Medal in 1959. The exhibition will be shown dur ing July-August, then sent on tour throughout GDR and also abroad, after which works will be returned to artists. 