 Sovfet UN delegate says AusfraUa is . . . Determined to annex New Guinea" By JIM COOPER "We are faced with an open determination to annex the country", Mr. P. Morozov, the Soviet delegate to the UN Trusteeship Council, said in a recent debate on New Guinea in the Council. MR. MOROZOV was sharply critical of the use of Papua and New Guinea as "military bases for the implementation of imperialist policies in South East Asia and the Pacific Ocean". Mr. Dudley McCarthy, the Australian delegate, reserved the right to reply at a later date. The draft resolution moved by Mr. Morozov called for the immediate granting of independence to New Guinea and the transfer of all legis lative powers to the House of As sembly. He advised the Australians not to be on the defensive but to bow to the inevitable. ,This in New Guinea means independence and independ ence now. Referring to the war bases in New Guinea he said that these measures had been taken under , the aggressive alliances of which Australia was a member and were fraught with grave consequences for the people of the region. The charge of turning the Territory into a military base cannot be denied, as it is openly acknowledged by the ' Government which has allocated £25m. for military expansion this year, to he followed by at least as much in the ensuing years. The huge military barracks at Port Moresby and Lae together with the chain of airfields stretching from Daru to Wewak, leave Mr. McCarthy no argument. Mr. Morozov sharply criticised the composition of the House of Assem bly where there are 10 appointed members and"" 10 elected European members elected to seats from which New Guineans are excluded. Australia was carrying on an open propaganda campaign against grant ing independence to Papua-New Guinea, creating the impression that if independence was granted the country would collapse. The new Goroka hospital contract was cancelled after the contractor had made preparations to start. All expansion of primary education was stopped. In trying to refute the charges of annexation, Mr. McCarthy will have to explain recent statements of Mr. Barnes, Minister for Territories, who is reported recently as saying: "Independence is certainly one possible choice but there are others. Continued membership of the Brit ish Commonwealth is one of them. Some association with Australia is another and there is an infinite var iety of such associations which are open for discussion . . 