 Swvcy sSiiws grav® gdi&ation crisis ' ; 1 SYDNEY: A survey of primary schools, jest completed by the Teachers' Federation, reveals that a crisis situation stfSl exists as it does on a nestionai seaie. AT a press conference last . weeK, rne presiaeni or ine NSW branch of the Teachers' Federation (Mr. S. P. Lewis) said that the .-shortage of teach ers was one of the gravest pro blems in Australian education. The survey showed that there is a shortage of at 'east 1600 teachers. The Teachers' Federation will ask the Federal Government to provide adequate funds for education in the coming Budget. "The States are unable to cope with this massive problem on their own and a great deal of assistance is vitally needed from the Common wealth Government," Mr. Lewis said. Modest State Ministers of Education had asked the Federal Government to provide an extra £45 million a year in 1963, for four years for sub-ter tiary education. "This would have fulfilled only a modest program aimed at reducing primary classes to' 40 pupils, lower secondary classes toN 35 and senior secondary classes to 30," Mr. Lewis said. "The Martin Committee estimated that Australia must train 11,500 more teachers by 1975 to meet the needs of expanding school enrolments. - "Yet the Federal Government has rejected the Committee's recommenda tions that it engage in teacher train ing," he said The survey shows that — The shortage of class rooms is more acute than last year and over 250 schools have not enough class rooms for the children enrolled. One of the most urgent needs in N.S.W. at present is establishment ' of more teachers' colleges. There is a serious lag in the school building program. At least 134 schools have classes in rented halls many of them a considerable distance from the schools One school has classes on opposite ci/oc nP fVin Tlr,i ivnor TTirrHviraxr children have to cross six times a dav. Another 260 schools need more class rooms before they will be able to reduce the size of their classes. ® There are 32 schools using then libraries as class rooms, 20 otliei schools have classes in staff rooms, 17 have classes "boarded out" at other schools, in one school the principal's office is used as a clar"' -non, Class in smeas In other cases classes are con ducted in a tennis court shed, a local town hall, a showground pavillion, an old CouTt House and in numerous _ hat rooms, .. eather sheds, corridors, etc. Another serious deficiency in most primary schools is the lack of an assembly liall. A vital factor in children's social education. Yet 456 of the bigger primary schools have no assembly halls. Approximately 500 schools have groups of 10 or more children in need of remedial education but they have no remedial teachers. Children need these special classes because they have lost time through illness or because ol erno tional disturbances, such as broken homes have interfered with heir schooling. Educationists agree that. io class should have more than 30 pupils, but in the larger schools in N.S.W., only 23 per cent of classes are this size. The Menzies Government sends troops to "defend" South Vietnam. Menzies himself refuses to recognise the National Liberation Front, which is the political organisation of the majority of South Vietnamese people, against whom the U.S. and Australian troops are fighting. This MAI shows (both 1961 and today) in the grey areas, that area which has been liberated by the N.L.F,; white areas sliow the territory under guerilla occupation and those tiny black areas depict the territory held by U.S. and puppet troops. 