 Postal workers stop to back wage claim SYDNEY: About 4,000 postal clerks and telegraphists in most centres throughout Australia will stop work today (Wednesday) to back their demand for increased wages. "THE Federal Council of the I Salaried and Professional I Officers' Association is sup porting the postal workers. The ACSPA represents 39 white col lar organisations covering 250,000 workers. ACSPA Federal secretary, Mr. R. 2 Williams, condemned the Board's "ut- I ter procrastination" in dealing with I the postal workers' claims. S The stoppage has been called by the Third Division Telegraphists' and | Postal Clerks' Union and the Fourth | Division Postmasters', Postal Clerks' I and Telegraphists' Union. | The unions are protesting against ! failure of the Commonwealth Public Service Board to resume salary ! negotiations which began in Novem- | ber 1963. S It was decided that unless the Board | met the unions by March 19 a half | day stoppage would be held today. S Last Wednesday the Board notified |. the unions it would meet them on I March 29 but made no indication that I salary increases would be offered. I Earlier this month a meeting of I seven postal unions representing about ? 100,000 postal workers said: "The Aus- 1 tralian Post Office today faces a staff- ing crisis, lowered staff morale and | consequent deteriorations and failures S to service." | Who'se to blame? S "Those responsible art now trying ) to blame it on anything but their own | policies since 1961." I "At this time the Post Office was ( placed on what was termed 'a busi- iness basis' and, also, all capital costs of the Post Office throughout its en- ) tire Commonwealth history back to 1900 became an interest burden on the I' current earnings of Post Office staffs." "The Postmaster General then be- j gan to delete from his annual re- > ports to Federal Parliament any ; reference to the high rate of produc- j tivity increase by the postal work- : er." ! The unions said that instead of pro- | fits of £20-30 million annually being j revealed, "the accounts are being ! manipulated to show a loss with all ! | the disadvantages this holds for staff j i morale and anticipated improvements ! in public facilities and staff ameni- | ties." . j Postal unions say that an examina- ! tion and rectification of this situation I should proceed immediately and calls j for a conference between the Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, the I Chairman of the PSB and the Postal j Unions and Associations. j 