 " a By Tribune's Industrial Roundsman "THE four Aussies who set out to clean up the poker machines in Las Vegas learn the facts .of life early. -As one casino official said: "They are likely to be bounced right out of town. And if you don't believe :here are men who would do it, you jan lock at the bottom of the Mis sissippi River for evidence." The Yar.ks are somewhat less subtle than the Australian club Managements although the basic- oilcy is the same. ONLY LOSERS ARE ALLOWED. Clubs should dispense with all the complicated machinery and instal 'donation boxes" with a pull handle. k ; ; "PHE reporls of fishermen on the South Coast, of NSW dumping 5 million tons of fish a year is tot just a fish story. According to a representative of a fishermen's Co-operative Society lie men could not afford to land heir catches, at the market prices :eingpaid. Leaving aside for the moment who s copping- the cream, the recent ublicity ims brought to light the act that most Sydney . fish shops vainly use frozen fish from South \frica (usually not labelled as uch). Tribune drew attention to this 'act last year in support of the trade pions' demand for a boycott of :outh African goods as a protest gainst apartheid. ok VTATIONAL Development Minister Fairbairn's report showed that vroducUon of black coal in 19G4 set a new record of 27.4m. tons an in crease of almost 2.5m. tons over the revious year. A pleasing feature was a rise of nearly 10 por cent in , .productivity, he said. In NSW, output increased by 7.7m. .ons with 130 les men. Over the past lo years about 9,000 miners havce lost their jobs in NSW. This has also occurred during a period in which coal has faced -.nfair competition from the oil ompan'.fs — but only at the ex pense of mine workers' jobs. These figgures are a good argu ment for .a national fuel policy and ,\ 35-hour working week. k "ITHILE the oil companies don't mind "unfair" competition with oal they join forces when it comes o fleecing the Australian motor- it. The hide of this newcomer CDay- ube Oil Co. Ltd.) trying to sell etrol near Melbourne for 5d. gal- on cheaper! . And what is more, rem a roadside tanker! What a Criminal! No wonder the Victorian Weights nd Measures Department stepped a to stop this "breach of regula- lons." After all. Daylube had picked the when all the big oil corn- a5.es were pressing for a price in- rease. Enough said! 