 Wage— fixing tribunals always understate the need for a real wane By L. J. McPHILLIPS The policies of the Australian Council of Trade Unions have never restricted v/age demands to amounts in line with Arbitration Court ideas about wage levels . THESE policies and wage demands have aimed at reflecting the needs of the workers. This is irrespect ive of the views of em ployers' organisations, gov ernments or wage-fixing tribunals. ACTU Congress decisions ' about the basic wage made over the last 30 years show that: Substantial increases have been sought. These have been advanced on the basis of workers' needs (not "capacity to pay") and irrespec tive of the reasoning of wage-fix ing bodies. A family living wage as a minimum basic wage has been the principal feature for the past 20 years. In 1937 the,- Congress called for an immediate 25 per cent - increase in the basic wage and also said: "We demand for the basic wage the regimen contained in the find ings of the 1920 Royal Commission . . . and that the findings of the Commission be put into operation oy the Government." The 1920 Royal Commission head ed by Judge Piddington was ap pointed by the Federal Government to determine the actual cost of liv ing at the present time according to reasonable standards of comfort." Its findings are the only investiga tion ever made into a minimum standard of living and the wage needed to meet that standard. Its investigations show that the basic wage of the day fell a long way short of the amount needed to provide the standard it found to be necessary as a minimum. Its find ings were never implemented and ita report was shelved. The regimen, i.e., the .list of items —food, clothing, housing and mis cellaneous items — it found to be necessary to provide a minimum Standard for a family would, even today, cost more than the .current basic wage. So the 1937 Congress decision | was a demand for a substantial increase — 17/6 per week — im mediately and for the establish ment of a family living wage of an even greater amount. The 1939 Congress of the ACTU repeated the 1937 decision. This meant a demand at the time for an immediate increase of approxi mately £1 per week and a basic wage of approximately £5 per week. In 1940 the unions put such a claim before the Arbitration Court. An equivalent demand today . would be ..for an immediate increase of not less than £3 per week. The 1941 Congress of the ACTU called for "unions to combine on an industry basis to force recognition of the principle of minimum wages for the respective industries, such minimum wages to be unlimited by and higher than the general basic wage." Acceptance by the trade unions of "wage pegging" as a necessary economic restriction .during the period of the Second World War caused an easing-off of basic wage demands. But in June 1945 with the end of the war in sight the Congress again called for wage increases and made its most far-reaching basic wage de mands. It called for: O An immediate increase Of 10/- per week by government action un der wartime powers. A further increase of £1 im mediately upon cessation of hos tilities. Within . six months of the war's end, a government committee of six including two from unions was form ed "to inquire into and establish a minimum wage. This wage was to be based not only on socially necessary minimum standards of food, clothing and shelter, but also on the maxi mum standards made possible by the productive capacity of the nation and so that there is estab lished as a minimum a greatly in creased standard including all liv ing costs made necessary by present day requirements." The unions pressed their claim for £1 basic wage increase' in 1946 and near the end of that year against a background of mounting \ strike action won 7/- interim in crease. At the same time weekend penalty rates, increased shift rates and sub stantial margins increases were also won by strike action. 40-hour week The 1947 Congress placed greatest emphasis on the 40-nour week de mand which was won immediately following a decision by the Con gress for nation-wide strike action. In April, 1949, the unions, acting through the ACTU and basing them selves on the 1945 decision claimed a basic wage of £10 per week. This was an increase of £3/16/- per week on the then current basic wage and the demand was for £2 of this to be paid immediately. Comparable demands today would be for an increase of £8 per week with £4 to be paid immediately. A FURTHER ARTICLE NEXT WEEK I vVHarfies demonstrate in Sydney recently outside the Arbitration Couit wheie the basic wage case was being heard. 