 Is time running out for Santamaria? |S time running out for that brilliant hangover from the feudal era, Mr. , B. A. Santamaria? His regular TV commentary last week-end (seen in Sydney on Sir Frank Packer's Channel 9) showed unmistakable signs o£ a man becoming desperate because, des pite his exhortations, his fol lowers aren't getting the results. But even if that is so, this back room boy of the ultra-Right in Aus tralia is capable of yet doing a lot more damage on his long-standing line of activity — splitting the forces of the Australian labor movement, in the interests of their traditional enemies. Last week-end, as reported in sec tions of the daily press, Santamaria urgently pressed a demand on all he regards as his friends in the Labor Party to act quickly and firmly to "oust the Reds" from the ALP "be fore the next election." ALP circles are more than in terested by the fact that he select ed none other than ALP Federal Secretary C. Wyndham as his main "witness for the prosecution." "Delinquents" Waving a newspaper clipping be fore camera, Santamaria quoted Wyndham as having said, at an ALP school in Queensland 10 days ago, that the party was menaced by "political delinquents". Who were Mr. Wyndham's "de linquents"? According to the report, they were those who were "knock ing" the United States and brand ing all who did not follow suit as "reactionaries" or "groupers". That was enough for Santamaria. Not content with his usual identi fication of individuals like Dr. J. Cairns, MHR as "more dangerous han the Communists themselves," le proceeded to the claim that "two jreat centres of decision in the ALP | -Federal Conference and Federal executive" were already in the :ands of the "pro-communists". The Federal ALP Parliamentary Caucus, he said, was "the last centre of power controlled by the non-Communists.' Even this would, succumb "within the next yearto a "final and totaP takeover" by the extreme leftwing —unless Santamaria's friends took quick, decisive action. If they didn't the ALP would lose seats at the election and the ma jo- rity of MHR's to go would be the "non-communist" Members. Why all this desperate urgency? The fact is, Santamaria's right- wing extremism is running into deep trouble. Take the Knopfelmacher affair. Despite furious tub-thumping by Santamaria and a handful of his cronies in academic circles in two separate public campaigns this year, virtually the whole of the profes sorial and senatorial Establishment at Sydney University rebuffed an at tempt to plant Dr. Knopfelmacher there to continue his unrestrained political activity against colleagues. In the trade unions, there have been some noteworthy setbacks for particular candidates for union leadership backed by the NCC, and some important gains for those sup porting trade union unity and inde pendence. But most important is the pro found lack of success of the Gov ernment's and Santamaria's) policy for extended war against the Viet namese and other south-east Asian peoples. What is really worrying Santam aria is that the policy of Australian military involvement in Vietnam, including use of conscripts there, is failing to gain public support. Opposition to that policy is the official stand of the ALP, as well as most trade unions, peace and many other organisations. Thus an official ALP article in the Melbourne Herald last Saturday says: "It cannot he said that there is anything like a consensus of views of Australians in support of the American sponsored Vietnam operation." Santamaria long ago hitched his waggon to the ideas of the forces of US and Australian militarism. The present attempt of those forces to impose their will on Asian peoples, at the expense of the independence and security of both SJS. Asia and Australia, is doomed to failure. Mr. Santamaria may sense that doom — but he remains one of Aus tralia's most dangerous men. 