 [?] READ THIS ! and save money Heavier taxes for war purposes — that is the pros- | pect of the Budget for the next 12 months. All the j more reason to save what you can by careful use of I these points in filling our your current income tax I return. I THE advice has been supplied I by Jackson, Nfippard & Co., tax consultants, well-known in ' Melbourne's trade union move ment. In line 'with most other acts, the ' Taxation Act is designed to give all the concessions to big business at the expense of the wage earner, and i therefore offers very little scope for I the working man to recover some of the heavy taxes lie has been forced to pay. This situation will only be altered by the pressure of united action by the labor movement through the trade unions to force amended legis- . lation. In the meantime, however this article is intended to assist you in taking the maximum advantage of the laws as they now stand. filling in your form When stating your occupation, sec that you give sufficient des cription to link it with the special deductions you intend to claim. For example, a shop Butcherman is entitled to deductions which are not allowed to a slaughterman al though they are both classed as I butchers. Always keep a copy of your return and your assessment. Once your .return is lodged, the Taxation Department will not let you look at it. "When in doubt — claim! Let the Department decide. You are entitled tp lodge a Notice of objection within 60 days of receiv- i ng your assessment, j. Unemployed benefits are not tax- > able, and should not be included in your return. j special allowances I yur employer provides you | juth board or quarters you have j | Pay tax on the value of the I oard or quarters as fixed by your I award. 1 your award does not fix a 1 u' board is valued at 20/- per 1 week and quarters 5/- per week. I mSImp sUm Payments of any kind f tinife n yur retirement or termina- 8 shm,i v8mployinent 1011 reason a shown in item 6 of your f| taxable and 0nly 5 P6r C6nt £ 1 Jill? i,ncludes Pay in lieu of long i e' gratuities, accumulated I Jjay pay, etc. i k!rkers' compensation paid in a 8 tot haSUn\ is not taxable and does 8 turn w be.entered on your re- 8 fortniohtf Paid to you eekly» amounte' ifc i Husband, wife I Forking boU,hMlSbMd an&lt;1 are I 1 >m at The nearer the final amounts on ! which the husband and wife each have to pay tax, the greater the tax saved between them. As a rule the husband earns much more than the wife and .should , claim for the children, pay the doctor's bills and so on; j But some times it pays to split the claim for the children so that both can claim the larger amount allowed for one child. If your wife or child has worked 1 r part of the year and been wholly maintained by you for the rest of: the year you are entitled to a partial claim for the latter period. Similarly, if a child for whom you : would normally be entitled to a claim started work on January 1, you would be entitled to half the usual allowance. Also note that if you have another child whom you are entitled to claim for the full year, claim £91 for this child and base the partial claim, for the child who started work, on the allowance of £65. If a wife is working and the hus band is unemployed she is entitled to claim for him and the children on her return., for the period in which she has supported them. FAMILY DEDUCTIONS The concessional deduction of £143 cannot be claimed for a defacto wife unless she is occupied full time in looking after the chil dren, step children or adopted children of herself or her defacto husband. The claim can then be made under the "housekeeper" heading. Normally a taxapayer is not entitled: to a deduction for his wife and children unless they are residents of Australia. This of course operates very harshly against those New Australians who are : supporting their families over seas. However, if a taxpayer intends to bring his family to Australia and is supporting them, he' should set out the facts in a letter with his return and claim the deduction for them. The previous maximum claim of £150 per dependent in one year has been withdrawn and now there is no limit on claims for medical ex penses paid by you, on behalf of yourself and dependants. MEDICAL, EDUCATION Medical expenses cover any amount paid for services of a doc tor, nurse, chemist, public or private hospital, dentist, therapeutic treatment ordered by a doctor, the cost of artificial limbs and eyec, and any medical appliance including hearing aids, prescribed by a doctor; the cost of eye testing and the subsequent supply of glasses; | fees paid to a registered dental mechanic for the supply, alteration and repair of false teeth. The maximum amount which can now be claimed for the education of each child has been increased to £150. If a husband and wife are work ing and both claim a portion of the education expenses, they cannot claim more than the maximum of £150 for each child between them. (See under heading Husband and Wife both working.) Government assistance in the form of a scholarship covering books, fees, etc., no. longer reduces your claim .for a student child. You are entitled to claim for school fees, books, stationery, fares, school clothing, upkeep of bicycle, music, and other .expenses connected with school curriculum. LIVING-AWAY ALLOWANCE If you receive a living-away al lowance you can deduct an amount for living-away expenses. This amount varies as follows: Allowance to £3/10/- per week — Claim £2/10/-. Allowance over £3/10/- per week — claim the amount of the allowance minus £1 per week. Apprentices who come from the "country and are paid a living-away allowance should qualify for the liv- -ing-away-from-home deduction. . The High Court decided that fares to and from work are not deductible. However, some workers receive fare allowance and in these cases the fares or part of them can be de ducted. Fares incurred in travelling be tween jobs, that is, for travel direct from one> job to another, are also deductible. INDUSTRIAL CLAIMS Certain workers are entitled to make special industrial claims for deductions. The list given here is by no means complete, and is intended only as a guide. In any event, check with your union to be sure. UNIFORM WEARERS: All uniform wearers can claim a deduction for replacement, dry-cleaning and up keep of uniforms if they are required by their employer to keep them clean and tidy. BOOT and CLOTHING TRADES: Sharpening and replacement of scissors and other tools of trade. SHOP BUTCHERMAN: Rer'ace- ment, repair and laundry of coats and aprons. Replacement of knives, steels, etc. SLAUGHTERMAN: Replacement of knives, steels, etc. FOOD INDUSTRY: Repair, replace ment and laundry of coats and aprons. SEAMEN: Replacement of knives and spikes WATERSIDE WORKERS: Press and radio pick-up, £6; tools of trade, hooks, etc., £3. Check with union office on other possible deductions. BUILDING WORKERS: Excess fares (see your union). Tools of trade: Carpenters and plumbers £20, painters £13. This only applies when tools are not supplied by the employer. Tools of trade: Repair and re placement of tools of trade is an allowable deduction. In some cases a maximum deduction is fixed toy agreement between the union and the Taxation Department. The following workers are ex amples of those who can claim under this heading (with the amounts stated being the maximum allowable). This list is only a guide; it is by no means complete and each worker should consider his own position. SEAMEN (deck hands, AB's, etc.), spikes, £5. BUTCFT, sharpening and re placement of knives, steels, pouches, etc., £15. MECHANICS, FITTERS and TUR NERS, general tools, £20. Trade union fees: These are deduc- tible up to £21. 