 Renshaw refuses | I jjj SYDNEY: The NSW Premier, Mr. Renslirw, made it clear to a recent deputation of unio thp.t he was not prepared to make any reference to fl e 35-hour week in his policy speech for the comi" elections. yHE Miners' Federation jour- , nal. "Common Cause", said the attitude of the Prenrer was most disaooointing. A meetinq of the NSW Labor Council unanimously called for this reform to be included in the Premier's policv speech. A deputation from the 35-Hour Week Campaign Committee, led by Mr. Marsh (assistant secretary of Labor Council), put to the Premier the Australian Council of Trade Unions' demand for a 35 hour week. A document setting out the ell'ects of technological developments in in dustry generally, and within the power and coal mining industries in particular, was submitted. The Premier was told that in 1952 15 million tons of coal had been pro duced by 20,505' men as against 20,700.000 tons in 190-1 with 11,339 men. In the case ot power generation, out put had doubled in the past 10 years with about 20 per cent, less employ ees. The unions are seeking the intro duction of the 35-hour week in these two industries as a first step to a geneva! reform. Mr. Renshaw said he was opposed to placing a section ot the woikrrs in a "privileged position" He also spoke of an acute shoiiige- ol labor and that the introduction ot shortci hours would harm the Hrul opment of the economy. Members of the deputation punned out that the situation today was very similar to that in 1947 when tin 40- hour week was introduced During that campaign, the .ugu ments now used by the Premier w'&lt; ie put forward by the employers hut subsequent events proved their pre dictions to be incorrect. The Premier was also advised that the introduction of the 40-hom \v&lt;!-k has been followed by a continuous reign of a Labor Government in NSW. This shows that when the Cow in- ment is prepared to use its legislative powers and introduce major social reform, its support among the people is improved and consolidated. 