 I Catholicism in the | modern Socialist state S From ALF WATT in Moscow. 1 ' ' " | "yHERE is no contradic- i tion between Socialism I and its economic content, 9 and the spirit of Cathol- | icism", John Mezsztowicz 1 told me in his Warsaw of- ! fice . I . ' | Mr. Mezsztowicz is public I relations officer of Christian and Social Action, and man- j aging editor of its weekly ! publication, For and Against. "Catholicism has a left and right wing," he continued. "We are on 1i the left, and that doesn't mean we are worse Catholics as a result. "Socialism has given Poland an enormous advance in- the standard I of life," he said. "It is not yet com- I pletely satisfactory, hut it. is going | ahea&lt;f. - I "But we are most proud of our educational advance. There is no onger any illiteracy. Books, radio, theatre and T.V., in fact all. the weans of transmitting human thought are now within the reach of all." With these words Mr. Mezszetow- «, a lay Catholic leader, began telling me his political credo. The views of all but a small liand- of Poland's Catholics are on the ie rad. And Poland is a Catholic rauntiy, Hke Italy, Spain or Portugal, fT .our observations led us to qe belief that the youth are not « devout in their practice as are "heir parents. Jfu6,?1311 I interviewed is a devout athhc> He doesn't share the belief «« Catholicism will die out. He 6rSn t agree with Communist philo- !?y,ticause, he said> it was in- wffh the teaching of the h: - that doesn't prevent SSjperating with the Polish United Workers Party. bntefl ?Y?ears of Socialism ' we civpn p i j Present regime has S a chance no other cooSmh? -ve it:'" he said- "We commn Wlth the PUWP for the 001 only on "We believe in peaceful coexist ence. The CSA works for peace and disarmament. It cooperates with the World Peace Council and all other Christian and non-Christian organ isations for this end. In this we have a common language with Commun ism." The PUWP attitude to some of the vital questions referred to by Mr. Mezsztowicz was dealt with by its central organ, Tribuna Luda, on Sep tember 27 last year. Full religious tolerance, it said, "means freedom of religious prac tice and religious activity Yof the Church. It means also freedom of proclaiming and propagating secular principles." The Party and the State judged people according to their abilities and the results of their work for the benefit of the people and the country, it continued. "Differences in outlook and reli gion should not, and do not, make it difficult for either believers or non-believers to perform their fruit ful everyday work for the construc tion of Socialism in Poland. The unity of the working people in the struggle for the construction of a new system is more important than the unanimity of their views concerning life beyond the grave." That this policy is being imple mented in practice was brought home to us by the enthusiastic un ity of the people in the construction of Socialism. We saw busy factories, new hous ing districts, and historic churches that had been destroyed by the Nazis and rebuilt with the lavish assistance of the State. We saw new churches. We saw a group of perhaps 50 children receiving religious instruc tion in a Poznan Cathedral. We noticed that some of our guides who interpreted for us in discus sions with leading political figures, including members of the. PUWP's Central ; Committee, genuflected as they accompanied us into historic Church buildings. This policy is expressed also in the position of the three lay Catholic organisations, CSA, Pax and Znak. All are represented ;on the Front of National Unity, a nation-wide institu tion embracing all organisations ex cept those of a purely sporting or recreational character. Between them they have 11 members in the present Parliament, which faces elec tions at the end of May. These organisations are not Cath olic political parties, nor do they represent the Church. Mr. Mezsz towicz described the CSA as a "lay group trying to influence the minds of the people." The PUWP, with 1,600,000 members in a population of 31 million, and the two smaller coalition parties, the Peasants and Democratic, are the political representatives of Polish Catholics today. There are differences, between the three lay organisations. Znak, while it does not oppose the Government or Socialism, is . at least less left than the other two, and less active , in its cooperation . with Socialist forces. One illustration of the difference can -be seen in the vote on the legis lation that separated religious in struction from the state schools, and made it the responsibility of the church. The CSA and Pax MPs ab stained, while Znak members voted in opposition. The hierarchy strongly opposed this legislation, and instructed the clergy to refuse to register the cate- chistic schools they set up. Registration was required so that the State could ensure that premises were suitable and safe. But the hierarchy was evidently unable to command unquestioning obedience to its policies. Tribuna Luda said in the article above quot ed, that "registration was nearly complete." Some reactionary clergy, unable to openly oppose the PUWP and Social ism, seek for other means of . struggle. Tribuna Luda gave a number of examples of a campaign against non-believers aimed at causing a split among the Polish people. It cited recently published "pre marital instructions" which spoke of "sinful couples" who had a civil marriage as being "unworthy to be visited socially by believing and practising Catholics." Among the other cases cited was illllllllllllliiiiliiiiiiiililiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliuiiitmniiiiiiiiiiH that of one Church which displayed a list of children not attending reli- gious lessons. "The list had a black border. Like an obituary notice!" Tribuna Luda said. The hopes entertained by American . and other reactionary circles of be ing able to divert Poland from its Socialist path may help explain these actions of a section of the clergy. But these hopes have met with bitter disappointment. Socialism is being built with great success in ' Poland. Meanwhile, devout Catholics work ing 'for Socialism hope for an im provement in relations between the. state and the church. "the present state of affairs -is not really a happy one," Mr. Mezsz towicz told me. "Both sides should continually display patience, mutual confidence and statemanship." "We believe a good Christian should he more devoted to the com mon good than anybody else, though unfortunately this is not always the case," he said. 