 National Liberation Front unites all south Vietnamese patriots IT is. becoming more and more obvious that peace will never be achieved in Viet nam without the participation of the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam. That negotiations to end the war will be impossible unless the NLF is represented is taken for granted by nearly everyone except the American imperialists. According to varying estimates, the National Liberation Front con trols anything from three-fifths to four-fifths of South Vietnam. The NLF will constitute the government that will eventually replace the various Saigon dictator ships being set up in rapid succes sion by the US invaders. "Government' of the jungle" The defence correspondent of "The Australian," Kenneth Randall described the NLF (in an article on June 29 last) as already constituting a "government of the jungle" — controlling three-fifths of South Vietnam, with a membership of five millions. The NLF has permanent diplo- matic representatives in many Afri can, Asian and European countries. According to the Soviet press the time may net be far distant when it will be given diplomatic recogni- tion as the government of South Vietnam.. Many journalists have managed to make the Journey to visit NLF headquarters In the jungle. And, while they differ on some aspects of what they saw, they agree in rejecting the USA-Menzies line that the "Vietcong" are wholly Commu nist and that they are mere agents of the North Vietnam Government or of China. Randall says the NLF Congress of 1962 elected Nguyen Huu Tho ("a popular lawyer in Saigon, with a French education and a family background in the colonial public service") president, and Professor Nguyen Van Hieu (since moved to represent the NLF in Prague) as secretary. He said that others on the Com mittee of 55 "could well have been selected to give wide-ranging com munity representation — aristocrats and peasants, intellectuals and poli ticians, professional men and tech nicians, revolutionaries and ad ministrators." In his book on his visit to the liberated areas of South Vietnam, Wilfred Burchett, the Australian journalist, says the NLF when found ed in 1960 represented all the forces in South Vietnam society that had been alienated by US-backed dicta tor Diem. In an interview, President Nguyen Huu Tho told Burchett that the front "united all political tendencies, all religions, all sections and classes of the population." Intellectuals, he said, were widely represented on the central committee. Burchett's report continues: "Among the leaders with him (President Tho) when we had our first meeting were a Catholic priest and high dignitaries of the Buddhist and Cao Dai religions, an architect, a pharmaceutical chemist, a journa list, the Commander-in-Chief of the Binh Xuyen armed forces, and a peasant. , "Among those I met elsewhere were another lawyer, a radio engi neer, a writer and dramatist, a journalist, a woman schoolteacher, a professional revolutionary, and a chief of the Rhade ethnic minority." President Tho told Burchett that the Front's program reflected its broad nature. He said: "We are in favor of land for peasants, for instance, but not systematic confiscation. We are for reduction of rents, but also for the maintenance of present property rights except in the case of traitors. "Landlords who have not sup ported the US puppets have nothing to fear. "We respect the economic liberty of industrial enterprises, legitimate property rights of foreigners, and to a certain extent we are not opposed to foreign investments. "Above ah, the Front stands for democratic liberties, freedom of speech', assembly and movement, and in our liberated areas these basic freedoms do really exist. "People elect those in whom they have confidence and run their own affairs in the most democratic way. The Front had the immediate sup port of all patriotic elements from the moment it was formed." The correspondent of the Paris paper " L' Express" had an inter view (published on April 26, 1965) with the secretary of the NLF, Huynh tan Phat, in which he gave the same general picture of NLF policy. Patriots Huynh tan Phat told the Express correspondent: "We are not doctri naires fighting to impose an ideology, but patriots who want to unite against the American imperialists." They were aiming "not to instal Communism but to build a regime corresponding to the aspirations of the greatest number of our com patriots — that is, a neutral, a demo cratic regime. "Our first task will be to con struct the economy of South Viet nam. For tht we will need co operation of our national bour- geosie and our national capitalists." However, he said, foreign econ omic aid would also be needed. "The aid Of the socialist countries is certain, but that of Western countries, particularly in. invest ments, we could only obtain with political neutrality. ... "Even American aid will be wel comed if it is understood, our inde pendence will be respected. "We will have need also of the co-operation of all Vietnamese of goodwill, of the thousands' of in tellectuals and technicians trained by the French. ... That is why we are sincere when we speak of democracy." Re-unification It followed that reunification with the North would not be immediate. The problem would not be posed "for - a very long time." The econ omic and political regime of the South would he very different from the North, and this would retard unification. "To begin with, we will establish by stages economic and cultural changes. After the moment has come, negotiation for reunifications will be started on a basis excluding the possibility of annexation of one zone by another." Asked why the NLF allegedly re fused a conference to end the war, Huynh tan Phat said: "What we refuse is a conference convened without us. But if the interested powers would sponsor a meeting among all \ etnamese parties, leav ing them free to regulate their own affairs, we would make no objection. "On the contrary. The foreign powers ought to be content with making suggestions, mediating to help the Vietnamese reach an ' agreement, and guaranteeing its execution." : : : E NGUYEN HUU THO . . . president1 of the National Liberation Front. 