 THE PROFIT GOES TO THOSE WHO EARH IT A friend in Sydney mailed me to comment on an article by Sydney journalist Emery Bares in the Sydney Daily Telegraph, saying: " "Introduction of the profit system in the Soviet Union's consumer goods industries amounts to an admission that Communist economic theory is a fiasco." Most of the American, British and West European distorters of Soviet economic policies were more sophisticated, and did not so recklessly rush into the bog. Some commentators in the West were honest enough to admit that the reforms would strengthen the Soviet economy, and make the challenge to US production levels more formidable. ICIRST, let it be clear that there is no "introduction" of the profit system, and that profitability is not- only set for "consumer goods indus tries", hut for steelworks, coalmines, lumber camps, shipyards, and so on. SECOND, "profit" does not have priority as under capital ism; the starting point is planned production in socially- owned enterprises; the princi pal motive is human need and not profit; and profit is the ! gauge, the test, the criterion of | whether the Socialist enterprise ! is run on - efficient, economical f lines. Communist theorists of the last century and Lenin in this centaury fully understood that Socialist industry should operate on sound 1 business lines — In other words, i profitably for the people. One I doesn't have to he a Marx or Lenin | to appreciate that. If Lenin pointed out that Socialist 1/ industry must rely "not merely on if naked enthusiasm," but on incen- I;; tives,' proper cost accounting and K other efficiency factors as well; and p that each Socialist enterprise would ft completely cover its expenditures p from income.. ! f Past defects I However, one of the defects in past Soviet planning was that suffi cient guarantees were not provided ! I that all enterprises should return If annual profits. I When Premier Kosygin reported on I economic reforms to the recent | Communist Party Central Committee t I meeting, only about 50 per cent, of | I soviet enterprises had accumulated | | funds from profits. And these profit ! I funds were too small to provide i f ' adequate incentive payments to | | workers, or sufficient additional I. | . amenities in recreation, housing, j | health, culture and child care. Nor | I did workers at those factories where I if increased profits were recorded get 8 | the rewards to which they were I |l : entitled. | | This, of course, was not all due to | || defective planning. The emergencies P || in Soviet industry after the Revolu- I | | tion, Civil War and Wars of Inter- I | vention, in the era of Hitler threats ! | and Second World War and postwar ) f. reconstruction, did not allow full !. . | attention to the details or "frills" in | production planning. Production had | to be achieved quickly, however many i & rough edges there might be on plans | and organisation. j I Growth rates ! H Today, with annual steel production i|| steadily creeping through- the ninety- || millions near to 100 millions, with P the highest world output of coal and K many other minerals and rapid in- | ' creases in most sectors of industry, I |l the Soviet economy offers the strength | IS and experience for removal of bar- J i' riers to more rapid progress, t >\ What really angers some eommen- j tators in the West is that the latest I | reforms will further lift the Soviet's | | lead in production growth rates over | | j America, Britain and West Germany, | | j strengthen the Soviet's international J | competitive force and its capacity to I \ aid newly-emerging Afro-Asian nations. I Australians don't have to be re- ! | nunded of the destinations of profits I 1' 70m General Motors, Mount Isa, | | imperial Chemicals, B.H.P. or Col- = 11 ma SuSar. Those destinations aren't f H anywhere near workers' pockets, | 11 flugh the workers were the earners j | of the profits. j 1 Distribution of profit = I Socialist enterprises' I 1 L? affected somewhat by the \ A of Profit per rouble of fixed 9 is a In general, the distribution ! 9 tho ed to benefit to the maximum I H vif>irtmen an( women whose labors i m pnrvT the Profft— not only through ! » sE101 uplift of Soviet living ! H in „ hut through direct increases \ n wages and amenities. !l trmcf Prtion of Socialist profit w f0r go . t the State to help pay H omir> nSl0ns' health services, econ- M porHr..,eV0pment:' and s0 n. Another m for a rP Socialist profit is earmarked , £ Production Development Fund to Eissist in replacing worn-out or obsolete' machines and expand fac tory or mine plant and buildings. And Socialist enterprises can now do these things without reference to central planning authorities, as re quired before. Management is allow ed more initiative and bureaucracy is reduced, though the enterprise still operates within a closely co-ordinated economy. Of vital Interest to Australian workers is that a substantial portion of profit, naturally increased if profit rate per rouble Of fixed assets is increased, goes to the workers directly. The profits will he distri buted to workers as bonuses during the year, then as lump sums at the end of the year. Length of continuous service will be a factor in raising bonus payments —this long service bonus will en courage stability of the labor force in a society where workers can— - and do— change jobs at will, and are not deterred by fear of leaving one job lest they can't find another for. some time. At the Socialist enterprise there will be retained another portion of the profit— and a goodly portio.. to build houses for the workers who made the profit, kindergartens, nurseries and playgrounds for their children, holiday homes and camps, improved sports, health and cultural facilities. When increased profit means more pay in the envelope, better housing, j recreation, health and cultural ser- ! vices, workers will naturally show j keener interest in improving produc- j tion techniques, cutting out waste i and making fullest use of machines. | Profit distribution to workers, at j a rising rate according to profits j per rouble of fixed assets, will stimu- ! late experiment and research and j improve cost-accounting. j Socialist workers, knowing that j additional profits come their way, will more quickly develop higher j technological and cultural levels and interest in promoting science, in economic fields. J "Every worker an economist" I That is one of the aims of the new j reforms. ! With more advanced knowledge of I economics, confirmed by the fruitful i results of the reforms, the average Soviet worker will not share the j confusion of commentators in Western I countries who see "fiasco" for Com- j munist theory and "return to capi- ! talism." I Dr. Emery Bares might devote a 2 future article to describing how the ! Soviet Union can return to capitalism f without having any capitalists, or any t such capitalist institutions as Stock ! Exchanges, land speculators or tele- ! vision stations and newspapers con- j trolled by irresponsible proprietors. 2 —RUPERT LOCKWOOD, | in Moscow. j THIS is A. V. Rykov, a scientist, who will certainly share in the profit, j But according to Sydney journalist, Emery Baros (and others) he is a capitalist!!! j 