 Menzies isolates us from world j GOVT'S FRAUDULENT! CLAIM ON VIETNAM I SYDNEY: In claiming that "up to 30 nations have expressed I supper! f@r the South Vietnam Government", External AHairs Min- | Ister Hasiucjk has gravely misrepresented the real position. j UE has done this in an effort ' to cover up tne iniemduuncn Isolation into which Australia has moved through the dispatch of troops to south Vietnam. This in turn is part of a drive to commit more and more Australian troops to the Vietnam, war. The minister did riot list the 30 nations he claimed were helping the south Vietnamese dictatorship, but presumably he was relying' on a list Supplied by Defence Minister Senator Paltridge last May when answering a Labor senator's question. The Labor senator, Senator Cavan- agh, of South Australia, had asked Paltridge "What are the names of the 30 countries, other than Australia, mentioned in the Prime Minister's statement on Vietnam which are giv ing aid to the South Vietnam Gov ernment, and what type of aid is being given by each country?" In a written reply on May 26 Paltridge gave a list of not 30, but only 24, countries which he claimed were giving aid. Six vanished! Only the USA is shown as supplying troops, though since then New Zea land and South Korea have decided to join in this. Hasluck, like Paltridge, did not men tion that his 24 (not 30) nations, even when Australia is added, are less than a quarter of the world's 110 or more independent nations. ' In terms of population they, are very much less than a quarter since they exclude the three biggest countries- China, India and the USSR. What is more, Paltridge has the impudence to include among his "sup porting" nations three (France, Japan and Canada) whose governments have at different times markedly dissociat ed themselves from the South Viet- namese and American Governments' ! policies. I France does not even have diplom- i atic relations with South Vietnam | and to refer to her as a supporter I is an outright frauti. It is well | known that France favors a neutral g south east Asia: this is why relations | were broken off by the South Viet- £ nam dictatorship recently. g It is known that the Japanese Gov- ! ernment is keeping completely aloof J from the Vietnam war and has indie- j ated that it. may bar the USA from j using Japanese bases for it. J Canadian Prime Minister Pearson j has several times called on the US to j halt the bombing of north Vietnam— j 'the last time, in association with In- ! dian premier Shastri, just before the j Commonwealth conference in London, j Asia aloof i The remaining 21 include none from j Asia proper except Formosa, Thailand, and the Philippines. J Most of the "aid" given by these j and the others listed, is purely econ- j omic and humanitarian, and of a type ' which implies no support whatever for the US, Menzies or South Viet namese Government policies. Such "support" is supposed to out weigh the demands of President Nkrumah of Ghana for "the recall of the Australian troops, a similar demand by 36 British MPs who have tabled a House of Commons motion, London demonstrators who marched to Australia House in protest, the con demnation of Mr. Shastri,— added, of course, to the growing resistance of the Australian people. Hasluck's reckless claim, of course, is meant to boost the Menzies' Gov ernment's drive to put yet more troops into Vietnam. Already a group from the 2nd bat talion have left; CMF volunteers have been called for and the Sydney Sun- j Herald has forecast that "the CMF j will have to be called up for overseas service". j A Regular Army corporal grins happily as he passes through ranks of protesting women and youth at last week s demon strative farewell to hundreds off conscriptees who left Central , Station (Sydney) for training in Victoria. 