 [?] Congress depends on workers' interest ' By an Industrial Correspondent | A successful outcome of the ACTU Congress In Sydney next ! September will depend to a great extent upon the interest shown | in it by rank and file unionists. | T"HE strengthening of the j ACTU and extending of its j j influence as a national trade! j union centre will be assisted to j the extent that the Congress j decisions reflect the workers' best interests. ! Such decisions are more likely when ! large numbers of workers make j known their opinions and f "ires on : the issues coming before the Con- I gress; - " - j Some of. these issues are already ; known and others will be indicated ! by events between now and- the Con- j gress. Most will be reflected in the j resolutions submitted for the Con- ! gress agenda by the affiliated organis- | ations. I The opportunity now exists for j workers to make their views known, j to their own unions and generally, up I to the holding of the Congress. I Such a process assists make the j Congress the property of the work- | ers who are represented there by f their delegations. I Of course, Congress decisions are | not the beginning and end for the | affiliated organisations. j Sovereign bodies J The individual unions are the "sov- j ereign bodies", not the ACTU Con- | gress. The individual unions are ! registered under the industrial laws Q and by these laws are given certain | legal status and rights and have im- ! posed upon them legal obligation. I This is not the position of the ! | ACTU. Workers join individual unions, | not the ACTU, and they give their I loyalties to the union they join and | look to it to further their interests. | So although the decisions of ACTU | bodies, when properly made, are final I as expressions of policy for the trade I union movement as a whole, they i cannot and do not automatically limit" S the policies which may be adopted I by any individual union, nor can any | individual union be forced to adopt I and act in accordance with their f decisions. | This is shown by instances of right- I wing trade union leaders flouting I ACTU decisions. | Unions affiliated to the ACTU in I fact have a variety of policies on S particular issues and thev differ not only from union to union, but also from ACTU policies in some cases. In relation to -the war in Vietnam, the policies adopted by the xightwing leaders for such unions as the Iron workers and Clerks are almost com pletely contrary to those of the ACTU, while such organisations as the Water side Workers' Federation and the Queensland Labor Council go much further than the ACTU on this same question. The same can be said of other im portant questions, such as penal powers, shop committees and even wage campaigns. Any attempts to enforce a change in this position, except from within each union, would divide and disrupt the trade union movement. All this does not in any way lessen the importance of ACTU Congress and Executive decisions. These decisions determine the direction of the trade union movement as a whole. As a consequence they are, in many circum stances, decisive and in all circum stances they are important. Main support for the ACTU as a national trade union centre comes from the progressive forces of the movement, (both rank and file work- ers and officials), who seek Congress decisions reflecting the workers' best interests. if their efforts are successful the campaigns of the workers in support of economic and political demands are greatly assisted. If not these cam paigns are hindered. Critical When decisions of the Congress or Executive fall short of what is re quired to advance these campaigns, or when the officers are hesitant and fail to implement progressive deci sions, many workers and some union leaders feel frustrated and become sharply critical of the ACTU. This is understandable. But it does not justify any indifference to ACTU gatherings arid their outcome. Because of the big issues which the forthcoming Congress will discuss — war, economic decline and democratic rights— different forces will seek to influence the Congress. But the decisive voice should be that- of the workers represented by the Congress delegates, and the louder this voide is heard the better will be the Congress decisions. Making this voice heard is an urgent matter. 