 Official policy would wipe out Aborigines When the white man came to Australia an estimated 300,000 aborigines roamed the river valleys, coastline and inland. The land was divided into tribal areas T HE land has been taken i from them and the popu lation decimated. The 80,000 aborigines who remain don't even have any rights to the reserves on to which they have been largely confined. The aborigines can exist as a people and prosper only if they have the right to land and the minerals and resources on it, and are given the educational opportunities to know how to develop the land and industry. As a beginning the existing re serves should be made over to the -aboriginal people to be developed by and for them. The reports of the South Australian Government are silent on this ques tion. The official policy of the Gov- ernment is "assimilation". This means, in fact, the absorption and scattering of the aborigines in the white community and their destruc tion as a people. Although the Government is now spending more money through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs pro gress on housing and development projects is pitifully slow The 1962 Government report can only report the construction of 21 houses for aborigines, and goes on to admit, "There are still aboriginal families living in sub-standard condi tions on the outskirts of some towns" Unequal pay Although there are no South Aus tralian laws which discriminate against the payment of equal wages to aborigines, the same result ts achieved by unwritten laws Dr. Fay Gale found in hei investiga tions a few years ago that most part- Aborigines as well as full Aborigines who were almost tribal received £2 or £3 a week in the pastoral industry The Government is silent on this question too. However, the labor movement cannot remain indifferent to the fate of the 6,000 aborigines in the State LEFT: A typical row ol squalid broken-down but occupied homes alt Point McLeay Mission Station (S.A ). This picture, taken some time ago, can be repeated in many missions today. In 1062 the Government built only 21 houses for Aborigines, some of them two or three roomed low- standard houses. 