 Letters from a MS trainee: "YOU GRUBS ARE HERE TO LEARN The persona! letters of a national sevice trainee handed to the Guardian newspaper in Melbourne reveal that conscripts are being indoctrinated with ' crude racialism and contempt for human values. "|HE techniques described in the letters are designed to transform trainees into willing cannon fodder for the Vietnam war. The chief ingredients in the indoc trination process used by the officer referred to in the letters are: . © Crude racist references to Asian people; © Repeated play on vicious sex ual themes t-o coarsen and brutal" ise the conscripts and recruits. These are the first unglamorised glimpses of life in the training camps published by any Australian newspaper. They should cause every parent and citizen concern about the way of life our young men are be ing conditioned to adopt.. Here are extracts from the let ters: — The other day I felt as though 1 was at a James Bond school foi king soldiers. I tried to remember everything tha was said, but I just couldn't; it wa; too memorable for the shock of i as a wnoie, rauier man tne com ponents. Imagine a young lieutenant, torso silhouetted against the sky, holding the rifle casually, teaching us how to treat our rifle. Seventy-odd rapt blokes at his feet, sitting somewhat uphill, theatre-like. Lieutenant: "What are you all here for?" Some recruit: "To kill." Lieutenant: "That's right. You grubs are here to learn how to kill the horrible little slan,ty-eyed bastards. And your life-saver is your rifle. "You treat it like your best girl, or your wife, or your mother, or your troll, or whatever your taste is. You'll have to sleep with it before you leave here- "Blast a hole through him" "Look at it. It's a beauty. If you hit some little slanty-eye with the butt, it makes a mess. "Aim where I told you, and you can blast a hole right through him; if you go any lower, you'll get him in .the family jewels and take his mind right off sex. (Laughter). "Now, you treat it like it's your best girl. Think back home; you schemed and connived and lied to get the old man's car— or maybe you had your own with triple carble steering wheel and davy crockett hat —and then you took out your bird, and lied some more. You told her you loved her, you carried on and pulled all the swifties you could. Then when you were sure of her, what did you do" (Expectant silence.) Some recruit: (Laughter). The Lieutenant laughed a bit too. Lieutenant: "Well, you might, but most blokes look after the girl. And that's what we do with our rifles . . ." Yesterday another three-mile run In great heat. Needles in arms never stop. This morning, gardening around the barracks— thrill. Maximum tem- 1 ; '.-VU'V' perature expected around 90 degrees. Compulsory sport this afternoon... Two young regular recruits down the other end of the hut getting homesick— haven't seen their parents for two weeks ... "The regulars want the money" No one ever talks about the morals supposed to dwell Godlike around questions of life and death. The regular recruits want the money. The Nashos (National Ser vice Trainees. — G.) want to be back home by the river with a bird and a bottle of beer, or bottles . . . The Major didn't like our clean huts much, so the beds, apart from being perfectly symetrically placed in the hut, must have only one blan-, ket on during day hours; Top sheet £ must be turned down one foot, then - r tucked in with only nine inches tuck ed over. All beds must be absolutely I flat; therefore we sleep with pack- s ing case boards between mattress t and bed proper. Sweet to look at... Standing to attention is the biggest bastard. We wake up between five- thirty a.m. and go to bed at 10.30 p.m. Big thrill. We march everywhere except to the — and the mess hall. Thrills. You forget you're walking then, and you find yourself half-marching. Most of the blokes are about 17 and haven't started shaving yet . . . It took me the best part of five hours to prepare for a parade this morning, and I still wasn't good enough. (The boots and shoes take up to three hours) . . . There are films four nights a week. Tonight I will see one of the "Doc tor" films. The Lieutenant can be quite funny. "A poofter and an idiot" Lieutenant: "God — me dead, it's blokes like you that give blokes like me grey hairs, then what will I tell my girl, you silly looking — idiot. You're a dunce and a poofter. What are you?" Recruit: "A dunce and a poofter, sir." Lieutenant: "You're right. Don't forget it!" etc. He's at his funniest when he describes one's position in combat against the Asians — they, to him, are "horrible little slanty-eyed bastards." All of us are "horrible bastards, idiots, etc." . . . "Don't stand with your hands on your hips. Only poofters do that." "Don't cross your arms. Only preg nant women do that, and I can't lend you 60 quid. But I can get ii done for 35." "Shave! Only poofters and women don't shave." "I'm not God around here. I'm only his right hand." , 