 N.T. STRIKE FOR ABORIGINES PAY DARWIN: The North Australian Workers' Union has called on all unions in the Northern Territory to stop work with it on July 1 for 24 hours in support for "equal pay" for Abo- riaines. "THE decision was taken at a general meeting of the NAWU, -which also called on the NT Council for Aboriginal Rights to join in, arid the Aus tralian Council of Trade Unions to support the campaign. Since adoption of the Social Wel fare Bill by the N.T. Legislative Coun cil nearly 12 months ago it has be come increasingly clear that forma declarations of citizenship do not ne cessarily lead to equality. Theoretically Territory Aborigines now enjoy all the rights and privileges of their white fellows, including they have the right to vote, freedom of movement and, assembly, freedom to own property and administer their, own affairs. In reality, they, are discovering that this is hypocrisy while they are denied . I the one basic human right which I makes it possible for men to step from the ranks of the slave into the j ranks of free? men — the right to go | into the market and sell their labor- I power to the employer at the highest | price they can obtain. | In the N.T. the iniquitous Ward's I Employment Ordinance, preserved on | the Statute Books by the same Legis- I lative Council- which passed the So- I cial Welfare BUI, specifically debars | large numbers of Aboriginal workers i' from doing that.' The paltry. Cattle Station Industry I Award, protecting the interests of > Lord Vesty and other absentee land- I lords, is formulated to debar Abori- j gines even from its miserable wage rates. . The N.A.W.U. has applied to the Arbitration Court for an alteration to the discriminatory clauses in the Cattle Station Industry Award. This week's meeting of the Union 1 called on the Australian . Labor Party to work in; the Legislative Council to have the Ward's Employment Ordin ance abolished; The achievement of these two ob jectives will not mean the end of the problems which face Territory Abori- gines. However, it should be clearly understood by the Australian labor movement that the principle of Award wages for Aboriginal workers must be established as a vital first step towards their full emancipation. Territory unionists, Aboriginal and white, are prepared to fight for this principle. It is absolutely essential that they have the wholehearted sup port of all other unionists throughout the country. 