 An ALP call for an 'honorable withdrawal' NEW call for the US to leave South Vietnam has been issued by Federal Labor leader A". A. Calwell in an introduction to a pamphlet by Dr. J. Cairns, MHR. "President Johnson ;has called this war 'a dirty, brutal war'. I think that is what it is" says Mr. Calwell. "And if it is that, it ought to be ended as soon as possible by a cease-fire, a negotiated peace and an honorable withdrawal " by the US and her allies." Mr. Calwell says there can be - no military victory in the war. The longer it lasts the greater the dan ger it will escalate into a nuclear war. . "For the Vietnamese people en gaged in this dreadful civil war, victory and defeat are now indis tinguishable" adds Mr. Calwell. "It looks as if there will be little left to make a tortured nation; either prosperous or secure." Dr. Cairns' pamphlet, called "Vietnam: Is It the Truth We Want?" exposes much of .the US and Menzies' Government propa ganda about the war. . In particular Dr. Cairns refutes the stories about Ch.nese and north Vietnamese "aggression": Not one Chinese , has ever been claimed to have been found in Vietnam, and only HO Chinese weapons captured in two and a half years of fighting in Vietnam. Only 184 weapons had been cap- - tqred made in all socialist coun tries, including north Vietnam, in three years' fighting up to the end of 1964. . "Is this aggression from the North?" asks Dr. Cairns. While claiming that 37,100 north Vietnamese have infiltrated to the south; the official US White Pap er 'can only give names and details " of 22, Dr. Cairns says. He quotes telling admissions by the Americans themselves as to the futility of ti'ying for a military vic tory. For example, top US General Ridgeway once wrote that US in tervention with land forces in Vietnam would be "a tragic adven ture." The French had the same mas tery of the air and the same su periority at sea and on land that the Americans now have— yet they had to get out. "Stop" soys MHR In Parliament last week Mr. Allan Fraser MHR, Labor, NSW said: "To extend the anguish and suffering of the south Vietnamese seems an unbearable price for them to pay for retaining a dem ocratic sham in South, Vietnam and a government which they did not appoint and which they do not want. "All war is horrible, but the ac counts of the burning of villages, the shooting of women and the taking prisoner of children must harrow us all, whether this is done by people-fighting on one side or the other. "These deeds, when performed on our side, are being pictured in Asian eyes to show us as brutal imper" ialist agressors. "American air strikes in north Vietnam, inevitably killing innocent people, and destroying roads, brid ges and factories, must cause the Americans particularly to be brand ed in this category. Since the object has failed and the harm to our cause as well as to the people of north Vietnam is so great, surely the call to suspend these operations must be heeded." There to stay The New York Times associate editor James Reston in articles re published in Australia in the week end says that the huge US build- up in Vietnam is really aimed at China — "containment" is the mild word used. He says that Cam Ranh, in south Vietnam, is being built up into an other Okinawa, main Japanese is land base seized by the Americans during the war and retained and expanded. "It will be used not merely for the purposes of this war, but as a major power complex from which American officials hope a wider alliance of Asian nations, with the help of the US, will eventually be able to contain China" says Reston. So much for Menzies' stories about America seeking no bases or tentorial advantages in Vietnam! 