 [?] A generous audience for the employers The effects of the Arbitration Commission's recent decision are comparable, with the far-reach- ing decisions of 1952, 1953 and 1954. : IN 952 Commissioner Galvin rejected applications for ad- -'iustment: of. margins in the metal trades award based on declining purchasing power and virtually froze margins. At the end of 1953, the Common wealth Arbitration Court abolished : the system of regular quarterly ad justments to the basic wage, in . accordance with movements of retail prices. This froze the basic wage. - In 1954, the Court increased mar gins to make them equal 24 times their - 1937 level; and so threw overboard . the standards of margins established as a result of big strike actions in 1946, 1947 and 1948. The decision reversed the 1961 and 1964 basic wage decisions which re- stored the system of adjusting wages according to movement in retail prices. The 1965 decision restores in lull the principles of the wage freezing .decision of 1953. It throws overboard the decisions and principles upon which the unions rely. It reverts to the previous position which successfully kept wages 'below their 1953 standards for the basic wage and 1947 standards for margins. The extent of this is emphasised by several sections of the judgment. The " three Judges rejected five main conclusions which had to be accepting to grant the ACTU claims, including acceptance of the view of the majority of Judges in 1964. They commented: "We reject each of them in their entirety." Later they state: "We have decided that we should not adjust the basic wage for move ments in the Consumer Price Index and that we should not leave mar- gins for determination by another Bench later this year." In other sections of the judgment they ridicule the adjustment of either the basic wage or margins to meet price rises. They said: "We reject the formula of increasing wages for prices plus productivity. "If any past judgments have ac cepted the formula or apply it, we must express our complete disagree ment with their having done so." In other words — in this period' of inflation the rich can protect them selves and the monopolies improve their position and the workers can suffer, but cannot obtain relief from price increases from the Commis sion. To clinch their victory the employ ers have already announced their in- tentions to make an application in January next year for a review of the basic wage and all margins based on general economic grounds. To assist in this and ensure con tinued operation of their decision, the Judges have recommended amend ments to the Act so as to prevent claims for margins based on general economic grounds being dealt with by individual Commissioners. This decision and the action of the employers successfully spikes the claim for a general margins - increase which the ACTU had already an nounced would be made later this year. By reason of this decision and the practices it establishes, the Common wealth basic wage and margins will be reviewed annually on general eco nomic grounds without consideration for price increases. Any further increase in wages, so far as the Commission Is concerned, must be obtained by applications for increased margins based upon an es timate of work values. What, is meant by 'work value" is spelled out in the judgment as the "nature of the work, its responsibili ties and the circumstances in which it is done." This means an investigation of mar gins, job by. job, award by award, union by union. Prospects of success on these latter grounds are substantially re duced by the Judges' insistence that increases in the basic wage and/or margins must be met from a common source of economic capacity. - This means that economic capacity can be argued also against a claim based on work value assessment. The economic reasoning contained in the three judgments reveals, if nothing else, the inexactness of esti mates made by the Judges. Judges Kirby and Moore start from the basis that the role of the Com mission is to settle industrial dis putes. The other three assert their position as de terminators of economic develop ment. This view is supported by the Menzies Government. The majority judgment proceeds from the basis that the dominant question in assessing wages is "eco nomic capacity", and that any in crease awarded should be "not in compatible with price stability." Prom this basis they assert tjjat wage increases are the cause of price rises and that profits have not gained at the expense of wages and salafSs. They then proceed to restrict wage levels to what they assess to be with in economic capacity, leaving control of prices and profits to what they call "a democratic process." They accept that other factors threaten price stability, but declare they cannot do anything about that. They can and did do something about wages. They even , admit they cannot guar antee price stability, but reject the idea of maintaining the purchasing power of wages in periods of instabi lity of prices. Judge Kirby, with no less wisdom, asserts that price movement as a factor in relation to wage assessments and adjustments became dominant in 1961 and should remain so. He accepts price stability as a factor but not as a dominant factor. Price stability, he says, is a question for other agencies of the government, such as the Reserve Bank. Judge Moore makes his position clear (in contradiction to the majo rity) in the following statement: "The question of price movements which have already occurred should be of primary concern to the Commis sion." "One thing is clear, that there is no simple, direct relationship between wage determinations of this Commis sion and movements in prices gener ally." Despite their great emphasis upon economic capacity as the dominant factor in assessing wages, the judg ment of the majority says: "There is no formula which can be used to determine future capacity." This lack did not prevent them care fully estimating that future economic capacity permitted a maximum wage increase by the amazing formula: 1£ per. cent of the basic wage plus mar gins equals wage increases of 5/- to , 7/-. Even the two Judges who base thai- I selves on price rises as the doming t factor could not bring themselves to Si grant the ftdl ACTU claim en If though, as Judge Kirby said: If "Further, even the whole 12/- woull 1 only return us to the demand foi || goods and services of the basic wage a one year ago." Jg As a piece of economic analysis || and forecasting, the majority judg- 1| ment is no more than a guesstimate , m As an exercise in economic reason- m ing it is naive. J Commenting on the judgment, the 1 "Sydney Morning Herald" described 1 the Judges as "an economically naive g Bench", and went on to say "not one | of the five Judges yesterday gave a coherent explanation of how he ar« I rived at his particular estimate of 1 what is the economy's 'capacity to | pay'. ' | "Its prime importance as a con- | cept was a matter of intense debate | between them. The actual measure- i ment of it is dismissed in a few 1 words." H From all this, the Judgment is no B more than the opinion of three men jf who constituted a sympathetic m audience for the employers. .! These four leading trade unionists were caught at the opening of the ff national convention of the Miners' Federation held last week during the 1 50th anniversary celebrations of the Miners' Federation. From left to '$ right they are: Mr. E. V. Elliott, general secretary of the Seamen's Union, $ Mr. W. Mahon, general secretary of the Miners' Federation, Mr. J. Kenny' I senior vice-president of the A.C.T.U. and secretary of the N.S.W. Labor j Council and Mr. W. Parkinson, general president of the Miners' Federation M 