 Liberal-CP clash f in WA elections PERTH : The clash between the C ountry Party and the Liberal Party, which make up the West Australian coalition Government, will be a big feature of the WA State elections to be held on February 20. > DECENT years have seen ex- treme bitterness between these two Parties and their sup porters, including allegations by the Liberal Party that the Country Party made a deal with the ALP in the 1961 Federal election for an exchange of pre ferences. In the Senate election last year fierce accusations were made by both sides, and the divisions were highlighted by the issuing "of a How-to-Vote card by leading Coun try Party member Leslie on the same coloured paper as that used by the Liberal Party. In that election, the Country Party ran a separate team to the Liberals, and were successful in having their number 1 candidate elected at the expense of the third Liberal. The real basis of these divisions is undoubtedly the strong feelings held by many farmers against the monopolies, or as they often see it "the big city business interests". The Liberal Party has made many ef forts to swallow up the Country Party, but these have always been completely rejected. The State coalition Government, which has a bare majority of 26 seats to Labour's 24, is made up of 18 Liberals and 8 Country Party members. In the last election in 1962, Libera -Country Party clashes occurred in four seats. A recent announcement says that the two parties have agreed not to oppose Ministers of the other Party, but this agreement will not cover back benchers. These divisions have often been a source of strength to the trade unions and to the ALP. On a num ber of occasions Country Party mem bers particularly in the Legislative Council have voted against and helped defeat unpopular Govern ment measures. On one occasion, Country Party member Cornell moved a motion of no confidence in the Government because of its policy allowing take-overs of West Austra lian industry by overseas concerns. In 1962, strong rumours indicated that if the result of the election had been 25 Government, 25 Lab our, then one of the Country Party members would have been prepared to accept the speakership to allow the ALP to become the Government. In view of all this, it is very dif ficult to understand the decision o 1 the recent ALP State Conference de ciding that in all future elections second preferences will be given to the Liberal Party instead of the Country Party. It is understood that there i? strong feeling among many Laboui Party officials and rank and file that the Country Party did not hon our previous agreements for ex changes of preferences, etc. They claim that the Conference decision is intended to force the Countrj Party to come to better terms with the ALP, or " otherwise go out of ex- istence. Speakers at the Conference als; strongly supported the idea that a two-party system was desirable ir Australia. However, such an ap proach as this entirely overlooks the vital issue — the feelings of thr small and middle farmers in the- countryside and their reactions tc such a decision by the ALP. Clearly, all measures should be taken by the labour movement U strengthen ties and support amongsr these farmers instead of alienating them by such election manoeuvres NOTE: Last week's Tribune was in error in stating that Communist candidate Annette Aarons will be opposing a sitting Labour membci in the Metropolitan Province of the , t Legislative Council. There has been a re-distributior. for the Legislative Council since the last election, but the composition oi the Metropolitan Province makes it a certain blue-ribbon Liberal seat. 