 i v Menzies, Hasluck, Washington - caught ! J By the Foreign Editor I AST year, when the Men- zies Government, through External Affairs Minister Has luck, proclaimed that there- was "no alternative to force in dealing with the Vietnamese people, the Vietnamese peo ple's leaders were in fact seek ing a negotiated peace with the USA. The "alternative to force" was in fact being offered— and being turned down by the USA. That is one vital fact that springs from last week's revelations and ad missions in the USA. Hasluck's frank summation of the Covernment's policy, on south east Asia was made in Federal Parliament on August 18, 1964. Last week US TV commentator Eric Sevareid revealed in "Look" magazine that the late Adlai Steven son had told him of "the Hanoi of fer." This was shamefacedly confirmed by a US State Department spokes man, while US Defence Secretary McNamara, named as the main cul prit, tried to cover up. The equally guilty Hasluck, chal lenged last week in the House, also had to resort to trying to contradict, the US State Department's own ad mission. Questioned about .it by Dr. J. F. Cairns, Labor, Victoria, Hasluck could only pooh-pooh the press rer ports as "selective" and said he had his "own information" about what the US State Department had ad- - mitted. Hasluck's concern was understand able because nobody has worked harder than he and Menzies to pre sent the American and Australian governments as doves being frustrat ed in peace moves by the warlike Vietnamese. The alleged refusal of the Viet namese to talk peace was the whole basis of the Australian Gov ernment's case for sending troops to Vietnam and spending taxpay ers' money like water on an un- winnable war. This has been Menzies' story to parliament, to the Anglican Bish ops who protested and to every one else who demanded that nego tiations be used in place of force to find a settlement. Only once did Menzies blunder into frankness when, on April 7 last, he declared, in response to an op position challenge to state his views on Indian and Canadian peace calls, that if he was the last prime min ister in the Commonwealth to op pose negotiations, he would still op pose them. That was the very day when, in America,' President Johnson said he was ready for absolutely uncondi tional negotiations with any govern ment on Vietnam. The Menzies-Hasluck propaganda line then went into reverse and it became the Vietnam, liberation forces 'who were blocking the negotiation plans of a. sincerely peace-wishing Australian Government. In this Menzies and Hasluck slav ishly echoed Johnson who on July 29 said to the American people: "Candor compels me to tell you that there has not been the slightest in dication that the other side is inter ested in negotiation or in uncondi tional discussions, although the US has made some dozen separate at tempts to bring that about". ; In the same speech Johnson threat- ened "death "and desolation" to the Vietnamese on the ground that this was necessary to force them to the conference table "where they could join us at so much smaller cost." The "intransigence" of the Viet namese was made by Johnson the occasion for a further sensational escalation of the US commitment in Vietnam and this was heartily ap plauded in Canberra by Menzies who said the same day: Jeered at clergy "We support also the steady pur pose of the United States to pursue every political and diplomatic effort to open the way for international discussion." Earlier that month, in a press conference on his return from the Commonwealth .Prime Ministers' conference in London, Menzies had jeered at some ministers of religion who had written to ask him to seek peace in Vietnam. He cited what had been done at the conference by himself and others in what was actually an elab orate manoeuvre to represent the Vietnamese 'as the obstacles to peace. "President Johnson has, of course, done everything I think that a man , could do in all his statements to encourage peace, but the only answer to him was that it was a swindle" Menzies said. This has been repeated .with enthusiasm by Hasluck in various speeches — as, for example, when he told an audience on September 2 in Adelaide: "Up to date the North Vietnamese, and behind them China, haveshown no interest in discussion of any kind . . . neither Hanoi nor Peking is interested in talking". No wonder that Hasluck, confronted East week by the US ad mission that what he (and if) had been saying was untrue, tried to- wriggle ©ff the hook. However, not even the papers . friendliest to his viewpoint are pre pared to say what he tried to say last Wednesday — that no real Viet- i namese approach to America ever took place. . Papers' onslaught In A eriqa the New York Times, , Herald-Tribune and Post all con- demned the Johnson administration fo. having deceived the. people and they were supported by the pro- Menzies Sydney Sun (November 19). The Sun asked why, ii US Statt Secretary Rusk's allegedly 'sensitive - antenna" had told him the Vietnam \ peace initiative was insincere, the US had not exposed this fact ty talir it up and putting it to thf test. : "Only last August" says the Sun "President Johnson said he would talk peace 'at the drop of a hat'. Exactly one year earlier Hanoi drop ped a hat of some sort but r. o. American picked it up". Hasluck seemed to be trying to claim a sincerity-detecting "antenna" of his own when he said .the Viet nam . peace offer was made when "Hanoi" was sending its "325th divi sion" to the south. U Thaf's call Whether it was or not, (and Has luck offered no evidence) it was not sending any troops out of Viet nam to attack the US, which was at that time preparing to send troops out of the US to attack Vietnam. UN secretary general U Thant greeted the State Department's ad mission with a new- call for an ipter-' i national conference to settVe ! the Vietnam question. He made a state ment clearly implying that he knew of the previous initiative which the US rejected. Earlier this year U Thant said that if the American people knew all the facts they would refuse to con tinue the war in Vietnam. THa' goes for Australians too — which is why, apparently, Hasluck is .still trying to cover up the facts. It is significant that on the day after Dr. Cairns MHR questioned Hasluck on the matter, Liberal Sen ator McKellar launched a ferocious attack on Cairns in the Senate, virtu- illy (under cover of parliamentary privilege) calling him a traitor. It is to be hoped the Labor MHRs will press the attack. The case for the recall of Australian troops from Vietnam, which they support, has been reinforced a thousandfold. 