 000110130 (The foreign plunder of i WA natural resources p- ' I Jim Stevens" article on WA iron-ore 118th August J is excellent in ifs condemnation of the plunder of our mineral resources. How- lever, some points fend to distort the picture . ImOTHING is said of BHPr fi plans to pelletise Deepdale limonite ore at Onslow|and Export pellets, with Yampi ore End pig-iron from Kwinana, go Japan in exchange for steel Bjillets and capital" equip - nent. I it makes little idifference to us .. whether the monopolies exploiting Ibur men and resources .are/ Austra lian or foreign— the result is much he same. - : - i I do not know where. Mr. Stevens ; iiound his figure of 3d. a ton 1 royalty for exported ore. A The agreement acts generally allow Ijfor 6/- a ton or lb per cent royalty ||on haematite (high grade, red ore), ffland 1/6 a ton ompellets from limonite j| (lower grade brown ore) B.H.P. will export pellets at 1/- a ton B royalty. | Even this will give, the State . Government only an average £2 j million a year— and we can assume B this will be used for public works to assist the private firms involved. 1 The robbery of our resources is vicious enough without us exagger Bating the position and, being our- B selves open to criticism of distor- 1 tion. The agreement acts , also .provide that, should the companies abandon these ore reserves, the railways, ports, townships, etc., will become the property of the state with no compensation. / B In the case of Western Mining B (near Geraldton) even the locomo- tives and waggons immediately be- come state property even while B the company is operating. It is the obvious purpose of the H State Government to utilise the de- | mand for iron ore to develop as I much of the State as possible — I naturally enough, so that monopoly 1 can make even bigger profits. 1 West Australia is at a critical 1 point in its history. - I We can take- the path of the I Liberal Government - of develop ment through monopoly capitalism —or we could take the path, NOW, of development through co-opera tion between Government and local, Australian-minded capitalists. The eventual solution of- course lies in Socialism. I would not wish this letter to he taken as a criticism of . Mr. J - Bevan who did an excellent job of fact-finding and reporting or "is recent trip around this area. portion Murray, Perth (W.A.). 