 WA Communist Party conference Should develop own iron ore deposits PERTH: Development of the iron-ore industry in the north-west by the State, instead of big overseas firms, could in turn finance other important developments, said the West Australian State con ference of the Communist Party of Australia. |T was not true that Aus- , tralian skills and labor could not build the iron-ore ports and railways in the north - west, conf erence stated. Who in fact was ; building them now? ji , "The attitude expressed recently by leading Japanese business magnate f hat these iron ore ports and rail- iiays 'belong to them' vindicates the view of many Australians that hand le over exploitation of our resources J to large overseas firms constitutes a I Meat to our national independence iF freedom of action," the resolu tion stated. P "With State-developed industries further development could be ifnanced on profits from iron ore ||? es- Such development could be Kfdinated with expansion of State national shipping lines as ore If? oil carriers. State-owned pro- P ssing and peletising industries could p. . ye.loPed and water, conservation injects built." Conference also called for imme diate provision by the Federal Govern ment of the necessary finance to allow a start on the second stage of the Ord River project. Fifty-five delegates debated Com munist Policy. The State chess champion, Chris Wells, was a dele gate from the Fremantle area. Alarm was expressed at the decline in building low rental and cheap homes and the steep rise in land prices in WA. Government control of land prices and resumption of large suitable areas for subdivision was called for, together with increased Federal and State finance at low interest, long- term loans and use of new forms such as cluster housing estates. The Conference called on all demo cratic people to resist the Menzies Government attempt to dictate what they should hear, think and say by means of a "White Paper on Com munism." "The Australian political scene today is characterised by a growing opposition to Government foreign policy and the war in Vietnam; to the increasingly dangerous takeover of our country's resources and wealth by giant overseas and Australian firms; to the economic policies of the Menzies Government which are seriously depressing living standards while leaving company profits un touched," the resolution stated. Opposition to these policies came from all sections of the population including many Country Party and Liberal voters, church leaders and academics. The proposed "White Paper" was an attempt to create at atmosphere favorable for further attacks not only on the Communist Party but all organisations and individuals opposed to Government policy. Conference also declared itself emphatically opposed to the Menzies stevedoring industry legislation, which was branded an attack not only on waterside workers but the whole Trade ' Union Movement and the democratic freedoms of working people. 