 I NSW Bady et Education grant is il very 'disappointing' ! j CDNIY : The budget pres- y ented by the NSW Pre- i wrier Mr. Askin, in Parlia ment this week can only be described as 'disappointing I when examined from the j point of view of education in j New/South Wales, a spokes- j man for the NSW Teachers' j Federation, Mr. D. Bioadfoot | said this week, j He said: j The increased allocation of fund : ! for education amounts to £35 million, &lt; j and this will be barely sufficient to j maintain" the education system at its; j existing standard. Substantial parts of the increase will go to the private j school system or be absorbed by j rising costs. j Some parts of the education budget ! merit particular attention. In spite I of the overall increase in allocated j funds, the primary, schools will re- ! ceive £342,000 less this year. At the secondary level the proposed increase in spending is £1.9 million as com j pared with an increase in this section ! last year of £4.75 million. I Serious deficiencies are apparent I when the vote for teacher training, j is considered. Mr. Askin says that : the number of teacher trainees will ! increase in this financial year by 700 I Because of the cumula'.ive effect of past increases in trainee teacher ' intake the actual increase in the number of new scholarships next year seems likely to he less than 300. Similarly the . provision made for increases in trainee teachers' allow- . ances is very small. It appears "that the maximum increase planned is £1 per week . and even with -this improve ment New South Wales will lag ! behind Victoria in the help given to teacher trainees. i A part of t1- vote in teacher train ing is to provide an additional ' 25 lecturers in teachers' colleges, nr one j new lecturer for every 28 extra students. At this level of education this can only be considered to be a totally inadequate increase in lectur ing staff. Mr. Askin's budget has been de scribed as providing a record expen- diture for education. This is true insofar as it gives an increase over last year's spending. But it is far from a record, and has the appear ance of a regressive budget when its increase of £3.5 million is com pared with the increase of £11.5 million in last year's budget. 