 [?] Big Money is snatching rich New Guinea timber Visits by groups of business men fo New Guinea are becoming a regular thing , and! it is only when visits by really "big shots'" are made that they are even reported in the Territory press . Does this interest augur well for the New Guinea people The answer in part is given by the activities of big monopoly Interests operating there ... Bv Jim CooDer Recent moves concerning the rich timber forests spread over most of Papua and New Guinea pinpoint the economic policy be- ig applied on behalf of big capital. At the same time the brakes are being put on education and other social development. DURNS PHILP have been operating there for 80 years and W. R. Carpenter for 50 years, and if their activities were, likely to advance the cul tural and economic welfare, there should be some evidence of this at this stage. Instead we have American sociolo gist Reed in his book "The Making of New Guinea" noting "a definite hostility to the native being giver. any education at all", and Colin Simpson in a letter to the Herald stating: "Let us face the fact that self-interest operates against the native getting education." Backing for these observations is the claim by the former Territories Minister (Mr. Hasluck) in 1962 that only 10 to 15 per cent, of New Guinea are literate. In fact the monopolies use their position and power to prevent rising cultural and economic standards to ensure the highest profits. Race for leases The pattern of this can be . seen working out with New Guinea's for estry reserves. The world's forestry reserves al ready being exploited are beginning to fall behind the demand and, as New Guinea has a forest cover of about 70 per cent of the land area, it is an obvious source of super profits to those who get control c.L the leases. What is in tlie wind is indicated by announcements of the forma tion of the Australia-New Guinea Corporation Ltd. and of the avail ability of timber leases on a total of over "one million acres of tim ber lands. Qne of these leases has been leased to an investment corporation —The Development Finance Corpor ation Ltd. — and another to a tim ber company which was saved from bankruptcy by a judicious invest ment from some of the directors of the D.F.C. Ltd. and of the Australia. New Guinea Corporation. There is little evidence that these corporations intend to develop the leases immediately beyond what is required by the terms of the lease but intend to hold them against rising world demand. Criminal The latest team to inspect the Territory showed some interest &lt;r. agricultural development in the Highlands As this is the most dense ly populated area in the Territory with densities of up to 72 persons per square mile any further aliena tion in this area is criminal. Only a few months ago leases totalling over 5,000 acres were granted to W. R. Carpenters Ltd. ostensibly for a tea plantation. The highlands have been recently surveyed and no doubt the Admin istration will find areas of "owner less land" which they will alienate and make available to investors similar to these. . "Ownerless land" is a euphemism to describe land that is in tbe tribal area but is not being farmed, as the tribesmen have not yet come in contact with commercial agricul- ture. This iand will, of course, be an urgent requirement when the values of commercial agriculture are brought to them and should be re- served to the indigenous people for this development.. This policy of handing over the key positions in the economy of the Territory arises from the nature of the Menzies Government as the in strument of the monopolies. While the former Minister lor Territories Mr. Hasluck paid some lip-service to the United Nations and other enlightened opinion, alx evl. dence goes to show that the present occupant of the office, Mi. Barnes, is the direct nominee of the mono polies and is pursuing a policy de signed to further their interests without any reference to the well- being of the New Guinea "leople. Education Capital investment is an urgent requirement of New Guinea but this capital investment should take the form of Government investment de signed to' develop the economy of the " Territory by the New Guineans themselves. This means large scale investment in education and industrial and agri cultural know-how. There is no doubt that the. New Guinean will respond as he has done in the areas where she has -ome into contact with commercial agri culture and as he has done at the Moveave Timber co-operative, the only timber concern in the hands of the New Guinea people. A New Guinea craftsman 