 How dose are the ties between Spry & Santamaria? SYDNEY jr Commonwealth secret police hies are believed to have been made avail - able to rightwing political extremists to concoct a document for publication , with aim of intimidating the Australian labor movement and thousands of others oppos ing the Government's Vietnam war policies. COR a number of weeks there have been press referencer to proposals for the Menzier Government to issue a "Whitr Paper on Communist Fronts". The varied sponsors of this pro posal have one thing in common- right-wing extremist reputations. They include certain Liberal MP's Dr. P. Knopf elmacher, sections of the Returned Servicemen's League top leadership and National Civic Council leader B. Santamaria. The key part being played by San tamaria in the scheme has been made clear by the consistency of references to it in his propaganda journal, Newsweekly. However, lack of response evi dently had alarmed Santamaria who incautiously let the cat out of the bag in last week's Newsweekly. In a series of articles in the one issue, he reveals the following:— The aim is to publish a docu ment, imputing "treason" on the part of all who oppose the Government's policy in sending troops to Vietnam —including "the Left-wing leader ship of the Australian Labor move ment," entire unions such as the Waterside Workers' Federation, and large numbers of "guilty and gul lible" people associated with "various peace organisations", the Aboriginal Rights movement and other organisa tions lumped under the heading "Communist fronts." © The document according to S&Ilt8Tnn.Yia '.Q nnnQ-mo crtitfAQP kac I 'already been prepared." The possibility that Santamaria and ms paid publicist-disruptors of the labor movement ; have themselves helped draft the document is borne out by the detailed outline put for ward by Newsweekly. "th Spealcs of documenting fully the structure, personnel, finances, overseas links, propaganda mediums, general membership and front or ganisations of the Communist Party." i th Despite frequent references to e Communist Party, Newsweekly makes ctear that the main target is rnr« Party, trade unions, non- communists who act for peace. asie ti:e idea of banning nrp« mJnunist PaiL'7' its editorial dPai .u the "White Paper" to S jlth "e gullible" and the wirang or unwitting collaborators." madpViliUS issues of the paper have AnPiL u-' biting attacks on the irw n n Ps an&lt;i others protest- g the Viewnam war policy, that the "White Paper" would cast its missilies of slander widely. In the current issue, those singled out for scathing attention by San tamaria for "intolerable" activity in opposing the policy of armed inter vention in Vietnam include:— The "ALP majority" on the Federal Council of the Waterside Workers' Federation and in particu lar WWF Secretary,- C. Fitzgibbon. References are made to "a matter of treason" and "stabbing Austra lian soldiers in the back." ALP Deputy Leader Whitlam, Dr. J. Cairns, M.H.R. and Mr. C. Cameron, M.H.R. A family of Adelaide Quakers, well-known for activity for peace over many years. Santamaria's hatred for the Austra lian Labor Party has intensified since i.'-i recent Federal Executive decision prohibiting ALP members from be longing to the NCC. "Security" police information is notoriously inaccurate, as was shown when, in 1950, Menzies read out a list of "Communist" trade union officials only to discover later that a number of them had never been Communists. 