 Communist Party statement: Acceptance of BMP retirement scheme NEWCASTLE: "We welcome the superannu a t i o n scheme introduced by the BHP as recognition of the fact that all industrial work ers are entitled to retire ment benefit". The statement was made by the Newcastle District - Executive - of the Communist Party last week. "Our complaint about the schema? is that the workers must make con tributions, whereas, the demand of the trade union movement is for a pen sion' scheme' financed by the Com pany. . , However, we advise workers to ac cept all positive -features of the scheme but to continue to press for a non-contributory scheme. This is quite a reasonable demand B.H.P. can afford a non-contributory scheme". Last year B.H.P. made a net profit of £19 million after setting aside £31 million for .depreciation of machin ery, plant etc.: not one penny was set aside for the more important physical depreciation of the workers, upon whose health and strength B.H.P; profits rest. Contributions to the Fund are estimated- to amount to £1,000,000 per annum of which workers will provide £400,000. The company provides £600,000, which is deductable FOR TAXATION PURPOSE. From the Fund , £300,000 will be, in-3 vested in Government ' securities-the' rest, will be invested in the Com pany- It is common knowledge that other monopoly interests contemplate estab lishing a rival steeL industry in Aus tralia. . .t In fact, the Australian Financial Review points to this as a reason why B.H.P. announced its scheme at, this time. Skilled labor for the steel industry is in short,, supply, and any skilled and Knowledgeable trade union nego tiator would utilize the sharp com petition between rival monopoly in terests to secure the best possiTe advantage for his own members Steel workers must unite with other trade unions to fight for a scheme that forces the monopolies to pay; one which would cost , the work er nothing, instead of a scheme to which the worker must contribute from his already inadequate wage packet to further expand B.H.P. pro- .fits. It is estimated that B.H.P. "earn ings" last year were at 16%. If this rate of earning is maintained the £700,000 invested in the company would return a profit of approxim ately £115,500 of which £42,000 would be paid into the fund. B.H.P. would collect the remaining £73,500. So the scheme is no give-away pro gramme: B.H.P. is able to . utilise workers funds to advance its own profits. This explodes the myth presented by F .I.A. officials that the scheme was introduced as a result of their brilliant, advocacy and no-strike pol- ; -icy stilus - B.H.P. ;1wdlerice??-T '- t 