 Labor Council to see Premier \ Government transport I 1 .r-mj.mi i_ju -"r nrnimri liTirt mi'rt , , 1,,,, unions meet on «rag@g i |a ..;£ SYDNEY: The NSW . Labor Council last Thursday decided to seek a further conference with State Premier Mr. Ren- shaw to again press the wage claims of govern ment rail and bus work ers. A meeting of 20 unions' covering government transport workers earlier in the week called for a further conference with the Premier. . Government transport workers in N.S.W. are demanding wage In creases in the form of an increment al scheme for service. Following a 14 months' struggle Victorian railway workers last Oc tober forced the Bolte Liberal Gov. ernment of that State to grant wage increases. An earlier deputation led by the NSW Labor Counctf.l proposed to Mr. Retishaw that a scheme in NSW be based on a payment of 16/6 per week one year's service, 33/- after two years and 49/6 after three years and that payments be based only on service and not skill ci classification. The Premier referred these de mands to the Commissioners for Railways and Road Transport. 1 Last week's meeting of the unions followed refusals from the Commis- :'!l sioners to grant these claims. liij The meeting completely rejected fls the reply from the Commissioners Unions warn the Premier that the long delays in granting these claims ?! is causing unrest in the industry and gathering criticism of the Labor Gov- : # ernment. ?|f The State Council of the Ausr.ra- . lian Railways' Union last week sent 'I a telegraph to the Premier asking ?! that these claims be granted. ,'vj Last December a conference ol delegates and union officials called ii by the ARU (NSW Branch) and l!f representing about '30,00.0 NSW rail hi way workers endorsed a proposal if for a 24-hour State-wide stoppage failing early satisfaction on these 1 demands. Labor Council secretary, Mr. J, :fl Kenny ( told Council that successful' negotiations have been held with the Premier and Commissioners over | the years. "We have been able to obtain bet- ter wages and conditions for rail- I II way workers in N.S.W.' "We are going to ensure that the pre-eminent position in NSW is ?! preserved. "But don't get the idea that the Premier will capitulate because oi if the coming elections," Mr Kenny ?| said. ?| 1 