 Background in Greece: U.S. used napalm against Greek patriot army "The United States used napalm for the first time in their intervention against the Greek libera tion army in 1948 in northern Greece", Colonel A W- Shepherd told Tribune last week. £OLONEL SHEPPARD, who served in the Second AIF in Greece and visited Greece and Yugoslavia after World War 2, visited 13 different countries last year. While in Yugoslavia he met many of the Greek children who had escaped the napalm terror in 1946- 7-8. His interpreter in Yugoslavia was one of the children he photographed outside a burning Greek village in 1948. "Their chances of getting more than two years' education if they'd stayed in Greece were about a million to one," Colonel Sheppard described the effects of napalm bombing. "I had been standing talking with three men just before a napalm bomb hit them. You couldn've put what was left of them in your hat. Napalm has a very demoralising effect. All the rebels had were small arms and a few artillery guns they had captured. That was like fighting a tank with a lolly-pop. It is hard to keep morale under these conditions, but they did somehow." Colonel Sheppard had taken the peace terms from the Greek demo cratic army to the UN in Paris in 1948. The terms were the withdrawal of the US troops from Greece fJ elections under UN supervision' and return of the political exiles ' The terms were refused Tactics used, to defeat the demn cratic army included the torcM remova 1 of whole villages to barren islands, like Makronossis, which S called "the Greek Dachau." Present conflict In the present conflict in Greece the "council of the court" and th right-wing army officers have tried to frighten the Greek people with the threat of another "civil war '' &lt;5? Sheppard . said ' CoL Jibe rigrit wing, feeling threatened by the steady progress made bv Papandreou's -Centre Union Partv realised "their means of getting back into power was by bloodshed; the left wing realized their means of getting back into power was by avoiding bloodshed," Col. Sheppard said. Papandreou hasn't forgotten that the Turkish Air Force used "American bombs and American facilities in their bombing of Cyprus last year." "It was accurate bombing, includ ing one hospital. The. pilot had been stationed in Cyprus. There was no AA fire and no Greek planes," Col. Sheppard said. Papandreou protested and with drew the Greek Navy from the NATO command. Garoufalias, the sacked "Defence" Minister, was an officer in the Civil 1 War and commanded a division of the extreme right wing of the monarchist forces," Col. Sheppard said. The CIA (American Central Intelli gence Agency) "would not be sure if Papandreou would or would not support NATO so they would say 'we had better overthrow him just in case'." Papandreou took a strong stand over the murder of Dr. Grigoris Lam- brakis, the Greek . PM who made the Marathon to Athens peace march on his own in 1963 after it was banned by the pro-Fascist Karamanlis Gov ernment. Lambrakis was run over by a motor bike which broke through a police cordon, and went a hundred yards the wrong way up a one-way street to run him down. Though there are still many un democratic laws in Greece, Papan- dfeou had 'allowed the trade unions to organise freely for the first time for years." . Control of ballots has been in tne hands of the police and the army (the police is part of the army), army commanders therefore are sponsible for honesty in elections. NATO officers are always inyolv in disputes between army officers today in Europe. There is way NATO officer on one side." he saia. Yugoslavia "There is a lot of talk about , 'the miracle of West Germany,' but oi » the countries I visited last yea P haps Yugoslavia had improved f"As far as Greece's deveiop since the war, there is no compar with Yugoslavia. uj "In Yugoslavia the people ar e of confidence, and have a 8rea uu of participation. The shops a of food and clothing, even. 0T?.ltely country centres. There is absolu, full employment, and th® debate councils carry on an active about the developing economy. and "There are thriving viH&o 0. communities of Greek 'exiles slavia, and the Soviet Union. 