 ACTU should! take action r j on penalties'! By JIM STEVENS CYDNEY: Hank and file waterside workers say: "There is no other section of the Australian workers penalised more than us . . . the cominq Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress must do some thing to end repressive leMation against all work ers!" These views were given to a Tribune reporter following the recent fining of the. Waterside Workers Federation £2,000 by the Commonwealth Arbitration Com mission. As well as this fine, waterside workers throughout Australia were also penalised about £80,000 by the Stevedoring Industry Auth ority in the loss of three days . appsarence money. These penalties were called for by the shipowners because water side workers took part in stop- work meetings to discuss their claims for pensions, wages and attacks' made on the union by Justice Gallagher of the Arbitra tion Court. Denis Linsay, a young man with only nine months experience as a wharfie said, that "my short period in the industry has been a real eye-opener to me, I never thought it possible that such pen alties -could be used against workers." Before becoming a a wharfie \e worked in the motor industry nd said he believed the news iaper stories about wharfies. "I now know that the wharfier ave had to fight hard to get an approvement in their workint onditions." Denis was one of several whar es interviewed last week on tl Wellington Star" at No. 8 Sus ex Street in Sydney. Bernie Gibbson (10 years s 'harfie) said: "Why should we be penalised? We stop work for one day and it's headlines in the paper. "These penalties must be ab- j olished and the ACTU Congress j must do something about them." I Merv. McFarland (secretary of j the Pensions and Wages Cam- | paign Committee) explained the I long list of special penalties j against waterside workers. | Like other Australian workers, ! waterside workers can be penal- I ised under sections 109 and 111 j of the Commonwealth Arbitration j Act. These carry penalties up to I £500 for each offence. | Under section 36 of the Steve- j doring Industry Act workers can j be suspended or lose appear- I ence money, be held as a j "hostage" or deregistered from | the industry. The chairman of | the Authority ; in each port has j the power to inflict these penal- j ties. j Under the hostage system, a I man or group of workers can be j suspended until the whole port j is free of any single industrial I dispute. j "This is like a person being j arrested for drunkenness and | kept in jail until the whole city j of Sydney is free of any arrests j for someone having one too j many," Merv said. I Jack Murton (20 years a whar- I fie, now a member of the Mechan- j ical Branch) said: j "The hostage system is one of j he most disgraceful things in a j &lt;o-called democracy." ! Jack is an ex-merchant sea- ) nan, and was on the Hang Yang j vhen it was sunk during the | econd world war. I "No other group of workers j 'as such vicious penalties against ? hem. - j "Even if you are 15 minutes | ate due to a train - hold up you 2 an be sacked for the day," he » aid. | While the Stevedoring Author- j ty has the power to charge and , ietermine punishment against j waterside workers they have no j "similar right against the ship- = owners. ! The Authority can only lodge j charges for failure to provide j proper supervision, breaches of | safety, misuse of labour etc. j | MR. JACK MURTON "... 15 minutes late due to a train 1 I delay and you can be sacked for the day." ! 