 Pardon for Nazis threatens peace (from A. WATT) MOSCOW: The West German Government's decision to cease prosecuting nazi war crim inals as from May 8 next, taken together with other developments, show that events in Europe are reaching a point extremely danger ous to world peace The U.S. and Britain must share re sponsibility for the Bonn decision on war criminals. This decision must be considered together with Bonn's intensified efforts to get its hands on nuclear weapons either through the multilateral nuclear force .or, as now suggested by western press reports, through a bilateral agreement with the U.S.A. Also linked with this is the West German plan to establish nuclear mine belts along the border with the Ger man Democratic Republic and Czecho slovakia and with Bonn's decision to press on Avith so-called emergency legislation to subordinate the country to total militarisation 'in peace time. All this can only mean that the Bonn Government is giving old Nazis and revanchists the green light to step up all their activities aimed at realising their foreign policy object ives. These call for the sivallowing of the socialist G.D.R. and parts of Poland and for restoration of the pre-war frontiers. Bonn is the only government in Europe making territorial claims on other States. Through Europe runs the dividing line between two social systems and two military policies. Facing each other across this line arc the tAvo Avorlds of socialism and im perialism, one Avith a policy of peace and the other containing poAvcrful ag gressive forces bent on unleashing nuclear Avar. Protests mount A storm of protest' against the ' par- >ning of. the Avar criminals is sweeping Europe and has spread to West Germany itself, where many protest demonstrations have been held. The Soviet press is publishing al most daily extracts from letters lroin concentration camp victims denouncing nazi criminals and demanding justice. Marshal Timoshcnko, chairman of the Soviet Avar veterans' organisation, presiding at a big press conference yesterday; called on , all humanity to demand punishment of the Avar crimin als to protect present and future generations. .65,000 still free Speaking last November, Dr. Man- dellauk, U.S. prosecutor at Nurem berg, said there Averc still about 65,000 people' who had evaded punishment up to iioav, although knoAvn to have been accomplices in the murder of about 20 million victims of the nazis. Earl (Bertrand) Russell lias called the decision cruel and repulsive. The central council of Jcavs in West Germany has demanded that the dead line for prosecution be extended an other SO years. Tiraoshenko reminded his press con ference ..of the 20 million Soviet people killed and the 1,700 towns destroyed by the nazis. Roman Rudenko, chief Soviet prose cutor at Nuremberg and now chief Soviet procurator of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Court, said the Bonn decision was in violation of international law. He said that international law knows no statute of limitations in general and nothing was said in the decisions of the YaltalTnd Potsdam conference or in the statutes of the international military tribunal (at Nuremberg) about apply ing a statute of limitations to the nazi criminals. 