 Vietnamese welcome Russians All leading Vietnamese papers frontpaged the announcement by the Democratic Republic of Vietnam Foreign Ministry that a Soviet delegation headed by Premier Kosygin was visiting North Vietnam. "THIS was stated in a message from Hanoi, the capital, to Soviet TASS newsagency. The newspaper Nhan Dan wrote editorially that the visit wouid be of great importance for the strengthen ing of friendship, solidarity and co. operation between Vietnam and the USSR. It will also make a big contribution to the solidarity and I friendship of the socialist countries. "'We have deep respect for the heroic Soviet people who fought with matchless courage and gave their lives for the liberation of the workers and the woild's peoples,'- Nhan Dan continues. '"We think highly of the pro letarian internationalism of the great Soviety people. "As before, we shall work con stantly to contribute to the strength- ening of unity and friendship be. tween our peupie flUQ uie peupies Of the USSR, China and other frater nal socialist countries. "'We sincerely thank thv people and the Government of the USSR for their valuable assistance and support for the building of social ism in the north of our country, for the just struggle of our fellow-coun. trymen In the south and the cause of peaceful reunification of our motherland." Khanh wobbly On the day following the an nouncement of the visit, i e Soviet official journal Pravda warned that Washington's attempts to get out of ite troubles by expanding and ag. gravating military conflicts was "most dangerous." Meanwhile the US journal News week indicates the latest Khanh re gime in South Vietnam won't last long. The paper says that South Viet nam Buddhist leader Tri Quang call ed off the anti- Government demon, strations when Khanh replaced Huong. "But then Quang made it plain that he vrs , prepared to deal with Khang only on a very temporary basis says Newsweek. "'Khanh'. the monk said, 'is too bad a man' ' Brutal public "cution K' nh of young patriot Le Van Khuyen will further spark patriot wrath against Khanh. Le Van Khuyen was a ecus: nf having been carrying "Viet Cong" leaf lets and explosives in a buddhist demonstration. He wa' shot in the , market place in the early hours of one r>---oing, before many people wer- about, and the blood ' n"i off the pavement. Hostile demonstra tions were feared. Time magazine says that a Budd hist spokesman "piompUy disclaim ed reports that the Buddhists bad agreed with Khanh to withdraw from politics for two years Big delegation Besides Premier Kosygin, the Soviet delegation visiting Vietnam includes the 'ere ry of the Central Committee of the Sc ot Communist Party, Yuri Andropov, the Minister for Civi' Aviation E, Loginov. First Deputy Foreign Min ister V. Kuznetsov. Deputy Defence Minister Air Marshal K. Verr' inin, Deputy Foreign Economic Reiations Minister G. Sidorovich and the So viet Minister to the DRV, I. Scher- bakov. "Washington's efforts to find ft way out of the difficult situation in south east Asia by expanding and aggravating military conflicts are fraught with most dangerous conse quences" says the Pravda article ot February I. "Ending of the aggressive war Jn Vietnam and the withdrawal of pS forces is the only basis for settling the question. Any other policy can only aggravate the threa: .to peace. 