 'O'seas shipowners have done nothing but bleed Aust.' i SYDNEY: "Overseas shipowners have done nothing for this coun try except bleed it", Federal officers of fhe Waferside Workers' .Hi Federation said last Thursday . ""THEIR cries that the water- side workers are damaging the economy of this country are difficult to accept when they have been milking it ever since the Bruce-Page Government sold Australia's own overseas fleet to overseas interests and 'presented the shipping cartels with a monopoly preserve— tc charge 'what the traffic will bear'." From July this year freight charges will be increased by 10% on cargoes from the East and West Coast of North America to Australia; 71% from Australia to East and South America; 71% from Australia to Ceylon; 10% from Australia to Far East and 5% from Hong Kong and Japan to Aus tralia. According to the "Financial Review" the new 10% increase in freights to the Far East plus higher freights to Europe expected later this year will add £10 million to Australia's shipping freight bill. Last week's stopwork meeting of Sydney waterside workers drew at tention to official figures showing the huge profits being made. In 1955 the freight bill was £200 million with a wages bill of £22.2 million. In 1963 the freight bill was £430 mil lion with a wages bill of £20.8 mil lion. During this period man hours were reduced from 40,350,000 to 28,300,000 but tonnages increased from 241 mil lion to over 31 million. "Will have to tight" "Certainly waterside workers will have to fight for new conditions; they always have had to, against an over seas employer who gives only what he has to," federal officers of the WWF said. "It is not surprising to see the pre sent Federal Government join their clamour because the shipowners maintain a strong lobby in Canberra. It must be deprecated that a public servant such as Mr. Hood of the A.S.I.A. should join the hysterical chorus in .guch an inflammatory, pro vocative and inaccurate manner. His description of the stoppages this week as 'irresponsible' is remarkable." The Federation will meet with the Australian Council of Trade Unions in Sydney on June 23 to discuss attacks on the Union. Brisbane wharfies have asked that the ACTU initiate a "hands off the wharfies" campaign. Waterside workers at stopwork meetings throughout Australia last week overwhelmingly rejected and condemned the statements by Justice Gallagher that workers should be dis missed from the industry and the Crimes Act be used for stoppages on political questions. Most branches stopped work for 24 hours. The stopwork meetings were called by the federal officers of the Feder ation to discuss:— o The statements by Justice Gal lagher and the Government represent ative (Mr. Tregillis) at the compulsory conference between the employers and the Federation in Sydney on May 25. The future of the Federation's . claim for an industry pension and mechanisation fund following . the breakdown of - the negotiations with the employers. . . The need for increased wages, attendance money and meal money and long service leave. What action should be taken to achieve the Federation's claims. j A meeting of 3500 Melbourne water side workers, with only six votes in j opposition, congratulated the union j leaders for furthering the campaign of opposition to the Vietnam war. ; The meeting also demanded the re call of Justice Gallagher as the judge responsible for the stevedoring indus try. Other meetings, including Sydney, Brisbane, Newcastle and Port Kem- bla re-affirmed support for the Fed eration's policy opposing Australian troops being sent to Vietnam. Most of last week's meetings also j carried resolutions supporting the fed- j eral officers' rejection of Justice Gal- j lagher's offer to arbitrate on the uni- ; on's claims which include a pension and mechanisation fund. The Sydney meeting said: "The months of patient negotiation have proved abortive in our claims for in dustry pensions." Justice Gallagher made his offer to arbitrate on May 25. In doing so he also stated that it was not within his power to decide on claims for pen sions or a mechanisation fund. The Federation said that since there is no authority vested in the Arbitra tion Commission to consider our main claims, there is no valid purpose in processing them through this channel. Last Thursday the Australian Steve doring Industry Authority imposed a penalty of a loss of three days' at tendance money on all waterside workers who stopped for 24 hours and a loss of one day for members who stopped for four hours. The shipowners association also took out four summonses against the Federation last Friday. These sum monses could carry fines up to £2,000 plus costs. To finance the "Hands off the Whar fies" campaign the Brisbane wharfies' stop work meeting, attended by over 2000 decided on a £2 a man levy to be paid at 5/- a week for eight weeks. On the NSW South Coast, most min ers' lodges sent representatives to the wharfies' meeting as an expression of solidarity and support. 