 On the side of sport WOUR correspondent Slan Tapper suggests that most of the self- sacrificing in sport is done by honorary, officials. It seems that he sees the A.».u. row as a contest between swim mers and officials and criticises "Tri bune" for being on the side of the former and not, presumably, the latter. I think "Tribune" has been on . the side of sport. No sport can exist without its cham pions and its triers nor without its. officials, big and -small, but in the A.S.U. it is the swimmers who are essential. Untjl the A:S.U, can. justify- its harsh penalties by proving the swimmers con cerned acted in such a way as to deserve their punishment I believe "Tribune" should continue its call to protest to the A.S.U. If swimmers are to co-operate with officials for the. good of their sport, as they should, then the.' relationship between them must be one of equals and not of .stern parent to naughty child. Discipline Is necessary but it will not be achieved if it is imposed. If swimmers, coaches and officials decided the necessary rules together, if unnecessary rules wer6 dropped in the interest of better performances, if con sultation replaced ordering, all could work for the good of sport. Perhaps the A.S.U. and all other sporting bodies (if they, don't now have this) should hear disciplinary charges before an open tribunal where charges are properly laid, where those charged are properly represented and where charges must be proven. It must also be said that the top officials of the A.S.U. do not have an unblemished record. There have been rows with coaches as well as with swimmers. There have been burnt out teenage champions, falling attendances at -cham pionships and the imposition of one petty, rule which kept Murray Rose out of the Tokyo Games. This -rule was always contrary to Olympic rules and has now been re voked, thus showing that officials are not always right. None of this denies the important and self-sacrificing role of countless officials. It merely highlights the prob lem of officialdom. It does not deny the need for discipline, but it does put. up for consideration the type of discipline needed and the way discip line should be exercised. The top officials should drop the penalties and instead call together all the officials, swimmers and coaches who were at Tokyo to discuss the strengths and inadequacies of all with a view to improvements in the future. It is not then just for the sake of a few champions but for the 6ake of the sport that people protest to the A.S.U. MAVIS ROBERTSON, Sydney 