 Qld. State stoppage to support Isa men | This week wili see a massive 24 - hour sfopwork answer by I Queensland workers to the new police-sf ate attacks by the Tory I State Government against trade union and citizens" rights at Mt. Isa. | "T"HE Mt. Isa miners were j locked out by the wealthy | American-dominated company j last December and are refusing ! to return to work until the ! company meets their major f demands, including both eco- | nomic gains and trade union f rights. I Last week, in a new attempt to j break the . men's unity, . the Nicklin | State Government introduced repres- | sive anti-picketing legislation. j The Queensland Trades and Labor I Council called this week's stoppage I following widespread requests, and S armed with the knowledge of last | week's sharp condemnation by the | Australian Council of Trade Unions | of the new Government restrictions. | "The legislation violates normal S rights of trade unionists for whom j peaceful picketing is an accepted iand inviolable principle in industrial disputes," the ACTU Executive stated. | The ACTU called on the Govern- I ment to withdraw the legislation and .1 abandon "coercive and police state i methods" for conciliation was the only „ satisfactory way of resolving the issues in dispute. It recalled that earlier repressive laws in January had to be withdrawn under public pressure. The Queensland state-wide stoppage, in addition to being a protest against the anti-picketing law, will also pro test against employers' application for vicious penal clauses in State awards, aimed among other things at eliminat ing the 40 hour week by making over time compulsory — i.e. industrial con scription. In frantic efforts to help the Mt. Isa Company break the workers' front, the Government has set out to turn Mt. Isa into a Police Town, with police cordons, house searches and arrests of men and women. Townspeople showed their anger by turning up, 1000-strong, to a mass meeting on Monday and declaring their continued solidarity with the miners' struggle. The Government over the past week has sent flocks of plainclothes and other police, armed with the new powers, to Mt. Isa, headed by the Police Commissioner Bischof himself. The Government shoved its law through Parliament on a pretext of what it said Mt. Isa pickets were doing. . But the very day. before the new law was introduced, ronce commis sioner Bischof was quoted in the Mt. Isa Mail (March 16) . as saying in Mt. Isa: — "... Our concern is the upholding of law which has so far been fairly well observed by people, manning picket lines . . ." What they're deisig Mr. Kev Loughlin (a State organiser for the Building Workers' Industrial Union, who returned to Brisbane from Mt. Isa last weekend) reported that, to build up tension, police at Mt. Isa have been put on guard at mine gates spotlights have been shone suddenly on cars and their occupants at night, and company stodf men have been used to augment the company's normal "security" men. People whose homes are on the mine side—that is, on what is the mining lease — have been stopped when driving their cars out of the lease. Mr. J. McMahon (Mt. Isa Trades & Labor Council president) was told that he would not be allowed to move to the town until 8.30 in the morning. Mr. Loughlin reported that the Dis putes Committee up to the weekend had been told of searches of homes (a number of which were left by police in disorder), some business premises, the Irish Club, and cars. In one case,- a woman was in the wash-house when police came to search the home. She was ordered to stay where she was while the search went on. On the Thursday morning, the first .morning after the new legislation be came law, pickets turned up in force. Police ordered them to move back towards the town from the mine gate. The pickets moved slowly back. But some were arrested. On the Friday morning, police were lined up at the bridge across the dry bed of the Leichhardt River, which separates the town side of Mt. Isa from the mine side. Some women went to cross the road from where the pickets were gathered. Police stopped them and, even though the women said they were going to church, herded them back, amid a lot of comment from the pickets. Soon afterwards, a woman was ar rested. Then, after a protest at the way she was being handled, her hus band also was arrested. Other police moved over. The crowd was ordered to move to another street,, two blocks away, and stay there till 8.30. Men reported after wards having been jostled and elbowed. A Pala TltAmoc nf 41in nuoAnclnitiH w m. w«v wa uiv vcuvviloKlllU Guardian, author of two best-selling booklets on Mt. Isa ("Buried Treas ure" and "Storm in the Tropics") is back in Mt. Isa and will report in next week's Tribune. 