 [?] SYDNEY: Slopwork meetings of waterside workers are being held today (Wednesday) in most ports throughout Australia, to discuss their demand for pensions and wage increases. '"THE stoppages have been I called by the Federal Coun cil of the Waterside Workers' Federation. Following an earlier national stoppage a fortnight ago, Mr. Justice Gallagher from the Commonwealth Arbit ration Court has offered to conciliate on the issue of pensions. A conference between the union, shipowners, Commonwealth Govern ment and Stevedoring Authority will be held on March 15 to discuss this issue. The Federation has unsuccessfully pressed the shipowners and Govern ment for a non-contributory pension over the past 24 years. ' The earlier stopwork meetings call ed for action including weekly nat ional 24 hour stoppages. Many meetings, including 4,000 men in Sydney also called for a struggle to force the shipowners to meet the balance of a 7/- an hour wage claim. The workers have re ceived only 1/2 in response to this claim made by the Federal Council in 1963. Up to owners Federal Secretary of the Federa tion Mr. C. Fitzgibbon said this week : "The membership will be asked to endorse the decision of the Union's Federal Council to accept the offer of Mr. Justice Gallagher to bring the parties into negotiation in an effort to find if there is the possibility of agreement. "In the Union's view, because of the very strong feeling amongst the membership on this issue, it is es sential that their acceptance of, and co-operation in this course be sought "We are fully aware that their ac ceptance of this course and the con tinuance of their acceptance and co- nnprnt.irm will fr.n n lawfl pt.pnt. ripn. end on whether or not the shipown ers approach the negotiation with the spirit of conciliation," Mr. Fitz gibbon said. Basic wage The Federal Council has also ask ed the meetings to discuss the Basic Wage case which opened this week in Melbourne. The Australian Council of Trade Unions is seeking an increase in the Federal basic wage from 9/- to 13/- (depending on the State). This claim will only compensate the workers for the eroding of their wages through price increases, since the Commission granted the £1 last year. Employers again are pressing their plan for a 'total wage' which was rejected by the Commission last year. The employers have also made demands that the Menzies Govern ment make a strong stand at the wage hearing against a 'big' increase. According . to press report: "Sir Robert is understood to have warned the representatives (of employers) of the growing need for some restraint in the non- defence sectors of the economy to balance the £100 million a year in crease in defence spending in the next three years." "Branch News" (organ of the Syd ney Branch' of the WWF) said the ACTU has . seriously erred in think ing its claim was a walk-up start . . . that it was purely a matter of check ing on the Prices Index Movement. "This is poor leadership. The es sential mass campaign has not been organised." "On the other hand workers are a bit contemptuous about the paltri- ness of the ACTU 10/- claim (for NSW) ." A call will be made at today's meeting in Sydney to mount action against the employers attacks. Many job meetings yesterday sent telegrams to the Commission de manding it meet the Unions' claim. The NSW Labor Council has called for job and factory meetings in sup port of the claim. These meetings have been asked to press their individual employers to dissociate themselves from the total wag plan and to support the present ACTU claim. Miners' call The Central Council of the Min ers' Federation last week in Sydney called on its members to fully sup port the basic wage campaign. "It must be made clear to the Arbitration Commission that we are determined not to carry the burden of unjustified, price rises and policies of governments designed to serve only vhe; interests of the mono- . polie? , the Council said. 