 [?] Unity can defeat Playford Gov' merit ADELAIDE: The Labor Party's policy for the State elections con tains many points around which the labor movement can unite, win support from other sections of the people, sweep aside the Play ford Government and provide the conditions for their implementa tion by a Labor Government. IF the electoral ballot-rigging still deprives South Australia of a change of government, such policy points , can still help to rally such a movement of the people that the Playford Government will be under im mediate pressure. Points of ALP policy include: 9 Electoral reform. A 56 member House of Assembly and abolition of the Upper House. 9 Free school books. Provision of more teachers and reduction of class sizes. 9 Provision of district hospitals. 9 Compensation to cover accidents while travelling to and from work. 9 Long service leave of 3 months after 10 years. Four weeks annual leave. 9 A co-ordinated transport service under a Minister. Reduced rail fares. More work to be carried out at rail way workshops. 9 Decentralisation of industry. 9 Improvements in the building in dustry. Provision of more readily available homes. Playford's policy speech further il lustrates the "serve big business firms and the people last" approach. He said that the public would have to pay for the natural gas transmis sion line from Gidgealpa, yet the oil companies would be guaranteed the best possible returns. The Broken Hill Associated Smelters would be permitted extra lead and zinc from slag dump in a plant cost ing £6 milion. No provision is made in the Work man's Compensation Act to cover ac cidents to and from work. In an attempt to fob off resentment concerning electoral reform, Playford spoke of a Royal Commission headed by a Supreme Court judge and then said the Liberals would proceed with their own legislation, at the same time indicating it would yet be another gerrymander. His mention of the extension of the area of Municipal Tramways Trust authority did not indicate an improv ed public transport s'ystem but merely an administrative measure. While the Government has a sorry record of neglect of public education, it will aid private schools. The strengthening of State education is a demand going back in to the State's history. The Communist Party will continue to work for unity of the Labor Move ment against monopoly and its govern ments. In a spirit of responsibility and principled discussion within the Lab or Movement, the Party points to the serious weakness in the Labor Party's policy. There is no mention in it of the need to tackle the big monopoly and relieve them of more of their fabulous wealth in order to provide for the people's needs. Hence the question posed by Labor leader Walsh of where the money is to come from to finance his Party's plan for improved social services is answered with a piece of non-effective figure juggling. Mr. Walsh even indicated that to run the State with a deficit as Play, ford has done was legitimate and everything had gone along without a fuss." However, the important reforms raised by Mr. Walsh around which united action can be built is the main concern of the working people, and it is interesting to note that on many of their questions already a lot of activity has been recorded. 