 Premier Askin does a Playford act SYDNEY: The NSW Askin Government', is bent on a State wide electoral gerrymander, starting with local councils. QECTIONS of the Sydney subur ban press are freely tipping a change in the method of voting in the Local Government elections-— from the democratic system of pro portional representation, to "first past the post." What will be the result if such a move is made? - "Kingsgrove Courier" of July 7, front page headline, predicted: "Labor could lose Council Elections." "The Labor Party may lose control if first past the post voting is intro duced at the Council elections in December." They also said that it was almost certain that first past the post voting would be introduced. "The St. George and Sutherland Shire Leader" in an editorial on July 1 said: "The prediction that the 'first past the post' system of voting will be reintroduced for Local Government elections might end Labor domina tion of Councils." This is one of Sir Frank Packer's "Daily Telegraph" newspaper chain, edited by newly-elected State Liberal, Mr. Mead. The move to change the voting system is anti-democratic, and is aimed to lower the Labor Movement's representation in Local Government. Such a move will affect every coun cil in NSW, including the Sydney City Council where it could reduce or eliminate the present ALP majority of 13-7. "First past the post" allows minorities to control councils. Take this example: Four candidates stand, one to be elected. A receives 150 votes . \ B „ 160 „ ( C „ 170" „ ' . " ; D „ 180 , „ D is elected! . Yet ' obviously 480 didn't want him. The "winning" candidate received 27 per cent, of votes. . The wishes of 83 per cent, of the people are ignored! Proportional representation, the present system, ensures that the people's views in voting are much better reflected. It also ensures that minority groups are represented, but allows majority views to have a majority of success ful candidates. Broadly, it operates in this way: The number of seats to be filled are divided in the total formal votes cast. This is known as a quota. Then each candidate who receives this quota is elected; this may be by receiving sufficient first votes. So, if ten seats are to be filled, each candidate will receive approxi mately 10 per cent, of total votes Qasfc to be elected. This voting procedure ensures widest possible representation of people's views in Council, but is not to the liking of big business interests, particularly large land owners and speculators, who seek to utilise Council to promote their own narrow profit motives. All who wish to ensure the reten tion of the present more democratic method of voting in Local Govern ment elections should immediately protest to their State MPs. 