 2. "THE QUESTION MARKS LIE ON OUR SIDE!" SYDNEY : A near-capacity crowd of mainly young people and mothers of conscriptees packed the Macquarie Auditorium last Wednesday night to hear Dr. J. F. Cairns, MHR, and Mr. Bruce McFarlane speak on Vietnam. MR. McFARLANE, Research Fellow in Economics at the Australian National University, Canberra, said that the war in Vietnam was increasingly tak ing on the character of an ex perimental war. "New methods and techniques and experimental weapons which flout the Geneva convention are being used against a largely civilian opponent," he said. "What so far are really the results? —540,000 killed and mained. When casualties got to 1,000,000 in Korea many people thought it time to call a halt. The war in Vietnam is go ing the same way. "The South Vietnamese govern ment has a deficit of £151 million, after all the aid they are getting. The government of the military junta represents the land owners of Vietnam." > The only organisation willing to i take up -the cause of the landless had been the National Liberation Front. It was carrying out land reform, collecting taxes from French and other enterprises, and controlling an area and population more effec tively than the military junta in the towns, he said. Demonstrators supported Dr. 3. F. Cairns expressed his support for and identification with Sydney's Vietnam demonstration the previous week. He said that it must be recognised that protest demonstrations and the wide publicity they evoke are a necessary and vital part of the struggle for peace and an end to the war in Vietnam. Dr. Cairns said that' the only hope of winning such a war is to win the support of the people of the coun try concerned. "I think the question marks lie on our side. If we react in these cases to protect our own affluence, to de prive the people who are trying to lift themselves from poverty and ex ploitation, by using the weapons of mass destruction, we will plunge into an abyss of barbarity no nation has ever reached before. "Anti-Communism is a negative, potentially fascist movement in this country and we are going to hear a great deal more of it in the next few months. It is growing in vicious ness and noise. "Unless we in this country are go-' ing to make up our minds to judge our fellow citizens on their actions and refuse to put labels on them, we will lose our freedom." 