 Soviet army men pay tribute to Australian veterans From RUPERT LOCKWOOD in Moscow MOSCOW: The Soviet War Vefersuis' Committee addressed qresfings to Australian and New Zealand war service veterans on the 20th anniversary of the defeat of nazi Germany. "THE greetings noted the Aus- tralian and" New Zealand contribution to the historic vic tory. "We sincerely believe that war veterans are united ny the ardent desire to do all they can to rid coming generations of the horrors and privations of war," the message said. Lockwood says that thousands packed the Red Square for the celebrations. Former Marshals Zhukov and Voroshilov were restored to posi tions of honor for the occasion and given special ovations. ? These ovations, says Lockwood, ! signalled endorsement of the more I realistic policies now being followed i in Soviet society. g In a speech the secretary of the | Soviet Communist Party of the j Soviet Union, Mr. L. N. Brezhnev, i while stressing that the Soviet j peoples bore the main burden of | the war, scruplously recognised the | efforts of all anti-fascists. I He recalled the important role of ! the State Defence Committee formed I under direction of the then General j Secretary of the Communist Party, J J. V. Stalin which "performed great S work in mobolising all fqrces." j Brezhnev paid tribute to the as- j sistance of the French Air Wing on. I the Soviet Front, the Slovak and j Prague uprisings, the Yugoslav « Liberation Army's heroism, guerilla ! exploits in Albania and Greece and g Bulgarian, Rumanian, Hungarian, | German, Italian, Scandinavian and g French resistance. | He pointed out that in Asia, the genuine peoples anti-Japanese war began in China under leadership of the Communist Party headed by Mao j Tse Tung. | Soldiers of Mongolia, the people j of Vietnam, Korea, Indonesia, j Philippines, Malaya, Burma waged a j stubborn struggle. j Brezhnev also recalled with warm j feeling the efforts of the British, j Americans and French led by Churc hill, Roosevelt and De Gaulle. J The Red Army and navy, as a j warning to over-confident aggressors, j paraded massive new armaments. j There were ground-to-air missiles I in clusters on launchers which, ac cording to TASS, are "capable of destroying any planes or rockets at any altitude, and no offensive wea pons can overcome this protective barrage." On caterpillars were anti-missiles ready to seek out and destroy in tercontinental missiles and missiles from polaris submarines long 'before they reach their targets. Ballistic miSsiles used by Soviet nuclear submarines were followed by colossal strategic rockets des cribed by Tass as "the backbone of Soviet military might." Even medium misr'.'cs which rolled through the square on cater pillars can now reach any port of the world. Solid-fuel missiles on self-propel led launching platforms were highly mobile, able to change position quickly. Automated three-stage intercontin ental rockets launchable on instant notice from underground or ground installations were overshadowed by orbital rockets on platforms, able to find tragets from any direction, thus almost impregnable to anti- rocket defence. Before the rockets came, a march Red Army navy paratroop men led by Marshal Malinovsky and heroes who carried the Red Banner they hoisted over the Reichstag in Berlin. Red Square was the centre of in ternational commemoration. Drums rolled, flags fluttered from Paris to Vladivostok except in West Germany where ruling Hitlerite leftovers re gard the anniversary as "a day of capitulation and mourning." While West Germans, and Yanks scowled across checkpoint Charlie, East Berlin staged a joint Soviet- German parade followed by a missi le display in celebration of libera tion from Nazism. 