 -- — — — MONEY FOR WAR NONE FOR SPORT ' j By "THE CHALLENGER" ! There is a dire need for the Australian Government to ! set up some form of cultural ministry or sporting council I allocate the much-needed finance and immediately set - i about providing the urgently needed cultural and sporting | facilities for the community as a whole. ! A SPATE or recent reports has j drawn attention tb the ! western suburbs areas around Sydney, where due mainly to I lack of finance suburbs such as | Green Valley, Liverpool, Banks- j town, Blacktown, etc., with a I population ranging around the | half million mark, lack swim- ' j ming pools, playing fields, . I gymnasiums and other sporting facilities. 3 I " It is often said, that for a | sport to flourish, it is necessary | for a certain amount of pride I and club spirit to be built up. | But before this can be done, j it should be realised that the I basic prerequisite for any form j of club spirit, is the facilities | and coaching to start a club. | Tribune found that club spirit 1 was certainly manifest at the | N.S.W. Judo Association's Metro- | politan Inter Club Teams Cham- S pionships held at the Sefton High | School Hall, last Saturday. (Sef- | ton is a suburb about 14 miles ! west of Sydney). | ? | A CROWD of about 200 watched I the championships in which j about 100 took part. The winning, title went to the S Sydney University team for the | third year in a row. j It was found that the Judo j championships revealed a fright- J ful lack of gymnasiums in the j area. | . A member of the Chester Hill | Judo club told Tribune that the S Sefton high school hall was also j the club quarters of the Chester j Hill Judo club, j The hall is. after all not a . gymnasium and setting it up ..for judo requires the incon- i veriient task of having to stack 1 .and lay the rice straw mats | (Tatami) needed for Judo. . | In an interview with Tribune last week, Mr. Bruce Steele, a | city storeman who is standing | as a Communist Party candidate ! for the" East ward, Bankstown, in the fortneoming local govern ment elections made the follow ing comments about the sport ing facilities available around Bankstown: SPORTSFIELDS: "While suffi- cient areas are available the amenities and facilities leaves much to be desired in the way of proper turfed playing fields, dressing sheds, with hot and cold showers and spectator conveni ences." SWIMMING: "Owing' to the closure of several swimming bars on the Georges River because o£ pollution, people in the east and north ward of Bankstown are at a serious disadvantage in so far as swimming facilities go. "Bankstown requires at least one swimming pool in each of its four wards." GYMNASIUMS: "To my know ledge, there is only the Police Boys' club and it nowhere near meets the needs. The Police Boys' club recently had to make a public appeal for a volunteer coach." The. above comments and re ports like that of schools roster- ing their time at playing fields so as to provide playing time for others help to graphically illustrate that government action is urgently needed. At the beginning of the year, the British government set up a sports council to boost amateur sport. Among the leading spotsmen invited to serve as' advisers on the council were Roger Bannis ter, the first rour-minute miler, the former West Indian cricketer, Learie Constantine and Ian Black a silver medallist in swim ming at the Tokyo Olympics. Such a council provided by the Australian government and aided by some of Australia's leading athletes — together with liberal provision of finances — could be the solution to Australian sporting difficulties. I Sydney metropolitan judo teams championships under at Sefton High School last Saturday. !u 