 "It will be a lovely day . . " j—JEINRICH HEINE was born of Jewish parents in one era when the Jews had against them the weight of political and social discrimination. He irew up in Germany when it vas the heart of reactionar etreat from the precepts o he French revolution. The turmoil of his conscienc vhen he entered the Protestan . church iii an effort to achieve German . citizenship fights, . thf agony of his deteriorating health the longing of body and soul foi peace, were welded into an out pouring of poetry and prose which acclaimed him one of the world'; reniuses. fit will a lovely day . . . s . . beautiful day! The Sun, of freedom will; warm: v.-, . the earth . . Thus Heine summed up his hope and his belief in a better world for mankind. "IT WILL BE A LOVELY DAY" -the prose of Heinrich Heine which has been translated into English by Professor Frederic Ewen, an American authority on :ieine — is a Seven Seas Book. Professor Ewen has written ar, absorbing biography of Heine — thr nan,, the poet and the soldier ii umanity's cause: ... \ "The night is still. Only outside the fain splashes, against the roofs and. the melancholy autumn wind moans. . . . Suddenly, you, fair vision, enter, , without even moving the latch on my door, and you sit down on the cushion at my feet. Lay your lovely head on my knee and listen-rbut do not look up at me. Por I will tell you the . fairy tale of my life. . . These words of Heine in his Prologue open the collection ot writings which include the major portion of his prose. Among these are his great essay on Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice," "A Journey to the Harz" (which established him as one of the masters of German prose), "An Italian Interlude," his voluminous correspondence with famous men of the 19th century, his charming letters to "la Mouche," the mysterioues young Parisenne who brightened his last bedridden years in Paris, his views on Ger many, Prance, England, women finance, art, religion. It is an absorbing collection of . one of the really outstanding men of ' his time. "It Will Be A Lovely Day" is available from New World i Booksellers, 425 Pitt Street, Sydney, „ and other -progressive bookshops -,- - Price; - 7/fi. . > 'h, 