 [?] BIG TV BOSS IS I "REAL LEADER OF N.S.W. UBS." IS By Tribune's State Political Roundsman I Evidence is mounting that Sir Frank Packer, mil- 1 lionaire owner of press, TV and other interests, isgain- I ing decisive influence over the New South Wales Lib- eral Party. . i He is building q private network of Lib® 1 1 eral politicians tied closeiy to his Big Busi® ness machine. No wonder Federal Labor \i Leader Calwell last week called Packer "de It fact© leader of the NSW Liberal Party". if" This highlights the warnings being repeated at all NSW Bi election campaign meetings addressed by Communist Party pi candidates, that the Liberals are the party of the wealthiest 2 monopolies and should be given the lowest preference vote. 8 Leading the fight against home and foreign monopoly |l exploitation of the State, the Communist Party is standing 0 13 respected men and women as candidates. , m . , , | CIR Frank Packer's son, Clyde, 8 a director of his companies, . already sits in the NSW Upper 1 | House. ' . ' li If a Liberal Government came to || office, Clyde Packer, MLC, is likely r || to be in the Cabinet. 1 8 Thomas Hughes, present MHR fox 6 || Parkes, who supports the lunatic H fringe of the . Liberal Party in the ! || Federal House, was. a Packei t nominee. All of Packer's Consolidated i Press and TV resources were usee ||| for many months to smear Laboi x. 1 veteran L. Haylen out of Parkes. s Richard Healy, the Liberal mem e pi ber for Wakehurst in the NSW Legis n 4 lative Assembly, is also a Packei £ ||i employee as sports commentattor or $3 TV Channel 9. Meade, Liberal nominee, standing against the 'sitting Labor member for Hurstville (W. Rigby) is a former chief of staff or the Daily Telegraph. Meade went from that post to be come editor of the St. George and ' Sutherland Shire Leader, a paper in which Sir Frank has a considerable financial interest. The strange fact that the DLP campaign leader, Davis, also has been | imported to stand in Hurstville (with i no chance of winning) strongly sug- 1 gests that he is part of the Packer I plan to repeat the Haylen result in : Hurstville. Menzies man r Sir Frank Packer's political activ- ! ity, including long-time -uncritical support of Sir Robert Menzies, has brought rich rewards, j He received a knighthood and two S TV licences from the Menzies Govern- | ment. j Packer employs a special highly | paid political correspondent, Alan I Reid, who is" notorious for his. pro- | vocative atttacks against- the unions j and labor movement. I One of Reid's jobs is to serve as a J voice for Santamaria's National Civic j Council. Leading members of the | NCC have open access to any Consoli- S dated Press executives. I Packer promotes the NCC as a | very special instrument to attack | the unions and labor movement. I When Archbishop Simmonds re- | moved Santamaria from the Catholic j TV session in Victoria for views I tending to split the Church in Vic- j toria, Packer quickly found free time I for him on his TV stations. The Liberals' parliamentary record I in NSW includes opposition to the I 40-hour week; demand for the lifting I of rent control; opposition to wage I increases for apprentices and defence ! of monopoly interests. I A recent editorial in the Telegraph I lauded the use by the Americans of poison gas in Vietnam as an act of humanity. ! Earlier, Packer's editorials urged, as a "solution" to Vietnam: "Bomb, bomb and bomb again." ! The people of NSW don't want | government by the ' Daily Telegraph I and, therefore must be warned of the | danger of returning Liberal, or Coun- ! try Party , members. j : See also Page 3. 