 Moscow! Grcos ! | Wilts I praise I THE famous Mostaw | Circus, iiw winning | Siigih praise tirsr iits per- J formainces m Swlnev., imav 3 help Australians ' think g more aWut cmroent :neg'lect 1 of our om circus fcalesit | and circus art. | Tribune last week disraassed | the circus professio® | Galina Shevelova, manager samd | "mother" to the 55 amemters «£' I i the travelling Moscow CSmnus | j troupe. £ I "Our performers are all iwd- | bers of the Artists' Union wMch J ! comprises theatre workers, taafl- j I let workers, and all others work- I j ing in entertainment and culture j &lt; in our country," she said- I "They have excellent working I conditions, wages, holidays, i bonuses and so on. | "I have worked with some of I our performers for 22 years so | I know them and their lives well. | "All circus workers can retire 1 after 20 years work on a pen- f sion of 120 roubles (£60) a month. | "Wages for performers depend ! on the skill, danger and length of I the act. g "Our 'tiger lady Margarita I Nazarova is paid 25 roubles a I performance. g "Other wages for comparison I are: Solokhiny acrobats 10 roubles a performance, Lutgi Bezano 15 roubles, Volzhansky 20 roubles, Niculin roubles. I "While on tour all hotel ami ! travelling expenses are paid for I the performers and their family". I Mrs. Shevekova said they had S met circus performers in Aus- | tralia and swopped many yarns. | Everyone she had met had been S pleasant. I Australians in the entertain- | ment industry know the bad con- = ditions that Australian circus I hands "enjoy". Circus stars do j get good money but the popular- ity of circuses has gone off so j much that there are now only !two "going" circuses in Australia. A New South Wales State ! Award covers circus hands but few of them would be aware of !' it. They often sleep under a caravan, without washing facili- | ties. PHOTO: Two of the Volzhans. ky family team (high wire walk ers)— Vladimir right and Vladi- I mir centre, father and son. With j them is Slova Gorshakov, 25, I acrobat and master of spes. I They sent greetings to Tribune j readers. 