 [?] Wage rises do NOT force prices up Every time workers win a wage increase, and even before they do, the employers and their tame economists say that wage in- rrpn$As wiil lead to further price rises AT such times, the em- ployers' massive propa ganda machine goes into action and we are hit on all sides with ghost stories about "costs inflation", the so- called "wages-prices spiral", etc. The main objective of this type of propaganda — which tries to make up for its lack of fact by its shrillness and sheer volume— te to try to para lyse the powerful demands of wage and salary earners for the higher wages so necessary to hold existing standards of living, let alone improve them. Another objective of this propa- ganda is to try to conceal the fact that many of the union campaigns around the basic wage, and to some extent around margins, are mainly ' to restore the eroded price . of labor (wages). Were the law of supply and de- mand allowed to operate, the prices of many commodities should be falling for the amount spent on wages is falling in relationship to the values produced. Some price increases are caused by factors beyond immediate control —prices of raw materials on the world market, aggressive foreign policies, taxation, the growth of credit retailing, and the rapacious activities of the overseas shipping conference. But let's look at the situation on prices generally. A very Important role in raising prices of goods produced and sold in Australia is played by the big monopolies, which dominate prac tically every aspect of production, financing and distribution in our country. The supplies of many commodities entering into the day-to-day consump tion of the people are controlled by monopolies, which can fix higher prices on their products — even if temporarily. The price thus fixed has nothing to do with competition or so-called free enterprise. It is a high price the consumer is forced to pay be cause lower priced competitive goods have been forced off the market. - Greedy On June 19, the Sydney Bulletin reported "Tom the Cheap Grocer"— who is battling the huge chain stores but still is making hefty profits (1964 net profit £130,000)— as saying of the big stores: "There is no doubt that their markups were exorbitant and bloody, greedy. They averaged 28 per cent, to 30 per cent.' and in some cases were as much as 100 per cent. The shopper was held to ransom— and I'm sure- that if I was out of the game next week they would be again." Our children and ourselves" are encouraged to believe that price- fixing is good business and that there is something remarkably clever in deceiving the public. On several occasions in the past, we thought we had plumbed the depths of employer cynicism and callousness. But one lives and learns. The application filed by the em ployers in the matter before this Commission not only asks that the 6/- already due to workers not be given but it also asks that the basic wage be frozen at its present level. "Cost-price spiral" This although the unions are not seeking any increase in the basic wage proper, but are merely asking that its purchasing power be restored and although, since our application was made, prices have risen sharply on many essential items! The "cost-price spiral" theory beloved of employers' organisations and tame economists goes like this:— Workers win wage increases; this leads to higher costs of production, so the employers must Increase prices; so the cost of living in creases because the workers are guilty of price increases; the workers' gains are lost, and they demand new increases in wages, thus starting the spiral once more. This line of proganda has been used for years to try to justify anti-labor legislation against unions which are striving to improve their members' conditions, and to try to justify the freezing of wages. But the theory is fallacious. It is not wage increases which spark off the higher prices. On the contrary, it is the rises in prices which have already occurred which are the spur for workers' struggle to increase wages. For example, the current basic wage application is merely to restore to the basic wage the purchasing power lost as a result of price rises which occurred between December, 1964 and June, 1965. Moreover, the cost of living has again' risen sharply between the end of June and now, yet there has been no increase in the basic wage for many months; what wage increases have been won have been confined to some sections of industry and they were won months ago. Every increase in the State basic wage between, for example, 1951 and the end of 1964 (there were 30 in all) has been won AFTER prices had risen. Wage movements A movement in wages changes only the distribution between the workers and the capitalists of the values created. An increase in wages temporarily reduces the capitalists' rate of profit and restores to some extent the workers' wage. - The value of the commodity itself —as distinct from the price arbitrarily set on it by a monopoly— is not affect ed by a wage increase. Also, the monetary value of the commodities produced is much greater than the wages paid for their production. If this were not so, then there would be no profit for the capitalists, who would go out of business. Thus higher prices should not be caused by wage increases that are more than covered by the values that the workers have produced. Moreover, in Australia, including Queensland, the total wages re ceived by workers in what is called factory production, in relationship to the values produced by them (value of output) is falling. In 1959, in Queensland, wages took 19 per cent., but that percentage has fallen steadily since to less than 17 per cent. The so-called profit pool has risen in relation to the value of output as steadily as wages have fallen. £»»«...«-» o— 0— . — . -| ITN presenting the case a fortnight ago for a 6/- cost-of-living adjustment I to the Queensland State basic wage (reported in last week's Guardian), J Mr. G. M. Dawson (member of the ACTU Interstate Executive) and Mr. 2 I r. H. Brown took the opportunity to answer employers' constant propa- | I ganda about what they call the "wages-prices spiral" and their argument | | that wage rises aren't worth getting because they only send prices up. j | Mr. Dawson and Mr. Brown were appearing for unions affiliated to I ! the Queensland Trades and Labor Council, ! iHere is some of the abridged material from the case presented by j Mr. Dawson and Mr. Brown. | 