 [?] By JIM COOPER ! Clear limitations- on the operation of Australian 1 capital in New Guinea have been proposed by Mir. John Guise, Leader of the New Guinean Members of the House of Assembly. JiN;' arrc article in the nragazine- "New Guinea", Mr. Guise- sharply and constructively cri ticised' the World Bank Report on, New Guinea. He stated that the Report coui'd be irnpfemented only if it had the support of the peoplle jas a. whole and.' the House, of Assembly. ; Farts of this- Report', such as Salaries- of New GUinean- Public 1 Service Officers and the Economic Rents Ordinances; did1 not have- this ; support,, he said. The' Report called for wide-scale. 1 Australian- investment in- New Guinea. Mr; Guise agrees, butr on&lt; condition that the ihvestors obtain, 'the- approval and . support of the House of Assembly, and: I ® That they not only employ jNew Guineans,, but train them, ib J the required, technical, and. profes sional skills; That, there be Nfew Guinean .participation, in. ownership; | - That monopoly control of trade, ;be curtailed;, 1 ® That producer and consumer ; societies' be allowed1 to go ahead) ' and develop; While he agrees that, tax conces sions be granted, to companies. ; taking up. Crown Land,, he. proposes" jthat. the. leases be limited, ta about' 20 years,, when the. whole of the estate would revert' back to the: .Government. During the? currency of the. lease' j the company should, be required to i train- New Guineans; in: the: required (technical' and: professional: skills; The resumed estate would con- itinue as a semi-governmental enter prise with shareholdings by the: employees, or,, alternatively,, sub- i divided:, among New Guinean settlers.. Co'O perm fives Mr. Guise criticises the land- (Settlement, policy;, as his opinion, is: jthat the,- holdings granted: to New I Guineans; are too small: to provide a- living and also the limited; loans. | granted should; be increased' at. j least sevenfold. His sharpest: criticism concerned' the; co-operative movement. Outlining; the; demands for. Go- operative Officers- in, his- electorate, j which, he says is indicative off the - demand- elsewhere; he- showed (as , stated by Tribune last week) that I this- widespread desire of the people ;to establish co-operatives is being -met. by the Administration, with, the .excuse— no staff.. . But he infers that there, is no real attempt to recruit personnel from Australia and also a large number , of- those, recruited', transfer, to other departments- with higher salaries. ' Mr; GUise sees the. solution off this -problem in the upgrading oft the 1 Cooperative Officers to-- a1 standard commensurate with their ability , and. their importance to the develop- ' i ment. of New Guinea's, economy. t Finally he- warns the Australian : Government that if it wanted' to ! implement the Report it must: j ® Not ignore the demand' for the , continuation, and expansion of educa- ! ti.on ih all levels and in technical and agricultural training; Not ignore the continuation and i expansion-, of the health services I maternal, and infant welfare;; Elevate the Co-operative sectibn -and- Local Government to a position !if high importance. Confer, officially with elected .members, and indigenous; leaders, to i discuss and. plan economic, develop- ' ment; i ' Not- fail to' appreciate, the need i toir equal: indigenous: economic de- I velopment. in the. Territory; ! 9 Table in: the House off. Assembly i any economic; plans' arising: from; the : Report. 