 [?] Cor firms should contribute to rood safety Over recent years, the end ©f the year has also been a time to e©&ant yp the numbers of road deaths. \A/ITH each year the result of this tally becomes more terrifying. In 1964 it reached a national figure of almost 3000. Throughout the year much is said and written about this ever increas ing problem but as the year's toll becomes known fresh impetus is given to arguments of how to reduce the problem. The Queensland Police Minister has proposed that a civilian traffic warden system be introduced in that State. This idea was rejected by the New South Wales Road Safety Council in 1962 as undesirable. It was also tried and rejected in the U.S.A. Apart from the "nark" and "pimp" aspect of such a scheme, informers would not be obliged to appear in court. Without any doubt road deaths occur through many different reasons which include effects of drink, bad roads, poor lighting and high speed. Many pet theories are trotted .out as to the main cause, but as statis tics seem to indicate the greatest number of deaths occur on coun try roads with high speed as a contributing factor. Young drivers are always a good subject for special attention by "ex perts" and others when discussing this problem. The N.S.W. Transport Minister, Mr. J. McMahon, has proposed that car manufacturers confine the speeds of vehicles they produce to below "killing speed". This has provoked further argu ments for and against. Spokesman for the NRMA say that 20 m.p.h. could be a killing speed and that a car with a governed speed limit could be easily doctored. A motoring editor of a Sydney newspaper took a trip in a car with a governed speed and concluded that modern cars are perfection and the fault is entirely with the driver. Whether Mr. McMahon's plan is workable or otherwise can be left to the "experts" but to my mind the most important point of his argu- | ment is that car manufacturers must ) share the responsibility for the problem. The manufacturers advertising gimmicks mainly concentrate on the speed and power of the car as its main virtue. Why shouldn't all cars be fitted as compulsory standard equipment, with the best safety belts, highest ciualitv brakes and tyres, bodies proofed against rust, padded interiors etc. And to back up the car manufac turers' claims for high speed and power, the oil companies all sell the "best" brand of petrol to make that car go just a little bit faster. I It is hardly much use educating I the public on road safety starting at 1 school level, when the motorist is being continuously bombarded with this speed propaganda by the big Companies. — Sydney Motorist. 