 WCTU C®iCRESS C/kLL ©i ¥IS¥SIAM TALKS PROBE WORLD TRADE UNION UNITY (from Rupert Lockwood Tribune special representative at the World Trade Union Congress in Warsaw) ktOS-COW: The Sixth World Trodes Union Congress, in unoni- t'.iecs.y voting support to Vietnam, called oh the world's workers to mark December 20 this year as a day of international solidarity wtv Is' ffie Vietnamese people. PjECEMBER .20 will be the fifth anniversary of the foundation of the South Viet- -n'jfna Liberation Front. "The dangerous situation in Vietnam at the present time", says the Con gress resolution, "sets the working class and working people of the whole world the urgent task of further deve loping mass action to condemn the aggression of US imperialism in Viet narp and actively to support the Viet namese people's struggle" says the resolution. Congress expressed its assurance that, thanks to the unity and justice of -its cause, following the correct militant line with the support of the workers and peoples of the whole world, the Vietnamese people would win complete victory. Hdang . Quoc -Viet, chairman of the. ror.th Vietnam Trade Union- Feder- ation, in thanking the socialist coun tries for aid, said: "Two hundred million Soviet peo ple always raised the banner of pro letarian internationalism, supported the Vietnamese people and assisted them with supplies in the anti -im perialist struggle." In its appeal issued on behalf of 159 million workers the Congress said: "We solemnly call on you to do every thing in your power to promote unity. "Workers unity is a most imper ative demand of the modern age. "It is forged daily in your struggle against the monopolies, and for your economic and social demands, for nationnal liberation and peace. "Unity is the decisive guarantee of all victories of the working class. "But the road to victory is blocked by difficulties created not only by the monopolies, but by there who refuse to defend, the vital .interests of the workers and who support the cold war policy. "However the united action of the trade unions and workers keeps mak ing headway. "Unite your forces the better to', resist the onslaught of the monopolies on living standards, to win your demands for higher pay, for collec tive bargaining agreements and social' insurance, to safeguard better your economic and social interests trampled on by the monopolies ..." The congress expressed its desire to develop solidarity between the trades unions of countries with dif fering social systems in the common struggle against imperialism. End disunity . Luciano . Lama, general secretary of Italy's ; trade union organisation, strongly appealed for unity not only between the trade, unions of the social ist and capitalist countries but with the people of other social strata, in democratic programs against mono polies, for active intervention in -state affairs to win reforms, for a com mon search and debate between the WFTU . and the ICFTU. Lama said that the trade union : .movement must at ali costs get out of its present situation of disunity. - He advocated where possible region al- agreements so that all trade union movements could fight in unity against monopoly. Otto Horn of the Austrian trade unions unity group raised the issues of the role of trades unions in the social ist countries and. of the aims and structure of the WFTU. He pointed out that great national centres were not affiliated to the WFTU; the unions of the major capitalist countries, ex cept France and Italy were affiliated to the ICFTU. Divergencies of views could not be overcome by ideological discussions- there should be steady, systematic work for international trade union unity. "What efforts have been made "for co-operation with the ICFTU unions, mgiht I ask?" said Horn. "We should ' seek ways for united action against the monopolies- and' for peace and for extension of con tacts between' unions of socialist and capitalist couritries." 