 Political, scheme behind 'case' of Dr. Knopfeimacher Behind the efforts of a small minority to stir up a new campaign around Dr. Frank Knopfeimacher is a scheme of the Democratic Labor Party leaders and other rightwing extremists to put all Australian universities under the governing control of their own kind. -pHIS fact emerged clearly I once again in the-past week of energetic publicity by various supporters of Knopfeimacher, a Melbourne academic whose ap plication for a senior philosbphy post at Sydney University has twice this year been rejected. Knopfeimacher, who has not previ ously held any philosophy post, was early this year recommended for the job by a selection committee strongly influenced by three men— Professors Armstrong (philosophy department head who sponsored Knopfelmacher's application), Spann (government) and Dunstan (Latin). The professorial board, however, sent the recommendation back to the committee. It is understood that, while academ ic qualifications had some bearing, this decision was based above all on a majority disapproval of Knopfel macher's behaviour towards academic colleagues, in waging a permanent witch-hunt against all liberal and left thought, under the guise of "anti- communism". At that point a public controversy took place, In which well-known right ist agencies including the Congress for Cultural Freedom, the Bulletin, and B. A. Santamaria sought to paint Knopfeimacher as an innocent victim of a political conspiracy by commun ists in the Sydney University. Many academic figures were drawn into the controversy. "Gutless" Recently, however, Knopfelmacher's application was again rejected— this time by the same selection committee itself. It is understood that professor ial opinion in the university is solidly behind that rejection. DLP-minded supporters of Knopfei macher are making publicity, which so far is being ignored by Sydney University academics. This is hardly surprising in view of the line taken by last week's Sydney Bulletin, in which staff writer Brian Buckley works hard to sanctify Knopfeimacher and says:— "The majority of the Professorial Board was unable to summon up the dignity, courtesy or courage to inquire ... in other words they proved themselves both "incompe tent and gutless. This is the situa tion in the University of Sydney to day." However, more significant was the Bulletin's long editorial demanding an end to academic self-government in universities and presenting what it calls "the unanswerable case for an Appeals Tribunal" which would, in ef fect, be the real government of tertiary education appointments. The previous weekend, passionately, defending Knopfeimacher, ultra-right ist Santamaria had demanded in his TV commentary (over the Channel 0 hookup with which the Bulletin is linked): "The claim for complete uni versity self-government can no longer command general" support." K's attack Knopfeimacher himself (November 29) told the Press he not only sup ported the appeals tribunal proposal but demanded a Parliamentary in vestigation into universities. The Australian (Nov. 30) quoted him as saying: "There is a totalitarian group of left wing academics who ex pound communist points of view in Australian universities." These were "messenger boys" for the communist party. Writing in the "Twentieth Century" (Autumn, 1964) an unbridled attack on the "rampant coalition of com munist and moral degenerates" and "liberal-pluralist Catholics" in Austra lian universities, Knopfeimacher had demanded "structural changes in Uni versity administration" to eliminate those with whom he did not agree. Certain members of the Congress for Cultural Freedom this week added their voices to these. They included two associates of the DLP, Professors S. N. Ray and James MacAuley (the latter a most vocal opponent of all liberal trends in the Roman Catholic Church); and Mr. Donald Home, form er editor of the Bulletin. It is understood that the Congress for Cultural Freedom arranged for the printing in Sydney of pro-Knopfel- macher propaganda that was widely distributed among Sydney university professors during the controversy earlier this year. RIGHT: Some of the women demonstrating outside the factory. 