 [?] ! — — — | Youth leads the | I world of sport j By "THE CHALLENGER" o i This year has witnessed a spate of extremely s young champions, and future champions, coming | to the fore in nearly all sports from different j countries. o I CO much so, that before j long anyone on the | other side of his or her 8 teens will quite likely J considered a has-been. j This is especially so in swim- j ming. i Last month, the sporting | world was stunned by the world I record breaking swim of the I twelve-year-old South African, : | Karen Muir. 1 Her 68.7 for the 110yds back \ stroke clipped eight-tenths of a | second off the previous record i held by Britain's Linda Lud- | grove. j This made her the youngest | world record holder in the his- I tory of sport. | Since then, world swimming I records have been toppling to I the likes of American Patty | Caretto, a 14-year-old who broke three world records, the 4,10 880 and 1650 yards and Martha I Randall 17, of the U.S., who . swam the 400 metres in 4 min 39.2 seconds to set a new world record. . For Britain Diane Harris I just turned 17, equalled the 110 yards breastroke record of | 1 min. 19.2 sec., set by K. j Byer of East Germany in 1962.' I . In the -athletic field, a young ! 15-year-old, Marie Mulder, from | Sacramento, California, has t made great progress in the field j of long distance running. Ac- j cording to U.S. magazine News- j week, Miss Mulder finished J Second in the 800 metres to the I Soviet champion Tatyana Dmit- I rieva at the seventh annual j -U.S.-Soviet Union track . meet iii ! Kiev recently. j In doing so she lowered the j U.S. record by 1.5 seconds. j Newsweek went on to say ! that after Miss Mulder's race, j public address systems boomed: j "She is already a champion, be- ! cause you cannot expect anyone I that young to win ... we wish | her our best." j Another remarkable achieve- I ment i,n a very talented field j . gymnastics, is that of two | Soviet schoolgirls, Larisa Petri!:, I 15, and Natasha Kuchinskaya, j 16, who are well on the road to the 1968 Olympics. j In December last year Larisa I defeated her more experienced j rivals to become USSR cham- 2 pion. J Natasha is USSR beam cham- 5 pion. I On the home front another j 15-year-old, freckled faced Shir- ? ley Cooper, a N.S.W. sub-junior I walking champion turned in a j performance last week in the 1 Cumberland women's cross- ! country championships at Ep- j ping, that marks her as one of j Australia's top half:milers of the j future. The young Olympic prospect j from Seven Hills near Sydney ? 10-year-old Lance Ogston con- I tinues to: make progress lower- j ing his times. j In the recent N.S.W. State j amateur. . swimming champion j ships Lance lowered the 100 | metres under 10 years Austra- j lian backstroke record. j His big chance I For Howard Winstone, British - j and European ' featherweight „ champion, his once-in-a-life-tirne | chance will: come next week, 2 when he squares off agains Vincente . Saldivar, Mexico s j world featherweight championi j in a world title tilt. j ' Many , will no doubt see the coming 'bout as the culmmatio \ of a brilliant career for j Welshman Winstone, who n» 2 come to be compared favoraby I with a former boxing V?1 .. I Wales, "Peerless" Jim DriscoU. . Ex-newspaper boy and factory worker, Winstone has in the p j stated his intentions of hanging j up his gloves in this his - j year. ' 