 .-III. , I . ........ . „ . . I . . . . .. . "» ' 7QT Rightwing leadership has turned the AFL-CIO into | U.S. labor's version of the P | Central Intelligence Agency I HE Nation article, abridged ihere, was written by SIDNEY LENS, most of whose | adult life (the Nation says) has I been spent as a trade union or- ! ganiser and official in U.S.A. I A GROUP of American I men are organised | labor's cold warriors: for | two decades they have ! been conducting what j would be called "outside I subversion" if the other | side were doing it. | They have in effect interfered | in the internal affairs of sove- i- reign states, without being ac countable for their acts to Con- | - gress, the American people, or I for that matter the American ! working class. I - At the behest of George j Meany, that "honest plumber" | who heads the AFL-CIO (Ameri- I' can Federation of Labor-Con- | gress of Industrial Organisa- | tions), they are fighting a I world battle against Commun- J ism. ! Among them are: . JAY LOVESTONE, whcse headquarters 1 are ' in the AFL-CIO "marbie pal- | ace" just across from the White 2 House in Washington. | ERNEST LEE, Meany's son-in-law and a former major in the marines | SERAFINO ROMUALDI, major-domo of . | an organisation whose mission is to I ' keep Communism out of Latin ic America. IRVING BROWN, a representative in | New York of the international Confederation of Free Trade Un- t ions (ICFTU) and executive director 1 of an outfit called the African- | American Labor Centre. 2 DAVID DUBINSKY, president of the. I International Ladies Garment Wor- | " " kers' Union. | Sir,ce Ziie end of World War II, I the Lo ves tone Meany team has: I Acted virtually as an agent for the JUS Government. Followed a role overseas so aggressive | as to be a factor in other nations' internal life. | Become involved, indirectly at Isast, 1- in intelligence activities. | Their/ basic strategy has been I a schematic anti-Communism | in many cases indistinguishable | from that of the Far Right. 1 They have pitted themselves ( not merely against Communist | organisations but against many I non-Communist groups which I only in the lexicon of the j Rightists would be considered j "soft on Communism." | ? I "jpiIE Meanyites' actions are ! tailored to .their humorless J words. They can claim credit" | since 1945 for: — I Helping to split the | trench and Italian labor move- I ments. | Encouraging . the , emergence. I. of conservative leaders in many German unions, and : keeping _ them on the narrow cold- war | path. | : Involving : themselves — -J some' of them, not all — in the f gathering of hard intelligence | which has nothing to do with j legitimate trade union work. j" Subsidising questionable ele- ments in Marseilles and other I. European ports to. break dock !| workers' boycotts of American | ; arms shipments. j Giving support to unionists | in British Guiana in an effort to | depose1 the elected Jagari jgov- j crnment . Endorsing right-of-centre | labontes in the Dominican Re- I public who, were dissatisfied J with Juan Bosch and played a | role in his ousting. _e -" - J ©Training Brazilians who | joined the generals in jettison- - J ; ing the constitutional regime ol | Goulart. i :i . 1 . Infiltrating U.S: embassies ;| with many labor attaches who T share their -views and put there '1 into practice. ' | Defending every military I intervention by the United ;j States including, most recently, Cuba, Vietnam, the Congo and . the Dominican Republic; and condemning nationalistic forces, such as those in Panama, who oppose U.S. policy. "Educating" literally tens of thousands of unionists in the Lovestone brand of anti-Com munism and setting them loose, with money and inspiration, against unions with left-of-centre leadership. What the U.S. Government does not do directly because it would be flagrant meddling with other nations' internal af fairs, and what the Central Intelligence Agency cannot do because it is suspect, the AFL- CIO does on their behalf. In ostensibly innocent rela tionships between unions of one country with another, the AFL-CIO throws its weight towards the making and unmak ing of Governments, with the purpose of instilling abroad the phobic anti-Communism that has become entrenched at home. Edwin Lahey, a Washington correspondent, once described Lovestone (then working out of the Ladies Garment Workers' Union headquarters) as ". . a real mystery man, wnose personality it part cloak and dagger, part cloak and suit . . . "Lovestone insists . . . that there is no formal connection between him and -ths. Central Intelligence Agency - nor between him and the Depart ment of State, (but) it can be stat ed without qualification that the CIA . . . has in recent years obtain ed much of its primary information about international Communism from Lovestone ..." A Chicago Tribune despatch in 1954 said that "Lovestone readily agreed that his AFL Free Trade Union Committee is en gaged on intelligence, work " ? : TIERE VEli one turns in this area of international union ' activity there are overtones of secret funds and secret intel ligence. After the 1963 general strike in - British Guiana — which U.S, commenator Drew Pearson claims was "inspired by "a com bination of C.I. A. money and British Intelligence" — British . Guiana's Prime 'Minister Jagan charged that $1.2 million had been made available to his enemies from American sources. The roster of U.S. unionists who were in Georgetown (capi tal of British Guiana) before, during and after the strike is formidable. No economic issues were in dispute: the strike was called in protest against Jagan's Labor Bill, which was designed to give the 20,000 workers of the Man Power Citizens' Association (for whose allegiance the two major political parties were fighting) a chance to vote for union rep resentation. Why were U.S. union men in volved in a political dispute in a foreign country? Did they col laborate with the : U.S. Govern ment? The links between the State Department and Meany's inter national, missionaries are indis putable. The A.F.L.-C.I O. . has its own liaison man (George P. Delaney) in the department, and it is almost impossible for any labor attache to be appointed to a iiplorn-'r' 'si. if Meany and . Lovestone advise. -Delaney that he does not please them. ? "TTIE implacability with which the A.F.L.-C.I.O. opposes Communism on the international front mr-kes it regard every thaw in the struggle with Moscow and Peking as a trick and every step towards co-existence a disaster. . On this, as on other subjects, the labor leaders are often to the Right of big business. Lovestone is a charter member of the Committee of One Million, formed , to keep China out of the U.Ni, and his name appears on" the . letterhead of the Citizens'. . Committee for a Free China.: In the view, of Meany and his subalterns, the cold war is per manent. until one side, or the other is beaten. Russian peace proposals should thus be scorn ed as frauds. Thc . Ceneva Conference of a decade ago was a terrible thing for, as Irving Brown told the Chicago Council of . Foreign Re lations, it "was the beginning ol the attainment of one of Russia's long-sought objectives — the ban ning of nuclear warfare." Various of the Meanyites' analyses and prognostications can come .only from a lopsided view of the world. ? pERUAPS after World War II the cold war was inevitable and schism in the international labor forces predestined, but certainly American unionists should have tried to prevent it. That was not the ' view of Irving Brown and Jay Lovestone. - Theix first order of business was to prevent the Communists from entrenching themselves . in Ger many, and to split off the non- Communists. in Italy and France. Their method of operation was prosaically simple. &lt; Europe was digging out from the shambles of war; everyone was hungry. Union leaders . laCked food for their , families; they lacked typewriters, mimeo- : graph machines, newsprint, " offices, for . their unions. A man who could produce " such items . was months, perhaps a year or two, ahead- of his rivals. Under "Operation Food," the A.F.L. sent 5,000 packages to Germany, 15,000 to France, 2,000 . : to Austria, and 5,000 to Greece. ; And; Brown chose the . recipients. How much was given out, to whom it went, how it was used, ive may never know. . Brown's German operation ._ was not- large, .but he built up . an anti-Communist; cadre that settled itself into various unions. . How simon-pure a cadre it was is suggested by a dispatch in the New- York Times of October 26, 1948, which records that a delegation of German unionists, accompanied by Lovestone him self, visited the secretary of the United States Army to offer "former German war pilots to fly the airlift into Berlin"! Dubinsky may well' have been' right when he wrote in January 1949 that — . "had If not been for the extensiva WH«MBMllMilHWU©MU«iUq«»(l4©IIIMIJ©©U«IU©©U4b| educational activities of the Free I Trade Union Committee of the AFL | . . . the Communists . . , might by I now have seized control of the re- ! viving German trade unions." j I This might have been unfor- ! j tunate, but it is odd that Du- ! l binsky never asked himself | I whether the German workers j 1 had a right to make their own ! choice without "educational I activities" from the outside. Had the help been given to all j union leaders, or even to all ! non-Communist union leaders, j it .is possible, that- a different . » movement might have evolved. J x i i IN France, Brown prodded his j contacts to split from the General Confederation of Labor j (C.G.T.) as quickly as possible | and to refuse any collaboration j with the Communists in strikes, j Then there was Brown's sup- j port of a man named Pierre j Ferri-Pisani. j In 1949-50, Communist trade j unionists were refusing to un- J load American arms at Mar- j seilles and other ports. Ap- j parently at Brown's instigation, j Ferri-Pisani- formed the Medi- I terranean Committee, with funds | that suddenly appeared for the i i purpose of getting the arms J unloaded. j ' The ; actions of the Mediter- j rariean Committee were so flag- ! rant .that the Mayor of Mar I seilles, Gaston Defferre, wrote a | letter to his Socialist Party chief, j , Guy Mollet, pleading with him j to stop Brown and Ferri-Pisani's j activities. j ? ! THE Meany-Lovestone alien- j tion is now turning to Africa > and, with the recent formation I of the African-American Labor j Centre by Irving Brown, a j stepped-up campaign on the j model of the A.I.F.L.D, is i'1 | the making. j The object of Brown's atten j tion is not so much the Com » . munists, .who are weak- as it i I the neutralists. I Lovestone considers neutral j isiq as an "aide de camp" j Communism. ; The African labor organisa J tions have been unreceptive to j A.F.L.-C.I.O. blandishments. The - Africans tend to be revolution- ary, Socialist, neutralist in tnc | cold, war, and anti-capitalist. j John K. Tettegah, president ol j the Ghana Trade Union Con , gress, has .said: "The Western | trade unions "have been treatm:- j us patronisingly ... j "What do the Western trade = union- bureaucrats know abou. | our struggles for freedom frf" | | colonial rule?" j TTRIBUNE publishes here an abridgement of a dramatic exposure in the July 5 issue of the U.S. magazine Nation, dealing with what Business Week (another U.S. journal) has called "labor's own version ,. of the Central Intelligence Agency." The article deals with the international role of the rightwing chiefs of the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organisa tions (AFL-CID) an organisation set up under the aegis of Meany (AFL-CIO president), a man named Jay Lovestone and others. It uncovers the arch-reactionery, cold-war line which is operated as anti-Communism, and the way in which these elements subvert union organisations in other countries. The exposure has significance for trade unionists and other demo crats in every country — and not "least in Australia; where Menzies Government policies iiivite and encourage U.S. penetration into all fields of our nation's life. Australians have time and again perceived evidence of intense U.S. attention to affairs in the labor movement in our country. Therefore, while the Nation article makes no mention of Australia, the facts it gives sound, an urgent warning to Australian trade unionists as to the type of activity being carried out on an international scale by the cold- war merchants at the head of the AFL-CIO. . In a note about the Sidney Lens article, Nation quotes opposition in the U.S. trade union movement to the AFL-CIO line, and says: — "These voices (of opposition) are in the minority at the moment, but they are evidence that some sections of the labor movement have begun to feel that the AFL-CIO serves neither abstract justice nor the interests of its own members by expediting, and sometimes even instigating, the stratagems of American foreign policy." AFL-CIO bosses in Tokio with the Japanese Prime Minister, EISAKU SATO. From left to j right: JAY LOVESTONE (Director, International Affairs Department), vice-presidents JAMES ! SUFFRIDGE and GEORGE HARRISON, GEORGE MEANY (ALF-CIO president). j 