 RIGHT-WING ACTU CONGRESS MOVES EXPOSED A move by the rightwing leaders of the Clerks' Union aimed at removing progressive forces from the interstate executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, has been supported by a majority vote of the Interstate Executive. "J-HE move takes the form of | a proposal to alter ACTU rules covering the election to the Interstate. Executive of In dustry Group representatives. . This- move is not aimed only at Communists but at every union rep resentative, including prominent members of the ALP leadership op posed to the extreme Right-Wing forces represented by the Clerks' Union. . It's well known that the ACTU receives much greater support from the Left-Wing forces than it does from the Right-Wing, and Executive support for this shabby Right-Wing manoeuvre has caused great surprise in trade union circles. The Executive consists of the four officers, president, two vice-presidents and the secretary, six representatives elected by and! from the State Trades and Labor Councils, and six repre sentatives of affiliated unions, which are grouped into six industry group ings. Each group elects its representative by and from the delegates to the Congress representing the unions in the group. The Executive has now decided to recommend to the Congress that the Croup representatives be elected by the Congress as a whole. This will mean candidates for the position of Group representative coming from delegates representing unions in each Group, with the whole Congress voting for each Group representative separately. The reason for this move is to disrupt the concept of Group repre sentation on the ACTU Executive, which was written into the rules in opposition to the Right-Wing in 1957; and it's also aimed at attempting to marshal opposition from the Congress to all Left-Wing candidates. They hope Right-Wing sponsors of the move are banking on the fact that while some Groups have elected Left-Wing representatives — both ALP members and Communists — to the Executive, the Congress as a whole for many 'years elected Right-Wing representa tives as vice-presidents. They hope this will be continued. Another reason behind the move is that extreme Right-Wing represen tative J. Riordan — Clerks' Union General Secretary — is in danger of defeat for his position as Executive representative of the "Services" Group of unions. Union representatives with many years' standing as ACTU Congress delegates point to the following facts: Only one proposal to 'alter ACTU rules in this connection has been 1 submitted for the . Congress Agenda, and this comes from the , Ring-Wing- led Clerks' Union. This,, plus the fact that no com plaint against the present method ot I electing Group representatives has been previously raised, shows the proposal to lack bona fides. © There is no more basis to have Group representatives elected by the Whole Congress, than there is to have the six Labor Council represen tatives elected by the whole Congress. Opposed Any such proposal would be vigorously opposed by the Labor Council representatives on the ACTU Executive, yet four of them voted for the current proposal. The present method of electing " Group representatives to the ACTU Executive is identical with that fol lowed by the NSW Labor Council. Yet J. Kenny and R. Marsh, Secre tary and Assistant Secretary of that Labor Council, both of whom are on the ACTU Executive, are understood to have voted in support of the Clerks' Union proposal. Sponsors of this move— Clerks' Union leaders — were prominent among the forces which only four years ago sought to disrupt' the ACTU. They refused to pay a levy decided upon by the ACTU Executive to finance reciprocal visits to and from other trade union centres, deprived their union of representation at the 1961 ACTU Congress, and joined in threatening to form a. breakaway trade union centre with the AWU. The extreme Right-Win;, content of the Clerks' Union ACTU delegation, which includes DLP members and NCC representatives, is this year further emphasised by . the inclusion of a prominent Liberal Party mem ber from Queensland. The proposal to alter the rules has come as a surprise to most trade . Continued on Page 12 RIGHT WING EXPOSED Continued from Page 1 unions. In fact many will have learned it only from the press. Many trade union leaders point to the fact that such a move is bound to cause division in the trade union movement at a time when maximum unity is needed. The Congress Agenda reveals many important issues confronting the trade unions. It also reveals two opposite approaches to many of these issues. Main issues for this Congress in clude: basic wage, margins, 35-hour week, equal pay, penai powers, trade union unity, peace and defeat of the Menzies Government. Success for campaigns on each and all of these issues requires maximum unity in the trade union movement. Many meetings of workers have already expressed themselves in sup port of a strong stand .on these issues by the Congress. Workers will expect a clear and progressive lead from the Congress on all these questions. Any failure by the Congress to meet workers' expectations will seri ously impair the standing of the ACTU with the unionists it represents. Progressive forces at the Congress will be fighting to prevent a deteriora tion to the position existing in the 1949-55 period, when, ACTU decisions frequently reflected policies of the infamous Industrial Groups. They will also be working to ensure that the Congress decisions accord with already expressed desires of rank and file unionists. 