 4 Fremantle needs a dry dock DERTH: The departure of the "Koolama" for the Eastern .. States where a major operation will be performed on this vessel is another link in a long chain of events which highlights the urgent need of a dry dock at the port of Fremantle. The story was the "Koolama" is c-- of tragic ineptitude. As originally designed "Koolama" was intended to be 35' longer than it now is. Owing to the inadequacy of the Fremantle Slipway it was decided to restrict the vessel to a size which would allow it to be slipped at Frem antle. The nett result of this op eration is that the State Shipping Service finished up with an unstable marine misfit which, has caused much concern to those charged with the task of managing the ship. I Now, because of this experience, the ship is to be restored to its orig inally designed length. This restoration entails cutting the ship in half and inserting a new section. It will cost thousands of pounds. None of this money will be spent in W.A. because there is on dry dock It is claimed that it is more ex pedient to peiform the operation in a dry dock. No doubt this is correct! However, at its present tonnage, "Koolama" is rated us being too heavy for the slip. Its increased tonnage will aggravate the problem! It has already been stated that future State Ships will be in the 5,000 — 7.000 ton range and as such, these ships will not be able to be slipped in Fremantle. This state of affairs calls aloud for redress! In these days, West Australians are being regaled with stories of the huge (100,000 tonners) bulk caai-iers which are destined to car ry bulk cargoes of ' grain, ore, phos. phate, oil etc , to and from our shor es. At present, there is no commercial dock in Australia capable of hand ling such vessels. It can be stated as a certainty that such a dock will in the future be built hi Australia. Now is the time for the State Gov ernment. to act with the drive that it claims it has and take the init iative in getting such a dock estab lished here in Fremantle. 