 I AN OPEN LETTER I | To Sir Robert I Your "distress" at the action of 13 bishops and arch- I i bishops in calling for a change in Government policy \ I towards Vietnam must have been very deep. ' | It led you to take the unprecedented step of making a j I public reply, and thus precipitating national public dis I S cussion of the issues involved. j j Clearly, you fear the great ferment and concern in I I Australia about the gas and napalm warfare and other, ter- j j rible acts of aggressive war by the United States, and feel j | that you have to try to defend your policy of uncritical i I support for the USA. I What a "defence"! j | ; You completely evade the main question at issue — i I the challenge to your policy (an echo of Washington's) that j | there is "no alternative to the use of force in SE Asia". - 1 j You say US and Australian forces are ih .Viefnam at the request of the Government (which of the nine successive j governments?) and "in defence of local freedom and self- | government". i This is rich! - j S There has never "been an election in South Vietnam, i j Coup after military coup among the members of a tiny, mili- ! j tarist ruling group has made it clear to all that only US armed j j force is preventing the national liberation movement, the i | National Liberation Front Government, from taking over j I rightful, democratic power there. j I The late John F. Kennedy, before he became President, j 1 warned against American intervention in Vietnam against I the liberation forces which, as he said, "have the sympathy ! j and support of the people". j | You say "US policies and actions in relation to South 1 j Vietnam are right and should be supported". j | So gas warfare (banned by the Geneva Convention of j S 1925) is right! j j , Napalm, (petrol-jelly) and phosphorus fire raids are i I right! , I -Aggressive -air raids on a sovereign country, North ' j Vietnam, are right! / j j Indefinite escalation of the war by the USA is right! j j And presumably even a world nuclear war is "right" j j by you- — for that is the end of your path. j ! Who broke pledge? j I You pretend that North Vietnam has shown "it would j be bound by no agreement'/. j S Well, North Vietnam (and China) signed the Geneva j I Agreement of 1954 on Vietnam. j j The USA avoided signing it — but pledged "respect" j j for it . . .i.e. for the national independence of Vietnam j j and the exclusion of all foreign troops from its soil, j Who has broken that agreement? ! | The Vietnamese are still fighting for their national ! I independence. I ! There are . no troops in North Vietnam (or in the \ ! liberated areas of South Vietnam) except Vietnamese j I _ troops. | j North Vietnam at all times allowed full freedom of j 1 operation to the International Control Commission appoint- I ed at Geneva (and the ICC never found any. aggression by ! I the North against the South). j | On the other hand, the USA HAS forces in Vietnam, I ! HAS prevented the free elections laid down for July, 1956, j j HAS restricted the operation of the ICC in the South, I and HAS denied Vietnam its independence. | Continued on Page 12 | Open letter to Sir Robert j Continued from Page 1 j You cla im that. the aim of the people's struggle in South Vietnam is the establishment of "a communist j regime". j That is false. .The program of the united Liberation . j Front is aimed against colonialism, for independence, demo- ' cracy and national sovereignty. j The USA can never prevent the people from winning these goals. ! Ultimately it will have to get out. but thousands more j may die and disaster may encompass Australia, a neighbour j of Asia, before present American policy is reversed. j You ask: "Negotiate with whom? What about? Under j what conditions?" I We are glad to take the opportunity to answer. We s urge all other Australians to givetheir answers, too. j The US must negotiate with both the Government of ! the Democratic Republic of (North) Vietnam, and the ! National Liberation Front Government now in the jungles I of South Vietnam. j It can do this only under the conditions of a cessation j of all attacks on North Vietnam, and accepting imple-. j mentation of the provisions of the Geneva Agreement j (principally, the independence of Vietnam and the with drawal of all foreign armed forces from its soil). ! The substance of the negotiations should include: j Arrangements for' immediate withdrawal of all non-Viet- ! namese forces from the country; respect of the right of ! the Vietnamese people to self-determination; assistance to j the authorities there to rebuild their shattered country, | including compensation for the air raid damage to North Vietnam. j We hope that your mailbag becomes weighed down with .) resolutions and letters from jobs, organisations, churches, j offices and households throughout the country,' calling for j such steps as those we have outlined above. Communist Party of Australia. \ 