 0000000 "My Country" with all due apologies to Dorothea Mackeller A CLOSE examination ot the drought and flood sit uation during an overland trip by car from ; Brisbane to Too- woomba saw the stark evi- dence depicting the serious ness of the farmers' plight. Despite the advance, of science and agronomy, the lack of financial and government-controlled technical as sistance to the small land-holder is laying to waste what must surely be one of the world's richest land tracts —the great black-soiled rolling Darling Downs. Here the present day Steele Rudds are still rendering unto the bank Caesors the very land from - hich their predecessors were driven. The blame lies four square on the shoulders of governments, who .have deliberately ignored the warnings of those who have studied and found practical answers ' to Australia's natural disasters. Men of foresight and engineering skill such as Dr. Bradfield (designer of Sydney Harbour Bridge), W. Hat field (author of "Australia Reclaim ed") and others have presented in expensive plans to overcome1 one of Australia's most pressing needs, i.e. Water Conservation. No money has been the stock in trade answers of past and present governments. What price the millions of the nation's wealth expended on the American controlled base at Ex- mouth Gulf as against our starving stock and depleted grain fields? The dry dusty brown of the Queensland downs gives way to the swirling muddy waters of the swol len Northern rivers gougeihg their way to the sea. The creeping paralysis of town and farmland surrounded and submerg ed by flood waters renders the on looker humble to the fighting spirit of the men, women and children who cling 'to this wide brown land- through flood and fire and famine' It is action stations for everyone. Help is needed, and freely given Local radio stations keep the popul ace in constant touch with the deter iorating situation. Warnings plus reports of river gauges and rises enables the auth orities to calculate the time avail able in which to move goods and stock to safer ground. Cars and people swing into activity —neighbour helps neighbour in their hour of need. Appeals to shop assistants to help place stock above flood level is willingly answered. The one jarring note was the order by Woolworths for their personnel to report for emergency duty. In towns plagued by unemploy ment, the job-axe is a weapon easily wielded. The clock-work precision of coping with the rising waters is all the more to be marvelled at wher one views the clean-up operation? necessary as the waters recede. Unfortunately the press reports ol things back to normal" appears to gauged on the ability of the busi "e&s huses (through the assistance of their staffs) to be ready for business again. ,.,3? farmer, standing helpless hue lakes of muddy water swirl over their paddocks, and watching arvir-i. stock previously weakened by drought and unable to stand the rigors of rain and cold, and die before their eyes— recovery is far away. Hopelessly in debt through bor rowing from the banks and co-oper atives (at the exorbitant rates of 71% for fodder to hand feed cattle), the farmer and his family can only .accept the inevitable fate of unplan ned economy, and walk off their holdings— to what. Already there is a chain reaction. Meat workers and slaughtermen are being thrown out of work. Retail butchers have introduced rationing. Meat rationing, followed by milk and flour could be our fate. It is almost inconceivable that this can happen here in Australia— in a day and age when man has scientific aid at his finger tips. We live in a country bountiful enough to house and feed millions of the world's needy peoples. At a time when every able-bodied man is needed on the home front for national development, the flower of our youth is being offered as sacrificial recompense for perverted trade balances to the dollar war gods. _ Our Immigration Minister waxes girth at gourmet foreign state din ners, trying to entice new settlers, drooling lies about our security and future, we slip deeper into the abyss of neglect and mismanagement. Population control (the catch-cry of sectional interests) can be achiev ed far more quickly by starvation , than any birth control pill or war. And yet the answers to this seem-., ingly hopeless position are so simple . as to be almost unbelievable. First get rid of the foreign and home grown exploiter. Return the nation's wealth to the people. Drought and flood can be made improbable by the implementation of a national water conservation scheme. This would - include re-af forestation. - The damming and dredging of our major rivers will not only mean con trol over the flood waters but also harnessing of power for hydro-elec tric schemes and the irrigation of hundreds of thousands of acres of land previously neglected and use less. These have been achieved in coun tries more backward than Australia, and with far less natural resources. Release the money and lives now being used to lay to waste the land of people who have never raised a hand against lis. With the rich re wards of free trade and cultural ex change we can live in an Australia . Unlimited. "My Country" we have a lot to atone for; but- to live in peace and harmony with our neighbours, Asian or otherwise, will enable us to , .c- cept your generosity "to pay us back three fold." Nell McAnalen, Sydney (NSW). 