 Announcing Selling fast at NEW WORLD HARLEM — USA. 8/6 (9/8 posted). THE WORLD of the Negro-Ameri- can in microcosm; pictured soberly and with robust humour; through es- say, poem, story, pnotograph and cartoon. This is a book by people who are famous — James Baldwin and Langston Hughes; Ossie Davis and Lorraine Hansberry; Sterling A. Brown, Ollie Harrington, Alice Chil dress. They are a few of the fifty who have made this an extraordinary book. AN A.B.C. OF COLOUR — W. E. B. du Bois. 7/- (7/11 posted). SELECTIONS from over half a century of the writings of this social scientist, historian and leader of the Negro people. The dignity and passion of his ap peals are not sentiment in a vacuum but the emotion which sent the young man on his lifetime's quest. AND WHY NOT EVERYMAN - Herbert Aptheker. 7/- (7/11 posted). THE STORY of the fight against Negro slavery in letters, speeches, broadsides and songs has been col lected and edited by Herbert Aptheker as an indictment of oppression and a chronicle of Negro courage, deter mination and willingness to sacrifice for freedom. BLACK THUNDER — Arna Bon- temps. 7/- (7/8 posted. THE STORY of Gabriel — one of the true Negro Heroes in American history. The death of a slave touches off a slaves' revolt in the year 1800 in Virginia. ' Here we see the roots of the cour age that moves a black child to brave the terror of New Orleans racists, a black mother to defy the Birmingham bigots, a black father on the long, hard march down Freedom Road. BRIGHT WEB IN THE DARKNESS — Alexander Saxton. 7/6 (8/5 posted). A STIRRING NOVEL about Amer ican railroads in the depression — about the problems and discrimina tion against foreign born, the love of Dave and Stephanie, their search for work, the colour incrimination they encounter and how they face up to it. IRON CITY — Lloyd L. Brown. 5/6 (6/5 posted). THE STORY of a group of Negro prisoners in the County gaol of a U.S. steel centre and the story of Lon- nie James, a youth framed on a murder charge. AND A THREEFOLD CORD — Alex La Guma. 6/- (6/8 posted). A FLESH AND BLOOD drama set in a black ghetto on the fringe of a South African town where hate, love and "the despair of poverty throb m unison with a passionate determina tion for release from apartheid which strangles all hope. AFRICA WINS FREEDOM - M-. Braginsky. 2/6 (3/2- posted). THIS BOOK popularly describes the political, economic and social changes which have taken place in Africa in the post war years and deals witn the main phases of the African nation's fight for independence. Don't delay until to you can get ?no the city to purchase your books — write today (postage rates given in brackets) to: NEW WORLD BOOKSELLERS 425 Pitt. St., Sydney and all proeressive bookshops. 