 [?] | Torpedoes' first | | game this week j | By "Challenger" I 1 - 1 j The Torpedo soccer team, one of the most \ j popular in the Soviet Union, will play their first j match in Perth on Thursday and in Sydney on j 1 Saturday. . . j S 0UR Moscow correspond- ! ent, A If Watt, writes f that this team has won the | national champion s h i p I twice in the last four years. I In 1960 it became the S first trade union team to I win the All Union Gup. I Torpedo team is noted for a strength in attack, Captain Ivan- | ov being regarded as especially I dangerous in the forward posi- | tion. .But defence is also good I and the Goalie is regarded as an I outstanding player. I Australian fans can draw some | encouragement from the team's | reputation of being somewhat | temperamental, with a tendency | to slaken its efforts against | weaker teams. But it would be i wrong to count too much on this | flaw in its reputation. After all | the team is representing a nation S which won 121 medals at Tokyo 8 and Innisbruck Olympics. Torpedo is the team of Lik- j hachov Car works and the Mach- j ine Builders Union and belongs ! to Trud (Labor) Sports Society I one of 21 trade union sports soci- S eties. . ! Unions play a major role in I .sports activity here. Conditions ! are favorable for them to' do this. j Unions do not have to fight I powerful employers. They have ' the moral and material support j of the Government and enter- I prises in sporting as in all other ! activities. Membership fees | though small per head, amount | to a large sum from 70 million ! unionists and do not have to be I spent on big organising costs, j arbitration court fees or strike 2 funds. ' I As a result, trade union sports- i men pay" less than a ruble a year j to their clubs and get in return togs for the sports of their 1 choice, the use of all equipment, j stadiums . and facilities and the j help of coachers and trainers. ! The Torpedo footballers, like j all Soviet sportsmen, are am- j ateur. When away from work be- j cause of competition matches in ! the Soviet Union or friendly j matches abroad they receive | their average pay, plus of course j travelling expenses. | And when Australian fans see | the serrated . pinion, emblem of j Torpedo, they will know it is , proudly" worn by metal workers, I oil, coal, chemical workers, I machine builders, electricians, » builders, textile workers and j many others and that it is worn j by the trade union sportsmen of j Likhachov Car. works, the Bratsk j Hydropower Plant, Magnitogorsk 1 Steelworks, Chelyabinsk and I Volgograd Tractor Works, the j Gorky Shipbuilding Yards and I many other famous plants. I 