 CIA's "yellow worms" turned and fled when the Caribbean held fast "THE BAY OF PIGS", by Haynes Johnson, Hutchinson, 51/-. Reviewed by W. A. WOOD SUKARNO just lately called them cockroaches; Shake speare called them caterpil lars; Castro's term for them wac vellow worms. But all three were referring to the same type?, animals posing as humans who will exploit, betray or kill their fellow countrymen for the sake of gain or the gain of a foreign power. In his book, "The 'Bay of Pigs", American author Haynes Johnson takes up 367 pages in trying to say that the 1500 yellow worms who landed at that Bay in April, 1961, to try to restore the . U.S. sway in Cuba were not only men but heroes. - He fails, of course. Had he taken 3670 pages he could not have justi fied such a theme. The more he says, the more it appears he would have done better to shut up. It is clear from his own account that his belauded "Brigade 2506" was composed mainly of the human muck that streaks for its life out of any newly-socialist country the moment it finds that anyone staying ( will have to do a useful job of work. 1 This was the fearful threat to liberty that sent most of Mr. John son's "heroes" scuttling for Miami. There they were rounded (up by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency which in 1960 received a blank cheque fro l President Eisenhower to overthrow the government of a friendly neighbouring country. Later Mrs. Jacqueline Kennedy called these traitors to Cuba "the bravest men in the world." Actually, the brave men had agreed to be in the Bay of Pigs affair only because they had been virtually promised a joy-ride to Havana on American tanks. ? "TgILL, the intelligence man, told us that Castro would not react for at least 72 hours" one of the leading worms told Johnson after- ' wards about their initial briefing by the CIA. The CIA's "Prank" who also spoke on that occasion was another cheery soul: "You will be . so strong, you will be getting so many people to your side, that you won't want to wait fof us. . You will go straight ahead. You will put your hands out, turn left and go straight into Havana." As he spok, writes Johnson: "Prank made a sweeping gesture with his arm that no man present that day will ever forget. "There was a great shout from the Cubans. Some had tears in their eyes." Not so many tears as they had when they eventually landed at the Bay of Pigs and found that "Bill" and "Prank" were two of the greatest liars to draw breath since Ananias' day. They got no people at all to their side. And as soon as they realised they were on their own, that the U.S. air support had failed and they would have to do some real fight ing, the traitor force crumpled. About 300 who couldn't get their white flags up quickly enough were shot by the people's forces or drowned in the sea before they could be shot. The other 1200 (1179, to be exact), the overwhelming majority, surren dered after a few days of being chivvied thrr h the swamps, and eventually wriggled back to Miami, mostly with whole skins, to be hailed as heroes but then ignominious sent about their business. They had no air cover, apologise: Mr. Johnson. Neither had the 300 Spartans a: Thermophylae. Nor have the liberation forces of Vietnam, nor did Castro and his guerillas when they landed in. Batista's Cub- The nature of any cause deter mines the type who will fight for and how bravely they will fight. ? puRi;::;G to the CIA'S part In the affair Mr. Johnson mercifully puts aside the whitewash brush and his story gains in credibility. He exposes just what America's imperialist masters think of the tools, human or other, that they use to carry out their strategic plans in other countries. The CIA is an instrument fashion ed for the job of "conning" other people into doing the U.S.A.'s work without committing the U.S.A. As Mr. Johnson naively complains, in the Bay of Pigs affair the CIA "acted for the United States — or implied they did — when dealing with the Cubans and led them to believe much that was not true. Later there was no way for the Cubans to prove that they had been promised anything." Right up to the last . those lying promises were poured into the Cubans' ears. Stuck in the swamps of the Bay, the renegades screamed over their radio to the Americans, "Do you back us or quit?" They got the answer to keep fighting: "Hold on, we're coming with everything" — from men who, sit- ting comfortably far from the battle' zone, had not the slightest intention of "coming". But of course there was never any calling to account of the Bills and Franks. In another sphere Australian Ex ternal Affairs Minister Barwick had a taste of this treatment in 1964. He came back from Washington to announce that he had a cast-iron guarantee of armed American sup port if Australia got into a war with Indonesia. But when he flies to Canberra, trumpets the joyful news and looks back for confirmation, what fol lows? A deafening silence, broken only by the dull thud of somebody land ing on the Bench instead of the prime ministerial chair. It could be that the U.S. won't sell us down the river in south east Asia, but nobody reading John son's book could be sure of it. The CIA has its uses for America's rulers, but it also makes difficulties for them and one is that the pledged work of America's official leaders is now seen to be absolutely worthless. As Johnson says, "Never again, after the U2 flight, or after the Bay of Pigs, can citizens take official statements at face value." Eisenhower swore that Powers' U2 was a weather plane — a few days later he admitted it was a spy plane. While the Bay of Pigs battle was on, Kennedy declared on his word of honour that America had no hand in it. A few days later he admitted full responsibility. Johnson shows that Kennedy knew all about it from the start. ,v Johnson publishes a picture cap tioned: "Adlai Stevenson, before the U.N. and before the world, claims that the planes which bombed Hav ana before the invasion were Cas tro's own. In fact, which he apparently did not then know, they were from the CIA's Brigade air forces bases in Nicaragua." "Stevenson was trapped by a tangle of lies. He had been assur ed by the State Department that the story told by the Cuban pilots was true and be believed it," says Johnson. Maybe. But has Stevenson ever apologised to the U.N. for passing on a lie or given any assurance that he will personally investigate the State Department's stories in future before vouching for their truth? ? tjOWEVER, even more important is Johnson's revelation, or con firmation, that the CIA is prepared to over-ride the elected Administra tion of the country. It would have carried out the Bay of Pigs invasion even if President Kennedy had ordered it not to. Johnson says that the Cuban rene gade chief "Pepe" Roman was taken aside by the CIA's "Frank"' just before he sailed for the Bay. Frank told him that "if he were ordered to halt the invasion while the ships were at sea he would send Pepe a radio message saying: 'Come back dont go ahead.' That meant the opposite: it was really clear; they were to go ahead." That meant, of course, that if a check were conducted afterwards by Kennedy as to why his orders were disobeyed, "Frank" would have been in the clear: he would have shown Kennedy a copy of the mes: sage actually sent. But Roman would have had no record and no proof of the real verbal instructions given. And at the same time it meant that the CIA was (and no doubt is) prepared to take the world to the brink of war and over it — in de fiance, if necessary, of the Presi dent's and the people's wishes. That's something for those to think about who relax with cosy thoughts of "mutual deterrence" and beliefs that even Johnson is too "sober" to unleash a nuclear war. Cuban artillery waiting for "worms" when, they landed in the Bay of Pigs. . This Cuban militia woman stands on guard outside a Havana radio station during the abortive "invasion". 