 A real wage must come before profits By I. J. McPHILLIPS Every worker knows thaf wages are satisfactory only to the extent that they cover his increasing needs. IN the current basic wage case one of the Judges, Mr. Jus- tice Nimmo, categorically de clared. "Capacity to pay is still the" predo minant factor. We can't grant an in crease higher than the capacity of the economy to sustain. Whatever the motivating factor, we can't give any higher than that." This is, a view which the t—-1 > ni tons should equally catego e- ject. In its stead they should assert that the need for the workers to have a constantly increasing standard of liv ing guaranteed as a minimum and a wage to meet the costs of this must be the predominant factor in basic wage assessment. This is the view spelled out repeat edly in basic wage decisions of ACTU Congresses. It is also the view now being pressed by several unions and a growing number of workers. First adopted by the 1955 Congress, repeated several times since then and specifically re-affirmed by the 1963 Congress, the ACTU current view on the basic wage is: "The basic wage must provide as a minimum for the reasonable needs of a married wage earner and his family; what are reasonable needs being deter mined from time to time in the light of standards generally accepted in pro gressive communities and the social aspirations of the Australian people. "Subject to the maintenance of the minimum standard referred to above, the basic wage shall be assessed on the basis of the increased productiv ity of the nation and should be the highest wage that the full resources of the community fully employed can provide. "The foregoing real standard is to be maintained by quarterly adjust ments in accordance with the price index consistent with trade union policy." This is a demand for an irreducible minimum wage based on family livipg costs. It is a demand for a wage related to needs, not minimum needs in the form of bare necessities, not needs in the sense of the standard of the first basic wage of 1907, but family needs in the sense of present day standards; needs arising from the productive capacity of the nation and the level of economic development in Australia. It is a demand for a wage based on this concept of needs as a max imum minimum wage. It rejects the concept of fixing this minimum on any standard except that made possible by the full employment of the nation's resources. It is in some respects a demand aimed at assisting to obtain payment for labor power at its full value. As to "capacity to pay" this wage, there is and can be no doubt. The workers produce and provide goods and services greatly exceeding in value what they receive by way of wages. It is from this excess that pro fits are made. It may be that the wage called for in the ACTU decision cannot be paid without some interference with pro fit levels. That is the very essence of the ques tion. Is the emphasis to be placed on satisfying the ACTU legitimate demand for a family living wage or upon the protection and maintenance of soaring profit levels, that is, on what the em ployers call their "capacity to pay"? So far as the workers are concerned the emphasis is and must be placed upon their wage demands. No fears need be felt for the em ployers' profits. They are able to meet every en croachment upon their profit levels as a result of wage increases by intensify ing their exploitation of labor, i.e. by new methods of production, by increased mechanisation, by automa tion and by speed-up in various forms. This struggle between the workers seeking to obtain a decent wage — in this case a family living wage — and the employers seeking to obtain max imum profits is inevitable. It cannot be put out of existence or avoided by minimising wage demands or conditioning them by the measure of "capacity to pay." In this inevitable struggle the work ers' interests are best served when the wage demands advanced on their be half provide a perspective going be yond the bounds permitted by and acceptable to the Arbitration tribun als. These demands need to be based upon the needs of the workers irres pective of the views of employers, governments, Judges or Commission ers. The current policies of the ACTU in relation to the basic wage, margins and equal pay provide such a perspec tive. This is not new or novel in ACTU wage policies. Sydney waterside workers demonstrating the demand for a real increase in the basic wage. They marched through the city streets to the Arbitration Court where the basic wage V case was being heard. 