 2000 cheer protests over Vietnam £YDNEY: An audience , of over 2000 people heartily applauded de nunciations of the Viet- nam war by leading nov elist .Morris West, Pro fessor F. May and the Rev. Alan Walker on Sunday afternoon. The meeting was held in the State Theatre by the Central Methodist Mission, of which Mr. Walker is superintendent Mr. West, author of The Ambas sador and other best-selling novels, and a Roman Catholic, said he had voted Liberal since the. Liberal Party . had been formed. . But he now accused the party and its leader, the Prime Minister of having misrepresented the people's views. Professor May, professor of Italian at Sydney University, said the war marked a failure of policy and was damaging to Australia's image in Asia. Mr. Walker denounced the war, and Australian participation in it, as immoral and " unchristian. Silence worse than an error Mr. " West said Australia would have to live, with the consequences of what was being done now. To be silent was wore than to commit an error. Menzies, he said, had made Aus tralia "the most abject of traders' trying to obtain "protection" by making Australia a vassal state o ' the USA, and adopting a hosti! attitude to As'"-". &lt; Asians now saw Australian.' not as peacemakers- but as .war makers, tied to the policy of an other nation. The Government claims to b rotecting Asians "but doesn't thin! nough of them to admit them a migrants," said Mr. West. It was "strange" that Australi: should be "morally obliged" undei SEATO, to send troops to Vietnam, but the other SEATO countries were not. Australians had to learn to live with China. "You won't wipe out Communism by dropping an atom 1 bomb on Peking or Hanoi," said Mr. West. "You can't seal up ideas like an imp in a bottle." After quoting Pope John XXIII's encyclical Pacem in Terris, favoring peaceful co-existence, Mr. West said that with the committal of troops there was a tendency to adopt myths supporting this policy. "I am afraid that if we live by myths our children will awake to " a horrible reality," said' Mr. West. World churches denounce war Mr. Walker said the Australian Council of Churches had sent £3000 for distribution bo' I. in north and south Vietnam to assist in war re lief. He appealed for further dona tions. ' Mr, Walker said . that the Christian world with a united voice was call: ing for an end to the "war..-. This included the British Council of Churches, the United Churbh oi Canada, which Irad called on the Government not to back the U.S.A., the International Commission of the World Council of Churches, the Japanese Christians who had cabled to President Johnson and were send ing a delegation to the U.S.A., the American National Council of "Churches and the Australian . Coun- il of Churches. Iri this phase of dangerous escala ion of the war '— we were caught n a "moving stairway to disaster" — we must argue urgently for peace No rebuff should end the patience, f the peacemakers. The mass of Christians in the r.S. were saying, "In the name f God, stop it!" We must, if necessary, take riskt "or peace and disengage from a,n immoral and unjustifiable war. Mr. Walker,, denounced as un christian the notion that we were entitled to ravage other countries to "protect" our own and hold up the bodies of the Vietnamese as shields for ourselves. Declaring , that the military gov ernment of South Vietnam did not represent the people; Mr, Walker said it, was obvious that the "Viet- cong" had the collaboration of the villagers. Must learn to live with Asians He denounced the napalm bomb -as the; -most hideous weapon ever designed. He; called attention 'to its use against Asians. A - Menzies- statement; that Australia was "at, the end of the line" really meant that Australians could not afford to be killing Asians but must learn to live with them. In- the long term our relations with Asia were more important than with Britain and the U.S.A. Mr. Walker called for a great "groundswell of protest" to re verse the "tragic decision to send troops to Vietnam. Professor May made his main point the fact that the decision had been made , without a proper nation wide discussion, which was discour aged by a "paternalist" government irritated by opposition." There was a great debate taking ilace in the Communist countries. A dozen or more Methodist ministers were on the platform to support, the speakers.. Folk singers Gary Shearston and Tean Lewis sang antiwar songs. 