 USSR proposals welcomed U.N. PEACE BID GAINS SUPPORT SYDNEY : All Australian workers and supporters of the labor movement, all who seek peace, will welcome the UN Security Council resolution demanding a cease-fire between India and Pakistan. This resolution, supported alike by eastern and western nations, points to the path that must event ually be followed, now or later. The longer the war goes on, the worse will be the suffering of the nations taking part and the more grave the danger of other nations being involved in an "escalation" which might not stop short of a world war. THE imperialists are the only ones who can benefit by a continuation of this war. American manoeuvres to foment disunity and strife between socialist countries and between newly inde pendent countries are ceaseless. They are carried out "secretly" through the Central Intelligence Agency and more openly through State Depart ment policy. An accident Is it an accident that while the three great Asian countries— China, India and Pakistan— are preoccupied with mutual strife, the US imperial ists are throwing more troops and weapons into Vietnam, intensifying their raids on the North and build up up bases which are obviously designed for the subjugation of all Asia? What will it benefit either India or Pakistan to "gain" Kashmir— only to find itself subject once more to the domination of the foreign imperialists? No wonder there is a general welcome for Soviet Premier Kosy- gins invitation to the Indian and Pakistan Premiers to meet on Soviet soil to negotiate peace so that "the oiood of two fraternal peoples ceases to flow." It is noteworthy that such a sober newspaper as the London Guardian , f, more hope from Mr. Kosygin's nltiat.ive than from any' other to settle the dispute. China Soviet Union is taking up a rnnf,ai?ental socialist stand in the nflict m India. The same cannot Chir,S of attitude of the wse Gvernment. uE6- he efforts of the Soviet Rpni.Ki-0med by the Chinese People's wouiri j the prospects for peace I undoubtedly improve. fa?ef.mre to be regretted is the annpor- x the Chinese Government coursp Jf be taking the 0PPosite sidint f,, inflaming the conflict by I PowegrsWp\th ne f the contending i enins srl ! the extent of threat- i,ng armed action. cause that China has no | all for concern over her frontiers with India and Sikkim. There is a ' long-standing difference over the frontiers, which should be resolved by peaceful negotiations. It is indeed strange to suggest that India would have chosen the moment of mortal conflict with Pakistan to vprovoke yet another conflict with a still mightier opponent by an aggres sive intrusion on to her territory. China's multitude of friends who have supported, and still support, every action by China to liberate her US-occupied island of Taiwan and secure her proper rights in the United Nations will wish that she followed a different course in Sik kim. Co-existence That course was indicated in 1955, when the present Chinese Premier, Chou En-lai, and the late Indian Premier, Mr. Nehru, enunciated the five principles of peaceful co-exist ence, centred on the peaceful settle ment of all future disputes between them. The language of ultimatums and the massing of troops on frontiers seems to have little in common with that important declaration. Most serious aspect of the CPR attitude is that it tends to split the anti-imperialist front when the unity of that front was never more urgently needed. With American imperialism pressing ever closer to the Chinese frontier with Vietnam and menacing the Chinese coastline and air space, China-India friendship, rather than mutual enmity, seems to be the proper object of the foreign policy for both powers. Naturally all the enemies of China and of peace, such as the Menzies Government, will seize on the latest incidents to stoke the fires of hatred still higher and heat the war drums still louder. Such people should be the last to lecture China or any other country about aggression. As "The Australian" pointed out on Monday: "It is all too easy for countries like the US and Australia to forget the insults and indignities China suffered at the hands of the West for so long. China will not forget so easily." It adds: "Somehow the Western nations must find a formula for living with China. , A policy aimed at eventual nuclear war is madness and the current policy of the US, and indirectly Australia, is just this." A new hate-China campaign won't help anybody— certainly not Aus tralia. What is required instead is a new drive for peace based on unity of the anti-imperialist forces, aimed at respect for the self-determination of all nations and peoples, the ending of interference in the internal affairs of any country, the peaceful settle ment of all disputes and world dis armament. In that drive the Australian Com munists will play their part. (See article on Kashmir, page 6.) 