 MP calls for more trade with Indonesia CANBERRA : Australia must develop markets in Asia, including Indonesia 8 and China, if the alarming slump in her trade balance is to be corrected. "THIS was stated by Labor B Party speakers during last week's important debate on the export payments insurance bill in Federal Parliament. The United States came under heavy fire for blocking Australian efforts to improve Australia's heavily unfavorable trade balance with her. There was also criticism of both I US and British companies which buy controlling interests in Austra lian firms and bar them from ex porting to areas where they would compete with US and British ex ports. Before the debate began Mr. E. W. Peters, Labor, Victoria asked Prime I Minister Menzies whether he knew that Australia's overseas funds had. diminished by £33 million to £583' million in the last three weeks "and that, if they continue to diminish at the same rate, they will vanish within a year?" Menzies did not deny it but said . he was not apprehensive and had no emergency proposals. Mr. Rex Connor, Labor, NSW said that Australia would not improve its overseas trade balance until it had an independent foreign policy. "I am not interested in the poli- a tical implications of the present In- | donesian situation" he said, "but if 1 any country is economically com- | plementary to another, Indonesia is | fD Australia. g "Precisely what we have, the In- I dor.jsians need and precisely what | they have, we need. Export drive strangled "We might make a better contribu tion to the pacification of that coun try by stimulating reciprocal trade than by intervention in its affairs." I However Mr. Connor said Aus tralia's export drive to Asia was shackled by the "most damnable form of overseas control" in the form of the export restrictions im posed on this country by the over seas monopoly owners of her in dustries. He quoted an Economic Record article which said that 40 per cent of Australian firms owned overseas were prohibited by their overseas owners from exporting to certain areas. Mr. Connor quoted an article in in Quadrant Magazine by Neil Mc- Innes which said: "Looking at the most important industries, 95 per cent of the motor car industry, 97 per cent of pharma ceuticals and toiletries, 95 per cent of petroleum refining and distribu tion, 83 per cent of telecommunica tions and 83 per cent of soap and detergents are controlled from out side this country. "So, too, are 85 per cent of oil exploration, three quarters of baux ite and aluminium, three quarters of iron ore (leaving out BHP's own captive supplies) at least 60 per cent of chemicals and half , of food (and this is increasing)." Mr. W. C. Coutts, Labor, Queens- tand, referred to the "alarming plunge" of the trade balance and condemned the part played in it by the USA which placed duties on Australia's imports too great to al low of expanded trade. US imposes "burden He recalled that Wool Board chair man Sir William Gunn had com plained of the difficulty Australia had in placing goods on "this very wealthy and important market". "By resolution of their own Gov ernment the people are prohibited from buying the goods Australia wishes to put in that market", said Mr. Coutts. "The heavy duty on wool exported to the US by one of its most im portant customers imposes great hardships on Australia and causes great difficulties with our balance of payments. "When we realise that our trade deficit with the US is £200 million annually, or about £20 per head of the Australian population, we realise just what an enormous burden is being placed on the Australian peo ple by the USA". Mr. Coutts noted the high propor tion of Australia's exportable wheat —36.8 per cent— which was taken by the Chinese People's Republic. 