 TRIBUNE | Aid to Vietnam I (Sri . I 1 "|"HE aggressive air attacks on North Vietnam carried out j I by the United States were first excused as ''retaliation" j for actions of South Vietnamese guerillas 'against US and j | Saigon puppet forces. s iThen this explanation was abandoned as the scope and j . frequency of the raids was extended. The inhuman scheme j was explained as a campaign "to destroy North Vietnamese military bases used to support the guerillas". j | Now the US planeDy attacking major riverjbrfdges and j I other targets far up in North Vietnam, have revealed a j j systematic attempt to 'wreck the economy and life of that j , I socialist country— an attempt which can only intensify the j ! anger of decent people throughout the world. J ! Opposition I But the most recent raids have revealed also hardening ! and effective opposition to the US raiders. American j brasshats admit increasing losses of. their newest supersonic j planes and pilots — to anti-aircraft fire and now to MIG j J fighters, those famous -creations of the Soviet jet aviation I I industry that- form the fighter defence shield of every ! socialist country. j I Reports from North Vietnamese sources indicate that i !1 100 or more US planes have already been -destroyed. j There is so far no confirmed information, as to the j progress of the build-Up of the modern defence means in j North Vietnam against the aggressor. j iUS military officials quoted in "The Australian" .! on j Tuesday referred to a considerable new build-up of defences, j | and to new Russian-built radio-controlled 57 mm anti-air- j j craft cannon. j f The world knows that, following last year's American | j sneak attacks on North Vietnam patrol vessels and shore | j installations in Tonkin Gulf, the Soviet Prime Minister went | 1 to Hanoi early this year and reached full agreement with I the Government there on measures needed to strengthen | defence against the expected US raids arid expansion of the j ! war. | ! Some two: weeks ago, Soviet leaders announced that i !many Soviet citizens were volunteering to serve in defence of North Vietnam if required. Similar Chinese and also S | North Korean statements were made later. s | Many reports have been published to the effect that; | I defence of North Vietnam would include the most modern j | Soviet ground-to-air rockets. Last week, many daily j (newspapers in Australia and other countries reported that I delivery of this equipment had been delayed because the | I Chinese Government had refused to permit delivery over- : | flights to North Vietnam, and had delayed deliveries by' the j land route through China's rail system. - j It is understood that a meeting in Hanoi last month I of the organisation of Socialist countries for co-operation | Sin the field of railway transport discussed the problem of J speedy transport of defence equipment to Vietnam. | I Unity needed I . Whatever the full facts behind these -reports may be, j ! there is no doubt that the US attacks, far from succeeding I ! in their aggressive and expansionist aims, are running into j greater and greater difficulty, both from the opposition of j | world public protest, and from the military defence measures j I of the North Vietnamese; aided , by other socialist coun- j I tries, with the Soviet Union as the decisive factor in j j defensive military support. I 8 -Certainly, united action by the socialist powers and the j j whole Communist movement is a key requirement to permit j j effective deeds, rather than mere words, of solidarity with I J the heroic Vietnamese fighters for independence and J i® democracy. _ ' j If the USA continues its present course, it will reap j II disaster on disaster; if the Menzies Government continues its support of that course, the disaster will encompass Australia, which can far less afford to takev the risk. I It is in the interest of Australian security That a new call has just been issued by the Political Committee of the 1 Communist Party of Australia: — - . "Act now! Make your voice heard and your opinion known! "Demonstrate your support for these demands:: Keep Australia out of US aggressive wars! Carry out the Geneva Agreement, to allow the Vietnamese to decide their own j future in peace! j "US troops must withdraw from Vietnam". 