 [?] The referendum - a confidence trick? "THE report that Sir Robert Menzies is opposed to the repeal of Section . 51, Clause 26 of the Constitution at the coming Referendum is disap- . pointing to all who are aware of the race discrimination against Aborigines. Section 51, Clause 26 of the Con- : stitution states: ,, "The (Federal) Parliament shall have power to make laws for the people of any race, other than the Aboriginal race in any State for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws." . These special laws are different in every State and enough to befuddle a lawyer, let alone ordinary people. One thing they all have in com mon is that they make life harder for the Aborigines. In recent years public protests have led to their repeal in Victoria, New South Wales and South Austra lia, and the way public opinion is moving, Queensland and Western Australia will soon have to repeal theirs or find them openly held in ' contempt. Even more important, this Section of the Constitution prevents the Federal Government from compen sating the Aboriginal people for the loss of their land and unjust treat ment by our ancestors which has , caused their present depressed living conditions. If the States accepted the respon sibility, to rehabilitate the Aboriginal people, they could only do so at the expense of housing and . education funds, already inadequate for the general needs. Only the Commonwealth has the money to adequately rehabilitate these hereditary victims of the Bri tish conquest of Australia. The problem must be faced and the sooner the better both on grounds of humanity and of national self-interest, because the rest of the world is becoming aware, of our past and present treatment of the Abori gines and already critical remarks are being passed at the United Na tions. The leaders of both political part ies want an increase in the number of members of the House of Repre sentatives. Realising the popularity of equal rights for Aborigines, they have included in the Referendum the repeal of Section 12) of the Consti tution which singles out Aborigines aot to be counted in the census of the population. Of course, this is a disgraceful and stupid racist insult, but the practical effects are of little im portance to Aborigines. Unless the Government includes also the repeal of Section 51, Clause toe real basis of the Aboriginal problem, the whole Referendum will ne nothing more than a cheap con- "dence trick to delude the Australian | into the belief that by voting Ares'.' .toey are' at last giving the Aborigines a fair go. JOAN MASON, Mosman (NSW). 