 q— — — — — — — — — — — — TRANSPORT NEEDS Vast postwar expansion of private car and air travel in New South Wales has made heavy inroads on passenger loadings of the State Government's rail and bus services. DOAD freighters have cut heavily into the railway freight loadings. The NSW Government has embark ed on a modernisation program— dieselisation of engines, new type freight trucks, double decker rail cars, air-conditioned country trains and modern buses. Railway freight services have been expanded to meet the challenge. This could be taken further with Govern ment road freighter services feeding to and from railheads to give a door to door service. Where bus service is inadequate passengers turn to the private car or to the airways. The Government Transport Depart ments then reduce the services to the level of number of passengers offering and drive away more pas sengers with the worsened service. In this way some areas have been deprived of public transport alto gether after certain hours at night and over the weekends. Many new areas are unable to secure any ser vice. The Government bus services lose heavily every year. At the same time, the Government is forced to spend tens of millions on road widening, expressways, traf fic lights, traffic police, car parking facilities and a host of related ex penditures. This trend must he reversed speed ily before, our cities are choked tp death by private motor transport. = A modern transport, system based on an extension of the Railway sys tem linked with an expanded bus service feeding to railheads would shift thousands of cars off the roads. An all-round saving would result. Wages The Communist Party fully sup ports the demands of the trans port unions for improved wages and conditions — demands which are flatly opposed by the Liberals, who are at present opposing eyen the modest ACTU claim for basic VTMV iiivivivuv The Communist Party states:— O Monopoly influence must not dominate public transport. The State Government showed it had the power to prevent Ansett-A.N.A. from I taking over East West Airlines. This was a commendable action. The oil companies must not dictate transport policies. : The already important work of ! increasing the output of electricity | with modern thermal stations as at j Vales Point and Tallawarra— based ! on our own coal supply— provides a I starting point for extending electri- j fication. ! An immediate programme should be to complete the electrifi cation of the Sydney-Newcastle and Sydney-Wollongong lines, followed by continually extending electrifica- j tion. j Branch lines in country areas | should be maintained and extended with Government controlled road transport to rail heads in the main farm producing areas. Freight con cessions, now extended to the oil companies, B.H.P. and the breweries totalling over £1,000,000 should be removed and transferred to farm produce. © The suburbs of Newcastle need a network of suburban railways. SYDNEY O An immediate commencement of the Eastern Suburbs Railway. An immediate start on a Rail way to Warringah. Extension of railway service to Botany-Mascot area. 9 The East Hills line to be duplic ated and extended to Liverpool. Extension of Government bus services in the new housing develop ment schemes to railway stations, such as Green Valley to Liverpool. An example to be followed is the proposed extension of the present service to Sans Souci to include Taren Pt. and Caringbah. Development of a minibus ser vice to give services to areas not accessible to larger Government buses and to permit the opening of new cross country services. © The setting up of a Government car rental service at rates which would make it more economical to rent rather than to buy a car — sav ing on all maintenance and parking problems. O The Communist. Farty.. places the. responsibility on the Federal Government for expanding, public transport in the States. © Public transport cannot be sub ordinated to profit, but must accord to the needs, of the people. Cheap and efficient passenger and freight service is an important social ser vice, and as such, a national res ponsibility. ® Abolition of the N.S.W. Rail ways' obsolete debt burden (with an annual interest charge of £14 million.) HOSPITAL More staff and doctors would mean mothers could by-pass the ordinary Out-patients' Section of Bankstown Hospital. O Expectant mothers could pay their 10/- out-patient fee into the Ante-Natal Clinic and avoid stand ing 30. minutes with the general "out-patients". These patients need more attention than the present cursory physical test, especially for the first child. © Exercise classes and lectures should ' be continuously available and greater encouragement given to convince mothers concerning diet, breathing, relaxation, etc. Nursery for young children while mother is being attended to. Finance 10 be made available from the Treasury — instead of fetes and charity. 