 Tola is just f . fight for J their Band fi By JIM COOPER The recent direct action by members of the Tolai tribe in New Britain to repossess their own land by seizing an Australian-owned plantation has high- lighted the predatory land policy of the Australian Administration. \ "THIS policy, similar to that of other colonialist govern ments, is designed to separate the indigenous people from their land. The Tolais in repossessing the Varzin plantation lands have showed clearly that the New Guinea people are determnied not to accept the rape of their lands. This is evident from iVie simmering discontent with official policy. Tribune . has previously warned that this Administration policy was wrong and contrary to the solemn undertakings given by the Austra lian Government in the Trusteeship Agreement, and also those of Com. mo dor e Erskine when he proclaimed the Territory that is now Papua, a British protectorate. The Varzin lands, in the Gazelle peninsula about 20 miles from Ra- baul, have been the subject of dis pute for a number of years. . The original grant of 800 acres of the Varzin plantation was made by the German Administration to Ru dolph Wolff. There is no evidence to show whether this land was pur chased or just occupied. The methods of this tyrannical colonialist enraged the Tolais who resisted in the only way they knew, by attacking the homestead. In the struggle Mrs. Wolff and child were killed. Prompt action was taken by the German Government who, besides disciplining the natives confiscated another 400 acres and awarded it to Wolff as compensation. This occurred in 1903. After World War 1, Varzin was expropriated as enemy property and put up for tender by the Expropria tion Board. It was disposed of to the late Mr. Tom Garrett for £12,500. This was inherited by his widow who is now Mrs. A. Richards. The Pacific Islands Monthly comments; "The fact that Mr. Richards Is the Rsbaui Delegate of the Cus todian of Expropriated Property, which instrumentality guaranteed the title of Varzin in the first place, merely adds, to the inter esting jigsaw." — (Our emphasis.— Ed.). The land title had been registered in the New Guinea titles register but the register was destroyed by the Japanese when they occupied Rabaul in 1942. They also de stroyed a duplicate of the original title which happened to be in the registrar's office at the time. Tolai claim rejected The Land Titles Restoration Or dinance was enacted after the war to re-establish titled and the Land Titles Commissioner had recom mended granting of a new titles cer tificate. But the Director of Native Affairs on behalf of a group of Tolais, at this stage objected that the land had never been legally alienated. The Titles Commissioner re jected the claim and a new title was issued to Mrs. Richards in 1960. In 1962 the Tolais appealed to the Papua-New Guinea Supreme Court. Mr. Justice Mann in his judgment said "that the pre-war title (to Var zin) was not conclusive as against the appellants (the Tolais) either as to whether it was validlyy brought under, the Land Registration Or dinance (1924) or whether the Cus- todian was entitled to the interest Jf 1 specified." |m j At a further hearing of the Sup- || reme Court held at Vunadidit near J the land in dispute, Mr. Justice . s i Mann awarded the Tolais appellants v4gt &lt; that portion of the Varzin lands |l| » (400 acres) which was confiscated M : to Wolff as compensation for the death of his wife and child. The Custodian of Expropriated fi Property and Mrs. Richards appealed to the High Court of Australia. The -i High Court under the Chief Justice oir Garfield Barwick with Sir VI&- '! tor Windeyer, Sir William Owen, Sir Allan Taylor and Sir Douglas Men- % \ zies allowed the appeal and thus the. decision of the Titles Commls. sioner stands. Some of the judges of the High f>! Court sharply criticised Mr. Justice (now Sir Alan) Mann, for allowing -f|; the appeal in the, first place and then embarking on an inquiry as to the validity of the title. The Tolais whose home territory || is in the Gazelle Peninsula are M ( amongst the most advanced of the «f>|( New Guinea people. They are rap ,;f| . idly advancing in modern commer- cial agriculture, but are coming up against the problem of land short- age which is aggravated by the . wholesale alienation of tribal lands. || ; This is incensing the people and is f|| , a basic factor in the discontent ||f. which has erupted from time to time. n 