 Qld. says "rate for the job" FEATURE of this year's Labor Day procession in Brisbane was the number of trade union floats bearing slogans in support of equal pay. This year the Queensland Trades and Labour Council had a, special float with "The Rate for the Job" and "Every Trade Unionist should support Equal Pay " Many other unions had Equal Pay slogans. One of them, the meatworkers1 Union, carried a slogan bearing the words' "Girls,, don't chain yourself to the bar,, Fight for Equal Pay and get on Par." Meatworkers' own Equal Pay act ivity includes a campaign for general wage increases with Equal Pay for women. Voting on these demands at various sheds have been 114 — 23, 50-1 and so on.) At a Labour Day luncheon this year sponsored by the Union of Aust ralian Women the guest speaker Mr. Frank Nolan, T & LC Vice-President and ARU State Secretary, paid a strong tribute to the women in the labour movtf.nent who were active in support of the demands of the working class and stressed the need for the trade union mevement to do much more to encourage great er numbers of - women to join in trade union activities. Background Against all this background, this year's Equal Pay Week in Queens land promises to he the best ever, including plans for a motor caval cade to a public meeting in the Brisbane City Hall on Thursday night, May 20th. 4 Among the guest speakers at the May 20th !meeting will be Mr. Bert Milliner, (Printing Industry Em ployees Union State Secretary) who attended last year's International Labour Organisation Conference. This discussed "Working Women in a changing World", which (like the Charter of the World Feder ation of Trade Unions Women's Congress) included such questions : as the right to work and child ! care. j Another speaker on May 20, j will be Mrs. M. Thornton, one ! of the women who chained herself i in a hotel bar to protest against j discriminatory drinking laws against women. After that demonstration, Mrs. Thornton said: "It is not just I the right to drink in bars that we I are seeking, we are after equal ed- II ucational opportunities for women equal job opportunities, and equal treatment in every direction." __ 