 "Little is being achieved . Is Menzies concealing the real casualties? CANBERRA: The Federal Government was ' 'prhably not revealing to this Parlia- . ment the full extent of the the casualties in Vietnam", Mr. F. Daly, MHK (Labor; said " in Parliament last week. Opposition Leader Calwell said Australian casualty rates in Vietnam were extraordinarily high in oper ations which seemed to be achiev ing little. Relatively high On the same day the New York Herald-Tribune (quoted in the Syd ney Morning Herald on Thursday) said that the ratio of Australian casualties in Vietnam was twice that of American casualties and was considered in the USA to be "rel atively high". Mr. Calwell was commenting on a foreign policy statement by exter nal Affairs Minister Hasluck. "The minister has admitted that the war will be very long and dif ficult but he still does not define what he means by 'victory"' said Mr. Calwell. "Does the Government believe the partition of Vietnam into North and South areas is to be permanent? Are the Vietcong and the Nation al Liberation Front to be admit ted to the negotiations? Or will there be no negotiations till the Vietcong have been annihilated. These and other pressing questions remained unanswered." The Minister, said Mr. Calwell, had sympathised with the bereaved, but had not mentioned the "ex traordinarily high" Australian casu alty rate or what had been achieved by these operations. "At a high cost in deaths and other casualties — an extraordinarily high rate of one in ten of the troops engaged— Australian troops made a foray lasting several days. "The Vietcong retreated and dis appeared according to the normal- practice of guerilla warfare. Our men have returned to base and presumably, in a short time, the Vietcong will return to the area which has allegedly been cleared. "If the object of military action is to hold or sieze territory, then lit tle would seem to have been achiev ed. by the present operations in Vietnam., Mr, Calwell said it was a "tragic : fact of history" that when Austra lian troops had been under non- Australian or non-American com mand, losses had been extremely high. The high casualty rate meant that replacement for the battal ion would be needed sooner than expected, making It certain that despite Labor Minister McMahon's denials, conscripts would soon be sent to Vietnam. When conscription was first in troduced and again, during last year's Senate campaign, Govern ment spokesman had ridiculed sug gestions that a lottery system would be used to conscript Australian boys to fight in Vietnam jungles. "Yet that is exactly what will happen", said Mr. Calwell. Later, Mr. F. Daly, Labor NSW, said that boys being conscripted "by the most unjust and unfair methods in any democracy in the world are going to be sent to the jungles and paddy-fields of Vietnam to fight for the Lord knows what." Dragged off He accused tne Government of refusing a vote to boys who were "being dragged away from their homes". "The Government is keeping: from the Australian people what is -hap pening. "The Government's policy abroad, particularly in Vietnam, is shrouded in mystery. "I cannot understand why Aus tralian troops are forced to fight in Vietnam, but this. Government will send Australian troops any where, without the security of treaty arrangements, will let them serve under foreign command if neces sary, and will accept no responsib ility for their welfare," he said. 