 I | TRIBUNE I I i Nuclear danger | - in U.S. war \ ! The Soviet Government has made a new call to each j I nuclear power to pledge that it will not be the first to use j I nuclear weapons. j ! This call, repeating earlier Soviet and Chinese proposals, I » cuis rig.nr across persisrenr vvasnmgron reports that The | I United States leaders are considering adding/ nuclear j j weapons to the horror weapons: they are already using | Sin their war of aggression on Vietnam. j It helps underline . the main, grim fact !of the past j | week — that the USA is committed to expanding and re- g j expanding this unjust war, doubling and rei-doubling its j ! forces of invasion there, extending its. air raids on North j S Vietnam, deliberately provoking war with China and the I I USSR. j | I New danger to the world lies in the fact that the USA I ! has entered the stage of desperation, because of its j j1 increasing isolation before the tide of world protest and j I anger. j j "It is not much exaggeration to say that the world | outside our borders is against what we are doing in Viet- j | nam", admitted the New York Times last Saturday. j I France is ostentatiously walking out of a SEATO con- j j ference on Vietnam and may walk out of SEATO itself. j I Both India and Pakistan are angry at the snub to their j j Premiers by President Johnson who, says the London j | Times, "has made up his mind about the Vietnam war and S I does not want to listen to any contrary opinion" and "is j j clearly impatient of foreigners". ! | Inside America, as the Sydney Sunday Mirror admits, ! I Johnson is "fighting grimly to suppress mounting, public J j clamor against his 'boots and all' policy in Vietnam." J j Senator Morse warns that thousands of US troops now f destined for Vietnam "will come back in coffins". Other j I Senators and many newspapers back him up (see story, | I Page 4). j I . f 1 In Australia 2 i I _ 6 s The situation is comparable in Australia — whose Gov- j | ernment stands almost alone in the world in its uncritical | I support, of every shocking aspect of the American war. , j | Dismayed, by the, public discussion questioning the j ! whole aims and concept of American-Australian war policy j j — sparked off by>Jjfc(0 letters from Australian bishops — - |&lt;- Prime Minister Menzfies last week tried to choke it offwith g | a "final" reply. | j: In this reply, Menzies totally failed to meet the charge g jl that the USA had brutally torn up the Geneva Agreement on | . elections in Vietnam. In fact, Menzies himself admitted: ! I in Parliament in 1954 the likelihood of a "Communist" ! j victory in such elections; I j These elections were consistently demanded by the Ho. j j Chi-Minh Government of North Vietnam, but first the French j j and then the Americans turned a deaf' ear and by 1956 0 I US puppet dictator (Diem) was installed. j | Menzies' denial that foreign bases have been granted: | !' in .South Vietnam is mere legal trickery. Over 30,000 j f! US regular troops are there, with air squadrons, on huge J j' modern bases. They — with some Australians and' South g | Koreans — are the' only foreign troops in Vietnam. j J Little wonder that Menzies' "final" reply drew a new | I . call, this time from the Australian Council of Churches, S j, for real action for a peaceful and just solution. j |j These evasions are basic. They touch on the two main j j principles, of the Geneva Agreement: No foreign troops I s or bases in Vietnam; the Vietnamese people, must be I 1, allowed: to determine their own affairs. j | There can be no solution, no useful negotiation, that ? S is not founded on these principles. » ! I Highly significant is an appeal by the Archbishop of I i Perth (see Page 9) for peace supporters to sink their J 1 differences and unite in the struggle to avert the tragedy j that so clearly looms. I o. That appeal deserves still more, determined, still firmer I support from the a I ready- active forces, of the. Australian | | working class and the many other sections of the people j who want a new policy of peace- and friendship with our j j neighbours. Tn,,m., j 