 ' 1 it j| jjjj ||j j Migrant hounded by I 'Security', denied 1 right to work . J — : : j A German migrant worker of 11J years' residence in Western I Australia Bias been grilled by political police, and denied the right 1 fo work in his trade, because he is an anti-fascist and critical of 1 the Menzies Government. J Despite his persistent efforts to gain naturalisation this has 1 been refused. This refusal makes if impossible for the State to I issue him with the Crane and Hoist Drivers' Certificate cover- 1 ing his trade. I AFTER an - extensive i | screening by the Aus- H tralian authorities I was | found acceptable for mi ll gration and arrived here | in July 1953- || Since then 1 worked in var- ious jobs, including the State it water supply and the Main ij Roads Department as a craqe jj and hoist operator. II In 1958 I applied for naturalisa- il tion but never received a reply to my If application. H Since not being naturalised did not l|| interfere with the earning of my living in those days, I let the matter J l6Then, in 1963, the WA Government If stopped me from working in my capacity as crane and hoist driver M until I was granted my naturalis- Sf ation. - || Here are parts of correspondence % I received:— fl 1. From W.A. Government Machin- Ijf ery Inspection Branch, Perth, I October 18, 1963. m It is noted that you have applied If for Naturalisation. On receipt of iff your acceptance from the Immigra- 1 tion Department your Certificate for l| a Crane and Hoist Driver will be !j| issued. 5| J. B. Mell, I Secretary, Board of Examiners. '! 2. From Immigration Department, J November 8, 1963. || I refer to your application for - naturalisation and note that you arrived in Australia accompanied by two children. || Please let me know whether the HI names of the children are to be in- || eluded on your application. G. Cole, Commonwealth Migration Officer. H 3. From W.A. Government Mach- inery Inspection Branch, Perth, .;g April 17, 1964. s| The Board of Examiners will be visiting Geraldton on Thursday the j 30th of April to carry out examina- || tion of candidates for Crane and Hoist Drivers Certificates. 1$ ,..You haye been listed for examina- :'p 0n subject to you showing the H Board your "acceptance of naturalis- i ation" papers. As it is now six months since you applied for natur alisation your papers should be com plete. J. B. MeH, secretary, Board of Examiners. Police with tape reearder On April 19) 1964 at about 7 o'clock J- was visited by two security agents complete with tape recorder. I asked them to leave but I was -adjected to a very thorough grilling my past and present life. I was questioned on my opinion of the Berlin , Wall, the Hungarian counter-revolutionery affair, the policies of the Chinese People's Re public and whether I am in favour of a forcible removal from office of the present Australian Government. My opinions couldn't have been approved, as after some delay I re ceived this letter from the Minister for Immigration: — Commonwealth of Australia Department of Immigration Canberra A.C.T., 24th August, 1964 Dear Sir, Your application for naturalisation as an Australian citizen has received careful consideration but the Minis ter has decided to defer the question of your naturalisation until after June 29, 1966. If you wish to proceed with your application after that date you should then get in touch with the Commonwealth Migration Officer, Department of Immigration, 862 Hay Street, Perth P. R. Heydon, Secretary. "Depart me!" I realised the hopelessness of my situation and sent the following letter to the Minister: Geraldton, September 13, 1964. Dear Sir, I received your refusal to grant me permission to become a naturalised. Australian citizen. As I have pointed out to you in) my previous letters to your Depart ment, it is impossible, for me to work in my capacity as a crane and hoist driver since my certificate will be issued only after I become naturalis ed. Since I refused to be victimised for some obscure reason of your own, I wish to protest against your decision and I wish that you proceed with my deportation since I am not allowed after a stay of eleven year's in Aus tralia, to earn a living in a pro fession of my own choosing. The answer I received was simply: "There is no impediment to you and your family, leaving Australia vol untarily at any time. However, de portation is not contemplated." Such a proposal ignores the pro blem of how I am to provide for my family and also save up the fare of about £500, all without being able to work? But the big question is: Why -have I been refused naturalisation? It cannot' be that in 1958 I drove through a yellow traffic light ' in Perth and was subsequently fined £8. I subscribe to various papers and magazines from capitalist and socialist countries, but so do thou sands of other people, including perhaps the Minister for Immigra tion. I cannot accept this as suf ficient reason either. Maybe the Minister does not want to disclose his reasons for people will realise that McCarthy- ism prevails in Australia. 4 