 jSA action j j against war toys I | ADELAIDE: The Union of Australian Women re- | cently sent a deputation to ! the giant retail store of 1 David Jones to protest J against the advertising and | displaying of war toys in that store. ! The management agreed to the ( women's request for withdrawal 1 of the display and said that no more war toy advertisements would appear. The UAW also sent a deputa tion to John Martins at Arndale following the firm's advertising of the "GI Joe" war toy. Two members of the Union ot | Australian Women distributed g 4,000 leaflets protesting against | the sale of war toys by retail J stores. I This contribution to the Australia- ! wide campaign against war toys I was made on a recent Saturday | morning, when city street were g full of spectators at the annual J Christmas pageant organised by f John Martins, one of the largest | retail stores in Adelaide. S On the same morning members | of the Eureka Youth League dis- jj tributed leaflets condemning the j Menzies' Government's interven- ! tion in Vietnam and its policy of j conscription g I These are the words of the | Miscellaneous Workers' Union I Federal Council, which at its I meeting in Hobart recently con- I demned the manufacturers of J such toys for their "exploitation | of children." I Concern was also expressed j on the number of commercial | television programs depicting crimes of violence and the | glorification of war. | It was the responsibility of the | Government to protect the in- S terests of all citizens by en- I couraging the production of 1 Australian programs based on g the cultural aspirations of the S Australian people, the Council j said. | r SA Tribune Fair, Saturday, Nov. 27 j | Visit Toyland, the big feature of the Fair! „ g i Moderately-priced soft toy animals, rag dolls, gay clowns, wooden f I toys, jig-saw puzzles, wooden blocks, aeroplanes, boats, dolls in bridal | ! and national costumes, sets of Barbie Doll clothes, knitted sets and t I Christmas stockings. j IAlso larger toys such as baby cribs, rocking toys, wheel barrows, I metal toys, swing, kindergarten set and children's bikes and tricycles. ' 1 Father Xmas will visit Toyland at 10.30 a.m. I Hindmarsli Town Hall at 9.30 a.m. g S ABOVE: Here are some samples from Sydney stores of the wide I I range (on offer for Christmas) of "toys that condition the minds of S children to killing and war as an acceptable way of life." g I I 