 | Wharfies levy '£5,500 to aid Torres Islanders SYDNEY: The Federal Council of the Waterside Workers' Fede- j : ration has osled all Branches to support a Sf- national levy of I members to provide a co-operative bakery for the people of the ! Torres Strait Islands. j A PRESS statement issued 1 last Friday by the Federa- | tion's general secretary, Mr. C. pitzgibbon, said that to date | Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, I Adelaide, Newcastle, Port Kern- I bla ar|d some of the smaller j ranches have endorsed the S lew. The decision of the other branches of the Federation will be known next week. The levy, which will provide ap proximately £5,500/ followed an ap peal made to the Federation by Mr. Jacob Adednego of Moa Island in the Torres Strait. Mr. Abednego asked the waterside workers for assistance when he ad dressed the recent annual conference of the Sydney Job Delegates' Asso ciation. The Sydney delegates asked the Federal Council of the Federation to seek endorsement for a national compulsory levy at stop work meet ings of the members. The following is Mr. Abednego's address to the Sydney JDA Confer ence as published in the "Maritime Worker": "Dear Comrades, I come down here in the interests of my people up in Torres Strait. "We formed . our co-operative society in 1958, but we have not had the chance to carry on because of the big enterprise ahead of us. "We work for our own self, we have nothing frogi the Government, only last year. "So we have formed this co-opera tive to build ourselves to be like you.. "In Thursday Island the State Government wants us to fish for the company, and they keep our money. Lik;e slaves "The Government has control of all our money. So we people of Torres Strait want to do something for our selves. So I have tried to come here last year .so that we learn to bake bread to live by. "We, 500 members, set up our business. "I went to Brisbane and New- astle seamen. They told me to come down to Sydney waterfront and they'll help us. I go home tomorrow. "You read in the paper about . our people, but believe me, this is not true. "We live there like slaves. My £4 a week and they get £2/15/- of this. Wages for little boys is £2/15/- a week. "The price of tobacco on Thursday Island is 6/- for two ounce packet and 6d. for the papers. "They preach about Australia all over the world, but it is still dirty, i There is no social services. "I tell you about the life of my people in Torres Strait, and they do not want to come to Queensland to live. They want to remain on the island where thev are used of liv- ing. But we do want the assistance from the Government. "We have to show the Government that we can be something." Following Mr. Abednego's address the Sydney delegates carried a resolu tion condemning all forms of res trictions and discrimination against the Aboriginal people. "We protest against the action of the Queensland Administrator of Native Affairs withholding money belonging to these Torres Strait people under laws that are in direct opposition to the Potsdam Agreement on Human Rights. "We call for the immediate repeal of all discriminatory laws against our native people by both State and Federal. Governemtns." "We protest against the unjust confiscation of their islands and lagoons by foreign enterprises and the refusal to allow the Torres Strait Islanders the right to develop their own co-operatives and use their own initiatives in this direction." "We draw attention to the exploita tion of these people by national and international interests," the Sydney delegates said. Mr. Fitzgibbon said that in addi tion to the levy the Federation will also implement a decision of its last conference to set up a £300 a year scholarship for Aboriginal school children. 