 IThe Challenge I of Weimar 1 - - ' fehird and final of a series of articles by DOROTHY HEWETT, Ifvho attended the Weimar Writeri' Congress in East Germany. $ Iv/yOU never saw Germany II ' before the wall", one Ilyoung woman novelist said to fine. p "You never saw the prpsti- Itutes sent through the Bran- idenburg Gate, the pimps and ; touts and perverts hanging about jeering and soliciting. I "West German currency was ;eli- hpratelv inflated to four times the value of the East German mark. The west Germans would come in and buy and buy till our shops were empty We were terribly short of specialists. We paid stipends, trained our East German youth, and when they were trained the Bonn Govern- Iment would offer them huge sal- I aries toi work in the West. Most of p them were ndt, and had never been, 1 socialists. They went to West Berlin I for the money and the extra prestige. We couldn't compete. The wall should have gone up two years he- fore it did." It is true that the wall contains West Berlin, hut it is also true that it stops the movement; of East Ber- liners into the west, and that the capitalist world over that wall seems romantic, opulent and forbidden to some East Germans, particularly the young. But most know that it is a hollow, pretty sleazy kind of opulence, artifi cially induced by American money. They watch Bonn TV. When I was In Berlin they saw the old Nazi of ficials standing to attention in the newsreels while Queen Elizabeth of England made speeches about , "re membering her German blood." "The workers and peasants have all they want, economic freedom, more culture than they ever had before, but I want more. My needs are greater. I am an individualist. This is always difficult," said a young East German -poet with a. lopsided smile. "What do you do about men who I do not understand, about art but 1 only about politics?" he said. "It is I a pity there couldn't he more men I who understand about both, or, at 1 least, are open to knowledge on art, a but if we must make a choice I I guess we must choose the men who 1 understand about politics first." There is great tension in Berlin on the eastern side of that wall (which, to my amazement is only waist-high to a man along most of its nine mile length). That tension, aggravat ed by devices like the perpetual ticker tape of anti-East German newspaper headlines in neon lights running along the top of the wall the West German side, means mat there is, in my opinion, too neavy a censorship of "East German Sfrs, who are not hostile to the In ' but may he critical. But the Berlin wall is one of the sequences' 0f power politics, the id war and the Nazis, and anyone niiMSlts silent before the rise of nnr'f' lsm' the Pressures of power nm and the cold war psychol- J?: nust hear part of the responsi bly for the tragedy of that wall. | REMEMBER well one long night I m a Weimar Youth Club, with comhination playing really in Vazz' and yung couples circl- taLleamily on a dance floor. We im , -,?r argued till dawn came J' ,. a group of young Ger- 5 m Cussing the GDR- Pact ism 0 55' anti-semitism, Naz ism' i H e of German social anu the wall. abnnf , mst noticeable things is their nil-GerrnanS in the GDR' ed with a al knowledge compar- ea wuh Australian youth. One of the most remarkable things is theii deeply grounded hatred of anti- semitism in any, form whatsoever, and their outspoken criticism of 'Government decisions" .they don't . agree with. Afterwards we walked home through the cobbled streets, past the statues of Goethe and Schiller, dark and beneficent, heaped with plastic flowers, and a whole world seemed to.be walking. with us. "Goodnight," called the blonde young man whose father had been a Nazi. "Goodnight," we said, taking him and his re-education with us too, "taking it home " with us," as Anna Seghers had- said. This was the Writers' Congress in Berlin and Weimar for me, its symbol: "I am my brother's keeper." We have met on this soil belong ing to the German Demo cratic Republic, in Weimar, city of German classical liter ature where, in 1945, the pledge of the anti-fascists of Buchenwald was taken in the languages of many nations. This pledge has been kept is being fulfilled today. We have met in friendship and, though our views may differ as widely as our origin, we are unanimous in our earn est desire for the' nations to be allowed to live in peace which we are ready to back up with all the power of humanist literature. We have met twenty years after 'the victory over nazi fascism so dear in sacrifice, true to the spirit of our best friends and comrades who raised their voices in defence of culture and peace at the writers' congresses of Paris in 1935 and Madrid in 1937. Their message is our task: to continue unanimously the struggle against open or dis guised fascism, against im perialist aggressions and that terrible new menace to man kind which is nuclear war, with all our minds, hearts and talents. As at all times, contemporary literature will survive the day only if it takes side with life's progress. We, the writers of 52 countries, appeal to all of you who are engaged in liter ary work today: Accept the challenge from Weimar! MAGAZINE BACKGROUND I :A ii 1 A.lllllJimffMWMWttffllflllll'llBl/llJ,lMlllfllllflH"lllflffl 1 