 USSR, North Korea I offer "necessary" aid to Nth. Vietnam , Sn a joint communique issued after the visit of Soviet Premier Kosygin, the USSR and the Korean Peoples" Democratic Republic ! declared they would give the Democratic Republic of Vietnam "necessary assistance". AT the same time the two sides pledged themselves to struggle for peaceful co-exist ence and the relaxation of ten sion. This was the first time that a Soviet Premier had visited Korea, which was liberated hy Soviet troops in 1945 and later supported "by the USSR in the war against the U.S. invaders in 1950-53. The communique noted that the USSR condemned U.S. imperialism for having turned South Korea into its colony and war base and pledged full Soviet support for the Korean people's struggle for the peaceful unnification of their homeland with out outside interference. The present international situation, says the communique, continues to develop favourably for the revolu tionary forces fighting for peace, democracy, national independence and socialism. Imperialism and its main bulward, the U.S.A., was striving to regain its positions, but the progressive forces were now able to frustrate imperialism designs Far peace "Both sides hold that all the re volutionary and peace forces must wage a stubborn struggle against the imperialists, simultaneously striv ing to relax international tension and assert principles of peaceful co existence between states with dif ferent social systems, to frustrate the policy of aggression and war and ensure mankind's peace and security," said the communique. Branding as infamous the U.S. attacks on North Vietnam, both sides, being loyal to the principles of socialist internationalism, warn that they will not remain indifferent to them and will give the DRV the necessary assistance. "They declare their support to the just struggle of the South Vietnam ese patriots and demand that the U.S. should stop the inhuman war and withdraw all its forces from South Vietnam." Both sides also pledged full sup port to the anti-imperialist struggles of the Asian, African and Latin American peoples who are waging "in different forms, including aims in hand" a just struggle for national liberation. Back Bndonesia Both sides approved Laos vice- premier Prince Souphanouvong's pro posal for an international meeting to solve the Laos problem, and Prince Sihanouk's proposal for a similar meeting to guarantee Cambodia's frontiers. The supported China . struggle for liberation of Taiwan and "the struggle of the Indonesian people against U.S.-British neo-colonialist plans and the liberation, struggle waged by the people of northern Kalimantan (Borneo). Both sides also backed China's call for a heads-of-state meeting to decide on banning and destroy ing nuclear weapons. They declared that the most reliable guarantee of victory was the socialist camp's unity and said they would do everything possible to strengthen this on the basis of the international communist conference decisions of 1957 and 1960. Time magazine grudgingly admit ted the importance of Mr. Kosygin's visit. Its version: "Despite the short notice, North Korea's boss Kim II Sung rolled out the Red carpet for his unex pected guest: frenzied crowds waving Soviet flags roared 'Mansei'! (May you live 10,000 years) as Kosygin arrived at Pyongyang airport. "Kim, a Peking-inclined Stalinist who only a month1 ago rudely re jected an invitation to Moscow, em braced Aleksei (Kosygin) warmly. , 'We consider amity and unity be tween our two nations most valu able', he said." Czech students demonstrate outside the US Embassy in Prague in protest against US aggression in North Vietnam. 