 [?] Penal Clauses : Demand ! will be for ! ACTU action i By an Industrial Correspondent ! The demand for complete aboli- j tion of all legal provisions directed | against trade unions and especially i against the right to strike will be j one of the main issues before the ALiU Congress. "|"HIS demand has been pol icy of the ACTU ever since the first inclusion of "penal powers" in industrial legislation and in the Crimes Act. Despite repeated demands on governments, little or no progress has been made towards elimination of these "penal powers." The former NSW Labor Government made some minor amendments to its Arbitration Act, but the then Minister for Labor, J. Maloney, made clear that the Labor Government was opposed to the ACTU demand for abolition. The amendments have little effect on the penal provisions. Maloney was in fact rejecting deci sions of the NSW Labor Council and the NSW Labor Party Conferences. The 1965 NSW Conference of the ALP reaffirmed previous decisions calling for "complete repeal of those provisions of the State Arbitration Act which are abhorren to the trade unions." Recent amendments to the Com monwealth Arbitration Act have also left unimpaired the penal powers— for example, the issue of orders pro hibiting strike actions and imposition of heavy fines. For employers and the Courts it is "Penal business as usual." Last Friday week the Common wealth Industrial Court imposed upon the Waterside Workers' Federation four fine each f £500 for one stop- j page involving all ports. The whole, j proceeding was completed by lunch time. J These fines were a double penalty because of the Stevedoring Industry Authority had already fined individual waterside workers a total of approxi mately £80,000 by cancelling their attendance money, because of this same stoppage. Attendance money is part of a waterside worker's award rate and cancellation of it is equivalent to withholding a part of award wages earned. Despite all these facts, ACTU officers did not voice any protest against the raid on WWF funds. Such hesitancy upon the part of the ACTU officers and some other trade union leaders hampers the struggle against the penal powers, which has proved its worth by forc ing two governments to make some amendments, even though very minor. Action against penal powers was the subject of struggle in debate at the 1963 ACTU Congress. A resolu tion submitted on behalf of the Executive by Messrs. Monk and Kenny (Pres. and Senior Vice-Fres ) and four amendments— all. from left wing forces— were discussed by the Congress. This debate occupied almost three sessions of the Congress in which 25 speakers participated— 10 support ing the Executive and 15 supporting the amendments. Congress decision The question was resolved by a "ormal division in which the amend ment moved by C. Fitzgibbon (WWF Gen. c.) nd seconded by J. Bevari its"- .-matters' Jen. Sec.) was carried by 256 votes to 220. By this very conscious vote, the Congress decision contained the fol lowing two significant provisions: (1) "No aspect of a dispute- shall prevent the ACTU from calling to gether the appropriate unions when ever penal action is threatened." (2) "We resolve that in cases of i' e use of penal clauses the Execu tive in the case of an Interstate dispute, and the ACTU Branch in the case of a dispute involving State 'egislation, call together the unions in the industry concerned to formu late proposals for appropriate action." At a Federal Unions' Conference convened by the ACTU in April, 1964, the ACTU' officers, with the support of certain rightwing trade union leaders, obtained a decision which cut across the main principles con- | ained in tlie 1963 Congress decision. j However, when this Federal t Unions' Conference ''ecision was submitted t ACTU Branches for "Udorseroer.t. It wrs. . mnir'vied by I '?eing !-:-»cted by tlace of the six | Branches. The fact remains that the actions which the Congress intended should be taken to resist the application of the. penal powers have not been carried out and as a result the. struggle against the penal powers has been weakened. It is not 'correct to say that the penal powers prevent the develop ment of appropriate actions by trade unions and their members in sup port of c' "rands. This is shown by the experience in the Mt. Isa Strike, which continued despite most far-reaching penal and punitive action by the Queensland State Government. It is further shown by the activi ties of the Waterside Workers' Federation and its members, despite a big array of penal powers directed against them, and it Is still further shown by the large number of recorded industrial disputes involving stoppages of work. At the same time there is no doubt that many workers with legitimate claims and the possibility of increas ing their wages rates are hindered, if not entirely thwarted, by the use of the penal powers. These are amongst the facts which form the background to the debate which will almost certainly occur on this important question at the. forth coming Congress. 