 They're writing songs faster than they collect them "IN Ireland they're writing songs faster than they col lect them", Pat Clancy said last week. Pat is the e'dest of the Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem folk song grouo that thrilled Australiar aud"Qnres. "They began collecting son'-s in 1920 in Ireland, ?nd so far have not 20 000 There's no end to them", hr sa;d "That farm tabourer's song you sang tonight 'The Rocks of Borne' had the flavour of long tradition It began 'Come all you lova' hemes . . .' ". "Yes. that song is Dart, ot the repertoire of every traditional singei in Ireland. You've got to hear these songs done by a traditional singer to hear how beautiful they can be They put the ornamentation in a- well." (Pat Clancy, by the way. Mke hi.' brothers Tom and Liam, doe? sing with a beautiful voice, that has a lot ot traditional "ornamentation".) "I was talking to an Irishman, ar ironworker, the other day and he toJd me about the 11 months take in Ireland. When the strong boy.' were lined up, picked for musck by the farmers, and taken for si: months inw-naid or no-paid work? think there that he means r.h&lt; six months take. You earned abou- 30'- for the six months. Of cours' meals were provided, and you go! an 'egg for Sunday dinner and thing.- like that.. The 'Rocks of Borne' i about that " "What about songs like 'The Ri, ing of the Moon', do they write then these days?" "T think the best, rebel song wrii ten in Ireland was by Dominic Be ha n. It concerned Sean South wh« was shot in 1956 after a raid on r arms store on the border." Dominic Behan, the brother &lt;: Brendan, is the author of "Th Dublin Painter's Song", "The Bolr Fenian Men" "The Patrm Game". "In that case we in Australia ha\ only heard a few Irish songs an- less rebel songs, as they are called "That's true One of the nices rebe- songs I know is called 'Thi Three Flowers'. There's a flower for Wolfe Tone, one for Robert Emmet and one for Michael O'Dwyer. Thp girl say? how she will always keep the three flowers fresh against hp bos'an rt's a lovely song "Bui -;aid, "don't you thuij toes songs are flavoured too mucl" with martyrdom?" "Well, what else could the bard.' d.o? We were r.eaten, you know, bui not defpated rbey had t.o give the new generation something to keep up their hopes; so these rebel song about the martyrs were written and sung." "Yes," Liam Clancy came in "you might still hear a fella in a pub call out 'Hey, paddy, sing us the one you got six months for!' " "Irish songs and poems are usu ally gentle, indirect expressions, and full of imagery. If you go bang bang- bang all the frme, you'll only make people deaf. Then they'll listen to anyone but you", Pat continued. "We like all songs that are about life. Many of them were written by men of letters, and not just the people." "What's that poem, Liam?" (Liam was reciting a melodious, rhyming poem.) "That's an old Irish poem Dy the bard, Don of the Glen. He was an alcoholic poet. ,One day he found a dead bird beside a frozen lake. The bird had been picking the ice, trying to get a drink. This poem says that he hopes that he himself will never die of thirst. "You will notice the interna) hymes. They are a feature of Gaelic ooetry. Most of the translations from daelic are. atrocious." Liam then recited a poem by 'Blind" Raftery about the drowning of a party of engaged couples, when a sheep they were carrying put its oot through the floor of the boat. He recited, in a soft, controlled, al most hushed voice, like a bird sing ng in a silence. "We're only like ants on an am Gap," he said. "What we do tor 'ilk song is only a small part It. akes the work of generations to how if a song will be a folk song d survive. "Have you ever tried to write mrself?" ".Yes, but I'm afraid i. haven't lone much good. I have lived life to the full, thinking that I could write about it anytime I wanted to There was. a time when I w.ouldn' read, when I didn't want to imitate n any way any other writer. But now I've changed my mind about hat. "Have you ever tried writing out ne work of the best writers, so thai heir style and rhythm becomes youi wn?" "No, do you do that? That's no- bad idea. What does O'Casey sav " 'Writing is the, distillation of e> ;rience.' I might give that a try — D.l- ' % PAT CLANCY LIAM CLANCY 