 RENTS: The Askin Govt, j on its first hot seat By JIM SHARROCK The incoming New South Wales Liberal Premier, Mr. Askin, may privately curse the timing of the recent appeal judgment on fair rent assessment but its weakening effect on rent control is fundamentally in tune with the aims of his Government— the enrich ment of the owners of industrial and real estate nrnnprf.v. AAR. ASKIN speaks of sticking to his election promise of "no general rise in controlled rents". This is good publicity. But he cannot please landlords on the one hand, and tenants on the other. The NSW Supreme Court, on appeal, has ruled as invalid a 1964 Govern ment Order that fair rents should be fixed on 1939 valuations. This was hailed by big landlord in terests as ensuring a rapid rise in "controlled" rents. The great bone of contention with landlords is this question of increased values (capital gains). In many cases old dwellings have increased in values from hundreds to thousands of pounds, and they want an equivalent increase in rents. Landlords are in the business for profits, and do not see housing as a social necessity. | Promises | According to the daily press, the ! Premier is going to stick to his elec tion promise of no general rise in controlled rents. Mr. Askin sets out ifour points which he intends to institute: j 1. The greater use of Section 17a I . of the Landlords and Tenants | Act; whereby the owner and | ' tenant could reach a written 1 agreement on a fair rental. ! 2. The removal of protection from I those wealthy tenants who re- 1 fused to co-operate reasonably on 5 rentals. ! 3. Pensioner tenants who are un- I able to pay higher rents would 1 be given priority for Housing | Commission accommodation. 2 4. Pensioner tenants living in con- I trolled premises larger than their I needs and willing to transfer to S Housing Commission accommo- I dation will be given an even | higher priority. I He also referred to the subsidisa- | tion of landlords' repair and main- 1 tenance costs — i.e., the use of public | money for the personal gain of land- | lords. "Hotchpotch" j A few words about Mr. Askin's S points: — | 9 Section 17a was inserted in the | Act late last year, and with the balance 2 of the law of supply and demand very | much the landlords' way there can be j no talk of a fair rental being arrived | at between owner and tenant. This j section leaves as many loopholes as ! section 5A does for the landlords to I extract higher rentals from house | hungry tenants. I Removal of wealthy tenants may be high sounding. Last year I inter viewed a number of State Members I of Parliament and gained the impres- S sion that they, or at least some, had I in mind the family income; if not 1 Mum's, then at least the kids'. | If this becomes a fact, don't be J surprised if the landlord says to you | one Monday morning: "I believe your 2 young Willie is working; how about I kicking in some more rent?" Points 3 and 4 deal with pen- J sioner tenants who are unable to pay I higher rents or who are living in j homes too large for them. This has | not much regard for the hundreds of | pensioners already on the Housing j Commission's list who may be pushed g aside so that landlords can receive a ! greater rake-off. | All this is only a "hotch-potch" at- i tempt to get around what appears to j be a difficult matter, and it will not ! work. I Answer There Is only one real answer, as j put forward by Communist candidates ! in the recent NSW election: — I Repeal Section 5A of the Land- j lords and Tenants Act. j Amend the Act to do away with the loophole found by the High Court j for added values. 9 Place all premises under rent | control. : The State Government to fight ' for a massive increase in Federal j Housing finance to enable the housing shortage to be broken. 