 EINSTEIN By B. Kuznetsov, 9/6 (11/2 posted). PUBLISHED in the Soviet Union. A biography with a difference as it. reviews in the light of present day ; knowledge the life, ideas and' work of one of the greatest scient ists who has ever lived. The author writes of the philosophical views, public ideas, moral prin- . ciples, creative psychology, and human charm of Albert Einstein, the man, the scientist and the philosopher. ? ALL THINGS BETRAY THEE By Gwyn Thomas, 5/6 (6/5 posted). jyjOONLEA an iron foundry town ship was the destination of Alan Leigh the harpist — and to find and take away Ms friend John j Simon his purpose, for Tie had found "'two Mils and a valley that are so lovely they -make paradise : pout." However Moonlea was a battleground , for the rights of workers and John Simon their leader, who could not be -taken away. 1 Many conflicts were resolved and the promise of a new enormous music ! forshadowed before Alan Leigh ' once again left Moorilea. ? THE GOLDEN HOLDEN By John Arrowsmith and George Zangalis, 2/6 (2/11 posted). pHE story of the development of General Motors Holden is the story of the gold-plated sweat shop. The enormous profits made by General Motors are legendary in Australia and this invaluable ; booklet shows how these profits have been amassed. In the process of explaining this devel opment the writers show how the , workers are deprived of a "fair day's wage for a fair day's work" ? KNOW YOUR CHILD Published in the Soviet Union,. 7/6 (8/5 posted). J BOOK which starts with the point of view that care of the child . starts before birth and that effec tive continued care of the child is based on correct knowledge. A balanced diet for the growing child, the type of exercises needed at each stage of development and ways of preventing the most fre quent diseases of childhood are thoroughly dealt with. A realistic appreciation of the fact that children do develop neuroses is an interesting feature of this book and actual case-histories are ' cited. Available from — NEW WORLD BOOKSHOP 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 