 PENSIONERS ATTACK GOVT. FOREIGN POLICY NEWCASTLE: A mass rally of pensioners at Warners Bay (Newcastle) recently rejected a pro posal to separate criticism of the Federal Govern ment's foeign policy from the general claims of pen sion- THE rally was called by a combined group of pen sioners, women and trade union organisations. More than 300 pensioners refus" ed to follow the urring of three In vited speakers on the platform to vote separately on foreign policy. Those who addressed the meeting Included the Minister for Transport - (Mr. M. Morris), Mrs. N. Gordon (re- the TTninn r»f Austral ATI Women). Messrs C. Griffiths, M.H.R. (a member of the Federal Parliamen tary Labor Party's Social . Services Committee), Aid. Neil (representing the Lord Mayor of Newcastle). Rev. W. McDonald (Presbyterian clergy man from Wallsend), A. Dowling (Secretary, Newcastle Trades Hall Council) and W." Hopkins (President, Combined Pensioners' Association of Newcastle, LakPs and Coalfields). Messrs Griffiths, Neal and Mc Donald considered that the two claus es concerning the United Nations should be voted on separately. How ever after speakers from the Cess- nock Retired Miners Association, the Swansea Retired Miners' Association and the Boolaroo and Cessnock Pen sioners' Association, the rally agreed to the resolution as a whole. The resolution overwhelmingly adopted by the rally of citizeng and pensioners of Newcastle, Lake Mac- quarie and Northern Coalfields 'areas— Supported the call for a full open inquiry into the position of the pov erty stricken people such as pen sioners, widows, invalids, the sick and the handicapped existing in the pre sent affluent economic society of Aus tralia. O Reaffirmed the call of previous rallies in this district for the Aus tralian Government to seek settlement of all international disputes in ac cordance with the United, Nations Charter; and withdrawal of all for eign troops from any country where they are now engaged unless under the leadership of the UN in accord ance with its Charter. Called for the immediate imple mentation of pricet control by the State Government to safeguard the lives and the health of people living on fixed incomes such as pensioners, superannuated persons and others. Called for a supplementary Bud get early in 1966 to provide for a ba _sic pension rate, of not less than half the Commonwealth male basic wage." 