 1 Solomon Islanders appeal to Australian workers IQN April 1, 800 members of the Building and General Workers' Union in the Solo- won Islands went on strike for 1a wage of 1 /- an hour. The secretary of the union, Mr. Joel Kikolo, has written- to Austra lian unions in a desperate appeal for advioe and assistance. The workers decided to take e action in protest against a 0ffer from the Government. The Solomon Islands is a British Crown- Colony, Mi'. Kikolo's letter does not men tion the existing wage rates the workers are receiving, but from Past information it is well below "ie Government's offer of 93 d. Australian unions which have ,unt messages of support include ttJL Bui,ldiug Workers' Industrial union, Waterside Workers' Federa- on and the Boilermakers' Society. vDim t desperate plight of the s trade movement in the colony is made clear by Mr. Kikolo's letter. Trade union leaders have little or no formal education. Mr . Kikolo by drawing on his limited knowledge of English, has succeeded in making contact with the outside world. Australian unions were quick to respond to these appeals for as- " The BWIU and the WWF (Syd ney Branch) have sent financial aid. The Sydney Branch of the W.W.F. has also 'written to Mr. F. Cussens (ex-general secretary of the British Transport Unions and now a Member of Parliament) asking for his intervention. The federal secretary of the Boilermakers' Society has written to Prime Minister, Mr. Wilson asking him to intervene in support of the Solomon Island workers. "There has been a lot of talk of what has been, or is being done for the underprivileged in Brtish Colonies — — now is the time to put some of this talk into prac tice," the boilermakers said. Last September, the first and only trade union leader from the Sololmon Islands to visit Australia came at the invitation of the WWF. Mr. Johnson Olisukulu, the 25. year-old secretary of the Port and Copra Workers' Union attended the All Ports Conference of the Federa tion in Sydney. At the time Mi. Olisukulu left for Australia the port workers in the Islands were in their second week of a strike for higher wages. Union leaders he said were pre vented froim speaking to the workers without permission from the Gov. ernment and the companies. 