 HHWraiilRliSI State Aid is making these parents angry While we are thoroughly aware of fhe evils of a dual form of education and know that the religious factor can cause divisions among the people — particularly fhe young people — we are also aware that for the Catholic worker fhe problem is a very real one and he is often in no position to argue with his Church. |T would be a big step indeed ' for some Catholic workers to make the break and send their children to public schools. Only over a period of time would" it be possible to convince many of them that a ' properly functioning state system of education would be the best method of educating ALL children. By very strenuous efforts parents in New South Wales raise £2 million every' year to assist in the education of their children. It can he readily be seen there fore that these parents cannot stand idly by and see what amounts to their own contribution go to the assistance of private schools. The needs of our state schools are so great that they won't be met for a number of years under present conditions. Therefore it seems that we cannot support aid to private and denomi- noHnnol cr>Vinr»lc iinf.il cnnVi Hmo as our own needs are satisfied. From a long range point of view therefore we can point out that a policy of demanding that the Men zies Government should provide federal finance, implementation of the Martin Report (with particular emphasis on the training of more teachers) and an education commis sion, would be most beneficial to ALL parents. Howeved this could prove of little comfort to the really hard up Catho lic parent in particular and it is possible that a further demand should be set in motion — for an increase in the endowment on a means test basis. This would ensure that the parent who really needs aid would receive direct financial assistance. Those of us who are active in the Parents and Citizens' organisations are concerned that the decision to grant State Aid to private schools should be revoked. However seeing that at the moment it is with us, we feel that schools which are granted such aid should be subject to some form of government supervision. After all this is the position of our own state schools. For parents who are involved in the struggle to obtain full educa tional opportunities for the child some obvious difficulties could emerge in the future. Firstly it would be possible that several schools, under a dual edu cation system, could simultaneously raise the demand for a better eqip- ped science block. The result could well be that several schools would be poorly equipped instead of a couple of schools being well-equipped under the state education system. In some areas the need for ex tensions to existing schools is ur gent. In the past money has been hard tq obtain; the situation will get worse. The State Government is so short of money for education needs at the moment that we know of instances where schools will be built in five stages. It is therefore understandable that parents who support the state school system are really angry about the question of State Aid. However we should endeavour to convince them that we should not argue this issue out on the basis of religion. We should fight the issue on the basis of principle. A dual system of education has never been regarded as successful (W. E. Gollan's booklet "State Aid — a Public Mischief" make this quite clear) and encouraging a dual system of education is encouraging separateness. The working class has never stood for separateness; the best interests of working people are served by unity. In this instance we need all sec tions to unite and demand Federal money for education, implementa tion of the Martin Report, and the setting up of an Education Com mission. Contributor (Sydney). 