 I T.V. Confrontation ! -J-HE two speakers, shown above on TV, were the gen eral secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, Mr. L. Aarons (left) and Mr. W. A. , Wood, pf the Tribune editorial staff. Their opponents were Mrs. J. Rodze and Mr. E. Wilson. The "Captive Nations Week Com mittee" is part of an extremist inter national propaganda network that includes former Nazi collaborators, including the Croatian Ustashi and the "Anti-Bolshevik Bloc of Nations." It is backed by the United States State Department, and the Menzies Government. During the TV session, Mr. Wood condemned the committee's activities in Sydney last week as a "deliberate effort by some people to whip up the feeling of the Australian people in favor of a war against the socialist countries." He quoted from the printed program of the week's activity: "Governments-in-exile for all captive nations should be formed by the political refugees,- supported and recgonised by the Western nations." I Mr. Wood commented: "Thus we must no longer recognise the Govern ment of the Soviet Union; we must wipe out the trade pact we have just signed with Russia; wipe the £56 million annual trade with the Soviet Union . ... no trade to be conducted, no cultural exchanges, out with Oistrakh, out with the Borodia ; Quintet!" # j New society ) Answering a claim by Mr. Wilson that the people of Hungary were a "captive nation," following "Soviet aggression" in 1956, Mr. Aarons said: "In the view of the Australian Com munists, the nations that are today socialist countries (making up 30 per cent, of the world's population) are In fact not enslaved but are building a new form of society in which a much greater ffeedom is developing for the individual peoples of the world. "We say that the Hungarian people have solved the problems of counter revolution in 1956 and, in fact, the wheel of history will not be turned back. "Today there is a far greater degree of freedom in Hungary, rising living standards, and develop 1 ment of art." ( J US in Vietnam ' i He said that real aggression was to be found in South Vietnam, where the Americans had invaded with great forces but still -were unable to suppress the struggle of the people "because it is a genuine liberation movement." When Mrs. Rodze attacked Commu nism, Mr. Aarons said: "Australian Communists will only be able to take part in the leadership of the Austra lian nation when the majority of the Australian people want it. "Soviet Communism will not in any way determine the establishment of socialism in Australia. That will occur only when the people of Aus tralia want it." Mr. McMahon and John Birch.— Page 8. , ... . SYDNEY: Two leading communist spokesmen this week ) confronted representatives of the extreme rightwing "captive 1 nations week" campaign, in the Channel 7 television program "Seven Days". . I 