 Catholic, Communist, join in TV "dialogue" $YDNEY : Two very sig nificant discussions or dialogues took place on TV in the past week. One—- the more significant — was between a Catholic (Dr. M. Charlesworth, of Mel bourne University) and a Communist (Mr. R. Mortimer, of Melbourne "Guardian"). The other discussion was between a Catholic (Mr. B. A. Satamaria of the National Civic Council) and a liberal academic (Dr. J. T). Legge, of Monash University, Melbourne). The first discussion was heard on the Ray Taylor Show, Channel O, Melbourne, and Channel 10, Sydney. It was the first of its kind in Australia, though such Catholic- Communist dialogues have become widespread in Europe and indeed K the idea was brought here by Ray Taylor, who ably compered the pro gram. This development is not so strange as some may think. The Catholic Church, one of the most important ideological forces . in the world, - but in a historical sense losing ground, -has been mak ing a. major re-examination of the world reality, principally under the influence of the policies of the late Pope John. The Communist movement, too, is one of the .most important facts and ideological forces of the modern world and a developing one. Communist philosophy requires all-sided examination and discus sion of reality, to permit formulation . of the policies that cau best assist the working people as a whole in each country to create their own socialist way forward. In the Charles worth-Mortimer meeting, Dr.' Charlesworth ' favored confining the discussions to a theo retical plane. He said he was anxious to find out whether Communists were pre pared to re-examine their .'funda mental ideas and to "abandon the old-fashioned materialism and ath eism" of Marx. \ Mr. Mortimer on the other hand proposed discussion on both theo retical and practical issues. He said' that Communists were always prepared to re-examine thqir ideas but asked whether Catholics were equally willing to do so. However, he , could not see Com munists abandoning their materia list philosophy, which had gained add ed force, in the space era, but stressed- that Communists regarded religion as a personal matter. When the discussion touched on the Vietnam war, Dr. Charlesworth said he lacked information but felt sympathetic to the protest action of the Australian Anglican bishops and - also the American clergy, including Catholics. Mr. Mortimer said the war was immoral and imperilled Australia's security. The Vietnam people had a right to the same freedom Australians take for granted. Notable features of this discussion included these: It was forward-looking; it recog nised that, despite profound dif ferences of view, these are no longer justification for any kind of exclusive mutual, group hosti lity. Something better is heeded. ® It was a reasoned and -serious en gagement between ideas, some times mutually opposed, some times not. There was the under lying conflict between the reli gious view and the philosophical materialist view. But there emerged a clear mutual desire to explore ideas related to the future, without crude intolerance of personal creed (whether religious or atheist,). - Behind this, though unvoiced except perhaps by the enthusiasm of the studio audience, was the suggestion that thousands of mem bers of the labor movement, the Catholic Church and other churches are ready and eager for such genuine, joint discussion of international and national prob lems that overshadow us all. The second discussion (Four Corners, Channel 2) was very dif ferent. The subject was policy on Viet nam. Dr. Legge was convincing as a genuine but hesitant seeker for a better solution than the present escalating American war of inter vention, Mr. Santamaria convinced viewers, that lie is a publicist interested not in discussion to find the truth and the best way forward, but in propa gating a narrow set of cast-iron ideas, principally: The United States must. stay in indefinite occupation of the whole of South-East Asia,, centred on Vietnam. This can be done only by a "long and protracted war", in which firstly the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (in the north) is re duced to impotence, and secondly the resistance of the people in the south is eliminated. Mr. Santamaria's ideas were pre conceived-— -in the Victorian era. Dr. Legge's approach (represent ing an important group of univer sity teachers whose joint letter to the press was widely published last week) was very different. While open to some criticism for concessions to U.S. "rights" in the region, he presented the basic idea that the war of intervention is wrong and dan gerous and should be abandoned and .replaced by other efforts to reach a solution. Such an approach deserves the same conscientious discussion as was projected in the Charlesworth- Mortimer dialogue. The question hangs in the air: what are the next steps to extend such discussions — between Catho- ics, Communists and all other people who find the present direc tion of Australian society unac ceptable. We need have no doubt that such discussion can lead, not only to deeper understanding on the theo retical plane but also to mutual discovery of ways to practical co operation for international peace and security and progress of the Australian people as a whole. 