 The 12th Sydney Film Festival A very important event in our cultural life "THE 12th Sydney Film Fes- S tival was the best for many i years. A wide variety of films , 1 from Europe, Asia, America and Australia was shown at j the Union Theatre and other j halls. The Festival was booked 1 out weeks before the opening | screening. | The entries from the Socialist | countries and Asia were exception- I ally good and more positive in con- I tent than those from France, Great I Britain and the United States. 1 The group of films from Czechoslo- | _ vakia established this country as the most successful exhibitor. "Peter -ana Pavla", "Lemonade Joe", "A Jester's Tale" and the shorts "The Ceiling" and "Joseph Killian" were varied in style and extremely well made. "Peter and Pavla" was a refresh ing and affectionately mocking pic ture of teenagers and their relations with their elders. , "Lemonade Joe", a parody of American westerns, was one of the hits of the Festival. This robust musical satire in color and wide screen should be snapped up by one of the commer cial houses in Sydney. "A Jester's Tale" used a combina tion of special effects, live actors and animated backgrounds to tell a story of a young peasant abducted in 1625 to fight in the 30 Years' War. It condemned the senselessness of war with wit and style. The short film "Joseph Killian" was a' frightening attack on bureau cracy. "Nine Days Of One Year", the entry from the U.S.S.R., impressed audiences tremendously. It tells of a physicist who. has been twice exposed to radiation; another dose will kill him. He works on but collapses and submits to an operation that is only occasionally successful. Within this framework, the direc tor Mikhail Romm succeeds in bring ing us a picture of Soviet scientists and their personal problems that is lifelike and real. The players are superb, especi ally Alexei Batalov ("The Cranes Are Flying" and "Lady With the Dog") and Innokenty Smoktunovsky ("Hamlet"). "Current", the Hungarian film, is about a group of adolescent boys and girls enjoying themselves at a beach. One is drowned and the film shows the changing relationship be tween the other youngsters. "How To Be Loved" (Poland) and "Li Shuang-Shuang" (China) pre sented interesting studies of two different types of women. "The Chinese film, simple in plot and treatment, was very well re ceived. The Indian film "Mahanager" . directed by Satyajit Ray, was per haps the best film of the Festival. Unlike Ray's other films of rural life, "Mahanager" is set in the city of Calcutta. It is a realistic contemporary story of a middle-class Indian wo man who takes a job to eke out her husband's salary. When the bank where he works collapses, the family is dependent on her pittance. The wonderful warmth and hum anity that Ray brings to this film is moving and humorous. Madhabi as the wife was excellent and her experiences peddling knit ting machines from door to door were' delightful. The best of the other films were "Nobody Waved Goodbye" (Canada) and "Human Dutch" (Holland). The Canadian film was about a teenager and his revolt against middleclass environment and its em phasis on success in school and busi ness. "Human Dutch", a beautifully photographed documentary feature film, depicted the life of the people of Holland. It was not just a mere factual observation but a blithe account of everyday people in everyday situa tions. The French, English and American films were typical of the sick pro ducts coming from these countries in recent years. The three from France, "Loli.ta", "Bande A Part" and "Feu Follet" were examples of the French "New Wave". "Feu Follet" showed the last 48 hours of the life of an alcoholic who finally commits suicide because he has failed in love as well as in life. Well directed and acted, it is a study of futility. "Seance on a Wet Afternoon" (Great Britain) and "The Collector" (U.S.A.) were also well made but their themes were as despairing as those of 'the French films. Short films of note included "Cyclone", the dynamic Cuban documentary of the devastation caused by the hurricane "Flora" in 1963, "The Hole" (U.S.A.), "I Think They Called Him John" (Great Britain) and "Concerto Gymnastico" (Jugoslavia). — Edmund Allison. A make-up session for Indian actress Madhabi ,who appeared in Satyajit Ray's "Mahanger" at the Festival. 