 Communist IWD call A CALL for the widest par ticipation of ail sections of the people in celebration of International .Women's Day ; was made by the Central Com- : mittee of the Communist Party S of Australia last week. I In a special statement it pointed j out that International Women's Day, since its inception in 1910, had devel- j oped into a world-wide day of j demonstration of significance to c both men and women. The state- | ment continued: — , j It is an occasion for the develop- ! - — - - ii ! !) n — n i— n — tl — r l ment of united activity in support of demands for specific issues of concern for women, the rights of women, for the well-being of children, for world peace. Springing from the working class, the slogans and objectives of IWD have appeal for all sections of the working people, middle class and small farmers. This has been the case from the first days of IWD which arose from a militant demonstration by women tex tile and garment workers in New York in 1908 under the slogan "For an 8 hour day"; "For decent work ing conditions"; "The right to Vote". Women in Australia have joined hands with their sisters in other lands for the achievement of fundamental demands and have won many im portant victories in the fight for wom en's rights in our country. As far back as 1881 women were active in the formation of Trade Un ions for women workers; the women of Australia won the right to vote many years before this was won in most other countries. Today almost one in three of factory workers are women, and the Austra lian Trade Union movement includes a total of 388,000 women. In fields of education and science women play an active part, in NSW women teachers have recently won the right to equal pay, a most signi ficant advance. Women of Australia celebrate IWD with legitimate pride in successes achieved, but with a keen awareness of the many tasks still awaiting them. The vast majority of women are on inferior wages to men, our Parlia ments have few, very few women MP's, even in Local Government bo dies there are all too few women elected. Attention to the needs of children, provision of sufficient child care centres, kindergartens, and schools falls below requirements by a great deal, Whib working actively to win these and many more essential improve ments, women in Australia are engag ed in devoted struggle to preserve world peace. CaSS to Party The socialist movement gives full support to IWD, and the Central Com mittee calls on the entire membership of the CPA to participate actively with other interested sections in celebra tion of this great day. Communist Party members will work in unity in the women's move ment, the Trade Unions and other mass organisations to achieve the ob jectives of IWD. In addition Communist Party branches and members should re solve to make IWD 1965 an occasion when many more women are won to membership of our Party. A socialist Australia is the only effective' guarantee of full achievement of the demand for equal rights for women. This can only be won by involving far greater numbers of women in the struggle for immediate demands and for socialism. 