 Australia Day: A time to defend our culture KA ANY of the best revolu- tionary writers have told their own people that they could be finally subjected only if their culture, their soul was taken away from them. Maxim Gorky, James Conolly, Anatole Prance, have all expressed this idea, and in no country is it more important than in Australia today. The soul of the Australian people is threatened nowhere more than in the effects of imported comics, TV programs, and films from overseas, particularly . the United States. If you have watched young children fingering through the comic book "libraries" at the news stalls, ... if you have seen their eyes wander from the invaders from Mars in all their insect-shaped horror, to the "true war" series where Blam meets- Blam across the frontiers between the "goodies" and the "baddies" ... if you have seen how the cheese-cake magazines catch their eye, and force a giggle out of them, . . . then you will know how it is being done. However, serious as the position is, Australians more and more are responding to the challenge of foreign exploitation and domina- ion — in the cultural field no less than in the field of trade union struggle against foreign mono polies such as Mt. Isa Mines. Here are some examples on the occasion of Australia Day, 1965, of Australian activity to turn back the flood and liberate the expression of Australian values. Mr. L. Greenfield, Secretary of the Australasian Book Society, said this week: "We exist to defend the cultural independence of Australia. Linked with that is the pre servation of the democratic trad ition in Australian literature. "This requires that we encourage Australian literary talent by pro- viding a guaranteed market for Australian authors. "Australia Day means nothing . unless it means the development of all that is best in Australia, not the least important is the de velopment of the cultural fields. "Australian culture is being threatened by certain overseas im portations which are not in the best interests of Australians, especially the children. That isn't to say we stand against all importations, much that is imported is desirable and essential. "In the middle of February the Australasian Book Society will pub lish "They Hosed Them Out" — by John Beed. It is a novel about the RAAF in World War II. After that, in May, we will publish the third edition of "The Tracks We Travel," edited by Leslie Haylen. "And most, important of all, in August on the 100th anniversary of her birth, we will publish a tribute volume of Mary Gilmore's work. It will be a selection of her poems and stories with an introduction by Professor T. Inglis-Moore and Dymphna Cusack. Mr. J. Heiss President of the Fel lowship of Australian Writers in Sydney, said: "Australian writers are behind the sentiment of Aus tralia Day because they realise that it is essential to preserve Aus- ralia's 'heritage. Much has been done by Australian writers to foster this culture. "I urge writers generally to get behind the National TV Congress in March which will be a way of fighting against the weakening of our culture and for promoting Australian writing of Television. "We need an extension of the Commonwealth Literary Fund to make it possible for writers to de velop an indigenous outlook and hot be carried away in the drift of Australian writers looking for work overseas. "The Australian Government should finance literary competitions for every Australia Day — in all the literary forms." Last Friday, a Poetry Anthology by children from Australian schools was officially opened by Mr. H. Yel- land of the Department of Educat ion. The opening preceded a ferry cruise for children and picnic in honour of Mary Gilmore's 100th anniversary. The Anthology is being sponsored by the World Poetry Day Committee and The Australian Council for Child Advancement. Mr. Yelland said: "As a teacher I was strongly persuaded that the best way to encourage childrens' interest in .poetry was to encourage them to write it themselves. "There are some tendencies in Education to concentrate on science and technology. This appears to me to be a narrow conception of the .art of living and the nature of mankind. "When the Education Depart ment was asked to support this idea, people said that you can't be sure that the poetry is the chil drens' unassisted effort. "I see a danger of a different sort. I can see the danger of parents spoiling the originality of their children by giving them tod much advice. "Children left alone, will tap hidden springs of poetry long for gotten to their parents. "Mary Gilmore was a teacher and her poetry was loved by her people. It is a great honour to give, the children of Australia the chance to "bind -their own sheaf of verse." Mrs. M. Kempster, one of the organisers of The Australian Council for Child Advancement, said that she hoped the children on the ferry cruise would learn to appreciate the uniqueness of Aus tralia and writers like Mary Gil- "more. No other country could pro duce someone just like her. FOOTNOTE: Entry forms fr the Poetry Anthology by Young Australians are available from I Poetry Anthology, P.O. Box 3325, G.P.O., Sydney. ' ' 