 down on UN dues I | A YEAR'S sabotage of j the United Nations by j the United States has been j ended by the combined ; opposition of the socialist I countries, the newly inde- ! pendent nations of Africa ! and Asia, and France. ! This is the real meaning of j the climb-down by the USA from j its position of rigid insistence j that other countries, even those I that disapproved of them, must j pay for the UN's US-dictated j "peace-keeping" operations in I the Middle East and the Congo. I Actually they should have been I called "war-spreading" opera tions, since that was the result ! of them in the Congo, at any j rate. j "Defaulters" | The UPSR, the other Socialist I States, and France are not a j cent behind in their UN mem- j bership dues. I But because they refused to S pay also for the Middle East | and Congo operations they were ! adjudged to be "in default" by the USA, which said it would try I and expel them as "defaulters" j if they exercised their right to ' j vote in the UN General Assembly. | This arrogant stand meant that | no vote could be taken in the | Assembly in the session begin- . | ning last September. No decision !! could be made unless it could be agreed to "on the voices." A most important vote that ! could not be taken was that on the admission of the Chinese I People's Republic to the UN. j Now the US, Britain . and other | imperilaist powers who backed the US on this issue have had to back down and concede de- | feat. | They have not been able to | bend the UN to hteir will and . | make it their pliant instrument; . Ambassador Goldberg, admit- I ting what the USSR has been I pointing out all along, said that ! the USA found that the UN I majority would not support it on j the issue. I Main factor was the firm stand ! of the' USSR, which warned that - I it would not pay for the "special j operations" and would "recon | si.der its attitude towards - the J UN" if it was persisted in. | Middle East | The Middle East force was . I imposed on the United Arab I Republic after the cease-fire | which followed the British, | French and Israeli invasion of | 1956. The excuse was that the ) force was necessary to observe | the cease-fire. !a The decision was taken by the General Assembly, which also I voted funds for the upkeep of I the force in defiance of the - | UN Charter. ; | The USSR abstained from vot- ing only because the UAR had j agreed to the force, but con- j tended that there was no need I for it. If there was, it should ( be paid for by those whose j aggression had made it neces- ! sary. j p Congo J The Congo force was sent in | 1960 by the Security Coupncil on j the request of Congo Premier ! Lumumba. ) Congo President Kasavubu sent j a message that the aim of the j desired help was "not to restore j Internal order in the Congo but j to defend the national territory | against an act of aggression by j Belgian troops." j Actually the UN force helped j overthrow the Lumumba Govern- | ment and facilitated his assas- j sination. ; Nothing was done by the UN j force to oust the Belgians. The Belgian puppet Tshombe, who was later taken over by the - USA, was helped in every way. .Conor Cruse O'Brien, of Ire- ( . land, who was chief U.N. repre- j sentative in the Congo for a j time, later reported in a book I that he found that control of j the Congo operation was not in j the Security Council but in a j U.S.-dominated "Congo Club" j within the U.N. secretariat. j This "club" controlled the j movements of . U.N. secretary- j general Hammarskjoeld and got J rid of any U.N. officials in the J -Congo whom it disliked, includ- | ing, eventually, O'Brien himself, j 'Ditto' from Hasluck j After two years of "U.N." oper- I ations in the Congo, the main j mineral company, the Union . Miniere, representing British, ! U.S., French and Belgian capital, | increased its assets 50 per cent, j The Soviet Union took the firm j stand that financing of U.N. « operations must be decided by j the Security Council, in accord- -j ance with the Charter. j The Soviet Union decided also . to pay towards the cost of the I "U.N. Committee" for the res- | toration of Korea and also for j expenses connected with a « memorial cemetery to troops , killed during the U.S. aggression j in Korea in 1950-53. j . The Menzies Government has ? joined the U.S. in its humiliating , climb-down, another example | the "ditto" policy that U.S. pro- j gressives, hoping for Australia .« support, find embarrassing. I External Affairs Minister Has- - luck and his predecessor. Bar- wick, both declared that Austra lia, as a matter of .pthe j ciple, would demand that j "defaulting" states pay up. . When the U.S. reversed its position, Hasluck could not wai j 24 hours before following suit- j The only "principle" his G . emment really follows is tha the U.S.A. is always right. | 