 "Promote war" rally 1 at Sydney Trocadero I I YDNEY : That a world war I against the socialist coun- p tries is the object of "Captive i Nations" week, now in pro- | gress, became clear at the | opening rally on Sunday. | Headed by the Federal Minister for | Labor, Mr. W. McMahon, &lt; a team of 1 speakers called for the "liberation" of the "oppressed" socialist , peoples and demanded action against the Australian Communist Party. The rally ' was attended- by some- 800 to 1000 people, of whom a few | hundred later marched to the Ceno taph, carrying anti-Communist, anti- United Nations slogans. Not a word was said at the rally about South Africa, Rhodesia, Spain or other nations recognised by the whole democratic, world as captive to fascist and imperialist regimes. Birch Society While speakers poured forth hatred of socialism and democracy from the platform, stewards at the doors sold or handed out publications of the American John Birth Society, the leading US neo-fascist organisation, which supported Goldwater's Presi dential campaign a year ago. An official told the' Tribune repre sentative: "We support the John Birch Society." Among the publications being sold was The Politician by Birch Society founder Robert Welch— a book in which US President Eisenhower is depicted as a Communist con spirator. Also on sale was a book by the . notorious Senator Joseph McCarthy attacking US former State Secretary General Marshall. They marched to the Cenotaph carrying placards demanding a ban on the Communist Party of Australia and featuring the fascist catch-cry, "Better dead than Red." One poster attacked the United Nations, as 'Communist." -v Ushered through crossing lights by police, they placed flowers on the Cenotaph (where earlier in the week an official wreath had been laid in honor of the 20th anniversary of the UN,, to found: which millions of. . servicemen of aTi nations had died). -..The. Tribune representative pro- nest|dr;oh the sppttq Professor Colin R'otiefftk/ > who:f ,|uMied at the ceremony, at this use of the Ceno taph. At the meeting 'McMahon said that they must demonstrate to. the "cap tive nations'' that "we're ready to help - them if the opportunity should come." " Mr. A. W. Laing, introduced as chairman of the RSL's "anti-Commu nist Committee," hoped that the day of so-called liberation might not be "long away," With all this went ferocious attacks on the Australian workers. 7. Attack on "teach-ins" McMahon, obviously unhappy about the success of last Friday night's Sydney demonstration, called for war demonstrations and marches to an swer the peace demonstrations. He made an extraorinary attack on the "teach-in" discussions on the Vietnam war, which he said were organised by people who were not Communists but who "did not believe in the ideals of Western democracy." (To most people, the teach-ins are a notable expression of Australian democracy, perhaps the most striking yet to be manifest.) McMahon postured as the leader before whom the waterside workers had "collapsed." With a too-obviously provocative purpose he boasted that from the moment he introduced his Stevedor ing Bill, there had been no "trouble" on the waterfront. State Justice Minister J,. C. Mad- dison, whose sense of humor (or 1 (irony) seemed ot be ill-developed, | urged all those present to be politi- | cally active and to respect minority | views. I If the citizens never expressed their 1 views or told the Government what I they thought, the Government could I not properly reflect the people's will, 1 -he stressed. p If the people gave way to apathy 1 and surrendered their powers to the fl Government,- they would end up as s a captivfe nation. If He urged all present to join a || political party— he did not mind Wl which. II The right to criticise the Govern- W ment was basic to our way of life, fj Above all, said Mr. Maddison, the V real test of a democracy was the I freedom it allowed to minority fl groups. fl It was just after this that the 9 tough-looking characters marched H forth from the meeting bearing their H placards calling for a ban on the ffi Communist Party of Australia. || Captive Nations' Week continues || with an arts and crafts exhibition, I a business men's luncheon, a "cul- | tural festival" and a public meeting | in' the Macquarie Auditorium on I Friday night, where speakers will | include L. Short, E. D. Darby and | . Sir Raphael Cilento. I (A number of Eureka Youth League $ members, who approached the Troca- | dero on. Sunday afternoon, were | warned that police action would be | taken against them if they attended | the meeting.) | 