 o I s | First Mate on a wheat shin writes j j ! \For a girl afraid j , I of the dark j j "JHE is a slim, soft- ! eyed girl. Slie J started her work as a | messenger betw e e n A « V » 1 1 itne partisans ana tne Havana underground I when she was only j nine years old. c | "She is the most famous j of all Cuba's revolution- | aries. ! "More famous than Fid- | el Castro?" I asked in as- itonishment. "Yes, even more famous than Fidel." I The man talking was Vasily Maschenko, 38, first mate of the J "Luhovitsy" which took a record | 33,000 ton of Australian wheat to | Odessa USSR last week. J Vasily, an engineer, worked on 1 the ship's construction in Hiro- Ishima with other Soviet techni cians. He has been in 45 different o countries and has just finished I ' his third novel. a » The heroine | "Ilda Robilero is the girl's | name and she is the heroine of I my novel," the smiling Vasily j continued in a more serious tone. "After the revolution she went ! : with a literacy brigade into Pina j del Rio in the far west of Cuba, j a district of swamp and ignor- | 1 ance. I "She taught her people to read I and write and helped fight and g defeat the bandits who were 1 landed there. She and her friends j did their job well. j I asked Vasily why he had g i chosen this theme. ! "I have a daughter Tatiana. j j She is fourteen years old. Her | teachers say she is a very active I and industrious girl. And I can I see that myself. But once I went I to a village with her on a holi- | day. It was a dark night and we I were reading a book out in the j yard. g "After we went inside, Tatiana realised she had forgotten the | book: I asked her to go and get | it. She said she was a bit scared. | "My first reaction was that it I was understandable. The girl was : afraid. But I thought about it | ' later and wondered could she S I really have been scared of the j I dark? I "I thought back. When I was I her age I was afraid of nothing. g We lived under the fascist occup- S ation and girls of her age, too, 0 1 were afraid of nothing. We "aw j J terrors and horrors and were ! ready for anything. I "I thought our own children j are not sufficiently aware of the g | darkness and terror faced by the f » 2 children of the world — they are I / II brought up like exotic flowers "So after living in Cuba and I v. learning the story of Ilda Robil- | 3 ero and her friends I wrote this g I book intending it for all fourten- ! I year-old girls in my country, so I hey would not be afraid of the g I dark." g | Vasily Maschenko's other novel | | is ""eroes of the Sixty Days", a i 1 story of how seamen tugged a g j 100,000 ton dock from Leningrad ! 2 to Odessa. I ! "Why do you use the word f | 'heroes'?" I asked him. I "Well, this was a job never I .3 ! tackled before. There were | ! I hundreds of proposals. Some J j said the dock ought to be cut 1 j up and air freighted. Some said j J take it by land, but the sailors g j said give it to us. 1 , ! "They said they'd do it and i ! they did. That's why I call them g j 'heroes'." j First mate on the "Luhovitsy", Vasily Maschenko (left) is | seen with chief engineer Anatoli Dotsenko. j 