 [?] Senate poll raises hop® for March S.A. election : ADELAIDE: Tlbe recent Sesiiote election result in South Australia indicates thatB given a vigorous aid united campaign by the Lobar Movemenfa the Playford Government can be defeated in the State elections next March. ()N figures nearing comple tion, the combined Liberal- DLP anti-labor vote increased only by 2917 while the com bined vote of the Labor Move ment (ALP and Communist) increased by 13,109. Thus the Labor Movement gained 10,192 votes, and the votes left to count will hardly alter the posi tion. ALP leaders have pointed out that at least two borderline seats held by the Government returned a Labor majority whereas all Labor-held seats increased their former majorities. This would include borderline seats of Chaffey and Unley, held by Labor. The fact is that Labor always polls better in State elections than in Fed eral in South Australia. Playford governs in an evenly di vided House of Assembly, with the "Independent" Speaker (Mr. T. Scott) supporting the Government. A loss of one seat will dislodge the Liber als Anger Labor could certainly win Flind ers and Victoria. A change in mind of 230 voters is needed in Flinders. It is in this electorate that anger has been expressed at Playford's sell-out of the State's natural resources (lime sand deposits at Coffin Bay) to the BHP steel monopoly and the permit granted to build a private railway (known as tramway to avoid legal complications). The ALP convention this year called upon the Labor Movement to fight the private tramway racket "with all possible means". Already members of the Australian Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen have placed a black ban on the work. In Victoria there needs to be a change in mind by 252 people. It is in this electorate earlier this year that there were actions by rail and timber workers against the Playford Government's unjust rent rise on Government homes. In Barossa, where the working class population is . growing and "where Communist ' candidate Tim Slater polled one in six last time, the ALP has a good chance. There is a growing Labor vote in the seat of Gouger. Other seats where the Government could not feel completely sure are: Burra, where a change of 370 votes is required, and where the member (Mr. Quirke) has tumbled from one political loyalty to another— -ALP, In dependent and now Liberal — and thus has left all kinds of political odours in all kinds of places. Glenelg and Torrens, where Liberals were elect ed on DLP preferences. (Here the 50 per cent drop in DLP vote for the Senate should be noted.) Workers' vote The growth of working class popu lations in a number of electorates will favor the ALP. The revolt against the LCL, includ ing prominent country Liberal mem bers, and the formation of the new Country Party will act against Play ford. For instance, there is talk of the Country Party making some kind of showing in the March elections. Feel ing is high against the Liberals, par ticularly amongst the farmers on Eyre Peninsula. 1964. has seen Playford carrying out his new Year boast that he would step up aid to monopoly. BHP, Chrysler, BMH, the Vacuum Oil Com- pany and Nabisco are among those which received favored treatment. On the other hand, the people's op position to Playford has grown. This was expi'essed particularly in the defeat of the Government's attempt to worsen the already terrible gerry mander. This defeat was inflicted upon the Government by a united Labor Movement. On rents, equal pay, annual leave, long service leave, education, hous ing, farming problems, amendments to the industrial code, wages and prices, the people were active and often forced the Government to re treat. The Communist Party in SA will set about to rally the whole Labor Movement to defeat Playford and return a Labor Government. The Party will step up its expos ure of Playford's sell-out to mono poly and neglect of the people's in terests. It will make democracy a big issue, and call upon the people of SA to end once and for all the shameful gerrymander under which a minority Liberal Party can arro gantly continue holding the reins of office, despite the people's electoral verdict against it. ( The Communist Party will stand in three or four seats, yet to be fin alised, and is already planning a vig orous camapign. 