 Australian ballet and its farewell tour "T"HE third and last program presented by the Austra lian Ballet in its farewell sea son before leaving on an over- seas tour includes Yugen' and "The Display". "Yugen", is based on a Japan ese legend. The music is now by Japanese composer Yuzo T«. , .n a and per cussion and melody are used alter nately or blended for dramatic ef fect. "The Display" is the story of a young girl (Kathleen Gorham) who is entranced by the lyrebird she sees in its natural setting in the bush. She is joined by other picnickers, boys and girls and il is in these early scenes that the ballet is beaut ifully effective and will possibly be of most interest to overseas aud iences. The opening scenes with the light and mists rising through the tall gum trees and the outline of the lyrebird becoming gradually more distinct truly captures the maghil atmosphere of our deep fern gulltea and forests that are the haunt of the lyrebird. The vigorous danoes of the boys, to which the fast moving action of Australian Rules football contrib utes and the vivacity and freshness of the girls in their pink dresses express the joyous spirit of youth. Competition develops between the leader of the boys and the "Out sider" another boy outside the group, for the affections of the young girl. The Outsider is beaten up by the boys in such ay that he is ren dered ineffective to consummate the love scene with the girl. The desire aroused in the girl w apparently satisfied by the lyrebird as the curtain falls. Developments in dance and ballet over" the last decade particularly have shown that a very wide range oi expression can be covered by all forms of the Dance. The modern choreographer has a wealth of splendid young dancers, fine musicians and theatrical art ists. It unfortunate that neither . of the two ballets which seek to show some aspect of distinctive Austra lian life "Melbourne Cup" and "The Display" makes the grade in this respect. Nevertheless it is a- wonderful achievment of effort that has brought the Company this far and is now taking it to three leading cities in Britain, to Lebanon and who knows where else before they return. Our best wishes go with them. M. rt. 