 Indian Communist Congress I T"HE Indian Communist Party Congress held in . Bombay in December, met I amidst nationwide strua- i gles against food shortages and sharply rising food prices. Recent actions led by the Party include:— A march of 100,000 on Delhi with a petition carrying 1,150,000 signatures. An All-India five-day "Sat-" yagraha" (civil disobedience ac tion) which involved picketing of grain markets, banks and Gov ernment offices. This drew mil lions into action and let to 27,000 arrests. A one-day general strike in five Indian States. These struggles, the biggest since independence, were fought to loosen the grip of food hoard-., ers and speculators and force cheaper food prices. Central demands were for bank national isation, confiscation of grain ..stocks and State trading in grain; Concessions so far won are in adequate; and All-India one-day stoppage is planned, to be follow ed by a campaign in the rural areas from April to June aimed to secure land for poor peasants and farm laborers and necessary roads, water works, etc. - : ' The struggles would have dey: ; eloped further but for the break- I away of a section of Party mem- j bers to form a rival party follow ; ing the political line of the Com- | munist Party of China. The Bombay workers, who i have a splendid militant history, I showed their will to struggle and j their great faith in the Party at i a mass rally called to support the ! party Congress. 200,000 gathered I in the Shivaji Park after march I ing through the city streets from S all directions under their red ban- I ners. I The atmosphere of mass strug- | gle gave the Congress a note Of I very high confidence and enthus- | iasm. | Many parties J Fraternal delegations from the I Communist Parties of 24 coun j tries attended the Congress arid more than 30 other parties sent messages of greeting. Delegates came from the Soviet Union and other socialist lands; from France- Italy, the USA; from ; world storm-centres like Ceylon, the - Sudan," Cyprus; and five even from Latin America. ;ach fraternal delegate was given a standing ovation. Dele gates frorii the illegal Irak Party iri 'particular received a tremend 'ouis; welcome. Mass poverty has brought the Indian economy to an impasse The elimination of foreign cap ital the breaking of the power of the monopolies, nationalisation arid real land reform— this is the only road to progress. The Congress adopted unanim ously a new Party program call ing for a "national democratic front' of all patriotic and pro gressive people (workers, peas ants, middle class and national capitalists) against the grip ol imperialism, monopoly and the feudal forces. The Indian capitalist class which led the long struggle against British rule through the National Congress and became the government after independ ence, has a dual nature. On the whole it has helped to develop India as an independent nation with its own industry, (aid ' from the socialist countries has helped in this), and has adopted a "non-aligned" foreign policy rejecting military alliances, for eign bases, nuclear weapons, etc. But it has also opposed the class interests and demands of the In dian working people. The mixed position of the class is reflected in the Congress Par ty which has a right wing linked with the imperialists and home monopolies and with the extreme right "Swatantra" Party, but which includes among its mem bers and supporters millions oi patriotic and progressive people A broad alliance based on the workers and peasants but em bracing large sections of National Congress supporters can, it is estimated, carry through big mass struggles, isolate and defeat the reactionaries and force a decisive shift to the left in Gov ernment policy. The ex-Party splitters reject this road forward. They look upon the Congress Government as their main enemy, discrimin ate little between different sec tions of the Congress, and even bargain with extreme right wing forces to defeat it. This is the way of a minimum of alliances and a maximum of casualties Splif efFect The splitters took away 30% oi the Party membership (much less in most States but 3 out oi 7 in Kerala and over 50% in West Bengal). They took 11 of the 32 .Communist members of the nat ional parliament and 70 out of 201 members of the State As semblies. But the Party is still very strong, it has big mass in fluence and will grow in the com ing struggles. The Government has lately used so-called "defence" powers to arrest hundreds of leaders ol the breakaway group. These powers have been used also against Communists, Republican i Party members, trade, union | fighters, peaceful, food agitators | Of tne delegates at the Party I Congress, 90% had been in jail, j many for years, many quite re- g cently." .The Congress received | messages of greeting from vari | ous groups of Paity members g still "behind" the bars. I j India-China i On the India-China border con I flict, the Indian Party Congress | pledged itself "to work for the g settelement of the conflict with j China on the basis of the Col- ombo proposals." | These were compromise pro I posals. worked out by a group oi ) Asian powers meeting in Col- j ombo. j They have been accepted- by the I Indian Government and there j fore offer an opportunity to end g a conflict which benefits only the I imperialists. The supreme consideration in g this conflict must be to restore | India-China peace and friend- ship. The border has always been ! in dispute and to support one ) particular frontier line against j another gets nowhere. S The actions of our brothel I Parties in both countries should j be judged by how far they have g aided or hindered peace and | friendship. | In the middle 1950's Indian g crowds were shouting "India- | China— brothers!" In huge dem- | onstrations all over the country j That situation struck terror into S the imperialists and had it con | tinued would have given an im- j mense impetus to the movement ! for progress and socialism ;n I India. I The Congress lasted 10 days g and was very democratically con- I . ducted, breaking up into commis- | sions to discuss the program and g&lt; resolutions in more detail and | later discussing them very fully in plenary sessions. g Rajeswar Rao, a powerful and ! highly respected figure, was | elected as the new general sec- j retary. S. A. Dange, who des- | pite all attacks from the break- I away group enjoys great popul- J arity both in the Party and the g "'"masses, was re-elected chairman. | RALPH GIBSON, Central Committee member who at tended the Indian Commun ist Party Congress as a fra ternal delegate from the Com munist Party of Australia. 