 Bitter conflict in Algeria 1"HE military coup in Al geria against the Ben Bella leadership of the na tional revolution is being ans- wered by widespread demon-... strafions by the people in favor of Ben Bella. Already the coup, led by the Army chief Boumedienne, has disrupted the important international activities around the Afro-Asian Conference and the World Youth Festival. Both of these gatherings were to have been held in Algiers. The conference is off until Novem ber at least, and the Festival may be held elsewhere. Both gatherings were expected to play an important part in the oppo sition to the American war of inter vention in Vietnam. Although many questions about the coup in Algeria and its backers remain unanswered so far, reports analysed by Tribune's Moscow correspondent Rupert Lockwood indicate a bitter struggle continuing in Algeria. "To the gallows!" Leaflets distributed in Algerian cities last week announced that formation of a popular liberation movement tod cries of "Long Live Ben Bella"! were ringing through the streets. Boumedienne 's forces clamped lown a censorship, seizing copies o? the French Communist daily, 'Humanite'. Humanite reports that young people marched in the east Algerian city of Bone with slogans like "Boumedienne to the Gallows"! -Police fired, and used tear gas. Women paraded in veils shouting "Vive Ben Bella, death to the mur derers!" Soldiers shot down uncounted num bers in Bone and then killed off the wounded lying in the streets. Workers in Bone went on strike and dockers manned barricades. Bone was completely isolated by Boume- dienne's troops. Reports also reached Humanite of bloodshed in Oran and massacres elsewhere including one costing 150 lives and another where armoured cars fired on people. Egypt's concern United Arab Republic vice-president Amer on a special mission to Algiers, demanded to see Ben Bella. Boume dienne refused but claimed that Ben Bella was "safe and sound" at Taman- rasset, in the central Sahara. Chief editor Hassamein Heykal of the Cairo official paper A1 Ahram, who accompanied Amer, reported the situation as explosive and estimated that 70 per cent of the people are "partisans for Ben Bella". The World Youth Festival Interna tional Preparatory Committee has left Algiers. A French youth movement com munique points out that the Inter national Preparatory Committee's work in Algiers was rendered impos sible by arrests of the Algerian youth leaders — the festival hosts— and by the state of insecurity and the ending of communications between Algiers and the national youth organisations. International youth leaders are dis cussing an alternative venue in Europe for the Festival. The Australian organisation sup porting the festival is meeting to night (Wednesday) to consider the situation. Background, Page 4 - r ? 