 US Communist Party aqain indicted i HILE the brutal mur derers of Civil Rights workers in Mississippi go scot free, the Communist Party of the USA has been indicted for the sec ond time under the vicious McCarran Act. The Party has called for wide action and protests to repel this new attack and says that a mass movement can stop this n'ot aoainst democracy. On December 14. 1964. Ass'stan- US Attorney ConliPf successfully moved in the District Court for a second trial on a three year old in dictment against the Communist Party. The trial has been set for March 15, 1965. The Party's appeal aga,ins( the first indictment was upheld oil De cember 17. 1963, when the Appeals Court found that the Government had failed to prove that there was anyone available to register the Communist Party as the McCarran Act required, without incriminating themselves and risking grave penalties under the Act. This was hailed as a great victory for democracy by the Communist j Party of the US. which had waged a i wide campaign against this mon- i strous law ' Tn its ru'vi? hrx""r"?r. -h? Court J of Appeals said that the Government could request a new trial at which it could attempt to prove that there was some person willing to register the Communist Party. Under this ruling the Government is launching its further witch-hunt. Hearings are already proceeding before the Subversive Activities Con trol Board (SABC) in the most re cent "membership registration" cases. (Under the Act Communists axe obliged to register as members of a "subversive" organisation. "Regis tration" cases now before SACB are prominent Communists on trial for failure to register. Communists- re fuse to register because such a law is unconstitutional and a denial of de» mocracy). There are 44 Coirvnitfc 0n trial At the hearings in Boston on a pro- test picket line marched outside the building and the hearing room was -;:- filled to overflowing. Many people -'$ sat in the corridor. ||| In the case against Hyman Lumer, ji editor of Political Affairs, SACB pro- duced four "witnesses" who were known paid FBI informers. They had ill spied in a number of other civic and :i|: political organisations. Gus Hall the general secretary of $S the Communist Party of: the USA was indicted in March 1962. No trial |g date has yet been set. Benjamin |p Davis, Negro Communist leader was indicted at the same' time but ht |1 died, on August 22, IMk ;|| Othr cases under other setiofts ©i 1| the Act Rtp also at various j|i stages of litigation || 