 Working for world Communist unity "THE Political Committee of the Communist Party of Australia, at its meeting on March 30, discussed and en- dorsed: the report of the Party s delegation to the Moscow Consultative Meeting attend ed by representatives of T 9 Communist and Workers'; Parties. The Moscow meeting which was a v positive contribution to the task of patiently working to overcome dif- From the Political Committee, Communist Party of Australia. ferences in the worid communist movement, unanimously adopted two important statements. The first called for international solidarity with the heroic people of -Vietnam in their war of national liberation from United States im perialist domination and aggression. This call has brought a further dev elopment of world-wide action for implementation of the 1954 Geneva Convention and withdrawal of U.S. forces from Vietnam. The second was a communique, which called for strengthening un ity of the Communist and Workers' Parties. This is even more urgent now, when U.S. imperialism is tak ing advantage of the differences to step up its aggressive actions. The communique, recognising the fact that serious differences exist, nevertheless stressed the most im portant fact that "what unites the Communist Parties greatly out weighs that which at the present time disunites them." The meeting concentrated its at tention on those major issues on which all Parties can and should unite: United action against imperial ism in the fight for world peace. Support for all national libera tion movements. © The fight for the vital interests and historic goals of the work ing class. All Parties represented agreed that experience in this common action would help greatly in resolving deep differences which exist on theoretic al problems and the 'general political line of the whole communist move ment. Australian Communists have al ready decided their attitude on these problems, in open and democratic discussion, at the 1964 Party Con gress and reaffirmed by the Central Committee in February, 1965. The 1964 Party Congress decided in fav our of a world meeting to seek the maximum unity of the great com munist movement. The Moscow meeting declared it self in favour of a consultative meet ing of all 81 Parties present at the 1960 meeting, as a democratic ap proach to holding a world meeting. The Political Committee, strongly favouring the proposed consultative conference, recognises there are still differences of opinion among parties supporting active steps to unity. These mainly concern whether the time is ripe for such a meeting. Such differences should be patiently discussed in bilateral and multilater al meetings and other exchanges of opinion. " It causes deep regret that seven parties did not attend the meeting, and that the Communist. Party oi China publicly attacked the meeting, rejected its sincere approach for unity in action and insisted on con tinuation of public polemics. The communique asked for united action on immediate tasks, and an end to open polemics, while favour ing "in a comradely form and with out mutual attacks, an exchange oi opinion on the important contem porary issues . . ." Australian Communists will res pond to the Moscow meeting's ap peal and work for communist unity by acting yet more vigorously to defend world peace, supporting Viet nam and opposing U.S. imperialism and Australian Government policies in South East Asia, developing un ited action of the working class and peace forces/ and building the Com munist Party. In this way, we will play our part in resolving differences, contribut ing our- practical experience and theoretical conclusions to help deter mine the correct general political line for the world movement. 