 [?] I PLANS FOR i THE CITIES I ADELAIDE: South Australian activities for Equal Pay Week j will include a forum at the Trades HalL factory meetings for I each day of the week, Equal Pay Committee speakers to ! address a meeting off the Trades and Labor Council, and j newspaper, radio and TV publicity. 1 rpHESE plans have"- been made following joint discussion be- I tween the SA Trades and Labor Council Equal Pay Committee and the SA Equal Pay Council repre senting 22 professional associations a Atiwnnico flrttic ana wuuic" o The Premier, Mr. F. Walsh, has been asked to meet a deputation from five organisations wanting to know the Government's plans on equal pay for women. The bodies are the SA Trades and' tabor Council, the Australian Council of Salaried and Profes sional Associations the Public Service Association, the SA Insti tute of Teachers and the SA Equal Pay Council. These five bodies . will have representative speakers at the Forum which will be held at the Trades Hall on May 17 to launch Equal Pay Week. The campaign for equal ray. took a big ,step forward with/the elec- tion of a Labor Government -in South Australia in March. Then the Labor Party undertook to in troduce equal pay for equal work in all SA Government departments.-. Equal pay would be applied in par ticular throughout the Education Department. The deputation to Mr. Walsh -will discuss the implementation of the equal pay promise in the Govern ment's policy speech. This has fol lowed a strong campaign waged by the Equal Pay Council prior to the elections. This included newspaper articles each day during the last week of the campaign, 200 radio scatters and a deputation from the Teach ers' institute to the Minister for Education in the Playford . Gov ernment, Sir Baden Pattinson. Playford's stubborn refusal to budge the slightest in the direction of granting equal pay in the. face of this sttong campaign was one of the factors that led to the de feat of his government. OERTH: On Thursday, May 20, the Trades and Labor Coun cil will hold a conference; "Equal Pay — The Way Forward", at the Trades Hall at 5.30 pm. A buffet tea will be provided by the Perth Labor Women's Organ isation. Delegates have been invited from all trade unions, the Civil Service Association, the Council for Equal Pay and Opportunity and other interested bodies. In addition, the Government Parties and the ALP have been in vited to attend. T»iwfoccni> ' Ovnnrn T.eeturAr in «. 4VAVIkrWVii ALA Economics at the University, will chair the economic section. The Trades and . Labor Council and the Employers' Federation will provide the main speakers. The WA Council for Equal Pay and Opportunity will provide the chair and speakers for the social section. .. ' Time has been allowed in each section for delegates to speak. On Sunday, May 16 or 23, half of 'Channel 7's program "View point", will feature a panel dis cussion between representatives from the Trades and Labor Coun cil and the Employers' Federation on "Equal Pay — Whose Responsi bility?" The WA Council for Equal Pay and Opportunity will launch a public speaking contest (adult and junior sections) at a public meet ing on Friday, May 14, at the Builders' sxenange, 37 . Havelock Street, We:t Perth. On Monday, May 17, the Equal Pay and Opportunity Council will hold their annual Equal Pay Week dinner at the Nurses' Memorial Centre Hall. An attendance of 70-80 is expected. . The speaker will he Mrs.. Roberta Tatom, a . visiting ' lecturer from Los Angeles and a practising" consultative psy chologist. Both the Equal Pay Committee of the Trades and j-»abor Council and the WA Council for Equal Pay aaid Opportunity will issue leaflets to the" public and workplaces dur- . ing the week. The N.S.W. Labor Council have organised a whole week of activity beginning with a dinner at 6 p.m. to 8 pitt on Monday, May 17, at PSA House, 201 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Trade unions and other organisa tions are invited. Tuesday and .Wednesday have been left open so .that individual trade unions may plan their own activity and on Thursday there will he a special meeting of the Labor Coun cil in the Sydney Trades Hall. Some of 1500 workers (mostly women) who stopped work at Arnott's factory in 1963 against time and motion "experts" A float in the Brisbane Labor Day procession last Sunday week puts the case for equal pay. 