 Unions investigate the drought, and find thai-. . . Farmers are in a 'terrible situation' By HENRY McCARTHY NEWCASTLE: Officials of the Newcastle Trades Hall Council , who inspected 10 dairy 'farms in the drought-stricken areas of the northern districts last week , described the conditions they found as "deplorable" and "critical". -rHE officials were invited to ' make the inspection by the idairy farmers. They were: Mr. U Dowling, - secretary of the iNTHC; Mr. R. - Rose, an ; exe cutive officer of the Council Sand vice-president of the New castle branch 'of the Waterside fv/orkers; and Mr. M. Copley, I research officer of the NTHC. I "The plight of the farmers is in no I way exaggerated and we will make a full report to the next Council meet ing on Thursday July 1," Mr. Dowling said. "I feel confident that the Council after hearing the report on ; the ter rible situation of the farmers will do everything it possible can to . assist them." He added that the Council at a recent meeting had unanimously car ried a resolution calling on the Federal and State Governments to make avail able a 'special free grant to farmers to compensate for heavy stock losses and for purchase of fodder to prevent more losses. "As a further step towards doing all we can- in the interests of the two mutually exploited sections of the people— the worker and the small farmer, we will ask the coming Aus tralian Council of Trade Union Con gress to declare that both Federal and State Governments should provide adequate compensation in cases of rural calamity, to protect farmers from high interest loans necessary to restore their livestock and to rehabil itate their farmlands," Mr. Dowling said. He recalled that the Hunter Valley Community Conference, held in 1961 and attended by over. 200 delegates and 87 observers from 78 organisations, had given top priority to a demand for a water - conservation scheme for the Hunter Valley. The Conference had declared that this and other works could be start ed because the previous cry of "no man power and no money rings very hollow today." Conservation To place responsibility on the farm er to store his own- water to meet the ravages of a drought like the present one is a concept out of keep ing with reality. " This does not imply that, farmers should not store water, but water storage and conservation is a national responsibility that has been pushed "aside by Governments for generations. The price for their failure is periodic national disaster and ruin. - There is only one dam in NSW with the explicit purpose of storing water for farming. It is only the Glenbawn Dam that is saving the Hunter Valley from complete disaster. It is a tragedy that the coastal belt of NSW, the" part most seriously hit by the present drought, is adequately supplied with rivers. Yet riot one river with the exception of the Hunter is dammed for farming purposes. Here is where the storage of water should begin, not in the small dams or storage tanks that farmers might possess. The Department of Conservation ad- mits that it is two years in arrears in dealing with farmers' applications for water storage projects. The present drought proves- that farmers' water reserves for a dry period are inadequate because of their limited finance and facilities to do so. Until the Governments decide, or are forced to decide that they . must as a matter of national urgency, devel op a water conservation scheme Aus tralia will continue to suffer the re curring cycle of drought and flood. 