 "We have a responsibility" QTAN Tapper's criticism of the Tri- bune editorial on the A.S.U. ban on four leading swimmers sounded much too harsh and incorrectly attri- buted to the editorial expressions that it did not contain. The editorial" correctly expressed in political terms the antagonism of the vast bulk of the Australian people towards the A.S.U. bureaucracy. The editorial differed from the others I read in that it urged action to remedy the injustices. No Communist with knowledge of this question would subject the work of hundreds of voluntary officials to unfair criticism and this the Tribune did not do. However, there are many, myself in cluded, who do criticise the bureau crats who in many instances, attain to leading positions in amateur sporting organisations for the purpose of fur thering their private and business in terests. It is significant that in very few of these organisations do you find work ers in the top brackets. The real test of the editorial's cor rectness in my opinion, will come when the various State organisations meet. These are made up of those honest hard-working honorary work ers who represent their clubs on the State bodies. All State swimming bodies could re: ject the A.S.U. decision, but this would not mean that the decision would be changed. I cannot see, particularly in view of Ann Hatton's statement that the behaviour of the girls was beyond question, how anyone can fail to be incensed at the A.S.U. decision. Officials must be elected on the basis of their ability to lead and guide the youngsters, not on the basis of reward for service regardless of ability. Tribune did not tell us how to de mocratize the A.S.U., but surely it is not the oracle with all the answers. We individual Communists who are personally interested and involved have the responsibility to let our paper know what means and how much organisations can be improved. „ Probably the most valuable means of doing this is to report to Tribune on what we or others have done in such organisations to bring about changes which are necessary to im prove the lot of our youth in sport. I support the Tribune call, for pro test and make a further suggestion that we should demand that all State delegates to the A.S.U. should give account of themselves to the State body, to give it the chance of reject- inpr rheir uniust decision. W. S. Latter (WA) 