 USSR, China exchange of warm / greetings /GREETINGS exchanged be- tween Soviet and Chinese Communist Party and Govern ment leaders on the 1 5th anni versary of the Sino-Soviet Friendship Treaty got front page treatment in the Peking and Moscow press on February 14. Celebrations of the anniversary were held in all major cities through out USSR and China. In addition to government and party leaders, other public figures exchanged greetings with1 their Soviet or Chinese opposite num- bc.»".. "Our alliance bars the way of aggressive imperialist circles who organise provocations endangering ' peace" said the Soviet message signed by Communist Party leader Brezhnev, President Miko- yan and Premier Kosygin. "The fraternal relations between our countries, between the Soviet Communist Party and the Chinese Communist Party, based on Marxist-Leninist - principles, corres ponds to the interests of our peoples, the cause of consolidating the socialist community the unity of the world communist movement. "It is in our common interests to develop further relations of tradi tional friendship between our par ties and peoples, to remove, step by step, what has accumulated in the past." The Chinese- message, signed by Mao Tse-tung, Liu Shao.chi, Chu Teh and. Chou En-lai said the Sino- Soviet treaty "corresponds to the fundamental interests of the people of China and the USSR, the peoples of the Socialist camp and the whole world. Common enemy "The consolidation of the great Alliance assists the struggle against Mir common enemy — American im perialism — assists the task of really ensuring the security of both our jountries and the common cause of struggle to preserve world peace ind to help the progress of man kind. "Whatever may happen in the world, the 650 million people of China will always stand resolutely together with the great Soviet people and the peoples of the other countries of the socialist camp." Pravda gave almost a whole page lo the friendship meeting in the Hall of Columns in Moscow which liras addressed by Soviet and Chinese ..leaders. Similar fraternal gatherings were b!eld in Peking and other Chinese iities. v J 