 TRIBUNE | Defend Australia's independence IN World War I, P ime Minister W. M. Hughes harangued Australians: "Defend White Australia on the battlefields of Europe." This brings a smile to many Australians' lips today. Yet the Menzies Government claims, not without effect, that it must defend Australia in the rice paddies of South Vietnam. 'It has thrust Australian troops into a war- there that is Caused only by contirued foreign intervention and control. American and British intervention are the basic reasons for the whole military escalation in South -East Asia. With out their ruthless military take-over policies, S.E. Asia would rot. be the centre of m=vor war threat it is tcdav. Without the nuclear-a med 7th fleet and' the nuclear-capable V-bcmber squadrons in Sinnpoore these two vears or more, the regrettable Indonesian talk of nuclear armament might never have arisen today. The American-led onslaught on S.E. Asia, where the people demand independence and democracy, is escalating something else — hatred . . . the hat 'ed of the local people for those who would impose death and unwanted regimes on them, for the sake of investment and cold war strategy. By involving Australia in these military campaigns, the Federal Government has deliberately chosen to invite this hatred against our country. This can only rapidly erode the security of Australia which will always depend, first and foremost, on the nature of our relations with our neighbours. The Menzies policy, therefore, runs fundamentally counter to the cause of successfully maintaining Australian independence, which should net and cannot depend only or even mainly on military measures, except when as in 1942 the sovereignty of Australia is in fact menaced by an agg-assor. To deferd Australia's independence is a basic policy of the Communist Party of Australia, written into its consti tution. In World War II this du'tv led 4000 Communists into the anrned services. Since 1945 it has meant a rising strprqle against US political-economic influence on Aus tralia. Foreign policy Today it means, above all, the struggle for an inde pendent foreign policy, one that will bring back the troops from Vietnam, halt all armed intervention into S.E. Asia and build a permanent basis of equality and friendship with Asian countries. In one way or another, the Communists share this aim with thousands of other Australians — in the labor move ment, churches, universities and elsewhere. Young men' are expressing resentment an-J opposition to being conscripted for overseas service. This is inevit able and a healthy Australian reaction against wrong policy, irrespective of the personal standpoints of particular voung men concerned. They coincide with the traditional Aus tralian line of struggle against the militarism of an unjust cause, and the line of fighting for democratic rights. Many Australians are rightly concerned at the mounting signs of an impending attack on the rights of political discussion, now that the Government's Vietnam war policy is beginning to feel the hot fire of broad public criticism. They remember the ruthless new political and industrial sections of the Crimes Act, shaped for fust such a situation. Thousands of Australian farmers are demanding to krew vhy their unrelieved plight in drought and flood is so unimportant compared with the inflation of the war qhest. (See Page 3.) Whether they now know it or not, all of these Aus tralians have common ground with the Communists, pledged to defend Australia's independence, security and well- being by all means — political, economic or military — and to oppose government policies that endanger Australia's indenendence and security. As the American warlords, isolated in a world sense and dogged by failure and condemnation, throw more divi sions and squadrons into Vietnam, Australians face a big choice: either be -dragged right into a total war aqainst Asia that is wrong and cannot be won, or stand firmly now for an independent and secure Australia in harmony with its neighbours. The deqres of Australian public action for peace in coming weeks and months will hav$ a bjp. bearing on Jthe, , ".ot'f-rin. .on:-"- j jagiji'm ?&lt;: ' ' ! r . f- ' -nfii'if". '.'I - 