 [?] I CEYLON ! With ! JUDAH WATEN S had travelled less I than a mile from I the Colombo wharf j when we saw a great j crowd of men in white j suits and women in | colorful saris standing | outside the Central Bank building listen ing to a speaker. I From poles fluttered j red banners with gold I letting and the ham- - \ mer and sickle em- j blem. I The employees of the | Central Bank were on | strike.. . j During our four days stay we saw a number of I similar scenes. I There were strikes in many | undertakings and we saw many | picket lines. At all of them, red I flags with hammer and sickle | were flown. It seems that the | hammer and sickle is a very S popular emblem in Colombo j and even non-communist bodies | of workers make use of it. S This is, I think, a symptom | of the deep progressive fer- | ment in the country that was S leading towards new moves for | unity between Mrs. Bandara- | naike's government party and S the parties of the left, including I the Communist Party of Cey- i Ion. For 'this reason the re- I actionaries organised a plot I against the government result- ing in its being defeated in parliament. The reactionaries are an odd assortment. Extreme obscur antist Buddhist monks rub shoulders with former ultra- lefts and the straight-out rep- ! resentatives of the foreign oil I monopolies and the local mer- j chant and landlord class. Needless to say, they enjoy J the support of the US State De- j partment which has never ceas- j to campaign against Mrs. J Bandaranaike's government. j While we were in Colombo the press reported that the Ameri- can ambassador had publicly | predicted the downfall of the j government days before it actu- ! ally occurred. j Here as in most Asian coun- j tries there is to be heard an i increasing chorus of complaint I against American meddling. j President Ayub of Pakistan ! according to his own news- I paper charged that the Central j Intelligence Agency had actu- j ally participated in the Paki- ! stan election. I The reactionaries in Ceylon j had hoped to have a snap elec tion, but to their utter chagrin j Mrs Bandaranaike decided to j have the election in March, thus ving the progressive forces I sufficient time to explain to the j electors that what was at stake was the vei-y existence of an ' independent Ceylon. , j The policy of the reaction- j aries is to put an end to na- \ tionalisation at home and non- j alignment in world affairs, j opening the way to neo-colon- ! ialism. j From the discussions we had j with people in many walks of ! life, we concluded that the I working people supported the j government. Merchants, hotel- keepers, illegal money-changers I and rich foreign visitors cursed j the government.1 