 Hie Australian p By Tom Doran ( j A story of Tom Doran's appears in the latest "Tracks We j Travel" a collection of Australian Short Stories. The ! | collection was published last Friday by the Australasian j | Book Society, price 25/-. It is edited by Leslie Haylen. I © I j Last week Tom Doran described his travels during the j j "great" depression in Australia, "waltzing matilda" from S j one blank lead to another, how his father discovered j j gold, and how he later "waltzed" a rifle with thousands. | | of other Australians to the war against fascism. f j This week he tells of Jack Dennis's- contest with "Tiger" ! j Payne for a £4 purse in Jimmy Sharman's tent in Hay, I | NSW. I ""HE sun was setting as Jack Dennis and I ap proached the town. He was walking just ahead of me and for the last half-mile I had spent the time trying to count the flies that had settled 011 his broad back. But I couldn't get the figure right as some of them crawled over his swag . and disappeared h-» its shade. Jack was easily six reet, 21 years of age and- weighed 15 stone. He carried no surplus veight, as. months on the 'rack "waltzing matilda" from | "ob'to job had taken fine care ' f that. As he heaved "Matilda" to ease- is shoulders, the cloud of flies flew p and settled on my face and arms. "We'll camp under the bridge",, aid Jack, as he half turned towards he. "It's not a bad camp." I dumped "Matilda" in the shade of a tree and pulled the lid off the old black billy. "Here, have a swig of this tea. suppose the bridge will have plenty of bagmen under it." "There's always room for a couple of extras. I camped there in 1929, and four years should not make much difference to the accommoda tion," replied Jack, as he handed me his tin of weed. "Getting a bit light on," I said as I glanced into the tin. "Expect a packet from Mary tomorrow," answered Jack, as he jammed the lid on the billy. Mary was Jack's girl. Many a time she had saved our lives by post ing a packet of weed ahead of us to the town we were making for. Pulling a crumpled page of the 'Worker" out of . my pocket, I tore a piece, off and tipped the tobacco onto it. As I shifted the weed into position to roll it, 1 read, "A.W.U. asks Gov ernment to supply more money for relief work". Jack looked up from tightening the lace of his boot. "What we want here, Tom, is a working-class Government. Relief work is just a few- extra crumbs from the rich man's table. There should be no necessity for the A.W.U. offi cials to be polishing their arses in cushy jobs at our expense. It's won derful Where some blokes get to with those loose ballot slips!" As we neared the bridge, we could see the smoke rise from the bagmen's fires. "Hope she is not fully booked out," I said to Jack, as we dropped off the road and headed for the end of the bridge. "Welcome home!" called Bluey Flack, one of several bagmen who came out from under the bridge to greet us. "I'm just cooking a chook for tea, I hope you'll stay. Go through into the front room, and rest for awhile. I won't be a jiffy." "Any work in the district?" asked Jack, as he unrolled "Matilda". "Nuthin' doin' in this town," said one of the bagmen, "been here three weeks and can't crack it for a job." "If yer wanta earn a quid," said a nuggety looking chap, "Jimmy; Sharman opens 'is tent 'ere termorrer. I might even look some of 'is mugs over meself." That's one thing, I thought to my self, I'll have to keep Jack away from that tent tomorrow. Next morning we did our washing in the 'Bidgee, and hung our strides, socks and singlets out on the tops of overhanging scrub. Bluey had apologised for not taking in our washing, saying that he would hate to spoil the colour of it. It was quite a treat to swim and lie about on the sandbank after our long trek from Balranald. "J think we will make up the town this arvo," said Jack as he rolled in the sand with not a stitch on him. His muscular sun-tanned body and auburn hair seemed to blend into the sand. "Hay is not a bad old town, we may get onto a bit of yakka." Everyone for miles around seemed to be in town that day. The main street was crowded with people, gigs, horses, dogs and the squatters' cars; all going in the one direction, accom panied by a cloud of blinding red dust. Jack and I soon got mixed up with them and found ourselves on the Show Ground, which was crowded for the annual Show. We drifted around a bit, but Jack seemed to be edging for Sharman's tent. It was surrounded by a mob of locals and quite a number of bagmen. Hullo," said Bluey Flack . as he edged up to us. "I see yer got 'ere. Wot do yer think of the 'Tiger'? "Tiger" Payne, a hard-hitting American negro, was up on the plat form. Ranged beside him were four or five third-rate fighters. Jim Sharman was bellowing through his megaphone, "Four quid for anyone who can stand four two- minute rounds with the Tiger". Rud Keys was belting the drum. The "Tiger" had toppled every boxer his weight in the capitals of Australia, and had then signed up with Jim Sharman to tour the countryside looking for further prey. "Don't have him," I cautioned Jack, as L noticed him looking the "Tiger" over. "He'll kill you." "He's the big money, Tom, and we are down and out," he replied, and at the same time he called, "I'll have the 'Tiger'!" The golden glove whistled through the air. Jack's long arm shot up and pulled it down, as the "Tiger" shadow sparred along the platform. The third-rate boxers had treated the local cockies' sons lightly, putting ideas into their heads that they were all on the road to becoming Jack Dempseys. A roar went up from the crowd as Jack and the "Tiger" clashed in the centre of the ring. The bottom of the tent flapped up and down as the bagmens' heads appeared under it. They were com ing in to support their idol. Jack's plan was to get in close and batter the Tiger "downstairs". By this means he hoped to slow the Tiger down and take some sting out of his punches, when he, Jack, would start to tire. The Tiger was somewhat surprised by this shattering attack by a bloke from the Australian bush. This seemed to throw him off balance for a few seconds as Jack bored into his guts. The Tiger grunted as Jack's lefts and rights to his body belted him around the tent. The roar of the bagmen - as they followed Jack also disconcerted the Tiger, giving him the feeling that he was not only fighting Jack, but half the population of the Riverina. But the Tiger knew the game. His short jolts battered against Jack's ribs like kicks from a draught horse. Jack went into a clinch, and Shar man pulled them apart as the gong sounded for the end of the first round. Six minutes to go.: Would Jack stand up? A bagman Who had handled boxers in Sydney rushed into Jack's corner and went to work on him. "You are fighting him. right, son," he advised, "keep close up to him and belt him in the 'sausage fac tory'." I pulled the water bottle away. from Jack's lips as the gong sounded for the second round. Jack flicked his head aside as the Tiger's left lead grazed the side of his chin and countered with a heavy right hand to the Tiger's body. Jack was heavier than the Tiger, and he was using this to his advan- tage, leaning on the Tiger, making the Tiger shove him around. But the Tiger broke away, A left hook from the Tiger sat Jack down on his seat. A fight broke out on the side of the ring between the nuggety bagman and a cocky's son who had fought a prelim to Jack's fight. The cocky's son had called the Tiger a black bas tard when he dropped Jack. "No racial discrimination here!" said Nuggety. The cocky's son made a swing at Nuggety. The punch, which used to be the pride of the woolshed dances, cleft the air two feet above Nuggety 's head and trailed away into space. Nuggety stepped in smartly, set him up with a left hook and then hit him with a heavy right cross that landed flush on the point of his "shrubbery". He collapsed from the ankles up as also did his dreams that someday he would tread the hempen square and fight men like Jack Dempsey. Jack was on his feet by the count of eight and slugged the rest of the round out with the Tiger in the centre of the ring. "You had better change your tac tics this round," whispered the bag man from Sydney to Jack, as he applied the towel. "Keep right away from him and make him chase you. Don't let him reach you with that long right." The punishment Jack was taking was having its effect. One of his eyes was badly cut. Four minutes to go, could Jack hang out? The Tiger was on him from the start of the third round. Jack was moving back, using a long straight left, but the Tiger was getting under Jack's guard and belt ing him mercilessly. Jack was hang ing on now. | An uppercut from Jack rocked the I Tiger as the bell sounded for the I end of the third round. | Another bagman now had joined Jack's corner. He had two cauli flower ears that were flattened on th« side of his head. Would his advic« help Jack to weather the last round? "You don't have to fight him," he warned Jack, "you just have to ? be on your feet at the end of the round." A roar of applause went up from the cockies and bagmen as Jack and the Tiger touched gloves in the . centre of the ring. ' | The Tiger swung back to his cor- t ner, then came out, circling Jack, I Here was a perfect fighting machine. His back rippled with muscles, as a he sparred for the opening. His brown body weaved and swayed, his chin was well tucked under his left | shoulder and his round, closely- | cropped curly head quivered like the 1 . head of a brown snake. 1 His small, shell-like ears appeared to be mov ing back on the side of his head, i giving brie, the impressiori of a tiger | about to strike. Any false move now I by Jack could be curtains. % And then it happened. ii Jack moved slightly back to adjust > ! his stance. Like a flash, the Tiger was on him. Left, right, left, right. Jack reeled across the tent, but the >; Tiger was on him, cutting him to 1 pieces. There was no stopping the J Tiger now. J Jack tried to defend himself, but I the Tiger cut through his defence I with an avalanche of hooking and 1 stabbing blows. 1 With a mighty effort, Jack smashed I his left hand into the Tiger's face, and followed it with a right cross to 1 the Tiger's jaw. These blows lem- 1 porarily checked the Tiger's on slaught. Jack's face was now in a terrible I mess. Both eyes were closing, the | "Jackie Howe" he was wearing was saturated with blood. A right cross from the Tiger buckled his knees. The Tiger had j gone mad. Would Sharman stop it? J The cockies had joined a united | front with the bagmen. The roar j of their voices kept Jack on his feet. j "Only a few seconds to go," yelled a big cocky to Jack, "stick to him, boy." A slashing left hook from the Tiger dropped Jack. Sharman started :the count, but this battered mass of bloody humanity staggered to its feet. Sharman moved from between them. I Jack's guard was down as he stag- g gered helplessly in front of the Tiger. The TigerY head seemed to flatten as his ears appeared to move further 1 back along the side of his head. | Blood dripped from the corners ot | his mouth as he moved towards Jack, and as his right hand glove cocked for the kill, the bell rang. | The Tiger's right hand dropped g and encircled Jack's shoulders as he helped him back to his corner. | "Here," said Jimmy Sharman, as | he pushed through the excited mob, || "Give Jack this four quid." . „ i "There was no need to kill him, || I said, as I took the money. i "I know, Tom," he replied, lm | sorry, but everyone has to earn a | quid these days, they are not too ® plentiful." . i A big cocky shouldered his t way g| through the crowd to me. fj1 II Jack," he said, "I'm proud of him. g| I wish I had a son like him. |g I had any money I would give you |g both a job." jp| Continued on Page 7 1 The Australian Continued from Page 6 "Thanks," I replied, as T look his hand, "don't worry, we'll get through." As I reached the door of the tent the bagman with the cauliflower ears ran up to me. "My name is "Leather" Brown," he said. "Jack's in a bad way, we'll have to work on him. Where did ycr leave yer swags?" "Down at the bridge," I answered. "O.K.", he said, '-me cobber 'ere has an old Model T. We'll run you both down, and see what we can do for him." When we reached the bridge, the . boys quickly got a bucket of water' onto the fire, and we unrolled Jack's swag and made up his bunk. "We must keep him warm," said "Leather" Brown, "we want plenty of blankets, otherwise he could get pneumonia." "Can't make those chaps out," said Bluey Flack, as he threw down a bundle of blankets near Jack's bunk, "it was only the other night that they were all growling about being short of blankets." "Now," said "Leather" Brown, as he tucked the blankets around Jack, "I'll get onter that face with 'ot water, before 'Is blood gits cold, and then 'ave a look at those ribs of 'is." For the best part of the week "Leather" Brown looked after Jack. Then one day when I was return- ing from the town, after doing a bit of scrounging for tucker, I found Jack sitting on a kero box at the end of the bridge, sunning himself. "How you feeling now, Jack?" I ' asked, as I walked up to him. "Not loo bad, Tom," he replied, as he looked up with a sunny smile, 'in a few days' time I'll be fit enough to take the Tiger on again." In his hand he held four one pound notes. "Here, Tom," he said, "share these up with the boys." He must have noticed my inquir ing look. Running, his fingers through his mop of golden hair, he quickly added, "There was a jackeroo here from a station while you were away. Wants a couple of blokes to do some ring-barking and scrubbing. "I told him you'd be in it." NOTE: "Tiger" Payne is some thing of a legend in Australia. After retiring from boxing he was renowned, so one story goes, for the amount of time he spent relaxing. Someone asked hint one day: "Are you tired, 'Tiger'?" "No, man, I'm not tired. I'm just lying down so I won't get tired," came the "Tiger's" slow drawl in reply. "Tiger's" humour made him famous as well as his . fighting. Some say he is still alive, if he is, "Tribune" would welcome an in terview with hint. 