 The facts behind the "peace mission" A PEACEFUL settle ment of the Vietnam war that would bring jus tice and stability to the Vietnamese people would be welcomed by the people of all countries. It will not, however, flow from the new so-called "peace rrvssion" of the British Com monwealth Prime Ministers' conference. The essential nature of the scheme was pinpointed by Premier Nkrumah, of Ghana, when he said that one of the scheme's main sponsors — the Menzies Government — was a prin cipal combatant government on the American side. Kenya's Premier, Kenyatta added that the leader of the move, British P.M Wilson, was fully committed in support of the U.S. war- policy. Vital demand Nkrumah raised a demand of great importance for Australians — that Australian troops be withdrawn from Vietnam immediately. Menzies' hasty calling of a London press conference to reject this pro posal revealed his -fear of the mass appeal it would have. In Australia, many thousands of people who have for differing reasons expressed agreement in' opposition to sending troops can now be ex pected to take up the demand: "ERING AUSTRALIAN TROOPS HOME!" The idea of the "Commonwealth peace mission" is that five members of the conference, headed by Wil son, would visit Hanoi, Peking, Mos cow, Washington and Saigon for talks. The plan in part reflects the national public demands genuinely seeking a negotiated solution in Vietnam, as an alternative to the . prospect of world war. However, the move is a manoeuvre so far as the governments of the U.S.A., Britain and Australia are con cerned. President Johnson is "delighted" by it and Menzies has welcomed it while making clear that he does not expect any results. Since Menzies has repeatedly ex pressed his opposition to all talk of "negotiations", he can be support ing the London scheme only for its propaganda effect on public opinion. A year ago, no more than 20,000 American troops were admitted to be in Vietnam as "advisory" officers. Now over 50,000 , are admitted, multiplying rapidly, and committed . to action in . whole units. Naval and air squadrons are roam ing the coasts and raiding' North Vietnam. v The hypothetical "cease-fire" out lined by Menzies" would simply "per petuate this military - colonialism in South Vietnam. . . Who's who It is untrue to say that the Viet namese people's leaders have not wanted negotiation. They negotiated at Geneva in 1954 with the French, British, Soviet and Chinese representatives and signed the agreements that provided the only sound basis for settlement of the Vietnam issue yet devised. It was the' U.S.A. alone that RE FUSED to sign that agreement. At no stage since 1954, has the U.S.A. ever proposed a negotiated solution that Would recognise the principle of self-determination. Johnson's recent talk of "nego tiation without conditions" was a reluctant and empty manoeuvre aimsd at regaining some of his al ready shattered prestige. The opposition to Johnson's policy is today greater (in the USA and elsewhere) than ever before. In contrast the Vietnamese people's position has been a con sistent demand not for war but for the implementation of the only existing agreements, those of Geneva. At the same time they have no choice but to fight the invaders of their villages and provinces. But the task of those in Austra lia who seek an alternative to Menzies' foreign policy is different — it is a political, not military, struggle to arouse public pressure sufficient to win a real change in policy. - That is the best contribution Aus- tralian people can mrkc r.t present to the well being and security of the people of both Australia and Vietnam. Ultimately there must be nego tiation but it will have to. be on condition that the principles of the existing agreement iare made the starting point: i.e. all foreign troops . to withdraw from South Vietnam to permit self-determina tion i by an_ independent Vietnam. There will have to be direct discussion "with the National Lib eration' Front of - South Vietnam- real leaders of the people there. . . Although this- was increasingly recognised last- week unofficially in the U.S.A., London and the Aus tralian daily .press, President Johnson crudely dismissed the NLF as "dolts". / Any moves for negotiation and ceasefire based on the assumption of the "right" of U.S. and other foreign imperialist armies to be occupying South Vietnam, the "right" to pursue or suspend at will bombing raids on Vietnam centres, the "right" to withhold recognition from the South Vietnam Liberation Front — such moves are doomed to failure and can amount to a trick to confuse the unwary. Big issues . For the Australian people,, great issues of principle are involved — our future relations with Asia, and our own national security and well- being. An end to the war of interven tion, recognition of the real demo cratic leaders of the Vietnamese people, a stable relationship with them, based on respect for the right of 'self-determination . these' are the essentials for Aus tralia. The way forward for Australians is to work more energetically to reverse the policy pf the Australian Government, through a decision to WITHDRAW Australian forces. Militarily 'this would make no dif ference. ; ; But the- -political .effects of such a decision would be: profound, both on the U.S. political scene and above all on Australia's relations with Asia. . ' 