 Violation of human rights? BEING a regular reader of "Tribune", as I am of many oilier publications, it was with some interest that I read Stan Tapper's letter criticising its edi- torial policy in relation to the ban placed by the Australian Swimming Union on four of our girl Olympic swimmers. This criticism was mainly directed against what he claimed was an attack on theASU and its honorary officials. Mr. Tapper appears to have over looked the fact that the ASU has made no public statement as to the reason for the banning of the swimmers; nor does the constitution of this official body allow these girls the right of appeal against any such disciplinary action the ASU may deem proper. Is it not a fact that the constitution, and this action by the ASU, is a viola tion of the Charter of Human Rights? (The "Tribune" editorial described this as being a grossly inhuman act against these young people . . .) In the case of Dawn Fraser, who has probably done more for Australia's prestige in the world of competitive sport during her long career than any other sportswoman, these salient facts emerge. The ASU, by reason of past experi ence, has been forewarned that this swimmer in particular was inclined to individualism and was often rebellious of what she evidently considered petty officialdom. For what reasons, then, did the ASU sidestep their responsibilities to swim mers and public alike by allowing Dawn Fraser to make the trip to Tokyo as a competitor? It is also significant that before com peting in any swimming events at the Tokyo Games Dawn Fraser had added another misdemeanour to her list by taking part in the opening ceremony of the Games against official orders. However, it appears that the ASU was content to let matters be until she returned to Australia after the Games before taking drastic action against this swimmer. When I consider these facts I find it extremely difficult to understand Mr. Tapper's criticism of the content of ; the "Tribune" editorial; or of his urging for the withdrawal of the call for protests to the ASU. H. GOULD, Mona Vale. 