 Labor Council against move to abolish juries QYDNEY. The NSW Labor Council last week unani mously declared its oos!tion to X e State Liberal Govern , ment s move to abolish juries in motor 'accident damages claims, and decided to seek a deputation with the Attorney- General (Mr. Mc Caw). The government . move to abolish juries has already met with hostile reaction since it was first an nounced. Attorney:General McCaw stated that if the move proved successful in motor accident damages cases, con sideration would be given to abolish ing juries in workers' compensation cases. According to Mr. McCaw "public feeling" favours, "quick justice" and that the present system was causing great delay, high cost and apparent waste of time. Labor Council's opposition was sponsored by the Building Workers' Industrial Union, the Federated Clerks' Union and the Federated Iron workers' Association. The BWIU said it considered it a step directed against the workers and in the interests of the big Insurance Companies. . "The present system of conducting damages cases does enable the trade union movement to obtain reasonable decisions from juries who because of their knowledge of the realities of the life of the working people assess damages usually on ' £ scald which takes into account the problems of the workers." "We regard the move by the Askin Liberal Government as one of the first steps'" in introducing laws aimed at strengthening the position of the wealthy and weakening the rights of. the working people," . . the BWIU said. General secretary of the Clerks' Union (Mr. J. Riordan) told council that "oppositipn cannot just be left to waiting on the Attorney-General. "There is a need to put pressure on the Upper House to block this pro posed legislation.". Mr. Riordan said that Mr. McCaw was a member of a firm which dealt with this form of work. "I say that Mr. McCaw should re sign because he is acting in the in terests of his wealthy friends," Mr. Riordan saict Labor, Council secretary, Mr. J. Kenny, said that if the present sys tem is abolished the amount of dam ages awarded will be lowered. Mr McCaw did act for the insur ance companies in his practice, and the only people who will benefit from this legislation are the insurance com panies," he said. 