 I TRIBUNE ! ! : j ! I |We won't wear this! ! U.S. "way of life" I i i I The standover actions of the American-controlled, j | multi-millionaire Mt. Isa Mines company, already dis- i j rupting the Australian economy seriously, have now become ! an open challenge to the Australian nation. ! I f | For three years, up to last August, this arm of the j I world-wide ASARCO mineral giant refused genuine dis- j j cussion of its Australian employees' claims on. wages and ! ; conditions. I 1 ! When the frustrated workers decided — as they held to j j be their legal right — to give up contract work and stick to j j day-wapes, the company tried its favorite trick of sacking j I a prominent rank-and-file leader of the workers, Mr. i j Pat Mackie. V j I "In December, when the men still refused to abandon j their iust demands under threat of State Tory. Government j j coercion, the arrogant company locked them out of thegate. j ; This has cut off the livelihood of mine employees (and, ! consequently, cooper refinery workers) and their families ! | — some £?0n 000 a week in wages. j - It h?s rohbed Australia's dwindling trade balances of j I over £500.000 a week in export earnings, and taken j S £120.000 a week in freight rates from the Queensland ! | railwavs. The price of cooper, now having to be imported, ! I has oone uo rapidly, making a heavy burden on the Aus- ! i tralian economy. j i | The mineworkers"' absolutely just stand must now j | receive a qreat new wave of messages of support, and j | raord, substantial money aid to support them and their j I families. j I The trade unions have readily negotiated, and are still ! | ready to negotiate, to seek terms for settlement. They | j have shown willingness to compromise, and in fact agree- j i ment has been reached on terms for wage increases and j j local trade union recognition. j | But the company still refuses to compromise on the j j issue. It would rather disrupt Australia's economy inde- I | finitely than abandon its resolve to victimise one man, j ! an efficient worker who is a trade union activist. It refuses j j to re-employ Pat Mackie. j j Pat Mackie, who worked steadily in the mine for years, j | is beina victimised for one "crime" only — he is an elected ! = ladder in a disoute around demands WHICH HAVE NOW ! BFFN VINDICATFD BY THE AGREEMENTS REACHED. | ! j | This may be the way of life" of. big American com- j j panies. It is not the Australian workers' way, and it i j wont be tolerated by the Australian people as a whole, j ! urgent practical national need is for the Federal j j or State Government to step in and get the mine operating, j j with Pat Mackie employed along with his workmates; j j indeed, Australia s interests reciuire that the mine be taken j | into Australian public ownership. j 