 The Bite in Barry Humphries' "nice night's entertainment" "ROSELANDS! . . . What a triumph for you Sydney fo''k . . . keeps people off the streets . . . and just think, it's only 11 hours' driving from Moonee Ponds ... !" The dreadful .Mrs. Everage isn't just all gossip This— perhaps the most crushing comment yet heard on the much- ballyhooed, multi - million - pound glossy suburban shopping centre just opened — came shrieking in jolly tones from the lips of a middle-aged, middle-class housewife on the stage of the Theatre Royal last week — Edna Everage, of Humoresque Street, Moonee Ponds, . Melbourne. The audience roared. They were all in the know, of course. This slightly overdressed dame, boasting airily of her "overseas trip," her super-Australianism and the doings of her family and friends in an endless stream of hackneyed phrases, was not a woman, but a man — Barry Humphries, 31-year-old Melbourne-born actor. That, of course, is half the point of it all. But would anyone know who wandered in by mistake? Probably not, so extraordinary is Humphries' talent and study of ordinary social conversation and aspects of female behavior. The proof is seen in a short film introduced into the program, show ing Edna Everage in a series of escapades in London streets ... stopping and talking to innocent men, women and children . . seeking directions from stolid police men . . . dropping belongings in front of a portly commissionaire . . . even asking nuns "where is i.t?" . (They didn't know.) Most of these people clearly accepted Edna Everage for what she seemed — just another, rather odd, Australian woman tourist. Mrs. Everage is Humphries' best- known character . . . over-confident, half-informed, bearer of every . kind of gossipy comment, naive religious and racial prejudice, and banal phrase. But his full one-man performance displays in turn a series of different characters, which lend variety and colour to what one of them would call "a nice night's entertainment". There is his crushing appearance as the ex-major-school parasite son of a rich businessman, chattering about his never-ending roynd of the snowfields in Europe and the Aus tralian Alps and never-ending nights with "tinnies" of beer and "a couple of snow-bunnies." There is his slightly kinder expo sure of the emptiness of the life of a particular kind of surfie, whose consumption of "tubes" of beer and "buckets" of prawns always end up one way — whether he calls it "chundering in the old Pacific sea," "the big spit," "throwing the voice" or the "technicolor yawn." His high-level Public Relations man, Dod, comes closest to straight political comment, with his series of personal phone calls to Holt, Whitlam, Calwell and (by special red phone) to Menzies— manipulat ing and playing one off against another— but in another call making biting comment on Australia's Asian trade drive, and especially "the Vietnam war account." Ninety-five' per cent, of Hum phries' show can perhaps be sum med up as very talented exposure of the boring triviality of what fills much of the leisure time of very many people in Australia today. The fact that critics of different political viewpoints praise him must mean that, in a human sense, his work is bitingly realistic. . But there is more. Sandy Stone, his meek suburbanite breadwinner thinking aloud in dressing gown, hot water, bottle in hand, casually recalls the' embarrassing situation when "old Coey" Cohen tried to get nominated to the local golf club — yet the words "anti-semitism" are never mentioned. Edna Everage bewails the arrival next door of a migrant family . . . the women's black dresses "to frighten children" . . . the foreign , language and habits ... ("you can judge people by their hoist") . . . the religion And the "praise" of Australia's father figure of censorship, Mr. Rylah, who came "from nothing with nothing . . . scouring the ; minds of the community like a human Jex." These things and many others are there, deft understatements in among tlie main body of send-up of human ordinariness in the Aus tralian scene. The point about Humphries is that when he decides to say something, he speaks against renetinnnrv iripas. — A.R. 