 A SHORT STORY BY HAZEL ROSE Train Talk W nodded to each other as we got into the train. I had often seen her on the platform, wearing a bright red twin-set and knitting in bright red. She was dark and buxom (how that word reminds me of my mother, who was a great one for using it). She was not pretty; but quite attractive and very friendly. I won dered about her nationality. Ital ian Probably. I don't know how it happened, but that day we sat down in the train together, and. of course, be gan to talk. It was a nice day. Her accent strengthened my opinion that she was an Italian. She told me that she was knitting a suit; that was why her knitting never seemed to get done. "It's a nice colour", she said "A lovely colour", I agreed. That seemed to be that. Have you ever searched around . your mind foi a topic of conversation0 I came out. with the trite: "Where do you come from?" "Lebanon," she answered. "What is Lebanon like " I cor tinued. "It's a beeg country. Like Au.&lt; trylia." she said. (I can't hope f reproduce her accent; only to giv an impression ) "Much same as here: same hill- same tro,:s. same sun. On'y people different. There no woman work She nothing (with great scorn) . My father he there now. Look, I have a letter from him". She drew out a letter addressed in English and Arabic, with Lebanese stamps on it. "Look, that is Arabic," she said. "My mother wrote the English. Only my mother know English, but she do what my father say. All the daughters do what their father say until they get married. Then they do what their husband say." "How did you come to Australia away from your family, in that case," I asked? "Oh, I run away. I can live in Austryli. I can work. In Lebanon no women. .work. Perhaps some as nurses or cleaners. But most womev no work. They nothing." "What work do vou do," I asked' ''Oh, I am a machinist I ear velve pounds. And with bonus in be twenty Pretty good, eh?' "Have you ever got twen unds " T asked "Not yet'' she said. "I go fast ist- But I still haven't got twent /et. But in this country I can go to work. I can give my girl friend board. I am something". "Oh, yes. Much better here. All women work here. They are all something." "Not all women work here," I answered. "My girl friend works", she re plied. "She is stupid. Her husband does nothing. Just eat and wa-tch T.V, When the endowment comes, he take it. All. All. He go away one day, two days- When he spent all the rmey he come back. My girl frier he get up at six in the mon, and work till eight at night, the has two little girls too. She does all their- washing and booking when she get home. That lot fair. Not woman do all the vork and man do nothing. She dc 11 housework and earn money. He ist watch TV. That most unfair.' (She had ' come across the sea om Lebanon thinking that she ha-:; bund equality for women because hey were able to work in industry ut somewher something had gom "rong, and she w?s evidently troub d ) I thought I haa better change the subject. "How long have you been in Aus tralia?" I asked. "Eight months." "Do you like it?" "Oh yes. It is very good here I : got a job- All women work, here" she said. She lowered her voice. "Do you know, before I come here I thought that if all women work, all women free- But they are not free ..." "Why not?" I asked. "Well, they go to work. They are something. Not nothing. But they are not free. They still do what husbands tell them." "And husbands do what wives tell them, quite often," I said, smiling a little. "Yes. what their wives tell them "ir their boss," sue -answered. ' 'Well, do you think men are free, hen " She thought it over. Men are more vee than women, I think. But they "e not free either." "Can you ever be free " I asked "I don't know," she answered But women are more free in Aus- rylie than in Lebanon. Here they an go to work. They are some- hing. Men too. There' are more letter jobs for men here. I think hat make them more free. And they go on strike sometimes and say 'no' to boss. That make them feel good. Austrylie's a great place." 