 Blue Mountains swimming poo! THE letter by A. E. Small (Tri bune, Feb. 3) usefully drew attention _to the drowning of a small girl at Catalina Pool, but we feel that Mrs. Small offers no solution of a practical nature to the problem. The Katoomba Branch of the Communist Party recently discuss ed this problem and broadcast its proposals in its regular radio ses sion "Comment" (on 2KA at 9.25 each Tuesday). We agree v/ith Alderman Powell of the Blue. Mountains City Council that the pool should be drained and closed at once. The recent drowning case again demonstrated the danger in the fact that it is impossible to see to the bottom of the pool because of the mud stirred up by swimmers. Filtration and bringing the pool up to Olympic standards would be an expensive, but not impossible, project for the BMC Council to un dertake. The situation of this pool lends itself to the glassed-in, heated pools of overseas standard, such as in Canada and other countries, where swimming is regarded as a year around sport, and pools are used even in midwinter because of the heating. Certainly the BMC Council .would find it impossible to finance such . a scheme in the ordinary way, hut such a swimming pool would be a great asset to a tourist area, if staffed with attendant caretakers, proficient in life saving. .Until municipal and shire coun cils obtain what we have been advo cating for years— -TEN PER CENT OF THE NATIONAL REVENUE IN YEARLY GRANTS TO LOCAL GOVERNMENT — our Council, " as other shires and municipalities similarly hanjpered, will be unable ! to fulfill all the needs of the com- munity from present sources of I income. j It is up to the community to g press for this right from the 1 Federal Government. | When the danger of the existing | swimming pool at Catalina is eli- g minated the citizens will have to \ wage a campaign for a properly j constructed swimming centre in ac- t cordance with State requirements, j financed as it should be from State j and Federal revenue. I We also propose that a public ! meeting be called by the Mayor ' of the BMC Council to send a de- \ putation to the local State Member j about these matters. I P.C. (Katoomba). j 