 [?] AUSTRALIAN Abori gines are denied the full benefit of Common wealth law and the fund- amental protection avail able to any other person in Australia whether Aus tralian born, migrant or even illegal entrants. Mr. Gordon Bryant, MHR and Senior Vice-President of the Federal .Council for Abo- rignial Advancement, said in presenting a case for a refer endum 'to repeal .discrimina tory clauses in Section 51 (Clause 26) .of -the Federal Constitution. At present the Commonwealth may make 'laws for .-Aborigines in the Northern 'Territory or ACT but cannot make laws for the. Aborigines in any State. The Commonwealth .acts in favor of many separate groups in 'the community; for instance it has estalished schools for migrants where it teaches English, but it does not teach Aborigines, (and in strict fact wuld not have the con stitutional power to do so). The Commonwealth has an ex tensive Repatriation Act under its defence powers, but while a simi lar system Is desirable, even essen tial, for Aborigines, the Common wealth has no power to establish such a system for Aborigines. The Aborigines of Australia are discriminated against without any benefits being available in lieu thereof. We ask that Section 51 (Clause 26) be -submitted to a referendum to remove this limitation on Com monwealth action in the belief that all Australian laws ought to apply equally to all Australians and that no Australians should be ex cluded from Commonwealth bene fit on account of race, l or the fr- seeable future the Commonwealth would be expected to discriminate In favor of the Aborigines by spe cial beneficial legislation. Only the Commonwealth has the resources to do this and the change would in no way limit the present State social legislation. Conference resolves that there be an immediate campaign to alter by referendum Section 51 (Section 26) and Section 127 of the Federal Constitution. Delegates to the recent 8th annual conference of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines in Canberra. Standing are Mr. Ken Brindle (left) and Mr. Harry Penrith. Seated is Mr. Laurie Moffat from Lake Tyers (Victoria). All three have ancestors who came from Lake Tyers. It is the wish of the Aboriginal people to preserve Lake Tyers as an Aboriginal home. 