 [?] Knopiehiiacher and McCarthyism in Australian universities THOUGH the recent controversial rejection of an application1 for a senior post there by Dr. tp Knopf elmacher has now been confirmed by the Professorial Board (by a reported six to one vote) and by the Senate, much more may be heard about the matter. Apart from the fact that Dr. Knop- f elmacher may apply again, with ac companying public campaigning, the present pro-Knopfelmacher drive by certain circles raises "issues far be yond the matter of tlie lecturing post. To clarify these issues I think it would help if Dr. Knopfelmacher himself, or any of his supporters who know his mind, would answer some questions arising ' from his article of .July 6, 1963, in. the" Syd ney Bulletin: 1. Discussing the Profumo affair in Britain, Dr. K. condemns "anti- McCarthyism" and says that "the American system of internal secur ity rather than the 'mature' British approach has proved its mettle. The much-maligned congressional com mittees have shown themselves to be forces for good". Does Dr. K. wish to see Sydney. University staff members interro gated by a McCarthy-type "Un- American Activities Committee"? Does he think that such a commit tee, and such an inquisition, would be a "rorce for good"? Dr. K. says that "all communica tions of private organisations and individuals with Communist coun tries—business transactions, private trips, cultural exchange visits and the like— should be put under the strictest possible official tutelage of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation". Does Dr. K. favor the institution I of such tutelage over such of his 1 prospective colleagues at Sydney I University who might wish to eom- I municate, now or in future, with a teachers in their respective sub- I jects at socialist universities? I Would he, on request, feel himself I obliged to assist the ASIO in estab- I lishing such tutelage? 1 Dr. K. proposes that "communist" I organisations and their personnel I should be identified in a Govern- | ment White Paper and that "Co'm- I niunists should be required to re- Igister . . ." (By "coincidence" this Proposal has been aired again last week in Federal Parliament). Does Dr. K. think that the ASIO should be used to determine who « anyone, is, and what, if any, organisations are, "communist" at Sydney University? Because of the Profumo affair, Dr'. wanted the "security" screening or migrants extended to cover those h0lu ,the.United Kingdom, apparent- y believing that screening proced- t,!«S a,rfr or were designed to bar Keeler Profumo and Miss What view does he take of Brit- migrants who have continued Jlr.rive, without the special ir ing recommended? ootenufi considers them to be IS , StlCUrity risks> does this his cnn!>S0 those who mght be versitv0"!8!?" the Sydney Uni' would hr. ' u S0, what steps probably suggest, and personally be prepared to take, to safeguard this country from the peril their occupancy of high teach ing positions must (in his view) constitute? What would he say if informed that many eminent people, including a leading Sydney University profes sor who was in. the US in 1953, have ' testified to the crippling effect of McCarthyism and McCarranism on intellectual freedom in US universi ties? As a psychologist, is he aware that an important international congress in his subject due to be held in the USA in 1953 had to be shifted else where precisely because of the prac tices he appears to favor at Austra lian universities? Finally, sir, to test Dr. Knopfel- maeher's knowledge of his newly- chosen field I will venture to set him the following brief examination question. Time -allowed: As long as he likes. What do you know of the lives, main ideas and" ultimate political or other destination of any two of the following: (a) A. Hitler (b) B. Mus solini (c) H. Tojo (d) N. Romanov (e) V. Quisling (f) P.- J. Goebbels (g) H. Goering (h) Chiang Kai-shek (j) J. MacCarthy (k) Ngo Dinh Diem to Khanh inclusive. What conclusions do you draw as to the possible consequences of be ing dominated by an anti-Communist obsession when forming one's own political philosophy? — W. A. Wood, (Sydney). 