 Menzies wary of Askin's promises By Tribune's State Political Roundsman CYDNEY : It is common knowledge in State poli tical circles that Prime Min ister Sir Robert Menzies is unwilling to make more than a token appearance in the I NSW election campaign. j This is because Menzies, as Fed- j eral Liberal leader, doesn't want to ! underwrite the glib promises that the I N.S.W. Liberals are throwing about. i In fact, however, he has already j exposed the real role of the Liberals I by intervening against the basic wage demands of the trade unions j in the current basic wage hearing. This, coupled with new steps taken j by the Federal Government in the direction of a credit squeeze, shows I that the Liberals are embarked again j on a policy of slashing the living | standards of the working people. S A State Liberal- government would play a key . part in implementing ) such a policy. j Last week-end, thousand of copies of the first campaign leaflet of the ! Communist Party of Australia were I distributed at scores of meetings ad- | dressed by Communist candidates. I They were: — I- F. Bollins (Bankstown); W. Buck ley (Phillip); R. Marriott (Liverpool); R. Maxwell (King); J. Sharrock i (Redfern); Mrs. E. Morcom (Col- laroy); A. Elphinston (Cronulla); S. Sharkey (Maroubra); H. Black (Bal- main); M. Copley (Newcastle); C. Dumbrell (Cessnock); S. Bowen (Bulli); S. "Webster (Illawarra). The attractive leaflet, which was well received, exposes the Liberals in N.S.W. as mouthpiece of Big Busi ness, supporting landlords against tenants, the millionaire Ansett air ways against small airlines, the ship ping and overseas oil monopolies against Australian interests and shows that the Liberals oppose price con trol and higher taxes on profits. In the last elections they cam paigned on a pro-landlord policy of lifting rent control, they opposed a 40-hour week for rural workers and even opposed daylight technical training for apprentices. The Communist election leaflet puts forward a program for a better life fOT the .people of N.S.W. — for more houses, a new .. .medical deal, more money for local government, a bigger pay envelope with price control and improved transport. It says that Communists elected to Parliament would also fight to make insurance a state enterprise, result ing in cheaper insurance with the profits being utilised for the peoples needs. 