 moHniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 1 I Take care of |&lt; s= 1 Mi w TS ® ® ® O I those injuries! | I bv THE CHALLENGER I A number of tragic accidents have written 'finis' I | to, or left in serious doubt, the careers of three 1 B leading snortsmen, during the oast fortnight I | LAICK LEAHY, the Brit- 1 ish middleweight box- | ing champion, was involv- | ed in a motor car accident which resulted in him los- | ing the sight of his left | eye, and an end to his box- | ing career. H In another motoring accident g in the Soviet Union, the world m high jump record holder, Valery H Brumel, suffered serious leg g injuries that could very well g mean the end of his sporting g career as a high jumper, g A third accident saw the 21- H year-old North Sydney League g scrum-hilf, Jeff ..Simmonds, left g with a broken spine and the . g possibility that he will never g walk again. g Accidents are. chance happen- jj ings, but there are causes lead- gj ing up to some accidents that g could and should be prevented g by proper precautions, g In the case of Jeff Simmonds, g timely medical attention would g have prevented him being in a g situation in which his accident g- occurred. g According to reports, Sim- g monds suffered a sequence of g head injuries in recent games g and this is the apparent cause g of his inexplicable actions lead- ing to the accident. I i Simmonds vanished off an I ' aeroplane at Mackay, while re- I turning to Sydney with North's I team from Cairns. He apparertly i wandered away from the air- 1 craft during a ten-minute stop I at Mackay, and was next dis- I covered, dazed and bleeding, at I the foot of a hotel fire escape at Sarina, 23 miles away, nearly a I day later. In League and . a number of | other sports, care is taken to | ensure the physical fitness of I the players before they play a I match; this being checked by I fitness tests and medical check- I ups, etc. | However, at the. conclusion of I matches, unless an injury is 1 obviously serious, a cursory | examination is only too often 1 the case. j The blame for this is not only on the side of the Officials con- cerned, but also with the play- 1 ers, who in the heat of the I moment treat their injuries lightly or adopt a tough-guy | attitude. 1 It is hoped that the case of | Jeff Simmonds will serve notice 1 to officials of not only football but other sports to be particu- larly vigilant of the health of 1 their sportsmen and women 1 both before and after matches. I 