 IT he man who nearly I I isavea Sacco ana I i i | Vanzetti "THE notorious trial and ! execution of Sacco and f Vanzetti is the basis of | New Theatre's gripping j play "The Advocate", by | Robert Noah, which opened j last Saturday night. | Sacco and Vanzetti, two ordin- | ary American working men (mig- i rants from Italy) were framed in a political trial that was aimed I at intimidating the militant and | socialist movement of the post | World War I period in the USA. j The theme of the play is the | fight of lawyer Warren Curtis, | played with much skill by 1 Norman Phillips, to prove Sacco and Vanzetti's innocence and I prove to himself that the law. I is just. ! Curtis says "The lav/ is not | diminished because it admits to | an imperfection." 8 To prove this he gives up a possible judgeship on the high I court, refuses a lucrative offer I of a law partnership, cuts him- 1 self off from comfortable society, | and spends four years, from I 1923 to 1927, trying to get a new I trial. | With the help of others he un- j covers convincing evidence of | the men's innocence, but in an ! atmosphere of anti-radical hys teria the men" do not get a second hearing. ! They go to the chair, with the I croaking voice of Judge Ballan- !tine, ("Did you see what I did to those anarchist bastards last | week?") echoing their foot steps | in the cold corridors. 0 1 And outside, the voice of mil- i lions of people all over the world S echoing Vanzetti's. last words !"we were only poor men and nobody had heard of our ideas, but today everybody knows and I fights with us." "The Advocate" is constructed | as a series of short scenes based f on fact. Norman Phillips showed « a good deal of concentrated at- I attention to the details of Warren | Curtis' character and manner- j isms. I The atmosphere of a closed-in, f club society is under-emphasised f by second lawyer, Tom Stark I (Alfred Lewis). I Playing Bartolomeo Vanzetti, j David Calcott, achieves the sim- | plicity of the kindly shoemaker- j philosopher who tells the advoc- j ate: "I cannot kill, these hands I are made to work." " j Vanzetti's poetic speech could j be emphasized more. j Vince Gil as Nicola Sacco | (ably helped by Fay Hughes as Rosa Sacco) went a long way to I finding not only the temperament j of the illiterate, furious, trapped j man but also built clearly the j contrast between himself and J Vanzetti. j The disadvantage of the audi- j ence knowing the ending of the \ play, as explained by director j Paul Williams, will be helped by i" a search for the thread of transi- 5 tion from scene to scene. J This thread is most likely the j growing determination of the ad J vocate as his certainty of inno- j cence grows and the resistance , of the Law mounts against him. j His final searing condemnation I to the governor: "The law turned j its back on them . . . they never . had a thing from the law, j nothing . . . they never had a | true chance to be heard ... the | state was too embarrassed to ad- j mit its own mistake . . would , mean more then to audiences j unfamiliar with the story. j The advocate, an honest man, j proves he is right, hut the Law j proved that be can never prove j "The Advocate"— every Friday, J Saturday and Sunday— 8.15 pun.— j at New Theatre. Phone bookings: 31-3237 and DJ's. — DJt- | ® BARTOLOMEO VANZETTI in the condemned cell. | A scene from New Theatre's absorbing production ! j "The Advocate", by American playwright Robert Noah. \ \ ! 