 [?] BRING TROOPS OUT OF VIETNAM The Menzies Government is in deep trouble over its decision to send Australian troops into the Ameri can war against Vietnam. " It is now apparent that united action bv_ 1 the whole Australian labor movement and i other sections can put a stop to that suicidal I policy. I This prospect is now right on the agenda for every Aus- I tralian, following a declaration by the Australian Labor Party I this week. | The "complete opposition" expressed by ALP Leader Cal- I well to Menzies' decision adds greatly to the already power- I ful protest movement, including" the Communist Party of I Australia, important church leaders, peace organisations and i nth#»r sections. - : &lt; I "TO achieve a solution in Viet- I \ nam, however, united, action 1 must go further than the ALP I official statement and must i firmly press for withdrawal of I all the American forces. I Last week's Government decision to H send an Australian battalion set this h country on a totally wrong course It that gravely threatens the future of j the nation. i It is only the first step— already i there is open talk of doubling the If conscription call up. If © The decision is a gross violation I! of the Geneva Agreement of 1954, |1 under which no . outside armed H forces are permitted in Vietnam. II © The Menzies Government, will H henceforth share the ' guilt with if the United States of any future || escalation of the war, which has I already been condemned in most H countries of the world. : II © As no other country has been m prepared to j oin in with the USA, H Australia has been thrust into || isolation before the rightful anger || of the people of Asian and many if other countries. This is all the 11 worse because the USA has If refused to promise not to use m nuclear weapons. 1 CALL TO | ALL UNIONS H The Waterside Workers' Federal M Council has called on the Australian Hi Council of Trade Unions to endorse II a national protest stoppage by mari- p time unionists against "selling Aus- H tralian lives for dollars." H Melbourne wharfies stopped work on Tuesday afternoon and demonstrat ed at the US consulate. The WWF Federal Council meeting this week in. Sydney, said it "is the duty of the trade union movement to determinedly oppose involvement of Australia in Vietnam or any (other war of social interference." '' State Trades and Labor Councils have been asked to support these pro-' posals. A telegram has been sent to ACTU Lres!d,ent. Mr. Monk, calling for a special ACTU Congress to: — ® Alert and activate Australians,, against the . dreadful threat to world peace. © Call for the withdrawal of all foreign troops from Vietnam and «»e Reconvening of the Geneva Conference. ® Organise a mass movement of trade unionists and all people of goodwill to protest to their mem- I hers of Parliament by deputation, telegram and industrial action to achieve these results. ers S hVe ,also been sent "to lead- callimr Parliamentary Labor Party voc&lt;£g nnVm "t0 stand ta acSn PPsltlon to And take every Many Australians were shocked last week by reports indicating that a sinister American- Australian con spiracy had preceded Menzies' an nouncement of the decision. The 10-hour visit the previous week i U.S. envoy Cabot Lodge — so hush-hush that he refused even a courtesy interview with Opposition Leader Calwell — evidently deter mined the final arrangements for the announcement. : President Johnson not only knew full details, but had time to send "congratulations" to Menzies to read out, before one word of the deal was known in Australia. Troops of the 1st Battalion them selves did not known their fate until pressmen told : them. Many Australians openly expressed t' - view last week-end that the Gov ernment had done a deal of "Aussie blood for dollars," to help persuade the U.S.A. ; to relax its new restric tions of movement of capital to Australia For all of these reasons, the Men zies' Government's decision is tne writing on the wall — the Vietnam war will lead to the disgrace and defeat of this Government. New aggression by US forces in the Dominican Republic has also shocked the world (see P. 3). ABOVE: Part of Sydney's "sit-down" protest. BELOW: Police arrest Mr. J. Mundey, Builders Laborers' Union or ganiser (see story) . 