 Ig.p.A. ex-alderman speaks for the people while... [?] n SYDNEY: The Civic Reform Associafien, a front for the Liberal !! Parfyi has proposed a gerrymander in the ejection of aldermen to m the Svdnev City Council. :,«THE proposals, if agreed to, I1 would allow the Council to :|>e dominated by big city busi ness interests. 1 The CRA proposals have been made ifo a commission hurriedly establish- ld by the Askin government to enquire j Ijtfo the electorate system of the coun- Their proposal is that there, should i':me only two wards. :M One, the city square, would take in /Mil of the big business "interests at" ILesent called Gipps ward. The other ILould he made up of the present flvards of Phillip,, Northcott, and Ifjblebe. , , '$ They are asking that ten aldermen 7 Jjq elected for Gipps ward for about 20,000 voters and only ten aldermen : for all the rest of the 130,000 voters, i Their evidence also envisaged the ;defranchising of non-rate payers, and |a system of plural voting. I The Association's president Mr. E. m. Owens told the commission, "Civic reform is aware that its proposed wards do not fulfil the principle of one vote, one value." I "in Victoria an individual can have ,'lip to three votes in the same ward." "In Adelaide the principle of 'one Rinan one vote' is not recognised. A President who is not a rate payer is :|oot entitled to vote." I Communist I submissions || Mr. Ron Maxwell, J.P., a former iCommunist alderman of the Council lofthe City of Sydney (1953-1956) sub- Ipitted that the Commission should recommend the abolition of the Ward f system. It should recommend a re- | version to the system of one electoral i area, which operated' in the six years from December 1953 to 1959. Mr. Maxwell also advocates rein- troduction of the system of propor tional representation which cannot he effected by this inquiry but sives parties and groups representation in proportion to electoral support, there by ensuring a measure of representa tion for minorities in the various electoral divisions. Under the system of proportional representation in one electoral area for the Council, two candidates of the Communist Party of Australia were elected. As a minority of about 6,000 voters, this section of the City's votes are now excluded from direct representation in the Council. The value of one electoral area was demonstrated by the fruitful period of Council activity from 1953-1959. Amongst other important develop ments this period saw the beginning of welfare work on behalf of the aged, with the opening of welfare centres in Surry Hills, Paddington and Millers Point. This period included also the im portant projects of the Victoria Park swimming pool and the combined swimming pool-skating rink at Prince Alfred Park, as well as action result ing in construction of the two impos ing blocks of flats at Camperdown and Glebe. , loam Clancy Tommy Makem Fat Clancy Tommy Clancy 