 [?] [?] SDNEY : An Australian trade union leader re ceived in Paris last November the pledge of a con gress of French metal workers to support fully the efforts of Australian workers to prevent the French Government's nuclear weapons tests this year in the Pafcific. " pHE official was the NSW secretary of the Federated Moulders' Union, Mr. R. Spooner, who this week told Tribune of the French workers' opposition to these tests. Mr. Spooner was sponsored by several Australian metal unions to attend the 24th Congress of the 300,000 strong Federation of French Metal Workers. The invitation for an Australian metal leader to attend the Congress was made by the Federation's assist ant secretary. Mr. M. Chavrot during his visit to Australia last October. Protest meetings Mr. Chavrot was a guest speaker at the Congress for International Cc-operation and Disarmament in Sydney. "The 900 French metal delegates assured the Australian workers that they would spare no effort to assist in the prevention of the Pacific tests", Mr. Spooner said. "Protest meetings are to be held in all metal factories throughout the country," he said. In Metz, a big industrial centre of the iron and steel industry, Mi. Spooner also addressed a large peace conference. This conference also strongly opposed the proposed tests. French woi kers say that the money being squandered on these i tests should be spent to improve the | conditions of the French people, he ! said. I The main topics discussed by the | Congress centred around a shorter ! working week, factory conditions I and the struggle for peace., Great strain | A great deal of attention was : given to ways of uniting -the three trade union centres that exist ill j France, he said. j Mr. Spooner said that a united effort by these, centres around com. I mon demands would greatly | strengthen the effectiveness of the French trade union movement. | "Everywhere I went throughout | France, the workers appeared to be j under a great strain." : "In the Metz area, most of the I industry and worker cottages are j owned by the Duval monopoly, i These workers can only afford meat I once a week and a squad of "in- j dustrial police" are oh hand to in- timidate and stand over the work- i ers." | "My feeling is that the workers i of France are ready to erupt," Mr. ! Spooner said. j While overseas Mr. Spooner also | visited Italy, East and West Ger- I many, Czechoslovakia, Britain and I the Soviet Union. | In France most workers retired at I 65 on a pension of 60 per cent of the average earnings over the ! worker's last 10 years of employment j In the Soviit Union mcst categor- '."3 of -workers in industry are eligible r a pension at 55 years. This is "need to Co for miners and 45 rs for fenia.es. 1 J 