 Stand for Aborigines' full rights Activity by trade unions and advancement organisa- tions, and the recent student "Freedom Ride" and subse- quent demonstrations at poli- tical rallies have all been sucI cessful in breaking through some of the apathy which has for so long shrouded the ques- tion of discrimination against Aborigines. Although the NSW Labor Gov- ernment was the first State Government to give long over due rights of citizenship to Abo- rigines, one does not have to be very observant in towns like Moree or Walgett to see just what a second-rate citizenship this still can be. 9 On their tour the students saw j ! hotel lounges with signs "Abo- j rigines by Permission Only"; g ! saw swimming pools for whites .! I only; saw a picture theatre with g I a partitioned area for "the i | darkies"; saw dress shops, cafes | I and barber shops which refused j I Aboriginal custom, and every- I g where saw the terrible toll on g i the human dignity of a people ! | forced to live on these terms I g of "equality". g j Prom these and countless j ! other examples of blatant racial | | discrimination it is clear that J | there is a glaring need for a | g Civil Rights Law, preferably j throughout the whole of Austra- J I iia, which makes it a crime to I 8 discriminate on racial grounds, j S Such laws have been introduced j in the United States and in Bri- I 1 tain. j I . | The Australian brand of racial- j g ism is simply a latent form of 1 2 that which motivates "Wiz- I g Bang" Shelton and his Ku Klux t t Klan in the USA and whinh was I I responsible for the murder of j I untold millions by the nazis in I | the last war. g !The Communist Party de- g mands throughout Australia: . J | Full citizens' rights for I J Aboriginal men and women, and j I imposition of penalties against g | anyone who infringes those f I rights. I g Full trade union wage rates I | and conditions, and right to or- g | ;anise, for. all Aborigines. J SO The right to own land, col- lectively and individually. Abo- I g lition of special powers of set- | Itlement and mission superin- g tendents. 1 O Ample economic and tech- I nical aid to permit full develop- j ment of young Aborigines. j 