 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman T"HE Waterside Workers' Federation got some quick "justice" from the Common wealth Arbitration Court last Friday morning when it was fined £2000 at the request of the wealthy shipowners. Already the wharfies had been penalised to the tune of £80,000 in loss of appearance money for the same "crime" by the Stevedoring Authority But the court does not always work with such speed! The unions' basic wage claim of 9/- 'to 13/-, to compensate the work ers for the eroding of their wages through price increases, began to be dealt with by the court early last March ... and we are still waiting for a decision. What the three million Australian wage and salary workers have lost during this period is about £3G mil lion ! ? TOURING the hearing against the wharCies Justice Dunphy said, "strikers would be shot in Russia" . ; and it was no good anyone say ing otherwise because he had been there! He didn't sav when ... it could have been duxing the time of foreign intervention after the revolu tion ! . One thing however is an absolute fact. THERE ARE NO WEALTHY OVERSEAS SHIPOWNERS IN THE SOVIET UNION OR JUDGES WHO FINE THE WORKERS ON BEHALF OF THESE WEALTHY EMPLOY ERS! ? AN eager foreman at a big eh- tornrise in Sydney (which turns out car tyres and what have you) told the workers in his depart ment: "NO MORE FOREIGN ORDERS!" Jus after this edict the manager wanted a job done for .the family cruiser. "Sorry," the boys said, "against the rules!" Needless .to say the rules were changed. ? QYDNEY'S Channel 7 show Seven Days this week dealt with the problem of house breaking. Both victims and the boys who are in the game were interviewed in Britain. Plenty of good advice and informa tion was freely given to those in Aus tralia who may have been thinking of getting into the trade. An old ex-lag for example explain ed how a thin piece of celluloid can open any Yale lock, how to bi'eak glass without causing suspicion, climb soil pipes, etc. Some young operators (still in the business) explained their methods and the best times to work. 