 WAGE SCANDAL : BUT BOSSES ARE PLEASED [?] Trade union leaders sharply condemned j the decision of the Arbitration Commission | this week to reject the union claims for an j increase in the basic wage. j Mr. M. O'Brien ( Federal Secretary, Australian Railways Union) said it was the "most scandalous decision given by an Arbitration tribunal". Mr. G. Slater (Generat Secretary, Postal Workers' Union) said: "An outrage — -one of the greatest Arbitration Court thimble and pea tricks of all times! The main move towards stabilising the economy should be towards price and profit control." Mr. T. Wright, Sheet Metal Workers' NSW secretary and ACTU executive member, said: "The judgment will arouse the hostility of the whole trade union movement and will stimulate direct negotiations and struggle for over-award payments." Federal Labor leader A. Calwell blamed the Government and said thfe court had upset accepted wage-fixing methods- Leaders of all main employers' organisations warmly wel comed the decision. ' ; A COMMUNIST Party spokes- man said the Court's deci sion means that the basic wage is frozen for at least 12 months at a purchasing power below that of June 1964. Those on the basic wage get nothing and low-wage croups get the worst deal, while prices are rising. Metal trades award margins go up by 5/- a week (for a process worker and tradesmen's assistant) to 7/- (for marker off). Base rate tradesmen on a' current margin of 106/- ireceive 6/-. An increase in this form will not apply to thousand of women, ap prentices and other young workers under 21; The refusal to award the full 12/- claimed. by the unions was based mainly on the arguments of the Gov ernment. Employer line The employers had asked the Judges to reduce the basic wage by 6/-, increase all margins by six shil lings and then add to the margins a percentage in line with their es timate of increased productivity. Their lowest estimate of this was ' 1 per cent and their highest 2 per 'cent. The decision was for a H per cent increase. They adopted the employers' pro posal for jointly assessing the basic wage and margins on general econo mic grounds annually and rejected price movements as a ground for increasing either margins or basic wage. This is seen as spiking the general claim for margins : increases which the ACTU had decided to make later this year. . The spokesman .'said the decision reinforced the Communist Party's campaign for determined action to secure a £22 basic wage as a mini mum family living wage, and price control, against the open threat of higher taxes and prices from the coming Budgei. Budget1 action Federal officials of the Waterside Workers' Federation have decided to organise a mass deputation of its members to Canberra for the Budget session of Parliament in August. The Federal secretary (Mr. C. Fitz- biggon) said the deputation will pro test against forecast heavy rises in taxation direct and indirect. The Boilermakers' Society, Sydney Branch, has called on its members to take part m a cavailcade to Can berra. 