 [?] Concluding a two-part- short story by TOM DORAN "JOANNA" in his loneliness had befriended half a dozen goannas. He fed them on fat which he got for nix at the butcher s. No one ventured near "Goanna's" " camp at feed up time. Only Paddy .. Bourke made the mistake and one startled goanna ran up his back. Paddy let out a wild Irish yell and had jumped into the Murray. Oh surfacing, the goanna was still on Paddy's back. Calling on the saints of "Auld Oiland" to save him, Pad dy swam for the bank. On reaching it the 'go jumped off his back and skidded up a red gum tree. It was common argument in the camp as . to who got the biggest fright, Paddy, or the goanna. Rumour had it that Pat and Mick were not "spak- ein' or visitin'." They were a mixed lot, some from the city , and others from country towns, hounded out of their homes by the notorious Dole Act, that de prived them of sustenance if they remained in a family group. Among the group on the "sofa", was "Ragged-arsed Philanthropist" Jim McArdle. He had acquired his nick-name by quoting from Robert Tressell's "Ragged Trousered Philanthropists". Jim had been a member of the I.W.W. in Sydney. At one time he met Tom Mann. He once told me that the coppers had framed some of his mates by putting phosphorous in their pock ets. They were tried with others and Donald Grant, one of them, got fifteen years. Ragged arsed believed that now was the time for revolution. The years of struggle embittered him, and he now attack ed his mates, _ calling them "bloody numbskulls." "Parson" Davis, gun-plate layer of the East-West Railway line was there. He always wore his hat turn ed up all round. Also the "Rock- Wallaby", who had found a crack between two rocks and promptly put ' a roof on it. ? i As I sat and watched the light of the camp-fire flicker across their half-starved faces, Paddy Bourke spoke: "Did yer see the headlines in the "Labour Daily" today?" "No", said Bluey, "me paper-boy forgot to leave me paper in me let ter-box. Wot were they?" "Lang! Greater than Lenin!" came ttoe reply. "Ragged-arssd" reared off the , "sofa" like he had been bitten on the arse by a black snake. His tor rent of words and saliva rushed ac ross the fireplace, causing Bluey's kero tins to swing precariously. "Lang greater than Lenin", he roared, "what bloody tripe the newspapers dish up for you bone heads. When are you blokes going to wake up to yourselves?" "I didn't print the bloody head lines," protested Paddy. "Come off politics," intervened Goanna Mick, "wasn't Bluey goin' ,ter tell us why he didn't like tur keys?" "Before I start," said Blue, "would, , , yer mind tryin' that 'unk o' corned beef in that end pot? 'ere Paddy, you're the closest, take this fork." "Well, I'll be buggered," exclaim- ' ed Paddy, as he drove the fork into ' the corned beef, "this , is the first bloody hunk of corned beef I've " ever seen with two legs." "It's me butcher," said Bluey. '"e's a very obliging kinda chap, 'e ; often rolls me corn like that, it's a kinda 'ousewive's choice." "Well,"- said Bluey,- asi he 'settled himself back into a barrel which he ; had fashioned into a rocking -chair, i VI and -filled his pipe, "I don't know, if -you wilt believe &lt;this -story, but, as me father once said ter me. 'Never tell a lie, Blue, an' yer will live fer ever, like George Washington'. And from that day on I never told . a lie and neither do I steal. I think that last virtue of mine came out er th' good boot. "I suppose all youse boys 'ave been collectin' the dole in Wagga, some time or other? Well, that's where it 'appened. One mornin' I opened my front door (I was livin' in a culvert at th' time) in North Wagga. It was a beautiful mornin' an' I felt a bit cramped. Wot a mornin', I thought to meself,. fer a stroll across ter South Wagga. Pickin' up me sign: 'VACANT', I. 'ung it on me front door. "At one time I adder number o' country residences in the Riverina, but 'ad ter dispose of 'em owin' to a crash in the share prices. But I didn't do me block and jump outer me winder, like them Yankees did. Th' reason for puttin' up me sign was 'that if any o' me friends from the city were payin' me a visit, they could 'ave the full run o' me 'ouse. "Pickm' up. me personal belong- in 's„ I strolled off ter.th' bridge across th' Bidgee. Wot a poor state o' repair it was in, I thought ; ter meself. Not good enough fer a tramp ter walk. over. A couple o' hours later found me strollin' abou on th' outskirts o' South Wagga There were plenty o' vacant build ings an' a few five-acre farms Crossin' one o' these farms, I got mixed up with a mob o' turkeys. Not that I was interested in tur keys, they were th' last thing tr enter me mind. "They split up an' ran each sid o' me, as I made fer th' corner o th' block, where I Intended ter git over th' fence onter th road. And there, right in th" corner, was a nice young turkey gobbler shuwin' its 'ead through th' nettln', -'ullo, young1 feller,'- I- said, as I stooped down an' picked 'im up, 'lost, are yer?' Wot ever made me do it, I'll never know, but I shoved 'im inter me tucker bag an' climbed over th' fence. 'Glad ter 'ave some company ter walk back with', I set off whistlin' ter meself, an' talkin' ter th' tur key. But I 'ad not gone far w'en I noticed a young copper standin' at th' corner o' th' street. Quickly shovin' me 'at over th' turkey's 'ead, I casually walked' past 'im, biddin' 'im th' time o' day. "But I 'ad only gone about ten yards w'en a gust o' wind blew me 'at -off th' turkey's 'ead. Th' gob- ler let out a loud gobble. Th' cop per and I took off at th' same time. Lucky fer me I wos wearin' a strong pair o' hobnailed boots. But, with a forty pound swag on yer back an' a thirty pound turkey in yer tucker bag, yer a-t a slight disadvantage with a young, well- fed copper after yer. "Everythin, seemed ter be goiii " all right as we passed over the first intersection o' that three mile main street o' Wagga. It musta bin th' . noise o' me 'obnails on the ash- phalt that brought .th' crowd on- ter th' footpath, becos th' .street wos lined with people as I race' ilorig it. "Some bloke musta run a'ead o us, becos, at th' next intersection th' local bookies were out on th corner layin' th' odds. Me price wo: thirty ter one agin th' copper. Thi. gave me encouragement, as I coult not keep an eye on th' copper owin ter me swag, which cut off me rear vision. But there wos troubje a'ea&lt; o' me. Th pieople were crowdin' th track. I thought I would bra: someone as me axe started ter wo outer th' end o' me swag. Opposite th' police station, . .big Irish bookmaker 'ad set up 'i;. . stand. I can still see 'is name on -'is bag— DANIEL ©"FLAHERTY, 'e wos roarin' at th' top o' 'is voice 'Even money th' field'. "At th' Police Station sat two fat coppers sunning 'emselves like two blue lizards on a log. 'I'm a goner 'ere,' I said ter meself, as I slap ped on more speed, but all they did wos ter pull a quid outer their pockets and roar something at O'Flaherty. "Quickly I adjusted me stride ter ten feet and drew away from th' copper. But bad luck dogged me. One o' me laces broke and I cast a 'obnail boot. Jt went flyin' back behind me, just missin' th' copper, and 'it Daniel O'Flaherty fair in th' mouth, jest as 'e changed me price ter ten ter one agin th' cop per. "Th' sudden loss o' th' 'obnail threw me off balance an' I started to flounder. "A roar went up from th' crowd as th' copper started ter gain on me, hut I quickly adjusted me bal ance by shiftin' me camp oven ter me other 'and. "A 'ell uva- crowd seemed ter . oe gathered at th' Town 'all, 1 think it musta been th'- Mayor 'cause 'e wos all dressed up in 'ie robes, ah' as I raced past 'im, V cupped both 'ands ter 'is mout) - an' bellered inter me ear, 'Good o /?'. Bluey!' ? "I 'ad been warned be some ie personal friends in Goulbu. hat one o' th' coppers in Was vos in full training fer th' Stav lift and ter shy clear o' 'im. , "But I don't want ter boa oys,'' continued Bluey, as he hui i .billy oh the. fire,; "but I think ad drawed ;th' favourite fer t ' lift. . ' . . ; "Th' race wos a cracker now ; . took th curve fer th' run' 'on ; - ter .th' bridge. I wos ruhnih' we ; ,ip. on th' bank an' . th' loss o' m . 'obbie increased me: speed: Suddenly , there wos a roar from th' crowd ;a.c: th copper cut acros a vacant al - lotment ter 'ead me off from th' bridge. Give 'im a go! Give 'im a go!' roared th' Mayor, who now joined in th' race, follered by th' crowd. This demonstration of com radely feelin' gave me great en couragement as I now knew th' Mayor 'ad given th' race 'is blessin' and I now .'ad th' w'ole population o' Wagga be'ind me. "But th' copper 'ad no intentions o' givin' me a go. 'e wos out ter git another stripe or a mention in th' Police Gazette. I could now git an eyeful o' th' copper, 'e wos coverin' th' distance across th' vacant , lot at a. 'elluva pace, but blowin' 'ard. So far I 'adn't start ed ter git me second wind. 1 "Could I reach th' bridge before th'. copper cut me off in th' next thirty yards' we could clash. Me 'ob bie wos now throwin' sparks on th' 'ard metal road. It wos only 115 degrees, but a spark inter th' long grass beside th' road could burn Wagga out. ' Then everythin' seemed ter 'ap- pen at once. Me binder twine lace broke an' I cast me other 'obbie, w'ich lightened me weight and in creased me speed. "But there, loomin' up 'a'ead o' me wos two beams -right across th' end o' th' bridge, and above the sign— ROAD CLOSED TER TRAF FIC. DANGEROUS. "Th' copper wos only five feet off me now, 'e wos cumin' in fer a side tackle. 'Gotcher, yer bastard,' he snarled as 'e threw 'imself at me an' grabbed th' collar 0' me shirt, '"Don't be too sure 0' that,1 I thought ter meself, as I swung quickly ter me left an' battered 'is 'ead with th' end o' me swag. There wos a loud tearin' sound as I jum- narl nff V\nilf_nn VA /I Tnctim' th' back o' me shirt in th' copper's 'ands, and raced down th' slope along th' side o' th' bridge towards th' river bank, fifty yards away. "Th' copper wos right on me tail now. Me stride wos startin' to lengthen on th' down'ill run. But th' copper wos gainin'. Th' crowd, led by ' th' Mayor, 'ad now reached th' end o' th' bridge. I could 'ear tlieir cries and cheers, Good on yer, Bluey!' an' Give 'im a go!' "If I could only reach th' bank 0' th' river, I'd be 'ome an' osed. "And then a -miracle 'appened. Th' turkey decided ter git outer me Tucker Bag. It flopped out be'ind me ten yards from th' river bank. "Another roar went up from th' crowd, as th' turkey spread its wings and rushed in between th' copper's legs. There wos a heavy thud, mix ed up with curses, gobbles, thrash- in' wings an' legs. And as I took off ter jump th' 'Bidgee, I 'eard a loud splash be'ind me. "'alfway over I turned an' glanc- . ed back. There, 'angin' well out on th' side o' th' bridge, 'is robes fly- in' in th' breeze, wos th' Mayor. An' as I turned me 'ead ter look fer a soft landin' I 'eard is voice ".alibi 'Good on yer, Bluey!' I landed right in th' middle 0 a picnic party on a sand ban . W'en they were diggin' me ut eard a bloke say, 'Cripes, 'e cud :een smothered, only fer 'is camp ven cummin down over is ea "After they freed me arms, J dy 'anded me a cuppa tea. w ord, Mister, that wos a long jump . -e said. "'Nuthin' unusual, Madam', I ans- ; red, 'I 'adder long run at it- . "For some reasons, unknown tj? eself," continued Bluey, as >t up and threw a handful of >to tt>e billy and lilted It Off » re, "I left Wagga early n® ornin'." ' A "'Ave- yr bin speakini' to iuey?" asked Paddy Bourkc, a?,, ;;-ot ' i Tt't ' imre'than:'fcd y v i..; 