 Labor conferences swing to more . progressive policies . Last week Tribune dealt with the NSW Labor Party Conference . This week we continue the round-up of State ALP Con ferences with Victoria and South Aus tralia . The Australian Labor pjrty conferences in Victoria and South Australia recently were marked by the development of some pro gressive Labor policies. piROM the Victorian confer ence, the resolution on Viet nam declared: "The conference believes that conflict in South East Asia is a result, not of 'aggression from the north', but of the efforts of the people in that area to create and main tain a national personality and to accuire the benefits of mod ern technology". The conference reflected the new mood in the labor movement which has arisen as a result of the clear division which now exists between the foreign policies of the Menzies Government and those of the labor movement. It was marked by an atmosphere of very large-scale unity on forward- looking Labor policies. This was so noticeable that what righ--wing voices were heard were feeble and ineffective. The conference dealt seriously with other problems facing the Aus tralian people and carried progres sive decisions on economic matters, health, Aborigines, the invasion of Australia by inferior American cul tural productions and other matters Qne of the highlights of the con ference was the assertion of the right oi trade unionists, to conduct their own aflairs without any out side interference. This is in accordance with the policy adopted by the Congress of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in 1961 and was so over whelmingly supported by the week end Labor Party conference that it was carried on the voices without a division. What the Labor Party has done is to assert the obvious democratic right of unions to run their own affairs No company board of directors would tolerate the Liberal Party, for, instance, determining its composi tion. In fact, the very term "Unity Ticket", so much bandied about in this connection, is a myth. The Communist Party has made it plain repeatedly that it respects the , right of workers to select their own leaderships and believes that a pro perly representative leadership, re flecting the different trends in the labor movement, is best fitted to assist the workers in achieving their legitimate demands. South Australia |EFENCE of living standards and opposition to the in fluence of the monopolies were among the resolutions adopted by the ALP conference in South Australia. The privileged position that such monopolies as BHP, and Standard Vacuum Oil obtained under the for mer Playford Administration are to be examined. The Convention declared itself op posed to the Indenture Acts under which BHP has built its steel works at Whyalla and has been allowed to exploit the iron ore caposits for a mere pittance in royalties. Similar criticism was levelled at the way in which the oil refinery at Port Stanvac was established. These and similar matters are to be examined by the Labor Advisory Committee which is to make recom mendations to the Government. The Labor movement will expect that this means strong action against these wealthy monopolies. There is to be a Governmental investigation into hire-purchase con tracts with the aim of protecting the consumers. The effect of the campaign con ducted by the building unions into shoddy housing construction and the anti-union sub-contract system was shown in the decision to conduct an enquiry into the building indus try. Such an enquiry was the subject of a special leaflet issued early this year by the Trades and Labor Coun cil. An important decision was to re ject two resolutions on State aid for private schools. One of these sought to instruct Federal Conference delegates to vote for a change in policy and the other was aimed at providing sporting equipment. After a lively debate these resolu tions were rejected by 113 votes to 34. Important industrial proposals in cluded long service leave for casual workers, industry pensions, the set ting up of a State apprenticeship Commission and others. The Federal leader of the Labor Party, Mr. Calwell, received a warm response when he attacked Menzies foreign policy and pledged the ALP to reverse the disastrous foreign policy of the Menzies Government —"including its decision to send troops to Vietnam." The decision of the Convention provide a sound basis to unite the labor movement on many important' questions. As such they will be welcomed by the progressive forces in South Australia. MR. A. A. CALWELL, Leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party. 