 Postal, white collar unions . . . MnnnnannBBBBaHBBnnaB CHALLENGE OF AUTOMATION- CALL FOR ACTION SYDNEY : Postal and white collar unions, repre senting 85,000 workers, have called for a shorter working week and increased annual leave to help meet the challenge of automation. A CONFERENCE of Federal officials of these unions held earlier this month In Syd ney called for a top level meet ing of the Australian trade union movement to discuss the problems of automation. The unions at the conference were the Amalgamated Postal Workers Un ion, Third Division Telegraphists and Postal Clerks' Union, Fourth Division Postmasters Postal Clerks and Tele graphists Union, Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association and the Bank Officers' Association. Conference regarded "automation as the most significant industrial and social question facing Australia's five million workers and 12 million peo ple." "It is an industrial revolution of paramount importance and the prob lems associated with it must be deter mined in the interests of the nation and in the interests of people as human beings." Following the meeting of the five unions, the Federal secretary of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, Mr. R. Wil liams, asked ACTU president, Mr. A. Monk to support the calling of a top- level conference of unions. An International Congress of Human Relations will be held in Mel bourne from May 3 to May 5. This Congress will be addressed by speakers from Britain, US, Japan, Germany and Australia. The national white collar organisa tions want the Australian trade union movement to establish an informed up-to-date policy in preparation for this congress. Officers of unions affiliated with the ACTU, ACSPA and the High Council of Commonwealth Public Service Or ganisations have been asked to en dorse the following six-point program: A fair share to workers from economic benefits gained from auto mation and allied developments. The right for workers and their representatives to consult with em ployers on welfare, in changing condi tions and types of work. © Job security as result of automa tion. Apart from adequate remunera tion for skilled employees on the oper ation of technically advanced mach ines, all workers should receive ap propriate increases in wages and sala ries because of increased productivity and more intensive work, resulting from automation. © Weekly working hours should be shortened and annual leave increased progressively, and education oriented towards equipping people of all ages in the use of leisure time. 9 Investigation at Government level into the health effects of work per formed in electronic data processing and other automated areas. Footnote: The private banks are proposing to reduce by more than a 1-ilf the loadings paid for shift work performed in connection with new automated processes in the banking industry. 