 'Loo people fight against threat from bia business SYDNEY: Woolloo- mooloo residents are up in arms against a 'redevelopment' scheme . which will turn an area of working class homes into a costly, fashionable district for the wealthy. Australian working class people who have lived there all their lives are to be forced out to make way for th£ clients of the Hakeybridge Investment Trust Ltd. of Eastcheap, Lon don, England. Others who have just bought homes there are being forced to sell out at serious loss. Typical of these is Woolloomooloo resident Mr. Foster, who told " the Tribune that a Valuer-General's offer made to him and others for the resump tion of their homes would give them only a half, or even as little as a third, of the current market value. Besides this, many people had spent hundreds of pounds making alterations and improvements to . their homes, he said. Mr. George Sutton, a pensioner who has lived in the 'Loo for the past 14 years said, "I think the whole thing is terrible. I worked seven days a week to get this little home; they won't get me out." Mrs. Murphy, who has lived there for 50 years is also determined to pro tect her rights. Mrs. Honora Wilkinson, an official of the Wool loom ooloo Progress Associa tion, actually spoke to Tribune in the very room she was born in. "I've lived here all my life, and here I stay," said Mrs. Wilkinson. MEETING MONDAY Matron O'Ncil, who has lived in the 'Loo area for the past lifty years, opposes the scheme and is confident that if all the people concerned "pull together", tlicy will win. As a first step in this direction, a public meeting of those concerned will be held at the Royal Blind Institute, William Street, next Monday at 7.30. There is probably not one resident of the area who opposes genuine pro gress. But they don't consider as pro gress something that will deprive thein of hearth and home. The proposed scheme will "re develop" 67 acres of Woolloomooloo at an estimated cost of £82 million. A typical big business proposition, it has no charitable motive but aims solely at profit, irrespective of other, especially working-class, interests. This is not something new to the residents of Woolloomooloo, for their past is one of struggle to retain the roofs over their heads. The spring of 1960 saw many of the residents in this present struggle cam paigning to save the homes of about 150 people in Crown Street and the adjoining Sir John Young- - Crescent from "progress". Some slogans displayed by Woolloomooloo residents 