 Overwhelming support gives sharper teeth to the TV Congress AUSTRALIA'S Nation al TV Congress is now only a fortnight away. It will be held on the weekend of March 20 and 21 at the Grace Aud itorium, Sydney. Six Senators, four Liberal and two Labor, have been in vited to attend the opening at 9 a.m. on Saturday, March 20. Since" the. last report the follow ing organisations have decided to send delegates to the Congress: National Catholic Radio and Tele vision Centre, Children's Library and Crafts Movement, Sydney Kin dergarten Training Colleges, Queens land Country Women's Asssocia- tion, Western Australian Parents and Citizens' Association, Vic torian and Tasmanian Councils of Film Societies, Victorian Council for Children's Films and . Television, Council of Churches in N.S.W., Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen, Victorian Coun cil of School Organization, Sisters of Mercy, Christian' Television As sociation, Boys'- Brigade (Austra lian Council), Transport Workers' Union and others. Mr. Hal Alexander the Congress Director, says that over 600 dele gates are expected at the Con gress. A section of the auditorium will be made available for the public. Lord Mayor's statement The patron of the Congress, Mr. H. F. Jensen, -Lord Mayor of Syd ney, has issued the following statement: . "Since the introduction of tele vision into Australia over eight years ago, increasingly large numbers of thinking people throughout the Commowealth have become greatly concerned (and many are alarmed) at the generally consistently low stan dard of much of our television programming, particularly of many of those programmes by commercial T.V. stations. "This state of affairs became the concern of our Senate who, realis ing the social and cultural prob lems connected with' television which had arisen in this country, appointed a Select Committee of . seven (four Liberal and three A.L.P.) Senators in 1962. "These seven Senators conducted a series of public enquiries in all capital cities. "During these enquiries the Select Committee heard over 138 reputable witnesses drawn from all walks of life. "After sitting for many days and studying, exhaustively, the highly- critical evidence of these witnesses relating to television programmes, the Senate Select Committee made a number of recommendations to the Federal Government concerning what had become a highly contro versial subject. The findings and recommenda tions of the Senate Select Com mittee on T.V., of which the late Senator Vincent was chairman, were printed in October, 1963. To date, NONE of the recommen dations contained in the Senate Committee's Report has been acted upon by the Federal Government. "Extremely critical of the Gov ernment's apathy and obvious dis interest in the findings of the Senate Committee's Recommenda tions, representatives from a num ber of vitally interested organisa tions met in Sydney during July and August, 1964. "These representatives discussed what action could be taken to sup port the Senate Select Committee's Recommendations on Television. "The interested organisations then decided to constitute them selves into a Committee to con vene a Congress to support imple mentation of the Report and Re commendations of the Senate Select Committee on Television. "It was decided by this newly- formed Committee to convene a National T.V. Congress in the Grace Auditorium, Broadway, Syd ney, on March 20-21. "The T.V. Congress Convening Committee approached many lead ing personalities in our Cultural, Religious, Educational, Political and other spheres to ' sponsor the National T.V. Congress. "The response was overwhelming. Nearly 80 of our most prominent personalities are sponsoring the Congress. "Many Churches, extremely in terested in the Senate Committee's Report, have given their blessing to the Congress. Church1 dignatories such as the Most Rev. Hugh Rowlands Gough, Archbishop of Sydney, the Reve rends, Gordon Powell and Alan Walker are sponsoring the Con gress. "Cardinal Gilroy approves of the Congress and supports the Senate Committee's Recommenda tions. "Eminent personalities In fields such as Literature, Government, Theatre, Music, Art, Science, Reli gion, the Legal Profession, Educa tion, etc., will be active partici pants at the Congress. "It must be obvious to all those interested in the educational, cul tural and economic progress of , Australia that implementation by the Government of the Senate Committee's Recommendations on Television would provide T.V. pro grammes that would be much more acceptable to viewers, more uplift ing to the community, of greater benefit to our rising generations, and more able to improve public taste and standards. "The convenors and sponsors of the T.V. Congress not only believe that it is the Government's resnnn- sibility to implement the Senate Committee's recommendations, but that is the moral obligation of the T.V. Stations (who owe a duty to viewers) to remedy the present highly undesirable situation with out delay. "This is a social problem which must be solved. "It is no secret that great num bers of viewers are becoming in creasingly dissatisfied with much of the material which they watch — and often switch off — on tele vision. "There is also growing concern, on their part, for the welfare of -»), their children, who possibly face in the future even greater social problems than those now confront ing their parents. "This problem of television pro grammes is no longer being ignored as those many hundreds of dele gates and supporters will prove at the National T.V. Congress on March 20 and 21." H. F. JENSEN, Lord Mayor, Patron — National T.V. Congresi;. Organisations can send any num ber ot delegates to the Congress. Delegates registration forms and all other information are now available from: The National T.V. Congress Convening Committee, 72 Stanley St., East Sydney (P.O. Box 3(9, Potts Point Post Office). Phones 31-1718-9. Melbourne Supporting Com mittee, 1st Floor, 178 Collins St., Melbourne. Phone 63-6689 