 Franco's torturers ! took a year to kill\ oaiioii >n-agiq&lt;a«»g— IIIIIIIb ?.??: J I i miner's ! wife j From Betty Lockwood pONSTANTINA' PEREZ j died in April 1 965, ! aged 37 years. I Spanish delegates to the 20th 1 Anniversary Council meeting- or j the Women's International Demo- i cratic Feedration told me the I story of this heroine of the I people of Spain. I How did she die? Her feet i were crushed to pulp by Franco's | torturers. She was sentenced to I life imprisonment by Franco's | courts for daring to arouse the wives, sisters and daughters of I , Asturian miners. I She served only 12 months . in I prison. Her feet were so crushed | that she was unable to walk or | stand on her feet. She was re- S moved from prison to her home T where she remained in "condi- | tional freedom" until she died. 5 Her home was surrounded by I police day and night and she. j was not allowed to see her I husband or daughter. | Her 20-year-old daughter Blan- I guita and her husband were also | imprisoned and tortured. I Her last letter | Never, the delegates told me, | had there been such a funeral I in Asturia. Thousands and I thousands of men and women, I miners, trades people, profes- | sional workers and students I filled the streets of Asturia for I her funeral. Spanish poet Carlos j Alverez placed a wreath on her | grave and read her last letter. | This letter (translated from | the Spanish original, of which S I have a photostat copy) reads: I "My name is Constantina i Perez, wife of Bayon and mother | of Blanguita, whom I want to I warmly greet from the bed | where I'm held in seclusion. I "I want to send warm greet- | ings to the whole Spanish Com- a munist Party, especially the Central Committee, headed and directed by our President, Dolores Ibarruri, and Secretary, Santiago Carrillo. "I also address myself to the heroic miners of Asturias, Rio Tinto and Puerto Llano, to the Stall workers of Madrid, Cata- lona and Vascovia, to the peasants of Castilli, Extremadura and Andalusia. "At the same time I address the brave students and profes sors of the Spanish universities, to all women and mothers who in one way or another fight against the dictatorship of General Franco, to all Spanish emigrants, whether political or economic. "1 want to tell them all that S on March 20 both I, my daughter I Blanguita and other women j were tortured by Franco's g hangmen in the Trade Union | House in Sama de Langreo. We j were beaten, tortured and jailed. | My health since is totally ! broken. It was they and only I they who are to blame for it. j "I wish I were the last person j to be tortured by Franco's j hangmen. ! "The only thing that remains j for me is to tell you to fight j for unity. Long live the policy J of national reconciliation! Long i live the general political strike! j Long live the Communist Party I of Spain! I "Constantina Perez de Bayon." I \ — a "My name is Constantina Perez ..." j 