 I CONSCRIPTION: CALL FOR VOTE &lt; . A coll for a national referendum on the £$sue of military conscription for overseas service has been made by the national exe cutive of the Eureka Youth Leaaue of Aus- tralia. The Federal Government has just ordered youths who turn 20 between January 1 and June 30 to register within 14 days from next Monday for possible calluo. THE League, which this week declared that no conscript should be forced to serve over seas, stated that a referendum should include the votes of those affected by the scheme but at present denied the right to vote. The EYL statement said that no referendum had endorsed the present scheme which was far more exten sive than that in World War II, when overseas conscription was lim ited to service in a defined area to the north of Australia and only for the period of hostilities. "The present scheme involves con scripts in five years of army ser vice, two years in training, and three years on the reserve. During this time the constripts can be sent to any area of the world. "The only exemptions from regis tration are present members of the armed forces, most aborigines, dip lomats and those who are not Brit ish subjects. Penalties "The Menzies Government has im posed stiff penalties in an effort to enforce registration. Failure to register makes a person liable to a penalty of £50 and to be called up for, army service regardless of, the results of selection ballots, and the provision for deferment. "This rule is obviously intended to discourage those who oppose. Na tional Service Training from failing to register but many people in this age group may not register in time for a variety of reasons . "Since only about 2000 people are to be selected for the conscript army from the first registration this could mean that the Federal -Government could fill all places from those who fail to register." The statement notes that failure to register has been a form of pro test against compulsory military training. In 1915 some 180,000 refused to register; in 1939, when all males were required to register about 200,000 failed to do so. "No doubt this experience influ enced the Government to make all who do not register, liable for the call up," it says. s Exemption "The Government also tried to close the gaps for those opposed to armed service by making the rules for exemption very strict. "A conscientious objector must re gister and after receiving his -certi ficate of registration he must then make an application for registration as one who has conscientious beliefs that do not allow him to bear arms or undergo service. "If later, he is called ud and is not eligible for deferment a Magis trate will hear his reasons and give a ruling. The Magistrate may direct the conscientious objector to serve as a non-combatant or may exempt him." The statement continued: "Apprentices will normally be granted deferment until the;' have completed their apprenticeship. Full time students will normally be granted deferment until they have ac quired their primary qualifications Part-time students may be granted deferment. "The use of the word "norm ally" in the National Service Act indicates that deferment is not automatically given for apprentices and full-time students while sep arate treatment of part-time stud ents made it clear that their chances of deferment are much less than those of full-time students. But the real problem facing potential conscripts is corinected with the whole "defence" policv of Australia. Australia under the Menzies Gov. ernment has allied itself with the United States and Britain to main tain by force corrupt dictatorships m Asia. "Not one twenty-year-old Austra- Continued on Page 10 CONSCRIPTION Continued from Page 1 lian has any reason to go to fight, to kill or to die in Vietnam, Mal aysia or Indonesia. Yet the policy of the Menzies Government already includes intervention in Asia and any extension of this policy could involve conscripts. "There is concern for the defence of Australia and if there were any serious threat to the independence and freedom of our country then young Australians would be pxepared to make any necessary sacrifice. "Hostile actions against the peo ple of Asia who seek . their inde pendence and freedom does not de fend Australia." The statement went on: "We can help solve the conflicts and bring genuine security for Australia only by ending all military interference in Asia, by respecting the righs of all people to freedom and independ ence, by developing friendship, with our neighbours and by replacing force with negotiation. "The. Eureka Youth League of Australia works for this policy." It called for: Repeal of the National Service Act. A national referendum on the question of conscription for overseas service, extending the right to vote to those who will be effected by the scheme but who are now denied the right to vote. Granting of automatic defer ment to all full-time students, part- time students on courses relevant to their careers and to all apprentices. Where students and apprentices s re accepted to study for higher qualifi cations their deferment should con tinue. The League also declared that: — Young people should oppose the right of the Menzies Government to impose heavy penalties for non registration. All those who oppose compul sory military training, whatever their reasons, should be entitled to apply for exemption. Exemption should be granted to those who have a religious or moral objection to war and to those who oppose . war as a means of settling disputes. Legal aid should be extended to all who seek exemptions. No conscript should suffer loss of pay during his army service or because of his army service. All workers, including appren tices should be granted re-employ ment without loss of any conditions and at the rate of pay available for those of the same age and qualifi cations who were exempted. Graduate students should be guaranteed employment by the Fede ral Government at the same stan dard of pay and conditions that those of similar qualifications who were exempt, receive. National Service Trainees should be employed in the armed services in spheres connected with their civ ilian work if they so desire. "We appeal to every Australian, young or old, who opposes any or every part of the National Service Act to act together for these de mands," the statement said. 