 Building union warns of industrial unrest over "White Paper" SYDNEY: The Federal Conference of the Building Workers' In - dustrial Union last week declared that any attempts by the Men - lies Government to attack democratic rights under cover of a "White Paper" or any other anti-Communist smoke-screen would be fought by the united strength of the trade union movement . . The conference, representing about 50,000 building work ers, said the union would fully play its part in defeating any such attacks. |NCREASING pressure by Liberal Party Branches, National Civic Council and Democratic Labor Party spokesmen have called for the Government to issue a "White Paper on Communism in Aus- tarlia." "It is significant that these calls are appearing at a time when there is mounting public opposition to the Menzies Government's policies, both foreign and domestic. In the past Government declara tions on Communism have been used as a cover for attacks on the demo cratic rights Of the people," the con ference said. "This was made evident in the Communist Party Dissolution Bill, where under cover of an attack on the Communist Party the Government attempted to take away many cherish ed democratic rights. "In that period the entire trade union movement united in opposition to the Government's proposals and their stand .was supported by the majority of the Australian people in the Communist Party Dissolution Act referendum." Conference supported the calling of national stoppages on an industry basis' as part of a national campaign to:— Restore the principle that basic wage and margins be deteri ned separately. Win a basic wage which is a family living wage, aiming at achiev ing a £22 basic wage and in con formity with the ACTU standard. Gain a margin for skill based on trie ACTU formula. Have strict price control intro- ; duced. I Conference re-elected unopposed f Messrs. G. Dawson - (Queensland i secretary) as Federal president and ; F. McCauley (Canberra secretary.) as senior vice-president. i Other officers elected included i Messrs. J. Chandler (Victorian secre- ! tary.) and P. Clancy (NSW secretary) us vice-presidents. P. CLANG r . . . and F. McCAULEY, re-elected as vice-presidents 