 Warnings on loss of jobs By a Special Correspondent SYDMiY: Sources close to the motor in dustry expect there will foe further sackings foy General Motors HoSden before Christ- mess. At the some time a developing decline in iot building is expected to lead to unem ployment in the building industry and In fouildisig supplies. DUBLISHED reports indicate a stagnation in such fields as general retail trade and the sale of home units which have j been mushrooming for years in j Sydney suburbs. Dr. A. R. Hall, Australian National j University (in the Financial Review of November 12) said: "Without posi tive intervention by the Government | the chances are increasing that un employment may rise to a level which is social undesirable and politically dangerous." j An article by : Ken Davidson in "The Australian" (November 17), f headed "Unemployment Highlights Economic Run-Down", noted that the number of job seekers has risen by just over 9 per cent since last June while the number of job vacancies has dropped by almost 11 per cent. This article pinpoints the build-up in stocks and fall-off in consumer demand as the major factors under lying the change. Most of the slackness in con sumer demand is attributable to "lower real personal incomes caused by the recent Budget . . . and higher food prices . . ." The most effective way to stimu late consumer demand is the win- | ning by the trade unions of their | demands for higher wages and lower prices. The article notes, however, that ef forts to stimulate consumer demand wil not have much effect on solving the problems of the car industry. Here, the fundamental problem is excess capacity, built up by the frenzied expansion of G.M.H., Ford and other rival monopolies seeking a dominant position in the market. Registrations dropped by 30 per cent in September and are expected to have dropped a further 5 per cent in October. Dr. Hall's article says that com mencements of flat-building, which ran at the rate of 120,000 a year in the March quarter of this year, had dropped to 100,000 in the September quarter (17 per cent down). In the retail trade, the field of household appliances, as revealed in H G. Palmer collapse, is in a serious state and some big firms are moving drastically to transfer their interests to other fields. 