 rage Despite the Government's plans . . j Hew Guineans tell hand-picked IIH Mission the facts By JIM COOPER SYDNEY: Despite the Federal Government's carefully organised plans, it could not prevent some New Guinea leaders from airing their grievances before the hand-picked United Nations Visiting Mission which recently toured New Guinea. THESE grievances concerned particularly low wages, dis crimination, low prices for their produce, failure of the Admin istration to provide agricultural experts to advise on commer cial agriculture, return of alienated lands and the wide demand for schools. Many people are under the impres sion that the Visiting Mission is sel- ected by the Trusteeship Council from any of its members, but this is not so. Its selection must have the approval of the Australian Government, i.e., the Menzies Government has a veto on representation — a veto they effect ively operate against the socialist and the progressive Afro-Asian countries. This year the Mission has four dele gates: Mr. Andre Naudy, France (Chairman), Mr. Dcrmot Swan, United Kingdom, Mr. Dwight Dickenson, U.S.A. and Mr. Nathaniel Eastman, Liberia. That means three delegates from colonialist countries with a vested in terest in covering up the sins of col onialism and one from the Liberian scmi-colony of the United States. This hand-picked Mission was to have meetings with the New Guineans marshalled by the Administration through the Department of Native Affairs. An endeavour was made to get those of the local population who were re garded as supporters of the Adminis tration to be the spokesmen. But somehow the plans fell apart. Tewi, hospital orderly with 15 years' service, asked if Europeans would work for his wages of £5/10/- per fortnight. School teacher Sheldon Frank said that there was too great a differ ence between indigenes and Euro peans' wages and standards of accom modation. Pita Lus, MHA for Dreikikir said that the Papuan and New Guinean Public Service officers wanted the same rates of pay as Australian officers and he was backed up by ex-policeman Mason from Maprxk. Councillor Angamai in the Rai Coast area raised the question of the return of unused plantation land to the people so that it could be de veloped by New Guineans. He was supported by the House of Assembly Member Sujuman Mati- bri who told the Mission that lie had brought, this matter before the House in 1964 but had no reply. LITTLE LAND Land alienation in this area is ex tensive, leaving little land for the in digenous agriculturalists to develop into commercial agriculture. In all meetings speaker after speaker took the floor demanding schools and more teachers. Some demanded higher education. Another demand was for more agri cultural officers and greater assistance for. economic development. It has always been inferred, if not actually stated, that the New Guinean was happy in his primitiveness and didn't want education or progress. In face of this evidence and also the demands raised in the House of Assembly, it will be very difficult to maintain this stand. The Barnes policy of reducing wages and social services is progress ively coming into collision with the demands of the people. The proposals advanced by the New Guineans are all -possible and necessary requirements for the ad vancement of their country. Their implementation is a pro vision of the Trusteeship Agreement. As such it is the duty of Australians to insist that the provision of Agreement be honoured. 