 I Vietnam protest : i Demonstrate this Friday! I SYDNEY: Following Vietnam peace demon- I strations in Melbourne last weekend and in Can berra this week, the Vietnam Action Committee has appealed to supporters to attend early and in I force at next Friday evening s demonstration in Sydney. This will take the form of a poster parade and leaflet I distribution outside the Commonwealth Bank buildings, I Martin Place, at 5 pm, October 22. I THESE demonstrations are I ' part of the International S Days of Protest against the I Vietnam War, which have al ready led to large demonstra- I tions in the United States and | other countries. I iphe Sydney Vietnam Action Com- I mittee said this week in a news- | letter that the big attenadnce of supporters at a recent forum defeated f disruption attempts. 1 It calls on supporters again to roll I tip in large numbers. | The VAC also seeks support for a l| public meeting next WEDNESDAY, |1 OCTOBER 27, at 8 p.m. in the Mac- |1 quarie Auditorium, 136 Phillip Street, : I with Dr. J. Cairns, MHF and Mr. |j Bruce MacFarlane as speakers. There P will be folksinging. |P The VAC says the auditorium will I; only hold 300, so early attendance of supporters is essential. II In CANBERRA a 24-hour peace || vigil was due to begin last Tues- H day afternoon, organised by the p Vietnam uay committee. y MELBOURNE g| In Melbourne last Saturday 200 people took part in a silent vigil |:| outside the Federal Members' rooms in solidarity with Vietnam Day de monstrations in the United States. The vigil, which began at midnight on Friday with smaller numbers and swelled to 200 by late morning, was organised by the Vietnam Day Com mittee in response to the appeal of the strong peace movement centred in Berkeley, California. Groups of demonstrators through out the morning were detaching them selves from the main body and parad ing through crowded Melbourne streets with their Vietnam protest message. In the afternoon, a forum was held by the Vietnam Day Committee at Melbourne University. Peace workshop The Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament has announced the holding of a "peace workshop, a one-day discussion" on Saturday, November 6 (9.30 a.m. to JJOU« f UCgUJUlUlg 111 auui torium, Sydney. Speakers will include Professor E. L. Wheelwright and Mr. E. L. Pollard. 