 UN mission can't I dodge the issues New Guineans tell them the facts L By JIM COOPER The hand-picked mission from the United Nations Trusteeship Council which has been touring New Guinea has been unable to avoid colliding with sharp demands from New Guinea spokesmen fed up with foreign exploitation, particularly from Australia. THE cover-up nature ot the mission was revealed when its composition was announced — representatives of France, Britain, the United . States and Liberia (long-standing semi- colony of the USA in Africa). They had been appointed despite the sharp protests of the Soviet -Union and other countries. Reports or the tour so far indi cate that -the expected effort has been made by the Australian Ad ministration to keep the mission out of contact with militant spokesmen around the territories. But at a meeting at Kainantu (Eastern Highlands), reported in the Sydney Morning Herald (17/3/65) New Guinea people told the mission how they were being exploited by the Australian government and private employers and trading interests. Farmers,, mainly coffee growers, complained they were not being paid enough by whites' for their crops. They called on the Administration to give them financial aid to set up their' own marketing business. Workers at the meeting demanded that they be paid higher wages by both the Australian government and Australian capitalists. The mission can hardly ignore the fact that these demands follow the recent boil-over in the House of Assembly when a decision was made calling for control of public service finance policy to be transferred to New Guinea from Canberra. This arose following the 40 per . cent wage cut for New Guinea public service employees. Another recent development is the . formation of the single federation of ' trade union organisations, with Aus tralian union support. Another demand voiced' at Kain antu, one that has not previously had enough attention, was for adult education. The president of the Agarabi local government council, Mr. Ono Aia, said there had to be some form of adult education in his area. He complained there were no teachers available for this. A highlander by the name of Manki told the mission: "When we are better educated and have . more knowledge we will not be afraid to stand up and say we want our government." The vice-president of the Kerowagi council, Mr. Wena Amugu, told ' the mission: "I want self-government to come quickly, but we need more education." There is already widespread criti cism in New Guinea of the Menzies Government's failure to meet general education needs. The Director of Education in Papua New Guinea recently asserted that, following a "crash program" of education, 10 per' cent of the popu lation were children in schools — "higher than in some other coun tries," he boasted. After claiming that the vote for education was £500,000 higher than last year he said that nevertheless a great number of children would have to get by with less class-room materials. Speeches by indigenous members of the House of Assembly have revealed the unrest on the issue. Mr. Handabe of the Upper Sepik electorate, after requesting the estab lishment of schools and the appoint ment of one European teacher, said: "It is not right that my people should have to wait and wait to develop . . . We have been told to wait so many times that our heads are aching from this kind of talk." Calling for more agricultural of ficers, he went on: "Later on we will be asked to pay tax, but how can we pay tax if we have not been taught to earn money in the first place. "Many people are idle because they have not been shown the way to earn money. "If they remain as they are. they will get nowhere. An agricultural officer could show them how to plant cash crops." Mr. Johnston in scouring the world seeking parallels for educational de velopment did not quote Indonesia from the United Nations reports. Indonesia as a separate nation be gan in 1945. They had a similar percentage of literacy as New Guinea at that period. Despite imperialist provocations and civil war existing through the whole period, they celebrated uni versal literacy in the three pro vinces of Java in 1962 and they are confident that full literacy will be achieved in the 17 provinces of Indo nesia by 1970 and this includes West Irian. Mr. Johnston's estimate of child ren in schools is considerably, less than half the children of school age. But it leaves the adults, and over school age youth, the great percent age of the population, unprovided for. As these are the people who have the immediate task of developing the ecenomy it is quite obvious that adult literacy is an urgent necessity. In China school children were or ganised to teach their parents and this assisted to raise the literate standard of the people. The malevolent influence of the planter monoplies, whose super-pro fits are made from the exploitation of illiterate workers, is the major factor retarding education in the Territory. . The realisation of this by . the New Guinea people and Australian support for a unified effort to compel the Administration to step up its educa tion program — primary, secondary, tertiary r and adult — is of major importance. Teacher trainees studying in the library of the Teacher Trainees' School in Port Moresby. 