 - ( Liberal chief also boss of fibrous plaster industry "The worst enemy fibrous plaster workers had in New South Wales was Mr. Eric Willis, the Deputy-Leader of the NSW Liberal Party." Mr. Kevin Miller, secre- tarv of the NSW Plasterers' Union, said this last week when commenting on the attempts of the Liberal Party to pose for election purposes as the friends of the little people. "y/LMOST without exception when I appear in Court to advocate improvements for my: members, Mr. Willis is on the other side as the secretary of the Fibrous Plasters Asso ciation, the employers' organi sation. "This friend of the little people even fought vigorously against wage improvements for apprentices Last year, when our union made a claim for £1 industry al lowance Willis set out to rally all employers' organisations in the building industry to oppose it." Mr. Willis the "friend" of the little"", people holds down four jobs on £120 a week. He is deputy lead er of the NSW Parliamentary Liberal ' Party at a salary of nearly £80 a week. He is also NSW, Federal and Australasian secretary of the Fib rous Plasterers Association on a salary of £4o a week. The Fibrous Plasterers' Association is a front for Australian Plaster Industries, the monopoly interests that control the fibrous plaster ing industry. They have a complete monopoly of the industry from production of materials to the finished product. The inner body within the Fibrous Plasterers Association, Formations Ltd., fixes prices for materials and imposes penalties upon any mem ber who carries out work for less than these prices. With Willis as the deputy lead er of a NSW government if the liberals were returned, one can imagine the industrial policies of such a government. When Mr. L. T. Ostergen, sec retary of the NSW Employers Fed eration, proposed a toast to the their annual dinner in 1963 he said: "The Employers Federation has 98 associations and not one of these gives the Federation more co-op eration and support than the Fib rous Plasterers Association." During his toast he also said "that the Employers Federation had been handling the industrial matters since 1947 and overcome the prob lem of wages and unreasonable de mands by industrial unions, ba sic wage increases, longservice leave, apprentices problems, 35 hour week, etc. and it was important that we stick together." Mr. Willis' political orientation can be seen from the fact that he admitted in the Sydney press that he addressed a rally of the Ustashi (Croatian right-wing ex tremists) in Sydney on April 10. 1964. The purpose of the rally as point ed out by Tribune at the time was to celebrate the founding of the 1 war-time nazi puppet state; of Croatia under the quisling Pavelic. ; Mr. Eric Willis at the Ustashi rally last year. 