 i ! | The not so entertaining j "Mr Sloan " I [?] j' I QNCE having developed | a certain attitude to I theatre, it is very easy to I discuss any play which does I not conform to the stand- | ards dictated by such atti- tude, as utter rubbish. "En- j tertaining Mr. Sloan" de- | finitely enters such a cate- j gory. Briefly it concerns a hypochond- S riac, partially blind old man living ) with his middle aged daughter in !a house surrounded by a rubbish tip — it is not clear whether or not j the setting is significant. I In viewing the performance, it I is not clear how producer, John s Clarke, interpreted the play, as the j styles of acting contrast quite (strikingly. Gwen Plumb as the daughter played it as broad I comedy and, as her timing is so | impeccable, she was very funny, | but neither consistent nor believ- 1 able as a character. j Alexander Hay as the brother | seemed ill at ease in the role and I tended to rely on clipped delivery ! of lines 'a la Noel Coward' to cover ! the lack of character delineation. There should be an underlying commonness in the brother which corresponds to the sister and father, and which has not been removed by the veneer of afflu ence. John Brunskill was very good as the annoying, yet pathetic old man and brought comic realism to his role. John Ewart played Mr. Sloane as a cynical, amoral young tough with an eye to his own comfort and survival; and was completely believable and credible. He even managed to elicit some degree of sympathy for the character. The correct way to interpret this play has been argued at some length and the current production at the Old Tote does nothing to lessen the confusion. It may well be that anything less than Gwen ( Plumb's blatant seeking of laughs j would make the play even less | 'palatable than it now appears. . | It is true that the play evoked j quite a number of laughs from the J audience, but I suspect they were j the rather nervous laughs provok- j ed by the public use of four letter I words or the smutty innuendoes of j blue comedians. j Whilst recognising there ' are 1 many tastes to be satisfied in I theatre, it would seem playwright, Joe Orton has used shock value | diatogue because he has nothing else to say. If this play needs to j be played in the manner of this j production to make it seem less j offensive, then it is an unfortunate | choice for the Old Tote. | And more unfortunate because of j the Tote's fine record so far to i Sydney theatre— and the fact that | Elizabethan Trust money could be j rather wasted on plays like this. -JA. | 