 Indonesia HANDS OFF! j?VENTS in Indonesia in the past week have unfolded a serious crisis not only for the Indonesian people but also for the whole of South-East Asia and for Australia. It is vital to Australia's future that the Menzies Government in no way intervenes or supports inter vention by its imperialist allies, whatever may be the outcome that emerges from the present conflicting reports. It is apparent at this stage that two groupings within the Indonesian military leadership are engaged in a contest for power. Australian press reports reveal extreme rightwing efforts to use the situation to attack and arrest Indonesian communists. Many reports from Indonesia in recent weeks have shown that the political struggle between the forces of independence and democracy, on the one hand, and Indonesian ex ploiters and the United States Intel ligence agencies, on the other, was sharpening rapidly. For example, on September 25 Indo nesian Communist Party (PKI) chair man D. Aidit made a strong call at the national congress of plantation workers for all Indonesian workers to act boldly to take over control of State enterprises from the hands of luxury-loving "bureaucrat - capi- talists, embezzlers and grafters" of the cities. He endorsed earlier statements by Soekarno and Subandrio condemning these same exploiting elements. Who are the "bureaucrat-capital ists"? In fact, many of them are army officers placed in charge of the State enterprises. On Rpr»tomV»QT» 01 «-> f n aibwi d lUil campaign led by the PKI, President Soekarno officially decreed the dis solution of the anti-Communist Murba Party, for which rightist and im perialist forces had held high hopes. The decree was publicly welcomed by the Nationalist Party and the National Front, as well as bv the PKI. I CIA intrigue A September 24 report said that % big public campaign in Sourabaya for the expulsion of the United States Consul there had won the public support not only of the PKI, but also of Deputy Premier Subandrio and leaders of the Nationalist Party, National Front, the Chief of Police and the Muslim Scholars' Association —the main. Muslim political body. Teh agents i of the US Cefitfal Intelligence Agency were reported arrested, on September 24. A con- ference against foreign military bases, . especially US bases, was due to begin in Djakarta in a few days. Behind such political struggles was V the rising struggle against inflation, poverty and exploitation of the millions of Indonesian people; for whom the PKI is undoubtedly the V main voice. Against this background, there is good reason to attach weight to the reported broadcast statement by Colonel Untung, a leading figure in the initial phase of the Djarkarta power struggle, that the top army chiefs had planned a military coup on or before October 5 (Army Day). London Daily Mail correspondent, Arthur Cook, confirmed -this when he wrote (SMH, Oct. 5): "General Nasution . . . had undoubtedly plan ned something for Tuesday, Armed Forces Day." He also wrote that the generals "must have had some back ing, if only morally and part finan cially," from the Western diplomats in Djakarta. Internationally, the United States has ceaselessly sought to work for an Indonesian puppet regime that would open the way for its exploita tion of the rich Archipelago and would support its strategic interven tion in South-East Asia. The notorious CIA was exposed as having organised, with some British help, the abortive "colonels' revolt" in Sumatra against the central Indo nesian Government, in 1958. A num ber of the senior Indonesian army officers, including Yani and Suharto, were trained in the USA. Last week's N Continued on Page 1 2 I INDONESIA Continued from Page 1 arrests of CIA agents showed the interference was continuing. Mr. Rex Mortimer, Central Com mittee member of the Communist Party of Australia, who made a study tour of Indonesia last year, said this week: "Behind and alongside the army leaders stand a group of exploiters who fear the growing strength of the Communist Party and its allies. "The most powerful rve officials who have waxed rich through manage ment of the State industrial enter prises, including industries and estates taken over from the Dutch, British and Americans. Many ot these officials are themselves army men and they are notoriously cor rupt, with close connections with other anti-Soekarno capitalists, offi cials, landlords and financiers." He expressed the view that, as the attempts of these groups to develop an extreme rightist political bloc had been repeatedly frustrated by the Soekarno Government, they had seen little alternative but to mount a coup against the steady leftward shift of Indonesian politics. This shift was further reflected last week in the very large and varied Indonesian delegations visiting People's China for its 16th anniver sary on October 1. The Indonesian Communist Party, with a membership above three million and ever-growing mass sup port, especially in the countryside, was moving into greater influence in governmental bodies. Observers be lieve that an election this year could have given the PKI an absolute majority. Pacing such a situation, the Men- zies Government and most of the Australian press have made no secret of their hope for "something to be pulled off by the rightwing military leaders to turn the tables on the "Indonesian people. Hasluck only weeks ago was publicly deriding the Soekarno Government. The Menzies Government's policy is one of "no alternative to force throughout South-East Asia— includ ing Indonesia and New Guinea-to fight against movements of inde pendence and democracy (which » calls "Communism"). Menzies ha supported the armed overthrow Indonesian independence ever since he supported the Dutch interven tionists there, after World War J. There is serious danger that, wiu the aid of Washington, London ana Canberra, an extreme rightist an pro-imperialist government rnignc_ established in Indonesia. This wmd bring not only enormous hloodsnea and repression in Indonesia, . . would greatly strengthen the US- forces of intervention and war aga independence and democracy tnr B out South-East Asia. It would I big step towards world war. . | For Australia, as the CommungJ Party has long stated, the » cwj® fi path is one of non-intervention S Indonesian affairs, of sympattetw encouragement of all Asl ments for national indepeiden , democracy and the established relations of peace and trienW j with the governments based on movements. 