 ® White cogger, maritime transport and j metal workers Action grows against wage judgment SYDNEY : A meeting of 100 union leaders repre senting about 250.000 white collar workers in NSW last Thursday in Sydney condemned the Commis sion's wage decision as a serious danger to living standards. ""HE meeting, which was called by the NSW division of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Asso ciations, unanimously endorsed the move by the ACTU to chal lenge the judgment by a new application. A joint statement earlier adonted by the ACTU, the ACSPA and the High Council of Commonwealth Public Ser vice Organisations was also unanim ously supported by the meeting. This statement condemned the judgement because: — © its effect is to reduce the real value of wages and salaries and singles out wage and salary earn ers to shoulder present economic difficulties as seen .by the Com mission; © it altered the processes and prin ciples established by the Com mission itself in 1961 and affirm ed in 1963 and 1964 and on which the unions were encouraged to apnroach the Commission in 1965; it rejects "prices and productiv ity" as key principle in wage fixation and resorts to an un- precise method; .© it altered marginal rates without giving the unions an opportunity to make submissions. The three national bodies also decid-' ed to plan a campaign involving the 160 affiliated unions and associations who opposed the judgement. .Metalworkers SYDNEY: Combined one hour stopwork meetings of waterfront transport will be held next week to - protest against the Arbitration Com mission's "total wage" decision. The stoppages were called by a meeting last Thursday of the NSW Labor Council's Waterfront Transport Group. The unions involved included; Waterside Workers, Seamen, Stewards, Cooks, Shipwrights, Firemen and Deckhands and Painters and Dockers. The maritime unions also called on the Australian Council of Trade Un ions to organise four hour stopwork meetings in group industries "as a practical way to achieve wage justice." Last Thursday's meeting of Labor Council declined to endorse this pro posal as being contrary to the recent decision of the ACTU executive. The waterfront unions also express ed concern at the ACTU proposal for unions to delay applying for the in creases granted by the Commission. The unions gave full support for the WWF wages, pensions and other claims, condemned the attacks being made on the Federation and endorsed the boycotting of the Federal Govern ment's waterfront inquiry. SYDNEY: Metal union shop stew ards and job delegates are meeting today (Wednesday July 21) in Syd ney to plan protest action against the Arbitration Commission's wage decision. The meeting nas been called by the NSW Branch of the Metal Trades Fed eration of unions in response to numerous demands from workshops and affiliated unions. [?] 