 Sutherland's chance in By-election CYDNEY: The by-election in Sutherland Shire to elect a Councillor from, Cronulla Rid ing on July 3 is assuming more importance and creating great er interest than usual. The Citizens' Committee (Liberal Party) majority on the Sutherland Shire Council has come under heavy fire because of their failure to meet the needs of the community. In recent times there have been protest meetings in the area over various issues, and the public gal leries have been well-filled at meet ings of the Shire Council. The by-election is necessary to fill the seat vacated by the death of. the Labor Party Councillor. The Sutherland Section of the Communist Party has decided to stand Mr. Alex Elphinston as the Communist candidate in Cronulla Riding. This gives people the opportunity tor voting ior a genuine people s representative and registering their disapproval of the present Council majority.' Since the election of the present Council ratepayers have been an gered on many occasions by the growing arrogance of the . Council in regard to its treatment of public requests. . A few items include: RATE INCREASES — The Council has increased rates by Id. in the £ despite widespread protests. Pub lic pressure prevented this rise being doubled. It raised the minimum rate on un- occupied blocks to £15, and has begun rating home units. Rate rebates for pensioners have been abolished, excepting those single pensioners who received the rebate prior to 1965. There were many protests from rate payers and organisations over the latter in particular. FEDERAL AID — Widespread pleas for a Ratepayers' Conference to press for increased Federal and State aid to local government have been rejected by the Council. PLAY CENTRES — The Council is the only southern metropolitan Council that refuses support for vital Children's Vacation Play Cen tres in the area. COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION BLOCK — The Council has embarked upon the construction of a new Council Administration Block, thus utilising hundreds of thousands of pounds urgently need at the moment for more important items. SERVICE STATIONS — The Council has allowed the building of many unnecessary service stations in the area. HOOKER-REX ASSISTANCE — Re- zoning proposals by the Council- have helped the Hooker-Rex mono poly to deprive local residents of £30,000 to £40,000 on a flat develop ment site in Miranda. JANNALI RAILWAY ENTRANCE — Despite public meetings by more than 400 people, the Council has refused requests to retain the pre sent railway - entrance. BUSH-FIRE BRIGADES — The Coun cil has incurred the hostility of local Fire Brigades by by-passing a local leader of the Brigades after many years of valuable service given by. him in their field. The Communist candidate, Mr. Alex Elphinston, is going to the polls on a policy which includes the fol lowing: REDUCTIONS IN RATES -- ac companied by the development of a widespread campaign to win other sources of finance from State and Federal Governments and by Council itself utilising Council enterprises. Full rebates of rates for all pensioners. Implementation of a full pro gramme of work planned in con junction with the people's organi sations. Priority to road, drainage and footpath work. Immediate action to open up Wanda recreation area for playing fields, etc. Particular attention to outer areas like Kurnell, Bundeena, Wanda. Vacation Play Centres, Community Youth Centres, improved Beach and Pool facilities, be introduced im mediately. 