 [?] I Communists challenge ! | Liberals to debate J ! SYDNEY: The Com- I munist Party of I Australia has chal- I lenged the Liberal V j Party to a public de- j bate on the war in I Vietnam, as dealt 8 with in the pamphlets j issued by the two | parties. j The Communist Party of j Australia last week pub- | lished a pamphlet for na- S t i o n a I distribution in | 50,000 copies entitled | "The Real Facts About j South Vietnam". | It is a reply to a Liberal pam- phlet called "The Facts About I South Vietnam." S In a press statement the | general secretary of the Com- 5 munist Party, Mr. L. Aarons, | said: "The Liberal Party 5ub lication contained many grave S mistakes, distortions of fact and I serious errors." | Issuing the challenge in a I letter to the Liberals, Mr. Aarons | said the aim would be "further | to enlighten the public about S the real issues in the dispute, I an object which you also claim to seek " | Pamphlet nails lies I The Communist pamphlet is j thoroughly documented, and j provides a devastating answer 8 to the fraud Menzies and the ) Liberal Party have perpetrated on the nation in committing Aus- ! tralian lives to the American I war in Vietnam. S Here are samples of its nailing | of lies and distortions in the Liberal pamphlet: — | The 17th Parallel Liberal pamphlet: "Pursuant to S the 1954 accords, Vietnam was I divided into two parts at the | 17th parallel. A Communist | Government was established in ! the North, a non-Communist ) Government in the South." J Communist pamphlet: "Article S 6 of the 1954 accords means the I opposite . . . the military de- | marcation line is provisional | and should not in any way be 8 interpreted as constituting a I political or territorial boundary." I Liberal pamphlet: The US is acting "for one purpose only — to " f help the South Vietnamese I people resist aggression. . . . j The United States, is not there' | for economic gain and it seeks i no military base," I Communist pamphlet: "New I York Times said on February 12, j 1950: Indo-China is a prize worth j a large gamble. In the north 1 are exportable tin, tungsten, | zinc, manganese, coal, lumber j and rice, and in the south are g rice, rubber, tea, pepper, cattle I and hides." I President Eisenhower, August 4, 1953: ". . . when the US votes ! 400 million dollars to help that I war we are not voting a give- I away program. We are voting g for the cheapest way ... to i get certain things we need from j the riches of the Indo-Chinese j territory and from, South-East 1 Asia " | Popular j ' Instant popularity of the new J Communist pamphlet was shown j in the Sydney Domain last Sun- ! day, where over £11 was donated I spontaneously from the crowd j for copies of the pamphlet, I which is unpriced. ! One member of the audience | handed up a £5 note. | A group of Young Liberals who ! were attempting to organise dis- | ruption of the platform were I obviously disconcerted as Com- g munist Party speaker Mr. W. J. j Brown quoted extensively from f the new pamphlet to demolish j Liberal claims. I This group also failed to meet I a challenge, made the previous j Sunday, to an open Domain j debate on Vietnam. The chal- I lenge has been renewed. i Mr. Brown told Tribune: f "Without exaggeration, this is j one of the finest pamphlets T presented by our Party. It j should be circulated on the | widest basis from one end of ! Australia to the other. I "Every .member and supporter j of the Communist Party should ! read it carefully, and use it to I further discussion and debate I on the Vietnam issue in every g workplace and locality. 8 "It can be a powerful force g for truth and understanding of j the Communist policy for full g implementation of the 1954 j Geneva Agreement, including an I end to Australian military inter- g vention in Vietnam." I Supplies are available from I progressive bookshops, Commu- 2 nlst Party offices, and Tribune j sellers. | 