 Heroie fight to free jailed patriots Help is needed I ETTERS from Greece reach- ing Sydney over the last few months tell of the heart breaking yet inspiring story of the struggle,' stretching over nearly 20 years for some, to release Greek political prison ers jailed under fascist laws. Ever so slowly, in ones and twos they are being released. There are' still about 71 men and at least 8 women remaining in Greek political prisons today. Many of them are gravely ill, and are being denied- proper care and treatment. . One letter received here this week from a woman in Greece gave de tails of the plight of her husband, 10 years a political prisoner despite very bad health. Mrs. Thetis Kotsakis says that her husband, Spyros, was a resistance fighter against the Nazis in World War II and was later condemned under a Greek fascist law. She says:— "His State Of health is alarming and keeps us all in deep anxiety. Normally he should be released by a particular law existing for ill prisoners. "Unfortunately, because of the cur rent political situation, it is very difficult to have this law applied. I beg you to help me to save my husband. "I am deeply convinced that let ters to Mr. D. Stefanopoulos, the President of the Government and to the Minister of Justice, will greatly help to promoting the matter. "Also letters to the International . — or local Red Cross, and to the Greek Embassy. , "My children and I wish to ex press to you our warmest thanks and deepest gratitude." Yours sincerely, Thetis Kotsakis, C/- Association of Athens of fami lies of political exiles and prisoners, Patission 14 (Stoa Fexi), Athens, Greece. And there are at least another 78, like Spyros Kolsakis. Then there are the women, eight or more. "The women prisoners are receiv ing what is known as the 'Spe cialist Treatment.' "Most are housed in 'Aveoff' anci 'Asphalia' prisons, both of which were, used by the German SS dur ing the occupation of Greece in the second world war. "These women are deprived of the hygience aids necessary for the special biological functions of women." Myidou Lofia is in prison for life. She is the mother of three child ren. Erithriadou Elli, is in prison for life. She, too, is the mother of three children. Doudoumi Evagelia is the mother of one child. Although gravely ill, she is serving a sentence of 20 years. Their only "crimes" were that they fought against fascism in the second world war and for demo cracy and equal rights after the suppression of free elections in 1948. ? Suse Milliss, an Australian writer travelling abroad with Her husband, was in Greece late last year. She writes: GREECE: Associated in .everyone's mind as the cradle v of democracy, and home of the ancient Heroes. A bitter irony here today, thoughts of democracy; but heroes there are and we met some of them; Mrs. Kotsoki— a tall attractive well-groomed, dark-haired woman. She learnt English during her 5 years in prison, 1955-60. She was arrested at the same time as her husband, Spiros Kotsakis, now 55, an economist and a com munist, charged with espionage. Had she denounced him, she would have been freed earlier. He is - still serving a sentence, but at present in a sanatorium suf fering from TB which he contracted in Corfu prison— an unheated medieval castle. He has spent 14 of his 55 years of life behind bars. ' Twice he was sentenced to death— under the fascist dictatorship of Metaxas and during the Nazi oc cupation. Kotsakis was a resistance fighter leader of the First Corps of the Army of Hellas which liberated Athens in 1944. When George Papandreou, then President of the Government of Union, came to Athens, Kotsakis handed over the free city to him. Today Papandreou is Premier. Mrs. Louie — an erect, grey-haired woman, her face serious and strong. Her husband, Konstantinos Lou ies, a lawyer, 18 years in jail, 40 years a member of the Com munist Party. Years spent in exile. Now also "in a prison TB sanatorium. His brother was tor tured to death at a police station. Both women work for the Asso ciation of Families of Political Prisoners and Exiles. The aim of the Association is to take legal steps for the release of political prisoners, of whom there are 125 today (including 8 women) and to render financial and moral help to their families and the prisoners themselves when they are released. ? Under the fascist dictatorship of Metaxas, 5,000 prisoners, resistance fighters against the Nazi occupa tion forces, were" executed without trial. After the Civil War of 1946-49, some 70,000 Greeks were forced into exile. One hundred thousand people were arrested— whole families sent to prisons and concentration camps. Prison conditions were grim. Six hundred and thirty-five people died in jail and many others were re leased only when it was evident that they were on the verge of death. The prison on the arid island of Yura, where there is neither water nor any vegetation, was the most dreaded of all. Even warders there died. Greek polititcal prisoners who were not under solitary confine ment spent 22 hours a day in an area barely large enough for a bed. Cells were unheated and unventi- lated. Reading matter was minutely censured. All bear the marks of torture. On release many were committed to insance asylums, and are still there. Today's 125 political prisoners are all communists. All were sentenced In peace time yet by Courts Martial under "es pionage" Law 375 — a law issued by the Metaxas dictatorship in 1936. The Law states that since the Communist Party is outlawed, every communist is a spy and that all those who know him are accom plices. No proof is necessary and in fact not a scrap of evidence has been brought forward against any of those convicted. If, however, any of the accused renounces his political convictions, he automatically ceases to be a "spy" and Is freed. , In other words the political prisoners have been sentenced solely for their beliefs. One year ago after a tremendous mass struggle a Government of the Centre Union came to power. Mr. Papandreou, the new Premier, pledged, among other things, to re peal Espionage Law 375. All that has been done so far in this regard is the publication of a draft bill to repeal this Law; but not a mention of lifting the penalties imposed under It. It merely provides for the reduc tion of the sentences, for example, to life imprisonment or 20 years, which in fact amounts to approval of the penalties. . The Government even refuses a re-trial of cases under Law 375 by civil courts, although an article of the Greek Constitution asserts every citizen's right to a civil trial. Protests can be sent to:— The Prime Minister of Greece, Mr. S. Stephanopulos, Athens, GREECE. The Minister of Justice, \ Mr. Dimitris Papaspirou, Athens, GREECE. C. H. Ammann, Director, Relief Section, Comite International Croix Rouge, Geneve, SWITZERLAND. Xmas cards, postcards, gifts, etc. may be sent to:— Association of Athens of tlie V Families of Political Exiles and Prisoners, Patission 14 (Stoa Fexi), Tel. 612.859, Athens, GREECE. Mail to Greece by sea close# on November 12. This 70-year-old Greek woman's three sons and a son-in-law were j executed by the Nazis in the second world war. Her fourth son was J released from a Greek prison last Easter after serving 1 8 years as a poli- 1 tical prisoner. This photo was taken before his release, and shows his mother demonstrating, with children of some of the prisoners. 