 and the reply j ; Tribune passed the letter to the Communist Party's j ! Central Committee, which sent to M.S. this reply: — I ! QUR Party is open to ! every adult Australian I who believes in socialism j and wishes to do some- 1 thing to help achieve it. The problem you raise of lack of personal contact with other Party members is a real one as, , in general, applicants should be ! nominated and seconded by ex- I isting members of the Party. ' The reason for this is not at all to keep the Party an exclusive | sort of club, or because it is g secret or conspiratorial in any g way. It is simply aimed to pro- i tect the Party against the peri- i odie cases of deliberate disrup- jj tion. I However, the difficulty, is by I no means insuperable, and can g probably be settled by discussion g at your convenience, in your dis- | trict or in Sydney — whichever | can be soonest arranged. | Membership entails obligations, g. in the words of the constitution, I of "acceptance of the Party Pro- | gram and Constitution, activity g in a Party organisation and pay- | ment of dues." f Dues are £4 a year for those l earning over £12 a week, and £1 i a year for others. ! "Activity in a Party organisa- | tion" and any financial contribu- | tion above those stated are deter mined in a practical way in each I case at the discretion of the | member concerned, and in ac- j cordance with his or her person- ! al situation. j Active ' church members are welcome to join the Party on the | conditions outlined above. | Our program for a socialist g Australia is arrived at by exam- ! ination of Australian conditions | in the light of the science of 2 Marxism, and Marxism is based j on the principles of materialism | which, philosophically, is in con- ! flict with theology. j However, as far as the Party j is concerned the philosophical g contradiction is quite secondary I to the main unifying factor of | belief in and work for the Party's j aims, and is no obstacle at all to S active church members joining. | Our Party stands for the peace- 1 ful resolution of social problems g and of differences between nat- j ions. However we believe that I colonial peoples, for example, are g fully entitled to use force to rid J themselves of foreign domination | if (as has been in practice almost g always the case!) the colonial | power uses force to prevent them f gaining their freedom. g Similarly where a ruling class, J feudal or capitalist, uses force to I prevent a majority of the people t realising their aims of social g change, we believe the use of I counter force is just. | Pacifism is a broad term and g in practice embraces various | viewpoints. We have found that | many people who consider them- g selves pacifists in fact share our I views. I We hope these answers to your j questions are satisfactory, and S are looking forward to hearing | from you further. | — Central Committee, CPA. j 