 "Chase i Me ' Comrade" "£HASE ME COMRADE" is an hilarious, slap-stick spoof of defecting ballet dancers, the people who might defect them, the James Bond cloak and dagger bit and the cold war in general. Timing, sets, costumes are done to a tee. Some of the gags are get ting a bit long in the tooth but others hit topical nails on the head- as when during the mad rumpus at Commander Rimmington's house someone asks Hoskins (the garden er): "Why" dbn'-t you join the 'party'?" "I can't, I am young .Liberal," says Hoskins. But there's nothing "serious" about this play. It's got enough of every thing, to satisfy any political narks who might get in past the ushers with their flame-throwers. When "Petrovyan" the dancer is whisked away from the Russian em bassy by "Alicia" an English dancer ("This is only my first defection darling!") he is taken to the country house of Commander Rimmington R. N. "I wonT have my cottage turned into a political asylum," complains Hoskins as he warns about two "mysterious" men outside in a ca. These are the ferocious Russian police who never materialize during the action. Just about everything else does. ine jonosn secret service man irom Whitehall with his secret documents discovers a "communistic plot" be cause he hears a man from, "the Embassy" discussing the dancer's defection. ("The Embassy" happens to be ft London restaurant). This light vein of gently taking the sting out of anti-communist hys teria (which, as you know, is one of Mrs. Everage's favourite flowers) is continued throughout "Chase Me Comrade!", but with the uncomfort able repetition of some of the old "salt mines" chestnuts. Lead, Stanley Baxter, as "Gerry Buss", a civil servant who is a ("P.A. to the P.P.S. to the P.M.") gives a marathon performance of dance, mime, slapstick, song, mim icry—in fact an astounding perform ance. And Mai Courmont's "Petrovyan", complete with ballet steps, because he is a ballet dancer as well, finds some of supersensitivity of the bal let artist who, finally, decides that he will "return to Moscow". "Petrovyan" and the play were in spired by the story of Russian bal let star Nureyev. Actor-Author -Ray Cooney has had a great deal of fun with "Chase Me Comrade!"— no doubt glad to deton ate a few of the absurdities that accompany cold war politics. Theatre Royal In Sydney. D.K. SI 