 What IS wrong on the wharves? [?] iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiw by Henry McCarthy llilllliiilllililtllllllliiiiiiititiitiiiiitiiiiiiiniiitiiiiuiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiLiiiiiiiii Wharf ies, shipowners, the press, Stevedoring Authority spokesmen, in fact everyone mneerned agrees that there is a lot wrong on the Australian waterfront — but what is wrong? Leaving aside many of the smaller issues, it's basically this. Ever since there has been a waterfront it has been con trolled by a multi-millionaire overseas shipping conference line, whose only interest in wharf ies, Australia and its peo ple is plunder in the form of the highest freight rates in the world. Fruitless negotiations The charge is often levelled at wharfies' leaders that they won't negotiate, that they prefer to strike. On the contrary, years of often fruitless negotiation have shown that they can't negotiate with the employers, because they reside in London. Negotiations here are carried on through their Australian agents, who have little or no authority to make decisions. Anything of importance must be referred to "our London office" What type of service has this shipping cartel given Australia? The rapid growth of Australians economy just prior to the First World War demanded the services of an efficient shipping line. The war i . Shipowners then as now measured their service with the yard-stick of profit and they used their monopoly stranglehold to gouge deep into the national purse. When war came, produce for starving England was allowed to rot in wharehouses while they found safer cargoes to ply elsewhere. Loss of ships meant loss of profits; many conference line ships scuttled away to neutral countries to escape commandeering and restrictions on profit. Those that remained on the Aus tralian run used the war to their own callous advantage. Profits of the Shipping Conference in wartime are enormous. In the first 26 months of the first world war, the total net profit of. British shipping amounted to over £262 million. These immense profits were simply the result of high freight charges arising out of a scarcity of ships. Freights leapt from 47/6 to 105/- a ton while blockaded England con tinued to starve "Would land an enemy force" Dr. William Maloney, a Labor Member of Parliament at the time, had some strong comments to make on the treason of the shipowners. He said: "Loathing and hating the Prussians as I do, I say they are the open enemies, and vile as they are, the enemies within . our gates are equally vile. "The shipping companies of Great Britain have made £200,000,000 ir profits since the war began." "Lord Tollemache, in his chats with Gladstone when discussing with that gentleman the chances of war with Germany, asked him whethei he thought that if the shipping com panies of the United Kingdom were asked by the Germans to land an enemv force in Great Britain they would do so, and Mr. Gladstone re plied that he believed the shipping companies would, for the sake of lucre, agree to land enemy forces in the Port of Heaven." (Hansard, Sep tember 28. 1916.1 Before and since those days the shipowners have certainly justified Mr. Gladstone's opinion of them. They are experts in sowing the illusion that they are the patriots and wharfies are the villains. It's not hard for them to conceal that the opposite is true, with the Govern- ment on their side, and the press and other propaganda media serving their interests. This foreign - dominated overseas Conference Shipping Line has done more damage to . the Australian economy than any other group of employers in the world. During this year alone they have imposed five new crippling freight rates and more rises are predicted in September. When Australian business men and farmers protest against exorbitant freight charges, and demand Govern ment action, the Menzies Government refuses to move against the shipping lines. But they need no spurring into action against the wharfies. Escalation of freight rates will add at least £10 million to the national sea-freight bill this financial year. This represents about a four per cent, rise in the total sea-freight hill of £250 million. The Tait Committee of .Inquiry in 1956 declared that shipowners "base freights on what the . traffic will bear" — in other words, the maximum. No Arbitration for the shipowners when they take what they want. These freight grabs affect every member of the Australian community. The primary producer finds his exports priced out of world markets and the family pays more for com modities. Shipowners spend as little as pos sible in Australia. , The wharves where their ships berth are archaic. Sydney f an obsolescent and inefficient port The Australian Financial Review said rec «\ly: "It is a brutal fact that Sydney is a badly organised, run-down, obsolescent, inefficient port. Chaos has ruled for so long that it is regarded as a norm. Waterside Workers' Federation general secretary, Mr. C. Fitzgibbon, toid the recent New South Wales ALP Conference that if port facilities in . Australia were modernised "the . return in a single year would he much greater than all the time lost in stoppages by waterside workers over the last 20 years." Two of the just demands of wharfies are for industry pensions and in creased wages. They say that the cost of providing a pension for a wharf ie could .be met by a 7£ per cent, surcharge on wages paid ' In 1964 this v/ould have returned £1,800,000, a small fraction of the £430 million shipowners fleeced Aus tralia for in 1962-63. Wharfies are paid bare minimum base rate wages, while workers in most other industries are paid over- award rates Since 1955 cargo handled has . increased by 10 million tons a year, while man hours worked have reduced by 8.5 million a year. Handling rate per-man-hour has increased by 78 per cent, and pur chasing power paid to waterside workers has been reduced by 5 pei cent. Shipowners have conceded a pen sion scheme similar to that demanded by Australian wharfies to West Coast American dockers. In 1963-64 the cost per ton handled in Australia for labor was 15/-, on the West Coast USA £3/2/5 and in New Zealand it was £1. Shipowners believe that attack is the best defence, and it is no accident that the current attack on the wharfies is the shipowners' defence against, their campaign for improved condi tions and increased wages. The demand by the Australian people for a National Shipping Line existed long before Federation. Sup port for it extended far beyond the Labor Movement, into non-Laboi Parties, and into the farming and business communities — and it stil) does. Faced with a drastic shortage oi ships in the perilous days of the first world war, William Morris Hughes, then the Prime Minister, established Australia's first Common wealth Fleet in 1916. Outstanding success The fleet proved to be an outstand ing sucess and not only saved Aus tralia's economy from disaster, even with slashed freight rates, it returned the Government a handsome profit. . With the war over and huge profits and surplus tonnage on their hands, the Shipping' Conference organised mergers and agreements as first steps to once again dominate Australia's overseas trade. The found willing collaborators among the Bruce-Page Government which sold Australia's ships to the overseas owners in 1920. Australia, with her own line of overseas ships, would cease to be dominated by the Conference Line, freight rates would tumble, export ' ers and farmers would benefit greatly and prices for many commodities would he reduced. If establishment of our own line of ships was accompanied by nationalisation of the stevedoring industry, the situation of the Aus tralian waterfront would be fun damentally different. , /. . i 