 I I TRIBUNE [?] ! . Each week now brings its new' attack on normal entitle- ! ments and rights that are the stuff of democracy to some j Australians. I Two weeks ago it was the amendments to the Stevedor- I ing Act, providing art anti-labor government with the power | to smash the legality of the renowned Waterside Workers j Federation, built by generations of working men and a proud I voice of Australian independence and democracy. J Last weeki came the culmination of a -sudden,, ruthless ! wave of mass sackings by the American motor giant, Gen- Ieral Motors Holden. Gone at a few minutes notice was the job for which many 1 a migrant worker had travelled from Europe. 2 This week brings the attack on the workers' shop com- j mittees, by Secretary Fry of the Metal Trades Employers' I Association, recommending that his employer members i henceforth refuse to recognise these committees, basic organs of workers on many large jobs. Even rightwinger L. Short was moved to retort that the Federation would be | "well advised" to continue to recognise shop committees j conforming to the ACTU's charter. | White Paper report | Sandwiched among these was the report last Friday that S the Federal Government was already at work preparing its S "White Paper on Communism", the newest form of political I intimidation aimed against all who presume to criticise | government policy. | Seeking the reason fo'r this rash of attacks on human | rights, one cannot fail to note such statements as that by J the ANZ Bank ("Australian", October 5) that "signs of J economy's slowing tempo have become increasingly evident j in recent months." J In New South Wales there has been a sharp fall in home J building in the last three months, due to "lack of finance". J The years-long big city commercial building boom is | reported to be tapering off in Sydney. | GMH sackings are blamed on a "lag" in new car sales. I But the policy of continued repatriation of the highest level | of profits to help the US balance of payments means un- j loading American capitalist problems on to Australian workers. I Overseas shipowners operating to North America (emul ation their counterparts on the Europe route) have raised freights by 10 per cent with predictions of more, thus un loading THEIR profit-level problems on to ALL Australians. | War and living costs ! All States are to some degree affected by rises in the ! cost of living, calculated by the Sydney Herald last week as I; being up 14/- a week over the 15 months up to June 30. j (Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide increased more) . . J The recent basic wage judgment, in the face of the sub- | sequent price increases, is exposed all the more as an.un- | just wage-freezing measure fully in tune with the "needs" I of the biggest employers, but also as part of a pattern. The Government, pledged to a spiralling war budget and a j foreign policy based on armed force, Is facing not only j .greater political opoosition but also sharper struggles for j living standards as the economic "downturn" steepens, j Anti-union moves by both government and employers I and above all the White Paper scheme are signals of worse |i th'nqs to come for the Australian people, j But, still mo-e important, the already hioh level of unity. ! in the labor movement against these issues has .provided the basis for mass struggles that will emulate the democratic victories of the past. . 