 Justice under the Bridge CYDNEY: In a sarcastic - comment on ' the .ma jestic impartiality of the. law", Anatole France once said it "disallowed rich and poor alike to sleep under bridges". V Mr Justice Ferguson on his retirement last week said, ac cording to a Sydney Morning Herald report, that the adminis tration of justice presided over by an independent Bench was the guardian of individual free dom. In the same issue of the Herald two cases were reported that would seem to indicate the Anatole France was closer to the bone than was Judge Ferguson in analysing justice. In one, the Court of Criminal Appeal reduced the jail sentence from 15 to 7 years imposed on James Reginald Tower, convicted on 40 counts of obtaining money by false pretences. When Tower,, formerly of J. R. Tower and Co. Pty. Ltd., and Bankstown Fabrications Pty. Ltd., was sentenced in March this year £90,959 was still out standing. T' 1 other case was that of a Papuan postal worker, Cigiba Agia, convicted of stealing £5 from letters and sentenced to nine months' jail. The Court was told that he was receiving £3 a week at the time of the offence. He told the Court: "I get £6 a fortnight, My living is very poor. I was hungry. £6 is not enough for my food and to clothe my body." Mr. Justice Frost, addressing him, said: "I have great sym pathy for you, but I must pro tect Her Majesty's mails and see that others should be deterred irom stealing money." He said that Gigiba was a young and very intelligent man with a good education who wrote and read English. The Judge said that Gigiba was away from home and had no supply of food from his village, but was still under a tribal Obli gation to help provide for people from his village who came to Port Moresby. "One cannot live in Port Moresby and not know how real this burden is for Papuan people," the Judge said. He has to pay the same price as Europeans for his food. u !ing and. working here in Port inriIeS!by rt is inevitable, and indeed proper, that he should quire some European tastes. havt f ?0t see how he could well l -0n salary of £3 a jIlkL 111 Port Moresby," the Whn t ' and added that men ed i-n u 16 ,underPaid were tempt- ea the law. 