 An "impartial" account of the f Mt. Isa dispute |N the bookshops how is "In- ' dustrial Siege'7, which we're told by the publishers is "the j first exhaustive and impartial study" of the Mt. Isa dispute. Who is the author who is able to be "impartial" about that dispute? Someone from Greenland, or an other planet, perhaps — because there'd be few people in Australia I who remained impartial in that long and bitter and dramatic struggle. This impartial chronicler's name is Gordon Sheldon. . The book's dust-jacket tells us that Mr. Sheldon "was in Mt. Isa through out the dispute ... He was closely involved with the Press in Mt. Isa and reported the progress of the dispute day by day." "Gordon Sheldon is well quali fied to write about Mt. Isa. He came to Australia from England in 1963 to join Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. as publications officer. . How's that as a basis for im partiality? \ ? IN the book's account of the origins of the Mt. Isa dispute, we learn of the irresistible logic of Mr. Foots (Mt. Isa Mines' general manager) and other Mf. Isa Mines men. ? There is the example of a Novem ber 1963 conference. Importunate union representatives wanted Mt. Isa Mines to agree to a pay increase. They audaciously suggested that Mt. Isa Mines could do this, on the strength of its disclosed 1962-63 net profit of over £5J million and a succession of bonus-share handouts, including the 1963 bonus issue (oops, pardon; Mt. Sheldon calls it "capital reorganisation") of over 57 million free shares, worth (at last week's Stock Exchange price) more than £100 million. But Mr. Sheldon says: "Mr. Foots was at pains to ex plain MIM's financial position. He said that the company was simply unable to pay a higher bonus (to workers) or to Increase the wage rate at that time." Next month, at the resumed con- ference, Mr. Foots starred again: ". . . Mr. Foots demolished the union arguments one by one. . ." The company was on top, too, we learn, in the 1964 Industrial Com mission case at which — "The company then went on to destroy step by step the arguments built up by the AWU." (How odd, then, that, in the wash up in December, so long after the union arguments for a rise had been thus destroyed, the Commission awarded a £3 rise— against the back ground, certainly, of the solidarity of the AWU rank and file and thf craft union men.) ? JHE impartial Mr. Sheldon who is so gentle in his reproofs to the company, lets fly with hay makers against militant AWU men and, of course, against "Commun ists". His impartiality on this is too impatient to be restrained further than the first page. So on Page 2 we're told of the Broken Hill miners having joined with "sinister forces inimical to Australia's welfare in an attempt to bring Mt. Isa to its knees." Great stuff. Peter Bell will love that. (Mr. Bell, himself, of course, gets a quote in the book: ". , . union ism gone mad . . . defiant mob rule . . ."—you know Mr. Bell's quiet and subdued style.) The book tells us, too, of some thing or other that was leading to "quasi-violence" in Mt. Isa. The dictionary definitions of "quasi" are such as "as it were, seemingly or . seeming, not really, practically, half, almost." So Mt. Isa, presumably, had half-violence or practically-vio- lence. But how exciting and sinister "quasi-violence" sounds! One of the inspiring features around the Mt. Isa struggle was the way in which unionists and others throughout Australia rallied to the support of Mt. Isa workers, finan cially as well as in other ways. Mr. Sheldon, it seems, doesn't find thus so inspiring. In fact, he speaks of Mt. Isa workers prepar ing "to live on the charity „ of fellow unionists all over Austra lia"! Mr. Sheldon has some things to say about Communists. As a so- impartial man he knows where to go for authorities on what Commun ists are doing or planning. For example, the nook has an ex tensive quote of what Mullins of the National Civic Council said about Communists. (Mr. Sheldon, oddly, tells us that the NCC was "formed by the Democratic Labor Party.") And there's a quote about Commun ists from Alan Reid, of Packer's Sydney Daily Telegraph. Having gone to such impeccable sources, Mr. Sheldon obviously had no occasion to quote anything the Communist Party itself might have said. Maybe he thought the Com- .-munist Party not impartial enough on that. ? you may have gathered, we're not over-convinced on the pub lisher's statement about this "im partial study." The book has its points. It has a lot of facts— as distinct from the opinions and prejudices — about the origins of the dispute and the devel opments in it (though we still, in our vanity, prefer "Storm in the Tropics"). But "impartial"? Hardly. Mr. Sheldon, and some others, may really think that he is impartial. Among the top-arawer men of Mt. Isa Mines, and others with whom Mr. Sheldon has associated, to har bor and peddle uninformed anti- Communism, and to write in such terms (as Mr. Sheldon does) as "industrial anarchy" and a "hard core of malcontents" — among them, that might be seen as the very es sence of impartiality. If that's impartiality, then we are impartial, too — but impartial on the other side. - -I'.T. PAT MACK IE 