 COMMITTKI RUNS UFF THE RAILS SYDNEY: The name of a committee, established last month to campaign for a railway to Warringah (on Sydney's North Shore) was changed last week as a manoeuvre to exclude a Communist from the executive. airs. E. Morcom was elected as as sistant secretary to the committee at a public meeting held last month in the Warringah Shire Council Chambers. At a later meeting Liberal Party extremists, including W, C. Went- worth (MHR) sought to wreck the committee on the grounds that the committee included two communists. Failing to get support from the overwhelming majority at the meet ing, he and two others walked out. Mrs. Morcom is the Communist- candidate for Collaroy and is oppos ing the Liberal Leader of the State Opposition, Mr. Ask in. The original public meeting was called on the initiative of Coun cillor G. Mill. The meeting elected him as chairman of the committee. Mr. Mill is also the Australian La bor Party candidate for Wakehurst in the coming State elections. Following the walkout by Went- worth about 50 at the meeting un animously voted confidence in the committee and its chairman. Apparently since then some com mittee members have allowed them selves to be intimidated by rigb> wing forces. Last Thursday's meeting decided to add "Regional" to the name of the committee and because of this all office bearers would have to be re elected. Mrs. Morcom said, "this was a ruse to have me removed from the posit ion of assistant secretary." While the ballot for this position was in progress, the publicity oc- fieer (Mr. Wall) was allowed to ipake a speech attacking Communists," Mrs. Morcom said. A constitution has also been drawn up to determine who can be a member of the Committee. Those eligible are members ot Parliament, all Councillors and members of organisations subject to approval by the committee. Mr. K. Harding was elected by the Building Workers' Industrial Union in the area to assist in the cam paign but was refused membership of the committee. 