 U.S. Is in OBBBBaBBBnBflanBBBBBBinBSnBBaBi Vietnam fog gain | N a special reply to Sir Rob ert Menzies, the London Daily Worker has told him why the Americans want to stay in South Vietnam. Menzies talked of the US' great act of "moral courage", its "altruism" and said it was acting for the sake of freedom, not investments. The Worker's article says, in part. President Eisenhower declared in 1953 that "Indo-Chhiina and the whole of south east Asia are essential to the US, both for strategic and political reasons." This was spelled out by the US magazine US News and World Report: "One of the world's richest areas is open to the winner in Indo-China. That's behind the growing US con cern . . . Tin, rubber, rice, key strate gic raw materials are what the war is really about. The US sees it as a place to hold— at any cost . . ." That was written in 1954. Since then the US has given its Saigon puppets over 4000 million dollars worth of military, economic and financial help, apart from the immense cost of its own military forces. An investment As with everything else they do, the US imperialists spend money only if they think there's a profit. They regard their spending in South Viet nam as an investment. If the Saigon puppets were to win, the US pay masters would expect a handsome re turn. But as the Saigon leaders are losing, the US has thrown in more of its own forces to try to bomb and burn the people into submission. The US wants to stay in Vietnam not only for what it can get out of that country, but also because of its imperialist investments in other parts of south east Asia. In the Philippines, about 600 miles from Vietnam, the US has 450 million dollars in private investment and ex ploits the gold, copper and chromite deposits and the sugar, copra and hemp production. The US maintains its biggest bases in the region in the Philippines— Clark air base and Subic Bay naval base, from which its 13th US air force and the Seventh Fleet operate— both tak ing part in the present stepped up ag gression against Vietnam. Philippine independence is nominal. The US enforced economic and mili tary treaties to give it joint control of the Philippine Army, over 20 sites for military bases, the right to have advisers in all key departments and special rights to exploit the economy. THIS US officer in Vietnam is helping to tie a guerilla pri soner whose fate is torture and probable death. The US is only now finding put that terrorist tactics such as torture and napalm and phosphorus bombings of North Vietnam are not "lowering the morale of the enemy" but rather stiffening their resistance. 