 Strong voice of TV Congress challenges the "Untouchables" SYDNEY: In a significant display of unify , the hundreds of dele gates to the National TV Congress last week-end voted unani mously to establish a National Television Committee to act as a watchdog for the public interest in connection with TV services . ""THE committee also will fos- i ter public campaigning to secure improvement of the content and standards of TV programs, including a higher Australian program content. The Congress was convened to discuss ways of influencing the Gov ernment to implement the Vincent report on Television in Australia. Eight papers were delivered at the Congress and discussion was lively. In his paper, Professor E. L. Wheelwright of the University -of Sydney said: ' "We must not forget . that com mercial broadcasting ' and television is a business, and the purpose of business is to make profits, not to uphold principles' or improve morals. "If integrity and moral responsi bility help to make profits, business men can be counted on to display those qualities — without admonition or exhortation. "If these get in the way of making profits, they will be absent from business behaviour regardless pleading and preaching." After an inspired appeal from Australian author Morris West in support of the recommendations, the remaining political, religious and social differences among the 340 delegates present were set aside in a powerful roar of affirmation. Mr. West stressed that the move ment to force implementation of the Vincent report was non-political. This fact had been clear through out the Congress because of its ex traordinary breadth of representa tion. Mr. West said that democracy in Australia depended dor its survival on liberty of thought and the free exchange and communication of ideas with all other countries. "Unless we are clear on what our rights and duties are, we can abdi cate our democratic heritage, by not caring," he said. "There are people here , who say it is a bad system, that is their right. "If these systems of mass com munication are exercised against the public benefit, uncontrolled by those that control them, then, we, the people, the ultimate law givers, have the right to challenge." Congress declaration The Congress, which represented 141 organisations with a membership of 543,000 and many affiliated bodies declared: — "1) that the future of this country and the preservation, of the rights the liberties of its people depend, in large part, upon the responsible use of the channels of mass commu nication — especially televsion. "2) that the television wave-lengths are a public property, held in trustee ship by Federal Parliament, which under the provisions of the Broad casting and Television Act of 1942-62, is obliged s to let them out to fran chise for the public benefit. - "3) that the Vincent Report is a clear and objective record of de fects and abuses in the administra tion of the Broadcasting and Tele vision Act as well as in the practices of T.V. licensees; and that it makes constructive recommendations to correct them. "4) that the Federal Government hf ving tabled the Report in October, 1963, and having adjourned debate in- April, 1964, it " is highly regret table that no further steps to com plete the Parliamentary discussions, or to correct the abuses, and defects, pointed cut in the Report have been taken. "5) that the Federal Government, being a trustee of public property and an appointed guardian of the people's rights and liberties, has a clear duty to bring the Vincent Re port to immediate, full and con clusive debate in both Houses, with a view to positive remedial action. "6) that the . Prime Minister and the Postmaster-General have a spe cial duty, to address themselves to this matter. "7) that every individual Australian and all organisations concerned with education, cultural advancement, civil liberties, religion, the creative and performing Arts in Australia and the dissemination of news, informa tion and ideas, be urged to take part in a campaign by correspondence, publicity in their journals, deputa tions, public addresses, and all other means, addressed to Cabinet Minis ters, members of Parliament, Tele- vision Stations and . commercial spon sors, to make them aware of their responsibility as servants and guar dians of the public interest in this vital field of mass communication." Committee Congress decided to establish a permanent committee, the Australian National Television Committee — to follow up the work of this Congress and to seek Parliamentary discussion of and action on the Vin cent Report. © to arouse and foster public in terest in, and support of, the official statement as agreed upon and issued by the Congress. to act as observer and critic of television services and as a co-ordi- nator of the efforts of those ... who have at heart the improvement of Australian television. 