 'Out hands are dripping I i with blood in Asia' CANBERRA: "Our hands- are dripping with blood in Asia— —to our everlasting dis credit." This statement by US Senator Wayne Morse was quoted by Mr. A. W. James, Labor, NSW, in a series of bitter attacks by Labor parliamentarians on Australia's involvement in the Vietnam war. Mr. Allan Fraser, Labor, NSW, demanded that Australian troops should cease to be involved in "this truly horrible conflict." He asked why young Liberal MHRs did not themselves go to Vietnam to fight instead of staying at home and sending others. Senator Ormonde, Labor, NSW, said that Australia should stop going to war with peoples who were shaking of the shackles of- colonialism. Policy a failure "We can't be the last nation on earth fighting Communism with5 guns," said the Senator. "We will be soon. Nobody else is fighting it with guns. If you fight Communism . with arms you cannot succeed." Mr. James quoted Senator , Morse as having said, "Our policy in Vietnam has been mistaken , from the beginning. Our reliance ' on wealth and military power to bring about a pro -Western gov- ! ernment in South Vietnam has been a failure." Attacking the defence vote as being not really for defence, Mr., James added: "I do not believe that the Government should involve ; Australian boys in a war in Viet nam." When the true facts were known to the people "they will turn oca this Government in a way never before experienced in our history," said Mr. James. Mr. Allan Fraser said that the' Budget attacks on the workers' incomes were being made in the i name of "defence." "Horrible war" "It is all part of the policy of involving Australian forces in the I quarrels of Asia. We are to sow. the wind and reap the whirlwind," said Mr. Fraser. Adding that the Government members' conduct astonished him, Mr. Fraser explained: "They say it is imperative that Australian forces be engaged in this truly horrible war, yet not one of them enlists. "They say talking will get no where and it is necessary to fight by military means, yet those same I members stay here and talk instead I of going out and fighting. t 1 "We on this side accord Govern- 1 ment members the same "right that 1 their leader claimed 50 years ago g when he said it was a question for 1 each individual's decision. 1 "We don't wish to compel any 1 man to go outside Australia and 1 ' fight, but Government members do. 1 They force other men to go and | fight before they are even old | enough to vote. It is a case of; | 'do as I say and not as I do'." 1 USSR 'force for peace1 J Mr. Fraser said the Opposition's policy towards Asians was to lift them up. The Government's was to . shoot them up. | In the Senate the same night Senator Ormonde, Labor, NSW, said it was not Australia's responsibility to "protect" the world from Com-i munism in Asia. "If some people had had their way we would have been fighting Russia. The fact is that Russia is the greatest force for peace in the world today." ! Senator Ormonde said the number of people who would attend a rally to hack the Vietnam war could be : j accommodated in the telephone box. 