 1 No warning to other sections of mine till union demanded it MINERS LEFT DOWN BELOW FOLLOWING FATAL BLAST BUL3J (NSW): While fire raged in a sec tion of the Old Bulli mine last Tuesday burning or suffocating t© death four miners ond rescue teams were fighting their way through to them, the management made no attempt to stop men working in other parts of the mine. V, 1 1. fx -r-rVLsw, « c«Y\ovtr cf €1 1'f orl fVl A 0"5T R It was aDOUL V 3,111 WilCii -y explosion and fire and it was not until noon that the rest of the men were brought out of the mine and then only on the demand of miners' lodge officials. These men had not known of the disaster m No. 8 Rififht Section. ' " Experienced miners say that a chain reaction or explosions could have blown up the whole mine. President of the Southern District of the Miners' Federa tion, Mr. W. Smart, said after the tragedy that there had been a series of accidents in this mine, which was old and gaSS"It was lucky only four men were involved and not the whole complement of 200 men of the day shift , he said. AT the actual time of the fire, the Federation Check .Inspector, Mr. V. Parkinson, and the local Check Inspector, Mr. E. Taylor, were in the mine about a mile away from the fire, making an inspection be cause of complaints concerning working conditions. The inspection revealed the presence of gas during the operation of a roof bolting machine and Mr. Parkinson ordered cessation of work until the gas was eradicated. Mr. Parkinson said he had been call ed to the mine several times since he took over as Check Inspector 12 months ago. He added that on each occasion it was in connection with air conditions, dust and gas or both. The Old Bum mine is owned by Australian Iron and Steel, a subsidi ary of the Broken Hill Pty. steel and coal giant. ; i; The four miners killed were: Bob ; Stewart, 27; Jack Murray, 52; Harry Smith, 47 and Fred Hunt, 50, All mines stop I . All mines on the South Coast stop- ' 1 ped for 24 hours as a mark of respect I for the victims who were cremated I last Thursday and a further 24 hour | stoppage was held from Thursday. I The NSW Minister for Mines, Mr. |: Lewis has promised to hold a public I inquiry into the tragedy. 1 A pit-top meeting of mine workers at the Old Bulli Mine last Friday morning decided that they would not fl return to work until they received a I report from the District Check Inspec- II tor that conditions in the mine were I safe. Resentment was expressed at the I meeting at press statements said to be made by the Minister for Mines which mdicated there would he some restric- H tions on the inquiry. H Particular condemnation was made of a Sydney Daily Telegraph headline which read, , "No Dissatisfaction I 1i0wn by Miners." II u -e artce reported the Minister as i! aavmg said that mine workers had I Ktn no indication of dissatisfaction IB with safety precautions. Mr. Lewis said in the NSW Parlia ment on the day of the tragedy, "I do not think there has been an increase in serious accidents in coal mines over the last 12 months." 6 weeks, 7 dead In fact, Southern District mining ac cidents have claimed the lives of seven mine workers in the last six weeks. The Miners' Federation has pointed | out for some time now, that exsisting I safety' regulation are obsolete and is j Continued on Page 12 | [?] MINI DISASTER i - Continued from Page 1 continuously seeking amendments to bring them up to date. A resolution was carried at the Bulli pit-top meeting recommending that that the Old Bulli Lodge pro pose to the District Executive that there should be a district- wide stop page until the Minister for Mines agreed to a public inquiry that met fully the wishes of the Miners' Feder ation. The resolution also called for an aggregate meeting to discuss the gen eral question of safety. The South Coast District Executive decided not to call the stoppage as an inquiry met the request of the Federation, but action would be taken if it did not fulfill Federation demands for a thorough investigation. The Central Council of the Miners' Federation at its meeting from Octo ber. 25-29, carried a resolution express ing deep concern at the increasing in cidence of serious accidents in the industry. It says that there had been 15 fatalities this year (that is up until the meeting) which was five more than last year, when fatalities were higher than 1963. ". . . this is a very serious upward trend which can only be associat 1 with the drive for maximum produc- tion and introduction of new mech anical methods," the resolution says. The day after the tragedy, the mem ber for Cessnock, Mr. G. Neilly, (who before he entered Parliament was the general secretary ot the Miners' Fed- j eration) said in the NSW Parliament: j "One of the best examples of their attitude to their working conditions | was given yesterday when a member j of the mining community had the I good fortune to win the Opera House j Lottery. His wife ran: to the pit-head j and said, 'this is the last time you . will walk into a mine.' ' | "Why did she say that? Because the-, j conditions in the mines are rotten, g The miners are working in a horse- ! and-buggy act in these modern times." | Widespread stoppages of work "and g expressions of sympathy followed tile Old Bulli disaster. ; I On Wednesday Wallarah and Stock- j rington Collieries in the Northern Dis- I trict of NSW, stopped work. On the I following day they were joined by j Chain Valley, Aberdare North, Rich- g mond Main, Pelton, Dagworth, Greta I and Bellbird. j The Miners Union of the Soviet Un- | ion sent a message of sympathy. j The National Council of the Mine g Workers of New Zealand sent a cable | of sympathy. | Two days after the Bulli tragedy thr j Northern District Check Inspector, g Mr. J. Tapp was called to. the New- J vale Colliery to inspect the ventila- j tion system. j He found bricklayers working under ! a layer of methane-gas two feet from j the ceiling. i Mr. Tapp said that the tools the ' men were using could easily: have J sparked an explosion. j 