 I -\kf. C. WENTWORTH, MHR, used about the only weapon he knows, anti- communism, in Federal Par liament last Thursday to interfere in a union election, currently being held in the NSW Teachers' Federation. Following Wentworth's outburst, in which he urged teachers not to vote for two candidates, "who have been charged with being Com munists" Teachers' Federation NSW President, Mr. S. P. Lewis issued a press statement. It said that certain candidates in the elections were endeavouring to use the name of the Liberal Party ' to advance their cause. "They have now enlisted the championship of Mr. W. C. Went worth, MHR, well known for his labelling and name calling of trade union leaders, members of Parlia ment and other public figures," the statement says. It adds that the Federation's 1960 Annual Conference had laid down that every Federation member, ir respective of religious or political outlook or adherence must have the j right to be nominated for and be elected to any Federation position, arid the right to "vote freely in Federation elections for the candi date of his or her choice without direction or dictation from . anybody outside the Federation"' NTO reporters were . allowed into the Liberal Party Conference- in Canberra last week. TheLibs.pre- ferred to remain "faceless". . The Labor Party Conference in Sydney this year, was open to the press, radio, and- TV. . „ IT1 HE Liberal Party is still stalling on demands of the ; Country Party for straight put' low interest, long term loans for drought stricken farmers A deputation irom the N.S.W. Country Party, the Australian Wool- growers, the Graziers' Council and the Graziers' Association to Prime Minister Menzies, Treasurer Holt and Minister for Primary Industry, Aderman didn't get very far ap parently. Sir Robert later told Parliament that tne deputation's .proposals were being considered. The lack of real Government assist ance to the farmers and the return ot Deputy Prime Minister and Country Party leader McEwen trom overseas this week could well intern sify Lib. Country Party differences. Pri? and publish:.. D. Young, 168 Day Street, Sydney et 21 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. 