 | Menzies should | apologise Speaking off 9he I "Churchill Fellowships" I MR. A. D. Fraser, MHR, recently public!/ dissociated himself from the Churchill Fellowship Fund, around which I an orgy of misleading propaganda is riow in progress. I There are many reasons to be concerned. One is that | while scholarships are useful, they and other aspects of | education needs should be financed and governed as part | of governmental plans, with particular responsibility falling | on the Commonwealth. j Another is that political self-interest has led to serious j distortions of history in this campaign — for example, the j creation of a myth that Prime Minister Menzies should be S associated with Churchill's wartime achievements. I j |F Menzies is to be al- j lowed to say any- j thing about Churchill j in World War II he j should apologise for j sabotaging Churchill's j pre-war opposition to S Nazism. I Right up to the war's S outbreak T Menzies was I praising Hitler's "leader- j ship" and the results it j had brought' and denounc- j ing the USSR. | Churchill, by contrast/as | early as 1934, was wel- | coming the Soviet entry f into the League of Na- f tions and supporting a I proposal for a collective j security pact with her. | "To the east of Europe lies the I enormous Power of Russia, a S country whose form of govern- 5 ment I detest but which at least i seeks no military aggression on = its neighbors" he said and added I that no obstacle should he put in j the way of associating the USSR's | millions with the anti-nazi front. | In the same speech Churchill 1 showed he could understand \ what Menzies could not— the key | role the USSR was even then 1 playing in assisting, Asians (and | Australians) in the fight against | Japanese fascism. He said:' S "We must recognise the service I which Russia is rendering in the I Far East. Russia, without a shot, | is holding the best troops of Jap- | an close-gripped upon the Siber- S ian front and the rest of the Jap- S anese armies may not in the end be found capable of subjugating I the Chinese". I In September 1938 Chamber- | lain, with Menzies' loud applause | ("Thank God for Munich!" he S said later) signed the Munich | pact with Hitler, handing Czecho- I Slovakia on a plate to the nazis i and virtually inviting them to at- \ tack the USSR. 1 In his memoirs Churchill recalls = how he was shouted down in the I Commons when he told them i MPs that Munich was an unim- | itigated defeat for Britain.- I He told the Menzies-type ap- | peasers: "You were given the I choice between war and dishon- S or. You chose dishonor, and you | will have war." | Continuing to support a Brit- | ish-French-Soviet pact against | Hitler, Churchill also supported | the Soviet terms for such a pact. On June 27, 1939 he said "A full I and solid alliance with Russia should he made without delay, i The Russian claim that we I should stand together in resist- | ing an act of aggression on the | Baltic states was just as reason- I able and he hoped we would S meet it in the fullest manner". " But Churchill was not then the Government. The Chamber- lain-Menzies anti-Soviet line pre- I vailed; the Churchill-backed So- j viet plans were rejected and war inevitably followed. I When Poland was overwhelmed i and Soviet forces moved in to | prevent the total subjugation of the . people to Hitler, the Right ists in all lands, including Aus tralia, again declared that this proved there was a German- Soviet "alliance". I But Churchill saw the anti- j fascist essence of the Soviet ac- ! tion. j On October 1, 1939, he said: \ 'That the Russian armies | should stand on this line was ! clearly necessary to the safety | of Russia against the nazi men- i ace". Churchill said that an ' "Eastern front" had been formed. I Rightist propaganda in Austra- | lia alleges, of course, that the USSR seized the Baltic republics ' in 1940. But the Soviet move of | June 1940 not oniy diverted the I -nazis from hard-pressed Britain but gave the USSR important | forward positions to resist the j coming nazi attack— as Churchill himself acknowledged. | After the war, of course, I Churchill and Menzies came to- j gether again in bitter, unrelent- s , ing prosecution of the cold war. But before he died Churchill I again showed signs, which Men- j zies has never shown, of realistic s thinking on international affairs. In 1954 development of the H- I bomb seems to have sobered J Churchill, then again Prime Min- j ister. On the eve of the Geneva j conference on Indo-China (ac- | cording to Professor D. F. Flem- i ing's History of the Cold War) J Churchill had been alerted to the j fact that the British Isles are "a bullseye target" (in Churchill's j words) for Soviet attack. "Brit- j ain was forced, accordingly, to ask herself whether to risk des- I truction for the sake of Indo- j China." j At the height of the crisis | Churchill went to Washington to I tell the US leaders that "to jaw- J jaw is always better than to war- j war", and added: "I am of the | opinion that we ought to have a | try for peaceful co-existence, a j real good try." Even earlier than this, says Professor Fleming, an American, | Churchill had made (on May lb j 1953) "an historic speech declar- | ing that: "Russia has a right to feel as- j sured, as far as human arrange ments can reach, that the ter rible events of the Hitler inva sion will never he repeated and that Poland will remain a friend ly power." Churchill it is true, was a con- sistent anti-Communist and anti- Socialist but he evidently thought more of his own nation's secur ity than Menzies pledged "force only, in S w does of his ' 