 | Is this the best they can do? DEARER PETROL FROM MOONIE ? From PETE THOMAS in Brisbane. BRISBANE: What is to he the return to the Australian people from Moonie, Australia's first-ever commercial oil held? Is it to he higfoer-ffaan-ever prices for petrol land a new wave of consequent price rises/, while biq profits flow away to overseas monopolists? "THAT fantastic prospect — higher petrol prices, instead of lower, because a proportion of high quality Australian- produced oil is going into our petrol tanks— has emerged from comment on last week's decision on Moonie price. One -newspaper, the Australian, has said that a rise of £d. to Id. a gallon is "almost certain." This rise would be on top of the rise of 3d. a gallon which followed last month's Menzies-Holt , Budget. Up to -June ,30, production of Moonie oil ,pf a gross value „o£ ever £3.1 million has brought a payment to the 'State Government of less than £180,000 in royalties. A gift The predictions of a price rise have followed the announcement by the Federal Minister for Trade (Mr. McEwen) that the . price of Austra lian crude oil per barrel (35 im perial gallons) is to be lifted from $2.83 to $3.50 (the price quotations on oii being in U.S. currency). The increased payment will bene fit the Moonie companies — Union (Of U.S.A.), Kern (of U.S.A.), and Australian Oil & Gas. On the evening of the Minister's announcement, when . the finance editor of the Sydney Morning Herald could find no Austraian Oil & Gas director at home, he suggested, not unreasonably, 1 that -they had fore gathered for a .suitable champagne celebration. The Moonie group had asked .the Tariff Board inquiry for a price of from $.24 to $3.44 a barrel (after a year ago, their resident manager had unsuccessfully asked... the refin eries for $3.05); the board had re commended in its report a price of $3, .which would include a com ponent of 25 cents as in incentive for Australian exploration and deve lopment; but a big-hearted Federal Cabinet had tripled this incentive factor to 75 cents. Thus, with a basic $2.48 a barrel at the nearest refining centre and a 27 cents quality differential in Moonie's case, the . new price an nounced by the Minister amounts to $3.50. This is an increase of 67 cents, or 24- per cent, on the old price. Since Moonie produces from 7,000 to 8,000 barrels a day, the gross daily increase in income will be some $4690 to $5360. The finance editor of the Sunday Mail writes that the " new price "exceeds industry expectations" and will more than double their profit. Subsidy The Menzies Government, which already allots from public funds direct subsidies amounting to £7 mil lion a year to exploration interests, has promised further that the Moonie agreement will obtain for five years and will be, reviewed in the meantime if it seems that the incentive is in sufficient. It claims that the principle being followed is that the additional cost of Australian crude oil , will be mini mised and spread between the com- panies supplying or marketing re fined products in Australia. , A penalty of Id. a gallon on crude oil. iiqports, and 3d. a gallon on motor .spirit, will be imposed on companies refusing to take their "fair share", of local crude. Moonie, Australia's only present commercial field, produces a mere 2 per cent of local requirements. The incentive premium would aver age only about one-sixth of a penny a gallon on the total fuel consump tion. On the surface, much of all this may seem commendable. Crocodile tears The refineries — which are pre dominantly under overseas control — are being required to pay a loading for the fact that Moonie oil is of high quality and to pay also a further loading as an ecouragement to ex ploration. The refineries, which have long been extorting millions of pounds in profits from Australians, can very well afford to pay this relatively small amount out of their overall rake- off. But they have not the slightest inclination to do so. They are — particularly following the new increase of 3d. a gallon after the Budget — wary of being too frank about their intentions. But anonymous "oil sources" are quoted as complaining bitterly that the refining companies are being made to carry the burden of develop- ing Australia's infant oil indus try. How piteous! The grab The Labor-in-Politics Convention at Townsville earlier this year declar ed extreme concern at the extent to which foreign capital is gaining control over Australian raw materials — among which oil was specifically mentioned. It sought the determination . of a national ALP fuel and investment policy in the interest -of Australia: The Communist Party of Australia has constantly demanded policy changes to place industry on an Aus tralian basis. E. W. Campbell's booklet, "Austra lian Oil for Australia," included these points:— No foreign company to be per mitted to hold a controlling interest in any Australian oil venture of any kind. Reform of State oil lease legis lation to prevent all-private mono polies gaining exclusive rights to en gage in oil search and exploration over such vast areas. Australian Governments to be paid oil royalties at least not less than those paid to Arabian sheiks and Governments of other countries, i.e. 50-50. Action to compel the oil cartel to reduce the price of crude oil and tanker freights to permit a substan tial reduction in the retail price of petrol. 