 [?] No holds barred in TV Interview By "Challenger" |sJOT only fans of the grunt - and - groan profession but all workers would ap- plaud the "Wild Can adian" ex-wrestler Pat Mackie, of Mt. Isa, for the tradesman - like way he handled "lead ers" of the Brisbane press on TV. Pat, the elected repre sentative of the Mt. Isa workers, was heckled and badgered by the Press as he tried to give the true story, of the dispute. Pat tolerantly listened to their trumped up ideas and then calmy put them on the right track. If there was anybody even a litle bit "wild" it certainly wasn't . Pat Mackie. Although Pat's wrestling days are past, nearly all would agree that this bout must have been one of his best. Poker machines . IS. poker machine playing a sport? We'll take the risk because we want to say there is something very queer about the Las Vegas trip of the poker machine wiz ards. Why, if they were beating the machines in the U.S.A., did they only take £800 out and then come home to retire? Why did the Vegas club managers (according to reports) offer them free grog and better? A Sydney club manager told us the take in his club went up after all the publicity about the "magic grip." Now, could it be that the whole trip to Vegas was pro moted by the clubs there? That's what some people are asking — and they say that if it's true, the logic would be that these boys -now modestly "re tiring" have a mighty big golden egg to sit on. Aboriginals in sport kJEWS items on union, social and economic affairs are making it clear that full civic rights for the Aboriginal people are long overdue. So let's look at sport. Australia's most promising young tennis player, 13-year-old Evonne Goolagong has won an other two N.S.W. State titles in I the Junior hardcourt champion- ships and moved a step closer to her ambition of becoming the | first Aborigine to win interna- I tional tennis fame, j The youngster from Barellan | in the Riverina, displayed the j type of game which has | prompted critics to acclaim her as a better player than Mar garet Smith was at the same age. A very high praise indeed. Davis Cup selector Esca Step hens said he had "high hopes of Evonne developing into an ex ceedingly fine player. "She possesses a splendid style, has tons of concentration and is a very intelligent player. "Provided she is prepared to work hard at her game during the next few years Evonne could well represent Australia in future years." Such high praise for an Abo rigine sporting personality is by no means a rarity. Aborigines have for a long time continued to make their mark. The likes of such outstanding Aborigines as Eddie Gilbert in cricket and Ron Richards, Elley Bennett, Jack . Hassan, Alfie Clay, the Sands Brothers, George Bracken and others in the field of boxing, have attested the Aborigine people's sporting ability, not oniy to the Austra lian public, but " to the whole world. These achievevments have been made in the face of harsh social and economic discrimination. As they win equal wages, con ditions and social rights, we will see the Aboriginal people notch up many more achievements in sport and all other fields that will end for ever the fables - about unequal ability. TRIBUNE reader's recent comment about Dawn Fraser's winning of the ABC 1964 "Sports man" of the Year Award has drawn attention to women's status generally. Irt capitalist countries, the story is still spread that women are less capable than men. Yet there are ample facts in the newspapers, on the radio, or on T.V., about the achievements of the world's women. Many of these are in sport. So much so that the esteemed athle tic coach Percy Cerutty has pro claimed that, "It's a terrible reflection on Australian man hood, that the last three 'sports men of the year' have been women." Betty Cuthbert, Australia's "Golden Girl", was selected by the Helms Athletic Foundation of America, as top athlete for Aus tralasia, and winner of a 1964 Helms world trophy award. The growth of interest in women's tennis, was recently evidenced by the crowd of 10,000 at the final day of the . Federa tion Cup. Overseas we find, that during 1964, the men's world record in small-bore rifle shooting was broken by a woman, Yelena Don- skaya, who is a doctor in one of Moscow's hospitals. Yelena, a Master of Sport, achieved the phenomenal score of 599 out of 600. In motor racing last week, Mrs. Pat Moss-Carlsson took third place in the Monte Carlo rally. With all of this in view, how can anyone maintain that a woman, doing the same job as a man, should not get the same pay? 