 [?] i "The Life and Death of Lenin" — JHI, i II i w wiirimni— lurid, sensational, and even ludicrous | St is interesting to note that the Sydney "Sun-Herald" is ser- I iaiising extracts from Robert Payne's book "The Life and Death of j Lenin" iust as a critic in "The Australian't Eugene Kamenka, has | pointed out that this book puts forward theses which are "at least | disputable" or based on inconclusive evidence which is treated by I the author as conclusive . | f/AMENKA also points out | that the author "puts great | emphasis on a number of 1 poorly substantiated or utter- I ly unimportant points", and | that "in many pages of his 1 book he seems to treat blood H as a carrier of ideas and. atti- tudes. Surely this is rubbish." If Further, he shows that Payne's It treatment of Lenin as a person If "fascinated by terror" is based on v| an "eccentric translation" of a Rus- sian phrase. £>; Payne says that Lenin wrote "Put Europe to flames"; Lenin was obvi- 1 ously expressing the hope that revol- :4 utionary ferment would rise, but r1 Payne depicts Lenin in words such J as these: "His power was naked I power; his weapon was extermina- J tion; his aim the prolongation of his | own dictatorship . . . He destroyed i everything he could destroy . . . Un- ' reservedly committed to terrorism ,| ... his destructive purpose . . . the r implacable doctrinaire . . . total, un- !$ iversal and merciless destruction . . . a complete and utter monster . .. I This sort of writing, which can 1 only be described as lurid, sensation- al, and even ludicrous, is put for- 1 ward in spite of the fact that those if who knew Lenin remember him as a 1 very human person, a great intel- |j lect, a creative thinker, and a man $ who in the midst of critical situa- '4 tions still found time to listen to 4 the complaints of the "little people" J and to take firm action against | bureaucratic excesses. J (His widow Krupskaya told how I Lenin not only took , an interest in | the welfare of his own staff but also i in that of hers— "how they were off i for food, and how their children t were faring . . . i was sometimes i surprised to find that he knew them ' better than I did.") ' One can agree that the present is .41 d time for a re-examination (and a critical re-examination) of fl Lenin and his work, but it is merely || casting discredit on the Australian press to try to base such an estim- || ate on a book which reliable critics admit is based on unsubstantiated / assertions, on rubbishy ideas, and on a denial of the real facts of Lenin's life as given by the archives and by the memories of those who knew m and remember his humanity, his warmth, his creative dreams. — Len Pox (Sydney) 