 Gaps? There's not even a fence! By E. W. Campbell ATTORNEY-GENERAL ' Sned&lt;Jen's Trade Prac tices Act, introduced in Federal Parliament last week, does absolutely nothing to curb the po.wer of monopoly capitalism in Australia. Original proposals, tabled by Sir Garfield Barwfek in De cember 1 962, made some show of aiming at abolition of restrictive trade practices en gaged in by monopolies. These proposals were then com monly referred to as "anti mono poly" measures. As such they were accepted and supported by organisations of prim ary producers and small business men. However, as pointed out by Tri bune at the time, Sir Garfield Bar- wick's proposals contained so many gateways that in practice it would prove ineffective. Notwithstanding this, the mono- polists, headed by BHP Chairman, Sir Colin Syme, pressed their friend Sir Robert Gordon Menzies to-drop the whole idea. Drop mask Attorney-General Snedden's Bill - goes as close to this as is possible. Barwick's original propsals had many "gateways", Snedden's do not even have a fence. _ All pretence at the Bill,, being "anti-monopoly" is dropped. Its aim is simply described, "To preserve Competition in Australian Trade and Commerce to the extent required by the Public Interest." The sole result, however, will be to raise the cost of government, by appointment of a numerous corp of highly paid bureaucrats completely powerless to check the evil growth of monopoly. Mergers and takeovers are one ol the commonest forms of monopoly growth in Australia; including the penetration of overseas mono polies. The Bill contains no provisions for the control of mergers and takeovers. Mr. Snedden's comment on this is that his government "is con scious of the developing nature and the need in our circumstances for businesses in some industries to expand in size." In other words, the Menzies Government is most sympathetic to the growth and development of monopoly. Only two of the multiplicity of restrictive trade practices engaged in by monopoly are outlawed by the Bill. These are, collusive tendering and collusive bidding. Only five types of trading "agree ments are required by the Bill to be registered and only four res trictive practices are examinable by a Trade Practices Tribunal. The examination will be carried, out in an atmosphere of cordial informality, which one daily paper likened to a genial "noggin at the local". Registered agreements will not be accessible to the public and hearings may be held in secret if the Tribunal so decides. To deter the public from voicing any protest at this, Clause 84 of the Bill provides a penalty of £500 fine or three months' jail for any person who creates a disturbance in or near a place where the Tri bunal is sitting. Snedden's Bill is a complete capi tulation to monopoly. It provides: No protection for consumers against high monopoly prices. No protection for fanners against oil, machinery, fertilizer monopolies, middlemen or big food processors. No protection for small busi ness people from giant chain stores. . No protection for small manu facturers against monopoly take overs. No protection for Australian industries generally against take over by foreign monopolies- It should be thoroughly exposed and condemned by all sections of the labor movement. Working class organisations should give a lead to farmers and small business by pressing forward more strongly with their own in dependent anti-monopoly program. 