 Opposes "White Paper" BRISBANE: The Queensland Trade Union Congress in Brisbane called for opposi- to moves for a "White paper on Communism." Congress said the united strenh of the whole trade union move ment must oppose attempts by the liberal Party, RSL leaders. The National Civic Councl and other anti - democratic forces to bring down such a paper. This move, it said, was to suppress critcism of the Government's war policy in Asia and other reactionary measures. It was an attempt to place the burden of Government economic difficulties on the working people, (ts was its Stevedoring legislation. Aimed at smashing "The Menzles Government legis lation aimed at smashing the Wat erside Workers' Federation and attacking the whole trade union movement consilidated the unity of the Congress" the secretary of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council (Mr. Alec Macdonald). said In a comment on the Congress. Supporting the WWF fight against the Menzies Government's seizure of the union's right to recruit labor and its taking power to de-register the union and recruit scab labor, Congress declared that it "will not recognise any bogus union formed as a result of this legislation and calls on all unions and workers to reject any attempts to use thera to form scab organisations or to have them become a party to recruit ment other than through the Wat erside Workers Federation." Call for support It called on all unions to voice their support ana requested the Australian Council of Trade Unions executive to organise the Australian trade union movement against the legislation. An amendment to the resolution calling for the nationalisation of the shipping industry, was carried unanimously. Senator J. Keefe, Federal Pres ident of the Australian Labor Party, addressing the Congress on behalf of the leader of the Oppos ition, (Mr. A. Calwell) said thai the "whole trade union movement was justified in. taking any indus trial action it saw fit in defence f the waterside workers. He said the legislation gave al most complete dictatorial rights to the Menzies Government. "Hie trade union movement was Quite capable of looking after its wn affairs and the Government would be better employed demand ing that shipowners paid water side workers pensions and supplied them with better facilities. It will be the wharfies today ud other unions tomorrow," Sen ator Keefe said. 