 NATIONALISE MINE!' SETBACK TO U.S. COMPANY AT ISA From PETE THOMAS, in Mt. Isa. Suspension of last week's Queensland Government police-state orders against the Mt. Isa miners was hailed here on Monday 33$ a signal victory for the progressive forces of Australia. So was the announcement by the rich American-directed Mt. Isa Mines company that "at the request of the Queensland Government" it would defer its planned shutdown of all work, including outside contracts involving 700 men. These partial backdowns resulted from a historic, nation wide campaign of stopwork and protest action, uniting trade unionists, Communist Party, Labor Party and non-party forces going far beyond the labor movement. The Queensland trade union movement deferred its deci sion to hold a State-wide 24-hour protest and solidarity strike, pending the outcome of this week's new compulsory con ference between parties to the long dispute, which has been a lockout since early December. Mr. J. Egerton, Queensland Trades and Labor Council Pre sident, said in Mt. Isa that the unions would co-operate in any conference aimed at settling the dispute. The State Premier's attempt to solve the dispute by coercion had ab jectly failed. - , Earlier Mr. Egerton stressed that the real obstacle to settlement was the "stubborn company" and had demanded Government action to prevent the closing down, on Australia Day, of One of the State's most important assets "by decision of American interests"., &lt; Last Sunday's mass meeting of 1500 Mt. Isa working people solidly reaffirmed support for the reinstatement by. the company of Mr. Pat Mackie, elected local AWU miners' leader, whose reappearance in the town on Monday was hailed with enthusiasm by workers. Mr. Mackie, who had been hunted by squads of special police detachments throughout Queensland and even in Syd ney, to prevent his return to Mt. Isa, told cheering workers he had been in Mt. Isa since Saturday, having driven back with "some good friends". Mr. Mackie said "We have felt at all times that we are In front and on the right side", and he paid tribute, to the efficiency and ability of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council representatives. He said the demand for his re-employment was a matter of trade union principle and not personal interest. See also Pages 2 and 5. Calls for public ownership SYDNEY: Strang calls have been made throughout the labor movement to nation alise Mt. Isa Mines. TH IS demand, raised sharply in a Communist Party state ment in last Friday's special edition of Tribune, became widespread as Australians saw the millionaire company, dir ected from New York, disrupt ing the economy while bent on crushing Australian trade un ionism. The Commonwealth Council of the Amalgamated Engineering Union last Friday in Sydney stated that the Federal Government should not per mit the copper industry in Australia ,to collapse because of the failure of the Mt. Isa mines Ltd. to negotiate with the unions. Council said that as this industry means so much to the national economy, rather' than have the com pany close the mines, the Federal Government should nationalise Mt. Isa in the national interests. Secretary of the Council, Mr. A. Horsburgh, said his union was great ly concerned that a foreign American monopoly, because of its controlling interests at Mt. Isa, is' in a position to shut down the industry. Two Labor MHR's have also sug gested that failing a satisfacorty solution of the dispute, Australia should take over the mine from the international monopoly ownership: The MHR's are Dr. J. Cairns (Vic- Continued on Page 12 NATIONALISATION CALLS Continued from Page 1 oria) and Mr. C. Cameron (South Australia) . Dr. Cairns said the men at Mt. Isa "deserved and should receive 100 per cent backing in the struggle." He said the "international monopoly mine ownership" could well afford to meet the men's re quirements. Mr. Cameron said a solution might be to transfer the Mt. Isa lease to a consortium of Australian mining companies. "No reasonable Australian who knew the facts of this dispute would side with Mt. Isa Mines Ltd.," he said. "Foreigners make its policy and foreigners take most of its profits," Mr. Cameron said. Metal trades Federal secretary of the Metal Trades Federation of unions, Mr. J. Heffernan said he supported the ; comments made by Messrs Cairns and Cameron. "The trade union movement stands for public control of such enterprises as Mt. Isa mines." '"The policy of this company, which is dictated by wealthy American in terests, is not in the interests of the Australian pople," he said. "If the company closes the. mine, the Federal Government should im mediately take it over and keep it operating," Mr. Heffernan said. Miners' Federation general pre sident, Mr. W. Parkinson, said "our union believes that all heavy indus try should be nationalised, but if anything calls for immediate nationalisation it is Mt. Isa Mines." "The Queensland Government and press have all said that a closure of the mine would "effect the national economy, but this did not concrn the company which planned to close it down." In a statement on behalf of the Communist Party of Australia, general president Mr. R. Dixon categorically rejected as being com pletely unfounded accusations of 'Communist control and 'un-Aus- tralian influences', which he said "were aimed at confusing the real issues at stake." "The only 'un-Australian in fluences' are those of the American company which owns Mt. Isa, and of the Nicklin Government with its un-Ausralian servility to foreign in terests and its police-state repres sion." "The Australian solution is to nationalise Mt. Isa mines immediate ly, ensure just wages and conditions for the workers, and retain the wealth produced to help further develop the country," Mr. Dixon said. 