 Borodin Quartet Australians at this very moment are lucky people — except perhaps in relation to the governments they elect. This feeling of mine was re-inforc- ed very strongly the other night when I attended the first Sydney concert given by the Borodin Quar tet. The programme in the Town Hall included Borodin's No. 2 quartet with the famous nocturne slow movement borrowed some years ago as a theme for the film "Kismet". But it was their playing of Shos takovich's Quartet No. 8 composed durhig a visit to Dresden in 1960 which was the highlight of the ev ening. The sight of the destruction wrou 1>' by war in that beautiful German city stirred the com poser's memories of his own coun try's sufferings in the war, and the work is dedicated to those who fell In the fight against Nazi ism. The five movements lead into one another without a break, as if the composer felt he could in this way more satisfactorily embroider his sorrowful and wrathful themes, and the concluding passages con tain some of the most expressive music ever written. Anyone who ever felt that the art of music had pretty well reached its highest point of development by the early decades of this century would real ise how wide of the mark such a belief was after listening to this music. This is music written by the greatest composer of our time for the people of our time and those who will come after us. It is noble striving music worthy of the coun try whiah pioneered the path to soc ialism and saved the world from, fascism, and every man and woman in the audience was deeply moved by it. After the interval the Quartet played one of Beethaven's last quar tets, the work which the composer- thought the greatest of all. It de manded intense concentration of performers and listeners, ard when it was over the audience applause recalled the musicians to the plat form many times. Then, as if to dispel the impres sion some people might have had . that these Soviet musicians were rather reserved and dour in their response to the applause, they re sumed their seats and played as an encore the first movement of i Beethoven's Opus 18, one of the earL iest and best loved of his chamber works'. I can't remefcnber ever hav ing heard a string quartet play an encore— certainly not after such an arduous programme. 