 In Australia's interests V;.s (Statement by Political Commit tee, Communist Party of Austra lia.) AUSTRALIA'S national in- terests and honor must be defended by an immediate all-out effort by the working class, by those who cherish 1 peace and friendship and all I patriots. j The Menzies Government is | gambling with Ausralia's future by I deeper commitments to U.S. im perialist policy in Vietnam and f5outh-East Asia. The U.S. Government, while pre- ! tending to offer peace, is stepping I up its war against the Vietnamese | people. | Maxwell Taylor's "special war", an I utter failure, has now been replaced j by open aggression against he De- I mocratic Republic of Vietnam and ( open invasion of the South by I U.S. forces. Barbaric and horrible I weapons have already been used, j and still worse are threatened, j U.S. excuses and pretexts all en- j .dorsed completely by Menzies, j have been shattered by events. I They pretended they were "help- j ing" the South Vietnam "regime"' I tp uphold democracy and freedom. !The whole world recognises there is neither freedom nor democracy in South Vietnam, and no one knows from day to day which re gime the U.S. is "helping". They talk of "invasion from the North", but world public opinion I" recognises that the people in the South are fighting and winning a war of national liberation. | They depend for men upon the | millions of Southern patriots who I are prepared to die for their cause; I who depend for heir weapons ! upon the munition factories of the 8 United States and on their own 1 ingenuity. 1 Not defence of freedom, not cie j fence against "Communist aggres I sion", but naked power politics. 1 imperialist aims and ambitions. I are what drive US. imperialism I to stay in Vietnam. I The United States has broken 1 the 1954 Geneva Agreement. It I put Diem in power and blocked j free elections, as Eisenhower ad- I mitted, because an election would I have given the patriots a sweep- | ing win. . -to J They introduced arms and U.S. troops in a great and growing flood in flagrant defiance of the Agre: nent. The way to a peaceful settle ment in South Vietnam is simple. Uphold the Geneva Agreement 1 All foreign troops must get out! If that means only U.S. troops and their allies must withdraw that is because these are the only foreign troops in Vietnam. Australia above all of the so- called "Western countries" is in terested in a peaceful settlement in Vietnam and to prevent the outbreak of general war in South- East Asia which is threatened by U.S .aggression. Our neighbors in South-East Asia will be our , neighbors for all time. We simply cannot allow our country to be in the U.S. war in. -i: this area. This will cause a lasting legacy of suspicion and distrust. The American war against Viet- nam is unjust, it is foredoomed to end in defeat. The Political Committee calls g? upon all Communists and support ers, on all who want world peace and value friendship with our neighbors to ACT NOW. Make your voice heard and your ,/; opinions known. || Demonstrate your support for these demands: ||j Keep Australia out of U.S. |f| aggressive wars! © Carry out the Geneva Agree- q ment, to allow the Vietnamese to decide their own future in jg| peace! © U.S. troops must withdraw 1 from Vietnam! >! 