 Tasmangan railmen j strike for overdye waqe claims i j_j OB ART : Tasman i a n railmen called a eom- nlete 24-hour stoppage of nil railway work from mid- last Thursday to mid- ini'o-ht Friday (March 12) - in&an effort to settle Out standing wage claims. ' The claims, long overdue, , are based upon the payment of Victorian rates to Tasmanian " railmen. The stoppR6 was complete and in- voiced the ARU, AEU, Boilermakers, 1 Sheetmetal workers, ETU, Moulders all affiliated to the Combined Rail- v ays Unions Committee. ' Many hundreds of other workers whose unions are not affiliated to the r U C. were also involved. " The" meetings throughout the state carried a resolution condemning the M ailure of the Transport Commission ' to implement the promises of the premier to ensure that a Concilliator ' be available to settle the just claims " of Railway Workers in Tasmania. "We call upon the State Government to take immediately steps to provide . the necessary machinery to provide equality in wages for all State Govern ment Workers," they said. - "We further seek that the Govern- ment ensure that when directions are given to its instrumentalities that such directions are complied with and net perverted, distorted and avoided as did happen before Senior Commis sioner Taylor of the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission this week. "This mass meeting declares its complete determination to finalise these Wage Claims and direct the Combined Unions to .take all neces sary steps to achieve this aim." This action of railmen has received the endorsement of the Hobart THC, ACTU Branch, arid the Launceston THC. Railmen took adequate steps to protect livestock and essential medic al services. Attempts by officers of the Tas manian Transport Commission to dis rupt the unity of the workers by false press statements alleging the stoppage had been put on by top un ion leaders without consulting the rank and file were exposed. The Launceston mass meeting elect ed a deputation of the Combined Un ions to approach the Chief Traffic Manager and press to refute these al legations. Teams of workers undertook to distribute a popular leaflet put out by the C.U.C. explaining and depict ing the claims campaign. The ARU state secretary, Mr. R. Taylor, reported to the North-West Coast meeting at Devonport; Mr. T. Clapham, AEU state organiser report ed to the Launceston meeting and Mr. T. Lynch, state secretary of the ETU addressed the Hobart meeting. 