 A wage related j to "family needs" j By an Industrial Correspondent 3 What is meant by the demand for a wage based 9 on "family needs", as put forward by the Australian | Council of Trade Unions? 1 |T is a demand- for an irre- ducible minimum wage based on family living costs, at pre sent-day standards, assuming full employment of the nation's industrial resources. When the basic wage was first placed in Australian Awards, and for some years after, it was assessed this way. Even today it is provided ' for in some States. But in 1931, to help cut wages by 10 per cent., the . Commonwealth Court abandoned "family needs" as the basis for the basic wage. Instead it adopted the "capacity- to-pay" system. The various arbitration bodies have followed suit. The last time the unions claimed a basic wage related to needs was in 1949. They argued for a claim of £10, and this was supported by effective and widespread mass activity. xne Auru advocates m mat case did not press the "needs" aspect of the claim strongly and ' the judges rejected "needs" and also a union plan for a Court-conducted investiga tion into actual family living costs. However, they increased the wage by £1 a week — the largest basic wage increase ever won and 14 per cent, of the then current basic wage. (The £1 increase in June, 1964, represented only 7 per cent, of the basic wage at that time.) Since 1950, ACTU basic wage claims have sought to offset the successful attack on living standards launched by the employers in the' early 1950's. Arbitration tribunals helped this attack in 1952, 1953 and 1954. Meantime, family living costs of the workers are met by combined wages of husband and wife, overtime earnings, two jobs, working during periods of annual leave and long service leave, over-award payments .dndiihounting.'debt,: " ' v --» ; c ." '' Or.;.. !i . -p - - Tb-day, the\ employers have launjch- ed another well-planned, and concerted m attack on living standards and onca || again have been favoured by the jl Arbitration tribunal. For the em- H ployers, the 1953 position in relation to wages has been restored and H improved upon. T wo approaches I Progressive forces in the trade m unions hold the view that this attack Si can be countered by a mass cam- j paign in various forms in support of \ the ACTU basic wage policy. ' They say the £10 wage sought by 1 the ACTU in 1949 would require £22 :j to-day. They propose action on this A now and an investigation by the trade J union movement" to determine the full m amount needed to meet minimum ill family needs to-day. M Such a demand has been advanced || on behalf , of Public Servants in m Papua-New Guinea. || Those who place sole reliance on || Arbitration would limit wage de- |g mands to those based on formulas &lt;| acceptable to the Arbitration tri- jg| ounaxs. This approach gave rise to the small increase sought in the receo basic wage case and the absence o any effective campaigning. Workers' views, on these two approaches should be made known to the union leaders. With record levels of production and profits several unions have su mitted resolutions for the Ao Congress Agenda calling for vigorou mass campaigns to win: — A minimum family living wage of not less than £22 per week as a basic wage. i 9 Margins equal at least to the | purchasing power and relatxvi |g between margins established m w g Both these wage demands ar w based on current and long-stana s |i policies of the ACTU which re&lt;1 if the utmost .workshop support, s B certain, forces, among some sec : » of trade / union leaders are , seek J 1 abandonment of these policies j,| the wage claims based upon the a iA 