 ! television and I the actor, writer I MR HAL ALEXANDER. Dir ! ector of the Congress, said | that delegates should stop i arquinq whether Autralian I writers could write and Aus- Itralian actors could act. The aim of the Congress, he stressed, was to set about to win the overwhelming support of the mass of the Australian people and the Australian Trade Union move ment, otherwise the Vincent Report's recommendations would stay shelved, and Australian actors and writers would "still be looking for work". "We must be prepared to take industrial action and political action," he said, "to ensure that something is done to move the Government, and make them take notice." A unanimous decision declared full support for the Congress declaration at the end of the Congress. . Points of the declaration were: "1) that the future of this country and the preservation of the rights and the liberties of its people depend, in large part, upon the responsible use of the channels of mass communication — especially television. M "2) that the television wave-lengths H are a public property, held in if trusteeship by Federal Parlia- || ment, which under the provisions til it of the Broadcasting and Tele vision Act of 1946-62, is obliged . to let them out to franchise for .the public benefit. "3) that the Vincent Report is a clear and objective record of defects and abuses in the administration of the Broadcast ing and Television Act as well as in the practices -of T.V. licensees; and that it. makes con structive . recommendations to correct them. "4) that the Federal Government hav ing tabled the Report in October, 1963, and having adjourned de- regrettable that no further steps bate in April, 1964, it is highly to complete the Parliamentary discussions, or to correct the abuses and defects pointed out in the Report, have been taken. Congress decided to establish a permanent committee, the Australian National Television Committee— to follow up the work of this Congress and to seek Parliamentary discussion of and action on the Vin cent Report. to act as observer and critic of television services and as a co-ordina- tor of the efforts of those who have at heart the improvement of Aus tralian television. The provisional committee elected to carry on the work will hold its first meeting in ' a fortnight's time. 