 Australian literature as a window for the Soviet readers C PEAKING at a reception last week, visiting Soviet nov elist Danil Granin, said: "Australian literature is the only window Soviet people have on Australian life." The reception by the Fellowship of Australian Writers was attended by fifty people including novelist Mena Calthorpe, short story writer Dal Stivens, and poet Kath Walker. "We have little knowledge of Aus tralian films, ballet, painting and other art forms," he continued through interpreter Oksana Kruger- skaya, also a guest of the Fellow ship. "However, ..erest in Australia has grown enormously in the last ten years. "In 1964 alone, there were one and a half million copies of Austra lian authors printed and sold in the Soviet Union. "In 1964 nearly two thousand new books of creative literature. both Russian and overseas, were published. In reply to questions Mr. Grrnin described the high standards re quired of Soviet writers who be came members of the Union oi Soviet Writers. "Young writers are encouraged to persevere in their other profes sion or trade before adopting full time professio-al writing careers, he said.' Mr. Granin concluded: "I believe that the values that unite us are significant and considerable, - and are not less important than the things that disunite us." On the week-end Daniil and Ok sana held an impromptu discussion with some of Sydney's young paint ers and writers. They included New Zealand painter and cartoonist Tane, Sydney artist Leonard Hessing, Martin Sharp (of Oz), Hyme Slade of Mel bourne and poets Paul Delofski, Peter Bryson and others. Daniil said that he had seen stomp at surf city, King's Cross the night before, and was down hearted when left. He wondered what else ' there was for these young people. A difference of opinion about stomp was clearly expressed by artists present, some of whom, said stomp was healthy, necessary, and good for "them, while others said it was little more than the emotional regimentation of young Australians. He learnt from the painters thai "pop-art" was now one of the vogues here. This was described by others as an "extreme of gimmickry". Daniil asked whether poets read "heir work publicly. "No nation car live without poets," he said. Examples were given of success- ' ful public readings by Australian poets. The economic status of poets, that of "non-producers" was stres sed by poets present. Before leaving for home Daniil Granin gave his impressions of the Australian writers he met. Of Patrick White: "He is a man who feels a great responsibility for his o vn literary work, and/ has a genuine interest in contem- ' porary literature. ' "He has achieved for himself a very high standard of literary craftsmanship. Of Katharine Susannah Prichard: "She is a human being who uplifts you from your first meeting. She has an indomitable spirit, throws aside all trifles, and gets down to the main issues." Of Kath Walker: "I - admire her just because she is the first suc cessful Aboriginal poetess writing i,n English. "She has a keen interest in all new Aboriginal writers and a vital concern with problems facing them." Other writers that the Soviet visitors had discussions with were, Colin Simpson author of "Take Me' To Russia", Roland Robinson thQ,> poet, Leonie Kramer, Clem Christ- " ensen («&lt;Ftor of Meanjin), Alan Marshall, John Morrison, Nancy Cato, Ralph du Boissiere, Aileen Palmer, Flexmore Hudson 'oger McKnight. , i , — D.IV. 