 [?] Compo injustice against wives Here is a flash for working wives, ail of us maligned, y misunderstood and unsung heroines. If a wife is working at the time her husband may be killed or injured, workers7 com- oensation is influenced by the fact that she is not entirely j dependent upon him and this operates to her disadvantage, J Another injustice cryinq out to be rectified. 1 rpHE radio announcement last week said "U.S. bombers raided North Vietnam with cannon; rockets and napalm. Some planes had 'pre arranged targets, others 'bombed at will'." What a picture this conjures up of a so-called civilised nation murdering its fellow humans! Ter rified people, more burned babies like the little one in the photograph. All mothers must surely agree with the New York clergymen's message to L.B.J., "In the name of God. stop this war!" The Duke and Duchess of Glouces ter's tour is costing £100,000. A school for sub-normal children in a Sydney suburb has been forced to sell two of its four buses because it could not meet the costs. No con nection, of course — but, oh, what a contrast! ? Controversial topic at the moment is the Mavis. Bramston TV Show. Many, irate parents writing to the Press about decency in the home and the importance of banning the M.B. show for the sake of their children's morals. Strange there has been so little complaint about U.S. TV imports. For instance, bashings and shootings in crime and west erns, morbid, emphasis on disease and doctors, glamorous war games in "Combat". These to me do more harm to young minds than home grown satire. ? in less than a year from how we.'ll be counting , our. money in dollars and. cents. This fact apparently has not registered with the Education Department. Schools are still teach ing the pounds, shillings and pence routine. Wouldn't it be wiser to start NOW to teach pupils decimal cur rency. Besides, if Mum gets tangled- up next year the children will be i| able to help her out. No need for ALL the family to be confused. |l| ' .ff Mrs. Mink is a pretty, young Jap- g||| anese-American hailing from Hawaii. She is also the only woman to Join \ M the American Congress this year 'M and the first female of Oriental an- || cestry ever elected. Mrs. Mink sup- -I ports the Negro civil rights drive. -;j| " ... we must be in the forefront j ||| to open the doors for others," she said. dlj — Mary | 