 Eln&ftnfslFlRV I sr-sna-® "10 ® "S ! j i he dilemma oi the "Australienated" I 1 I i "TO be or not to be — Aus- tralian" is a theme many young artists are whistling. Young artistic talent in Australia feels not wanted, alienated or aus- 4 tralienated' by lack of opportunity, 4 brassy Americanism, suburban de- I corum and the Dad and Dave image 4 of the working class they imbibe 4. with their kindergarten milk. And it's mainly no fault of their 4 own. What chance has a twenty h. year-old had to learn some of the experience of his country and have 4 the desire to express it in his art, I I even if the art-schools made an ef- |j fort to instil it in him? | Many end up in London as "The f. Australian Londoners", a Project '65 TV program showed recently. There Brett Whitely (painter), June Bronhill, Keith Mitchell, and Margaret Elkins (actors), Alan Sey mour, Russell Braddon (writers), Ron Grainger, Malcolm Williamson (composers) and others have won work and acclaim. But, as actor Barry Humphries said, there are thousands of other Australians in London who have been waiting for years to be award ed OBE's or knighthoods, while drawing a "wage-freeze" salary or the dole as the case may be. In other words successful artists in Australia can be more successful in London (with the few who get their first kick-on there). The rest of the Australienated artists find it just as hard to find insight into the London fog as they do to find a path through the clouds of stock-yard confetti in Australia. Unless you're a name, a success, you are fighting the encirclement of Money, whether you are in the Lon don fog or the Sydney sun. No-one's knocking back money, but how can you get some of it and still attack the system that makes it king? Or it an "artist's" be-all and end- all the successful commercial ex ploitation of popular forms of art wherever he may live? At home young artists, intellec tuals, technicians are fed on pie- and-sauce Australianism, an image disfigured by the grease paint of cheap, inaccurate satire. They are put off Australia before they ever get anywhere near it. It's no good standing on the outer perimeter and shouting dirty names. It's no good quarantining yourself off in a colony of sincere but self- justifying apprentices of art. A good artist is the guerilla fighter of the unknown in a society. He will learn to penetrate the deepest defences of the forces that make him feel "Australienated". It's a strange spectacle to watch some people who on Saturday night are "folksingers" spending the other five nights of the week glued to a television set. WhenJhey-want a new song they go where? To the record shops of course. And if the new song is to be interpreted in an ."Australian" way where do they go? To the archives to copy tapes of old singers— to copy inflection, intona tion and intention? , No you- can't copy "intention" off .a. tape % . you've got to learn that from the "folk". And "intention" is what they haven't got in their singing. By "shooting through" to London many performers and some writers can make a living but that's dif ferent from the instinctive drive of young, creative artists to really ex press their environment. Till he does that, London, Sydney, Hogn Kong — for the creator at least — are all the same. D.K., Sydney (N.S.W.). 