 Bishop's strong call for peace PERTH: The Anglican Archbishop of Perth, the Most Rev. George Appleton, told a rally on the Perth Esplanade on Good Friday that all must work together for peace and disarma ment eyen if we differ on the means of achieving these aims. "THE meeting, which was or- ganised by the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, was attended by over 400, includ ing many young people. The Archbishop said that although he did not agree with all the aims: of the CND, he had readily agreed to speak because he felt we must all do more for peace. He was not a pacifist, but was glad there were pacifists because they helped to keep the rest of us up to scratch. The Archbishop expressed his most fervent hope that Australia would never have atomic weapons. He said that he did not support unilateral disarmament but believed that we must work for multi-lateral disarma ment. , . , His Grace pointed to what felt were the spiritual causes .of war- fear, hatred, injustice, national pride, national greed and affluent indiffer ence. Unless we changed our atti tude the masses of Asia and Africa would one day lose patience. What we needed now was friendliness with them and the growing unity of all mankind. Narrow nationalism was not enough and we should all be world citizens. Something superior to both the communist and capitalist worlds was needed, he said. With modern com munications and atomic power we had all the requirements and the scientific skills to build a better society. We have the tools to do this Job, what we need is the will, and the money, instead of wasting it on armaments. ALP Senator-elect John Wheeldon addressed the meeting on the aims of the CND. He said that when such movements started many people had regarded them as oddities, but already a measure of success had been achieved in the nuclear test ban treaty. However, Mr. Wheeldon pointed out that we cannot relax the work for peace and needed to oppose the US - radio base at North West Cape and work for Australia and the Southern Hemisphere to be completely nuclear free. The meeting was chaired by the Rev. Ralph Sutton, a leading Meth odist clergyman. 