 Admission by Queensland Court NEW AWARD PAYMENTS DUE SOLELY TO WORKERS' STRUGGLES By L. J. Mc Phillips An important admission by Queensland arbitration authori ties has confirmed that recent increases in the metal trades wage margins stem directly from last year's struggles of the workers themselves. "THE Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of Queensland on February 12 this year increased margins in th State Mechanical Engineer- inn Award — Queensland's met a I trades award — by . 2/2/0 lot tradesmen. L'l/ 1/3 loi tradesmen's assistants and classifications with wage rates below tradesmen's assistants. ! 1/7/0 lor classifications with margins between those for trades men and tradesmen's assistants. The decision for the increases made by two Commissioners was dated I) .ember 31, 1964. Commissioner Har vey who has been active in connection wilh Mt. lsa dispute, refused the in creases in a decision dated February 12 1965. 1 he i ni l eases were back-dated to |aiu\ary 4, (965. Main cftau.ts oi the decision are to make an AWARD RATE of a wage .already being extensively paid by priv ate employers as an over-award rale, and to extend this "outside" wage to tnetaJ workers employed by the St.ate Government This decision puts margins pre scribed in the Queensland State Mechanical Engineering Award well in advance of the margins prescribed foi many comparable classifications in the Fcdcial Metal Trades Award. Margin prescribed tor a base rate tradesman, e.g., fitter, boilcrmakcr, etc., in the current Federal Award is 10G/- against 155/- now in the Queensland Slate Award. Queensland . Slate, Award margins have been ahead of their Federal Award counterparts since 1956 when a cam paign of mass action by Queensland metal workers raised the tradesman's margin to 102/6 compared with 75/- in Lhe Federal Metal Trades Award. Non-tradesmen under the Queensland Award were then 17/6 a week in ad vance of their Federal Award counter part. Queensland metal workers under the State Award) did not receive any in crease in their margins when the Federal Award margins were increased in 1959. This left the award margin for tradesmen at 102/6 in the Stale Award and 96/- in the Federal Award. In June, 1963, margins in , both awards were increased by ten per cent., making the State margin 112/6 for a tradesman and the Federal margin 102/-. Now the Queensland metal tradesman has moved up another 42/6, making a difference ol 53/- between the State and Federal Award margins. Proportional differences exist also in relation to other classifications covered by the Two awards. The over-award payments on which the Commission based its decision were won last year in the course of an ex tensive campaign of direct action by metal workers under the leadership of the Metal Trades Federation and the Queensland Labor Council. The decision of the Commissioners makes clear that the existence of these over-award payments was their sole reason for increasing the award margin. They said: "No question here arises of the increases being on account of merit, long service, or any similar cir cumstance." They also said: "As we see it, the matter to be determined, in consider ing the present applications, is whether the Commission should have regard to over-award payments by employers generally. "There is, in our opinion, no other basis, on submissions put before us, whereby present margins could be in creased,' nor is there, we think, any doubt whatever that at present substan tial over-award payments are being made by very many employers." Re-stating the submissions made by the unions in support of their claim, the decision states: "On 29th June, 1964, at a number ol engineering establishments represen tatives of the unions concerned were informed that, if they ceased their stop pages and removed their bans and/oi restrictions on overtime and" shift work, the following increase in margins would be paid — to tradesmen £2/2/6 per week, to crane drivers £1/7/6 per week and to tradesmen's assistants £1/1/3 pel week." So by united mass action, including stoppages, bans and restrictions, the workers lorce unwilling employers to increase their wages and then, on the basis of this, have these increased "un- official' margins confirmed as award rates and these increased rates are ex tended to all those working under the award.. 