 [?] I With Tribune's Industrial j Roundsman I AST week Norm Docker, re presenting the Waterside Workers' Federation, had a lengthy wordy battle with Mr. Justice Gallagher, who was expressing concern at the Fede ration's decision to strike. In 1963 the Full Bench of the Com mission gave the wharf ies 31 d. of their claim for 7/-. Now Judge GaJ- lagher wants the claims brought before him. As Norm said: "On the questions on which our claims would depend, . your Honor has already given judg ment in the basic wage case, and that is against our viewpoint. "How can your Honor expect us to assume that in this industry your Honor would find differently?" ' That is a very specious argument. Mr. Docker," was the reply. ? The Sydney wharfies' campaign committee report that in the pasi week or so they have spoken at 153 i factory meetings and distributed I 22c, 000 leaflets. Now five of these factory manage ments have moved to have penalties imposed on the unions because the meetings went a little, over the lunch time to hear the real facts from the wharfies. A "Seminar on Marxism" is to be conducted in Sydney this month for the Young Liberals by Dr. Frank Knopieimacher. Tne leaflet announcing the seminar cans Dr; Knopfelmacher "Australia's most learned and honest lecturer on Goruuiunism and Marxism." Strange to say, not one of the books recommended for reading has been written by a Marxist! Also ail applicants apparently are -to oe screened' The registration form says that "if accepted" the applicant will be sent an identification card! & . Last Thursday Commonwealth Arbi tration Commissioner Horan put no strike clauses in the awards . covering NSW Government bus and railway workers This means the unions can be fined up to £500 a day for a strike. Since before' Christmas the workers have been demanding a wage increase from 16/6 to 49/6 a week, depending on service. AH the Askin Government would offer was 10/-, which caused a 24-hour stoppage. Now the unions are await ing a "better offer" from the Government. . The same, slowness to grant wage increases is not the position- when . it conies to , imposing . penalties on unions. . . 