 Vietnam liberation front in Moscow From A. WATT MOSCOW : A permanent Mission of the South Vietnam National Liberation Front is being set up in Moscow. THE head of the mission, Dang j Quong Minh, a member of the Central Committee of the I Front, together with officials of the mission, arrived here re cently. | They were greeted by a very large I gathering of workers and students at I the airport, which was gaily decor- I ated with slogans and flags of the I USSR and the National Liberation j Front. I Diplomatic representatives of the I Democratic Republic of (North) Viet- I nam and other socialist countries as I well as of many other Asian and I African states were present. 1 fission is accredited to the Afro-Asian Solidarity Committee | phose vice-chairman, Babodzhan | uafurov, welcomed the guests. I He stressed that the Soviet people i )?ere fuUy supporting the appeal of I "e National Liberation Front to all 8 Progressive forces of the world for 1 n their just struggle. I ev, „ are happy at your arrival and I snail see to it that your activity in | tne USSR is fruitful," he said. I a« . QuonS Minh expressed warm I Ppreciation of Soviet support. . 1 tv, not ouht for one moment 1 oS lne aBgressor will be defeated 2S 1,hat,the People of South Vietnam I will be free", he said. 1 ebe National Liberation Front 1 of S-aim t0 be the Government 1 m 21 ? Iietnam' ifc should be recall- I SL- th® joint Soviet-DRV com- I nri S91&lt;i the Front was the legiti- 1 mate representative of the aspirations of the South Vietnamese people. The same communique announced agreement on further steps to strengthen the DRV defences. These fresh steps are a further warning that the aggressors' plans to conquer the peoples one by one in local wars are doomed. The Soviet Communist Party's slogans for May Day called on all peoples to fight for discontinuation of the acts of American aggression in Vietnam, against the multilateral nu clear force, and for the curbing of the West German revanchists. They embodied the ideas of proletar ian internationalism and of concern for the strengthening of the unity of the workers of all countries and of the international communist move ment. The same note was struck at the Lenin Commemoration meeting on April 22, when Demichev, secretary of the Central Committee, made a report. He said the policy of peaceful co existence presupposes a rebuff to ag gression and support to peoples fight ing against alien domination. There can be no lasting peace on earth if the sovereign rights of every people are not respected, The USSR rejects the concept that peaceful co-existence should be limit ed only to relations between the great powers. It is impossible, while provoking war against one socialist country, to count at the same time on improve ment in relations with other socialist countries, he said. \ 