 China— 16 years towards Socialism "THE declaration by British ; Asian expert Sir Robert Scott (Australian,, Sept. 30) of his conviction that the Chin- ese People's Republic has no territorial ambitions to the south was a timely comment, coming on the eve of the 1 6th anniversary of this great social ist republic. The Menzies Government simul taneously was repeating at the United Nations, its parrot-cries of "Chinese aggressive thrusts to the south". There has never been a factual basis for such allegations al though these are unfortunately, lent some semblance of credit by the belligerent policy attitude adopted by the Chinese Government over the India-Pakistan war. The great reality about modern China is that on October 1, 1949, following a generation of heroic revolutionary effort against occupa tion forces of Japan, Britain, Prance and the United States and the pro- imperialist Chiang Kai-shek govern ment, the People's Government was established in Peking under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Pfrty. Since that time, people of the world's most populous country have done wonders in transforming what was a backward semi-feudal, semi- colonial country in which poverty and human suffering were mass phenomena. Today China is a major industrial nation, entering the highest levels of technique, as evidenced by the fact that she is one of only five countries th- Lj have a functioning atomic science and industry on a scale cap able of actual nuclear weapons pro duction. ' At the same time, as China's own leaders have repeatedly said, what has been achieved constitutes only the firt.'; steps in a 1000-mile march, by a people forced to overcome a vast legacy of backwardness, particu larly in the countryside where the majority of the people continue to liv . Particularly in the earlier years, and still today, China has had great material and technical aid from the Soviet Union and other socialist countries, but . the socialist transfor mation of China is. the achievement and pride of the Chinese people, in spired by the ideals of communism. China, already; Australia's fifth argest overseas market, will inevit- ably occupy a greater place In Aus tralia's foreign relations, which should be based on peaceful coexist ence and friendship, with diplomatic relations as a first step. However, Canberra-sponsored propaganda seeks to build hostility to China by, among other things, misrepresenting Chinese communi ties in south-east Asia as part of the "Peking menace". Fortunately, a new book is available that will do much to set the record straight. # # "The Third China" PUBLICATION of C. P. Fitzgerald's book "The Third China" will assist in Australians' understanding of the development in a number of countries of South-East Asia. Sponsored by the Australian Insti- . tute of International Affairs, this is the second volume in a . series of background books on countries and peoples linked geographically, economically or strategically yith Australia and New Zealand. "The Third China" deals particu larly with Chinese communities in South-East Asian countries; of special interest, is the author's ac count of contact made between the Chinese and these . other countries in the Han period (221 A.D.), which is given in the first part of the book as a foreword to "History to 1939-41". Here, too, is an explanation about the early 19th century, when colonial powers began to, extenc( their rule in the lands of South-East Asia, Chinese were welcomed as immi grants, because of a shortage of labor. How they came to remain in these countries and at the same time have ties with their homeland is absorbing reading. "The Second World War", the second part of the book is a careful study of the part played by the Chinese communities in the South- East Asian countries after the Japanese atack oh Pearl Harbour and reveals "the terrible and exten sive masacres, mass executions and every kind of persecution" inflicted upon the Chinese communities by the Japanese. In this part of the book the author also shows how, as a result, of the part played in the war Chinese com munities became involved in the political life of the countries. The fourth and last part of the book "The Future of the Chinese Communities" discusses the political cultural and social relationships be tween the Chinese communities and the other races. Of interest are the author's views on relationships between the Chinese communities and the government of the People's Republic of China. The author of "The Third China" is Professor of Far Eastern History in the Institute of Advanced Studies at the Australian National University. Published by F. W. Cheshire. Avail able from Angus & Robertson and other bookshops, priced 13/6d. J.M. This young Chinese boy, a de lightful child of nature seems to be pondering his future . . . "When I grow up, I want to be a . . . 