 [?] Time to look hard at what's bad in TV jT is good to learn from Fran cis Evers' article "Wanted a Fair Go" in The Australian of 9/1/65 -9pd Tribune of 13/1/65 that, a congress on TV is to be held in Sydney in /March. This National Congress is spon sored by m'any public figures and 500 organisations have been asked to send delegates inducing Writers' Guild, Actors' Equity .and cultural bodies, and unions. a _ — ...aaAMMul i MA mIaM Ah f.Q > Its aim is to suppuii' uxipitniwav tion oh the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee's Report for the encouragement of Austra lian P; " ictions for our Television. "This all-Party Committee Report was presented to Parliament more than a year ago and has not even been debated in . Parliament let alone implemented", says Francis Evers. Do we realise the vast influence T.V. has in society today? Do we realise the evil influence many TV programs have on our chil dren and youth today? r . we know that such TV shows are breeders of crime"? In an article in NEW TIMES No. 48 December 1964 titled "Breeder of Delinquency" it quotes, a report of a Senate Sub-Committee in U.S. on Juvenile Delinquency after spending 3 years studying T.V. It draws these conclusions: "trillions of American children spend more time watching T.V. than they spend in school. ".Shows they see deal with crime, sex, horror and brutality. "There is a definite link between the rise of violence on T.V. and the "rise in juvenile crime." The report then -cites some fig ures: "In 1954, 16 to 20 per cent of T.V.' time was devoted to crime and violence and in 1961-62 the fig ure was between 50 and 60 per cent. All told these shows have increased in the past ten years by 200 per 1 More than 20,000,000 American youngsters view T.V. programmes from 7 to 11 p.m. — that is, exactly when they glorify crime." They note that "the T.V. indus try generally has shown little dis position to substantially reduce the degree of violence to which it ex poses the American public." The NEW TIMES article says "crime programmes are being in creased instead" of reduced. There is a gold mine for T.V. companies in playing on the baser instincts of their viewers. They are out to beat their rivals in violent films hence the more popular program the more '"ADS'" the get." Sucn is Capitalism! The report's solution is "to urge the T.V. industry to take corrective action itself."— -What pious hopes! The article then quotes a T.V. executive saying: "I don't believe that we should subject the Ameri can people as a whole to childish themes in the entertainment we put on just because children hap pen to be up at 10 p.m. viewing them. . . '- How urgent and important is our task herq in Auistralia to work with others to see" that the Vincent Re- port is acted upon to save our. children from the horror and vio lence which the children of the U 8. are subjected to from babyhood! Jane Tabberer (Narrafceen). 