 Three volumes from the best of Lenin "SELECTED WORKS OF LENIN". Three volumes £1/10/-. NINETY-FIVE years ago Vladimir llyitch UNanov, better known as Lenin, was born. From the age of 23 he exercised a great influence on the Russian working class movement. He was the outstanding force in the' collective leader ship which led the people to overthrow the brutal Tsarist regime in Februa 7 1917 and, a few months later, to overthrow the Provisional Government of capitalists and landlords and establish for the first time a gov ernment of workers and peasants. HE five years of civil war, foreign intervention and famine that followed the re volution wee terrible years for Russia, but the man who inspi ed the great courage and seiT-sacruice necebbary iu consolidate the young Soviet Ppnh'ic was Lenin In his lifetime Lenin was responsible for a great number of speeches and articles. These are of extraordinary value, not only in showing what a remarkable man was Lenin, but also as jewels of scientific ideas in. the fields of philosophy, political economy and the tactics of the workim olasc struct Je. ::A large number of these articles and speeches have been preserved — surprisingly large considering the conditions in which Lenin worked. The best of them have been pub lished in the past in a nuhiber of selections and in a series of volumes of collected works. Just received in Australia is a very useful, selection in three handy volumes. The appearance of thrse three volumes is very timely, as students of the recently published pamphlet "Philosophy for the Working Man" will find much of Lenin's material of great assistance in getting a deeper understanding of dialectical materialism ? VALUABLE GUIDE "OLUME 1 of the Selected Work- commences with an interesting , preface f which, if read first, will help the reader in pin-panting those articler dealing with subjects in which he is particularly interested. Then follows the article "Karl Marx," which is a brief biography of Marx and a description of Marxism. This article is a brilliant conden sation pf the main principles of Marxism, of great value to those studying philosophy and political economy in particular. The same can be said of the fol lowing article on "Frederick Engels" and the "Three Sources and Three Component Parts of Marxism." These articles, together with "Marxism and Revisionism," are the only ones not in chronological order The rest of Volume I is composed of Lenin's writings from 1897 to January, 1917. The first of these is "The Heri tage We Renounce." It has .not been included - in most previous selected works of Lenin. This article deals with the attitude of a working-class party to the ' . traditions of its own people. Also included are such well-known articles as "What Is To Be Done," "One Step Forward, Two Steps Back," "Two Tactios of .Social- Democracy in the Democratic Revo lution' and the famous analysis of modern monopoly capitalism, "Im perialism, The Highest Stage of Capitalism " A very interesting article which has not been included in other selections of Lenin's works is titled "The Reorganisation of the Party." It - is of particular value at the present time when much discussion is taking place in the Communist Party of Australia about broadening out and laying the foundation for a mass party. Study of this article of Lenin's could help in this regard, as these few lines will illustrate (readers should substitute "Communist" for " Social-"Democrat" ) : ? ONE APPROACH TO ORGANISATION "Danger may be said to lie in a sudden influx of large numbers of non-Social-Democrats into the. Party. . . . Let us not exaggerate this danger, comrades. "Social-Democracy has established a name for itself, has created a trend and has built up cadres of Social-Democratic workers. -. . . Don't invent, bugaboos, comrades! Don't forget that in every live and growing party there will always be elements of instability, vacillation, wavering. "But these elements can be influ enced, and they will submit to the influence of the steadfast and solid core of Social-Democrats; "Our Party nas stagnated while working underground. As a delegate to the Third Congress rightly said, it has been suffocating underground during the last few years. ."The 'underground' is breaking up. "Forward, then, mdre boldly; take up bases, rally all the worker Social-Democrats round yourselves, incorporate them in the ranks of the Party organisations by hundreds and thousands. "Let their delegates put new life into the ranks of our central bodies, let the fresh spirit of young revolu tionary Russia pour in through them ..." This was written in November, 1905, when freedom of assembly, association and the press had been won, although only temporarily. It shows that Lenin, correctly, had different views on organisation at different times, in different con ditions: " ' ? THE PERIOD OF THE REVOLUTION "VTOLUME II of the Selected Works contains the articles and speeches of Lenin for the period March, 1917, to June, 1918, the : period of the preparation for the October Socialist Revolution. These include such famous article? as "Letters from Afar," "The Task? of the Proletariat in Our Revolu tion" and "The Impending Cata? trophe and How to Combat It." How in such turbulent days Lenii found .the time to write such 2 scholarly treatise as "The State and Revolution" is. a cause for wonder, but he did write it and it remains today the classical exposition of the if Marxist theory on the State. Ij Included in Volume II is an I article of great interest today. This 1 is the article "Strange and Mon- n strous," is which Lenin's answer to n Trotsky and the "Left" Communists who were, against Lenin's policy of peace. | Parts of this article could have j been written in reply to "Left" 1 Communists of the present time, f Take the following example; 1 "Perhaps the authors believe that the interests of the world revolu tion require that it should be given a push, and that only war can give that push— believe that peace, in any case, cannot; that peace might give J the people the impression that \ imperialism was being 'legitimised'? "Such a theory would be com- 1 CVu Vdi AcLlil>C Willi lVlcuAlolll j which has always been opposed to j "pushing" revolutions, which de velop with the growing acuteness f. of the class antagonisms that | engender them. f "Such , a theory .would be tanta- I mount to the view that armed .up- B rising is a form of struggle which f is obligatory always and under all I conditions." 1 ? j "XTOUME III is a selection of I speeches and articles of Lenin | in the period July, 1918, to March, 1 1923. I It includes the well-known "The 11 Proletarian Revolution and the 1 Renegade Kautsky" and one of his m most brilliant and lasting works, jjS "Left-Wing Communism, an Infan- || tile Disorder!" 1 This latter work is not only a || classical work . on strategy and ji tactics of the working-class struggle, jf but a profound philosophical work. | ? I "LETTERS TO THE CONGRESS" "The attitude of a political party j toward its own mistakes is one 0 , the most important and surest ways | of judging how. earnest the par y | is and how it in practice fulfils 1 | obligations toward its class and 1 working people. "Frankly admitting a nVsted' \scertaining the reasons for u, horoughly discussing the means correcting it-that is the hallmarK of . a serious party; that is the 1 it - should perform its duties, 1 is the way- it should educate , rain the class, and then themas , . we must not regard s |lf obsolete for us as being 0 s 1 fnt- the nlnss as being obsolete Iff the masses."— -Ernie Thornton li 