 Cease fire ... release Abdullah . . . free elections . . . self-determination Says veteran Communist R Palme Putt in the London Daily Worker ' VWHY should India and Paki stan be locked in a cruel and destructive war over Kashmir? There is no justi fication for this war. Both India and Pakistan claim Kashmir. The claims of both are based on dubious grounds. India claims Kashmir on the legalistic ground that the former Maharajah Hari Singh (the notori ous "Mr. A" of the court scandal case in London) — whose family bought Kashmir from Britain for money down — faced with the up rising of his subjects and the invasion from Pakistan, signed accession to India. Pakistan's claim is based on the no less unsatisfactory ground that the Moslem religion should be regarded as equivalent to nationality and that therefore the 80 per cent. Moslem majority in Kashmir, should automatically belong to Pakistan. I was in Srinagar, the capital of Kashmir, the day after the historic "Quit Kashmir" popular revolt of 1946 against the Maharajah and British rule had been suppressed with bloody terror, wholesale firing, women and children killed, and the people's leaders wLh Sheik Abdul lah at their head thrown into prison. ABDULLAH The bullet holes wqre fresh on the walls; the wounded, were in agony in the ramshackle hospital; the armed guard paraded the bridges. I was in the court-room when Abdullah was brought on trial. . His heroic figure dominated that court like the "Lion of Kashmir" that he was. . He store-" 1 from between his diminutive- guards in the dock to greet me huv« &naKe me by the hand while the English magistrate awaited his pleasure. Among the people, in the back alleys, it was . only necessary' to whisper the name of Sheik Abdullah to see the eyes of all men, women and children light up. Abdullah had been the founder and leader of the . Moslem National Conference since 1931 (his first imprisonment), then transformed it into the secular all-inclusive Kash mir National Conference to align it with the equally secular Indian National Liberation movement or ganised in the Indian National Con gress. Abdullah and Nehru were friends and fellow fighter's. PARTITION When, in 1947, Britain partitioned India into the two States of India and Pakistan, leaving Kashmir and other princely States as apples of discord, Nrth- Western tribal levies overran Kashmir on behalf of . Pakistan. . . (The Governor of the North-West Province was British, . and the officers of the tribal levies British.) The bel guered Maharajah signed accession to India, and the Indian troops marched in to occupy, Jammu and Kashmir over two-thirds of the territory, confronting Pakistan, in possession of the western one-third under a so-called "Azad Kashmir" Government. The Kashmir National Conference, with Abdullah at its head, and world democratic opinion at that time, all supported the accession of Kashmir to India — provided the distinctive rights of Kashmir were maintained and future self-determination guar anteed. Abdullah . became Pren in Kashmir. Alignment with India represented at that time- ' the more, favorable progressive path, since India was a secular, democratic State, then playing a progressive role among the non-aligned nations, while the rulers of Pakistan had made their country a pupnet of American im perialism. India appealed to the United Nations in 1948 against the Pakistan. . military, occupation. R. Palme Dutt 