 Melbourne Communist replies to critics In the course of his review, Mr. Tennison referred to what he described as a "commendation" of Leibler's booklet by Mr. Rex Mortimer, a mem- kor 4. 1 ... ' .. vi. wic omrantee or me Communist Party of Australia and suggested that this reflected a struggle of different factions inside the Com munist Party. In a letter published in the "Aus tralian" (30/3/65), Mr. Mortimer re plied to Mr. Tennison's article as fol lows: — "The circumstances and substance of my letter to Mr. Leibler are not as stated. Mr. Leibler originally sub mitted his manuscript to the Marxist magazine, Arena, of which I am co- editor, and he was advised by me in a letter that in view of its great length it could not be used in the form pre sented. In the course of that letter I made some evaluation of the material, from which Mr. Tennison has quoted one- sidedly. "Suffice it to say here that I re ferred to 'the general contribution (of the U.S.S.R.) to the welfare and pro gress of mankind' as 'profound and unassailable'. "I did not agree to have my letter in full included in Mr. Leibler's book, as Mr. Tennison claims, nor was I asked to do so; but of course Mr. Leibler has the right to publish his correspondence if he wishes to do so. "The Communist Party's attitude to the issue of Soviet Jewry can be stated shortly in this way: We will not asso ciate ourselves with people of notori ously inhumane views who have in volved themselves in campaigns on this issue for the sole purpose of dis crediting the U.S.S.R. "We emphasise, as most Jewish people everywhere also do, the tremen dous role played by the Soviet Union in protecting millions of Jews from Nazis extermination and the big and important part played by Jews in all spheres of Soviet life today. _ "At the same time, where we con sider that there are incorrect features in this or any other sphere of Soviet life which are of concern to people generally, we - endeavour to bring our views before the Soviet communists. "Statements have appeared in the national Communist weekly, 'Tribune', and elsewhere, critical of aspects of the treatment of Soviet Jews, and this re- flects the official policy of the Com munist Party. "Therefore Mr. Tennison's elaborate theory that the question of Soviet part of some wider struggle of liberal' and 4old stalwarts factions inside the Communist Party is un founded and reflects his own ignorance of the important developments in Communist policy in recent years to which all members of the Communist Party have contributed." R. A. MORTIMER. Soviet record From its very inception the Soviet Republic carried out radical measures to eradicate all national inequality, the disgraceful heritage of tsarism. It fought survivals of anti-Semitism that had been implemented for centuries. Haim Zhitlovsky, scientist and Jew ish civic leader in the U.S.A. had this to say on the question of the rights of Jew in the Soviet Union: "Where in the world are we recog nised as an equal nation. What Govern ment provides us with all opportun ities for a progressive life? "Where is anti-Semitism a State crime? Where are all roads open to us for the development of our physical and spiritual energies? "Nowhere in the world do we enjoy the degree and scope of rights that we do in the Soviet Union." _ In the Soviet Union today, Jewish citizens take their place in all spheres of life alongside people of other nationalities. For example Jews account for 6 per cent of all scientists, 8.5 per cent of all writers and journalists, and 7.7 per cent of all actors muscians. The French weekly "Democrat 63" published by the Socialist Party of France, said in 1964: "The Jews enjoy all rights and op portunities granted to all citizens in all spheres of life." 