 [?] CRITICS OF WAR ARE THREATENED W A co-ordinated attack has been Baunched against Tribune by 1 extreme rightwing forces in an attempt to silence rising public,,- p criticism of the Menzies Government's Vietnam war policy. il The attack comes at the moment when 1 5 cleravmen of various denominations have Iff protested to the Prime Minister that "Australia is being led into a tragic escalation of llf - the Vietnam war". This extends the earlier Christian protest opened up by a group of |i Anglican bishops. |j All such protests are the real target of the past week's attacks on Tribune by certain press, » TV and radio organs. 9 These attacks followed publication by Trt bune last week of a map revealing the danger 9 to Australia of the policy of military intervention m Vietnam. I ATTEMPTS are being made to . whip up a basis for charges of "treason" and "sedition" against Tribune because of the wording of a leciend erron eously included with the map. (See statement on this page.) The real significance of the map and most of Tribune's press state ment has been suppressed by such jft organs . as the Daily Telegraph, TV H Channel 9, radio station 2UW, which Ifi have initiated the campaign, aided I'll by the Democratic Labor Party. I Three-quarters of the area of South Vietnam, including 10' of its 14 million people, are administered by the National Liberation Front, a united body which leads the popular move ment for independence and demo cracy there. 1 Unjust war HI Only main centres and highways In are held by the swollen garrisons of 9 United States, and Saigon puppet 3 government troops. 1 These forces, though great in I number and heavily armed, are suf- I fering a series of defeats. This' is 1 because the US intervention is an H unjust and hopeless war against the long-standing national independence I movement of the whole Vietnamese I people. 1 It is into such a situation that the I Menzies Government, under pressure I from Washington, decided to commit I an Australian battalion into the 1 v American war. The Australian Labor Party, Australian Council of Trade I Unions, Communist Party and many I public spokesmen from various fields | have expressed opposition to that ?t decision. I Speaking of the Government's action . (Sydney Morning Herald, July 10), Dr. M. Caldwell, London University ex pert, said: "Nothing could be more fraught with danger." He urged that Australia stop killing Asians on Asian soil, warned that Australia w,ould "share defeat and its bitter fruits" and would become "hated for seeking security in force."- "Clear out" Australian Labor Party Federal Deputy Leader, Mr. E. G. Whitlam, was reported to have said in Singa pore on Friday that outside countries- should "clear out" of Vietnam and let the Vietnamese people decide on & government of their own choice, whether Communist or not. However, the danger of escalation or expansion of the war is increasing, r his danger has stemmed from the unprovoked US air' raids on North Vietnam and, this week, a reported incursion over China itself. sudden replacement (see page 4) of General Maxwell Taylor, as US Ambassador in Saigon, and other leading officials reveals serious dif terences in the US command which controls Australians troops. The ohnson policy of widening the war, Continued, Page 12 Threat to critics Continued from Page 1 building the US expeditionary force to perhaps 150,000, is predominant. US President Johnson and Aus tralian Army Minister Forbes last week predicted, that the situation would get more serious. Increased casualties were forceast by Dr. Forbes. The "Australian" correspondent (July 6) . forecast a possible retreat by US and Saigon forces to even smaller areas in South Vietnam. All these facts vindicate the co:> sistent policy advanced by the Tribune and the Communist Party of Australia condemning the Government's policy as a danger to the security and well- being of Australia. This policy respects the Australian soldiers, and is concerned to protect them, their families and all Australia from the danger jyhich the Menzies Government is aggravating. . Tribune and the Communists op posed Nazism and Japanese aggres- '.on in the pre-war years when Men kes and the Daily Telegraph were ! m.pathetic to them. ' ¥r&i3K© .today, too, Triuunte takes the genuinely patriotic stand for Aus tralia's security and wellbeing when it demands a Government decision to bring the troops home and a policy of' building good relations "with the various Asian governments. The 1954 Geneva' Agreement, on Vietnam, guaranteeing independence and with drawal of all foreign troops, must be implemented. : ''There should be no glossing - over the dangers, no stifling of , discussion," said the Sydney Morn ing Herald on Monday, July 12, expressing concern over the Gov- . crnment's failure to explain its - - Vietnam policy. Tribune calls on every reader, every democrat, everyone con cerned about the Vietnam war policy, to send messages to the Prime Minister in defence of the right of this newspaper to continue to advance these policies in the1 interests of the Australian nation' and world peace. 