 for ji i|ourN book " shelf ON THE TRACK OF DISCOVERY. Nos. 1 & 2, 4/9 each (5/11 each posted) SOVIET scientists unravel some of the mysteries of the ages and some of the secrets of history. How did people know hundreds of years ago that Mars is accom panied by two tiny satellites? What kind of space vehicle ex ploded over Siberia in 1908? What sort of destruction was rained down upon Sodom and Gomorrah? Is it possible that they were destroyed by some type of nuclear explosion? What is it like inside the moon? When will Atlantis be found? Included are fascinating illustrations of treasures found by those who have engaged in voyages of dis covery. ON THE EMANCIPA TION OF WOMEN V. I. Lenin, 1/6 (2/2 (posted) A COLLECTION of Lenin's writ- ings and speeches ably prefaced by his wife Krupskaya. From these articles we see the de tailed attention which Lenin gave to the special problems con fronting women, the efforts he made to win women to the revolutionary cause and therefore to support of the revolution as the first fundamental step to their final emancipation. SCIENCE OF HEALTH AND LONG LIFE IN THE USSR Charlotte & Dyson Carter, 4/6 (5/2 posted). \TOW being, offered -at a reduced price — Charlotte & Dyson Car ter's entertaining, informative and controversial hook on the approach to health and longevity in the U.S.S.R. Eat and stay slim — Oxygen: Free Health Food — Science of Muscular Joy — Resting in Action — Millions will live 100 years. These stimulating chapter headings give a clue to the scope of this lively book. Was 9/6. Now 4 6. Make sure of your copy now while they last. SCIENCE IN THE USSR Y. FyodoroY, 1/9 (2/2 posted) JEALS with the inter-relation of science and social development and describes the structure and function of scientific bodies. A TOPSY-TURVY PLANET N. Sladkov, 5/- (6/5 post ed) . 'pHIS is a place where incredible things happen: fish live in hot water, a whale carries passengers, it rains frogs from the sky, etc. What is most interesting is that all these strange occurrences have happened and can all be explained scientifically, as the author has rinng in a way under- standable to children. Humor ously illustrated. Available from — NEW WORLD BOOKSHOP 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 