 | "A Curtain of j \ Ignorance" I I EE323 c AA/HAT is the cause of the deep - seated emotion which China has always awamoaJ AtYlAr!rflnc5 WnV aiUUOCU UA UMV4IVW" w. «. — the unremitting . hostility to wards China today V These are the questions which Felix Greene asks in his opening paragraph of "A Curtain of Ignor ance", a gripping and absorbing ex amination of the role of the press, the China Lobby and the legislature in the relations between the United States and the People's Republic of China. The author not only asks the questions, his revelations of the anti-China activities answers them.. . The legend of China in the days when foreign missionaries held sway was of a kindly, but nearly always inferior and backward people, with emphasis on the "inscrutable" Chinese. The author recalls a series of films about Dr. Fu Manchu which painted a picture of a powerful, evil man. The period of Chiang Kai-shek's rule is dealt with fairly fully, show ing how the Chinese image was changed in the U.SA. When the Japanese invaded China and Chiang started to fight back the picture given by the press to the American people altered. Aid was given to China; Chiang Kai-shek came to the U.S.A. and the foundation was laid for the China lobby. Green's exposure of the role of the China Lobby, its links with Senator McCarthy and the press is startling. One forgets how many downright lies were told, arising from this as sociation. _ The press lies really began from December, 1949, when a "Treaty of Friendship, Alliance and Mutual Assistance" was negotiated ' between the Chinese and Soviet Govern ments. Felix Greene writes "It is a mat ter of historical, fact—and the hinese are the fixst to. acknowledge tr- that . China's . remarkably swift recovery after the civil war and the : f her " industrialisation uid hate been impossible without the assistance provided by the Soviet Union." American press reports at the- time distorted facts to such an ex tent that the image created in the minds, of the people was that the Russians were taking over China. From 1949 onward deliberate ly- : ing and distortion about Chinese industry, agriculture, science, family life has been carried on by many major U.S. newspapers and corres pondents. Where favourable reports have been received often they were falsified. Possibly a different picture would have been painted but for , the as sistance given by Chinese volun teers in the Korean war— assistance which led to the defeat of the U.S. forces. China was depicted as a starving nation of 600 million people, a war like nation, a nation of "blueants" herded into communes, husband and wife were forced to live in a separate houses, no new homes we're being constructed — this is what the American people have been shown. Because of this picture it is easy for the U.S. statesmen to get back ing for their stand that China must be excluded from the United Nations. In the 332 pages of "A Curtain of Ignorance" Felix Greene gives the sources of his quotations and shows from those that are factual and his own experience, the pro gress made by the Chinese people since the days of liberation. In this review it is not possible to give a complete resume of all the phases dealt with. But the book is recommended to all who would enlarge their knowledge of China and of the U.S. attitude to it. This reviewer does not agree with all the views of the author in re gard to the Soviet Union. However these are secondary to the information on China, the U.SA. and its attitude. Priced at £2/18/— "A Curtain of Ienorance" ' is ; available at ." Angus & Robertson.- -JJVf. 