 i 111 - Agreement at Geneva, 1954 ' Sit Key sections of the Geneva Conference Agreement of I 1954, relating to Vietnam were: | 4. Hie conference takes notr of the clauses in the agreement on the cessation or Hostilities m Vietnam prohibiting the introduc tion into Vietnam of foreign troops and military personnel as well as of all kinds of arms and it -.nitions. (This clause had' been broken by the introduction into Vietnam by the U.S. of 27,000 or .more troops with the most advanced types of arms and munitions )t 5 no military bases under the control of a foreign state may be established in the regroup ing zones of the two parties . . . (The "two parties" mentioned were France and the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. . The "regrouping zones" referred to have now become known as North and South Vietnam. This article was . breached : by the U.S. when it established military bases under its control in South Vietnam and formed a military al liance with it.) 6. The Conference recognises that the essential, purpose of the agree ment relating to Vietnam is to settle military questions with a view to ending hostilities and that the mili tary- demarcation line is provisional tuiu oiiAJ uiu xxuu jux any way i j Hi- terpreted as constituting a political or territorial boundary . . . (This provision specifically ruled out the claim, now made by Men- zies and the U.S., that the Geneva agreement set up "South Vietnam" as a sovereign state with the 17th parallel as its "political or terric 4 torial boundary". The parallel was meant to be M nothing more thain a line separating ' | the French and Vietnamese patrio- i tic forces, pending the evacuation J of the French.) 4 7. The conference declares that, so far as Vietnam is concerned, the -J settlement of political problems, j affected on the basis of respect for td the ; principles of independence, J unity and territorial integrity shall I permit the Vietnamese people to J enjoy the fundamental freedoms ... 1 general elections shall be held in | July, 1956, under the supervision of J an international commission ... Jj (The U.S. tore this provision to ( || shreds when, m 1955, it instigated -1 and armed Ngo Dinh Diem to 1 seize power- in Saigon and make % himself dictator. Diem and his sue- jS ceeding U.S. puppets" have refused "i to allow any general elections to be _ yj held.) Countries participating were: Cambodia, the Democratic Republic ''1 of Vietnam, France, Laos, the SJ| Chinese People's Republic, the , (French-controlled) South Vietnam- | ese state, the USSR, the United Jf Kingdom and the U.S.A. || The U.S.A. refused to sign the |p agreement but gave an undertak- Ji ing tnat it wouia retrain trorn gpi the threat or the use of force to ffi disturb the Agreements in accord f| ance with the provisions of the || U.N. Charter dealing with the ob- :m ligations of members to refrain, in their international relations, Ji from the threat or use of force. m B&a Using captured US .30 calibre machine-gun in anti-aircraft pit I 