 Wharfies call for action over wage & pension demands SYDNEY: Sfopwork meetings of waterside workers throughout Australia last week called for action including 24-hour national stoppages, in support of wage demands and for a pension scheme. "THE Federal Council of the Waterside Workers Fede ration called the stoppages to seek the views of the member ship as to what action should be taken. Most of the stoppages called on the Council to organise national 24-hour stoppages. The meetings in "both , Sydney and Melbourne called for a national stop page each week until the demands are won, and for the first stoppage to be held this week. At a compulsory conference last Friday, Commonwealth Arbitration Commissioner, Mr. Gallagher said he would refuse to hear the Federa tion's claims unless strike plans are abandoned. He said it was doubtful whether the Commission had the power to arbitrate under the Arbitration Act on a pension scheme claim. However there was nothing to stop full use of whatever conciliatory powers were available, he said. The Federation has unsuccessfully pressed the shipowners and Govern ments for a non-contributory pension over the past 24 years. Federal Council is at the moment considering the next move in the campaign. About 4,000 in Sydney and 400 at Newcastle unanimously called for a struggle to force the shipowners to meet the balance of a 7/- wage claim. This claim was made by the Federal Council in 1963 of which the workers only received 1/2. . The original claim for 7/- an hour increase was based on a 73 per cent increase in productivity since. 1955. Since this claim was made in 1963, the Federation estimates that pro ductivity has continued to increase at the rate of 8 per cent each year. The Sydney meeting said that the 1964 industry statistics showed an ever increasing productivity per man hour. "We again restate our. demands upon the owners for part of this huge new profit." "These demands do not exceed what is now offered on the roll on roll off ships and are much less than . those recently granted to the East Coast U.S.A. Longshoremen," the meeting said. The meeting also demanded that attendance money payments be a minimum of 6 hours a day. 