 | Grape growers | need price rise, not a crippling cut | ADELAIDE: The standard of living of 3000 j grape- growers would be reduced if prices for j wine-grapes proposed by the mine-makers were j allowed. ! "THIS was stated in a re port by the Primes Com missioner (Mr. E. A. Mur phy) to the State Labor Government. While wine-makers are asking for such crippling prices, two big wine producers have announced handsome profits. Mr. Murphy, who has recom mended, increased prices for the growers, noticed- that the sales of wine and brandy" in the past year have shown a distinct up ward trend. He said that "they (the wine- makers) must in their own minds know that their position is going to be improved, even if they paid the increased prices". Hardship . The Labor Premier (Mr. Frank Walsh) told wine-makers' deputa tion that he was "not prepared to accept their proposals for wine- grape prices". He said that their prices would impose great financial hardship on the growers and the business com munity in country towns con cerned. He had fully considered the prices, recommended by Mr. | Murphy for this year's grape har- vest. and these would have to be j the prices paid to growers. ! Mr. Murphy's report had indi- I cated that the increases he recom- I mended, when compared with increases in growers' costs, would ! mean that growers "could not get I rich"i Yet the wine-makers were j trying to dodge? payment of such ! prices. j A Hope Valley grape grower, j writing to "The Advertiser", said I that the Prices Commissioner had j estimated that the prices offered | \ by the wine-makers are barely j above cost of production. . j Warned j He warned against the situation j in which wine-makers' financial | returns grew at the expense of the | primary producers. | The grower suggested that as j most wine-makers were accepting ; grapes before the price had been j settled, it was possible the Wine | and Brandy Producers' Associa- ; tion (the wine-makers' organisa- j tion) lacks support from even j among its own members. j The SA Communist Party sup- | ports the right of growers to a ! % decent living standard and there- j fore condemns attempts by the ; wealthy wine-makers to impose ' crippling prices on primary pro- j ducers. j 