 Support widens for Mt Isa men's fighting stand BRISBANE: The Queensland Trades ana Labor Council have called on the trade union movement in Queensland and Australia to physically and financially support the Mt. Isa workers. A LEAFLET issued by the Coun cil said: "Obviously, the suffer ing1 of men, women and children - ould mean nothing to the absentee owners of Mt. Isa Mines, many of whom would not even know what part of Australia the town lies in." "Australian trade unions and work- e .. will never submit to such at tacks by a monopoly — let alone a foreign owned one." The company planned to shut down all operations by 5 p.m. last Friday. Last " Friday the Queensland Gov ernment, faced with the unity of the I". Isa workers and townspeople and the Australian trade union move ment, and wide general public con cern, acted through Industrial Commissioner i". J. Harvey to order the company not to close the mine- for another week. The order, though too lab to pre vent the sacking of many construe tion workers, nevertheless revealed that effective Australian government action can supersede the company's ! crogrance. It gave added weight to the de mand for full operational takeover by the government and for nationali sation of' the mine NSW concern In Sydney, the N.S.W. Labor Council last Thursday called for a special meeting of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' executive to discuss the Mt. Isa dispute. "Moving a proposal from the executive, Labor Council secretary (Mr. J. Kenny) said: "If workers are suffering they should be finan cially supported." All N.S.W. unions were asked to assist the Mt. Isa workers, and that the money should be sent through the Queensland Trades and Labor Council A meeting of union officials and delegates in Newcastle asked the Labor Council to call for a special meeting of the ACTU executive. The Central Executive of the Miners' Federation, the executive of the Wool and Basil Workers' Union and the Sydney Branch of the Boilermakers' Society proposed that Labor Council call for the nationalisa tion of Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. When the South Coast branch of the Miscellaneous Workers' Union circulated the demand for nationali sation of Mt. Isa, because of its cc'trr' by overseas monopoly capi tal: Mr R. Connor, M.H.R. (Labor, Cunningham) replied that he fully supported the terms of their resolu tion and will "raise the matter with the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party to secure its assistance. Mr. L. Johnson, MHR (Labor, Hughes) said he will "strongly ad vocate declaration that Mt. Isa should quickly be brought under public control." In West Australia, the Labor Council has called for nationalisa tion and has urged unions to make urgent efforts to raise finance on the collection lists it has distri buted. News coming to Tribune from all States indicate wide support for tl Mt, Isa workers. Pit top meetings of the Miners' Federation throughout - Australia have pledge a 10/ a fortnight levy. Waterside workers throughout Aus tralia are donating at least £2,000 a weex. Metal workers, seamen, butchers, building workers,"' painters and dock ers and railway workers are among the many thousands who are levying themselves 5/- a week for the Mt. Isa men CP statement At a press conference in Communist Party headquarters in Sydney last week, Messrs. R. Dixon (President) and L. Aarons (Vice president) said the Party would support any interven tion in the dispute that would bring a settlement on the basis of the re employment of Pat Mackie. Mackie was not a Communist. It was a matter of trade union prin ciple. The Government should take over i and operate the mine, on that basis, but the best solution would be full public ownership. Small Australian shareholders could be compensated, but there should be none for the US monopoly, ASARCO, which had long ac > recouped its original investment, it was stated. 