 I Real culprit j ! The forced retreat of the Queensland Government in j ! "suspending" its police-state regulations represents a great j victory for a united Australian working class and demo- j era tic movement, spearheaded by the working people of ! i Mt. Isa. I i But it is the kind of victory from which lessons, as well j I as encouragement, should now be drawn — -for the Mt. Isa | j struggle is far from over. ! | In the past week the limelight has been on the Govern- j I ment's violations of democratic rights, but now the focus j J rightly turns back to the real source of the dispute that is j I shaking Australia — the company. ' I The company, 54 per cent owned by the huge American ! I Smelting and Refining Company (itself part of the even j | bigger Guggenheim Corporation), provoked the dispute last , j August. ! j The company, since August, has conducted the struggle I | in accordance with a basic "principle", which it has imple- j j mented consistently since its earliest days around 1930. j I The "principle" is: Behead and smash trade union j l organisation in Mt. Isa at all costs. ; j Everything done by the Queensland Government during 1 the dispute (which became a lockout in December, and has j never been a strike) has been on the company's behalf. 1 Money is not the issue for the company. Its attempt j to buy the miners off with the partial wage-rise, com- Imendably rebuffed by the united workers, stands in con trast to its arrogant refusal, so far, to reinstate miners' j elected leader Pat Mackie (whom it sacked in October) j or to recognise the Mt. Isa Trades and Labor Council. I This is the real issue, now and for the future. Isa ! ruthless foreign monopoly, concerned not for Australia's j economy but for its own unrestricted power and profit, to j have the right to decide whether Australian trade unionists | can organise in Mt. Isa or not? I Is a board of New York millionaires to- be free to ! decide to shut down 70 per cent of Australia's copper I production for six or 12 months, to safeguard its world- I wide union-smashing' "principles"? j Australians recently saw how the gigantic General ! Motors Corporation of the USA fought Australian unions to the bitter end, while at the same time granting wage concessions to American unions in its plants. I Could it not also afford to concede the Australian J claims? Last week's announced all-time, all-companies I record, profit of £765m achieved in 1964 by GMC again S gives the answer. | On January 30 the Sydney Morning Herald Financial - J Editor pinpointed the issue in both disputes when he stated j that ASARCO, the real rulers of Mt. Isa, were concerned J not about money matters, but about an "industrial show- J down". (This plea was not for the workers but for Aus- 1 tralian shareholders' interests!) J These are the reasons why the Mt. Isa men's stand In I defence of their leaders must be most vigorously supported — for it is the future of trade unionism that is at stake. New efforts by certain rightwingers (including AWU leaders) to "get the men back without Mackie" must be exposed and isolated. I Mt. Isa brings into the open the real threat to Australia | today, at the hands of huge foreign financial interests, 1 whose profit-hunger is draining our trade balances. I Every person who really stands for the best interests j of the Australian nation should join the demand, common | to the policies of all sectors of the labor movement, for (Australian public ownership. True, as the Communist Party's program states,, such nationalisation does if.ot end the system of monopoly capital- ! ism. Only full-scale socialist nationalisation of the assets J of all the big companies could free the workers of the (burdens of profit, interest and rent. But at this moment, nationalisation of the Mt. Isa Mines i Ltd., if enforced by an irresistible demand from the people, could bring control ot the mine into Australian hands, j strike a great blow for Australian independence and demo- ! | cracy against the tightening grip of foreign capital, and ! j open the way to further Australian struggle for industrial i I and social justice. - j I 