 Dr. KnopfelgnacSier md what makes him tick Background of public activity cf Dr. F. Knopf elmacher, re? cently rejected as candidate for a position at Sydeny University , Includes © pen defence of the discredited American witch - hunter „ Senator McCarthy „ and a long-range plan to destroy traditional university independence through, government takeover . AS long ago as 1963 Knopfel- macher used, the British Profumo affair as a; boost for McCarthyism and the- USA", and an excuse to wage a- carnpaign ; ogainst British-Australian; uni versity relationships.. He has publicly : advocated the de velopment of full-scale police state methods to ensure rule of Australia by extreme right-wing policies.- In a Sydney Bulletin article : on July 6, 1963, he said: "The Profumo debacle and- the mess which it brought to light is the direct result of the English- ideology of 'anti-McCarthyism'.'' , He says that "anti-McCarthyism de rives from the Communist Party and 1 also from "the English establish- | ment" whose motives include "envy | and resentment directed against I America and the consequent- fake | moral posture of moral superiority I assumed towards, the United States." I Pie then praises-, the "American Congressional committees" (of which the McCarthy-bossed Un-American Activities Committee was one) and says: "Australians will, have.' to admit that the American system -of' internal security, rather than the 'mature' British approach, has proved its mettler ; "The much-maligned congressional committees, have, shown themselves to be forces' for the good." Knopfelmacher then proposes the full McCarthyite program for Aus tralia. For. example, "all communica-. tions of private organisations and in dividuals with Communist countries — business transactions, private trips, cultural' exchange visits and" such like — should be put under the strictest possible official tutelage of the Aus tralian Security Intelligence Organ isation." Knopfelmacher wanted the Gov ernment to "identify" so-called "com munist" organisations and their per sonnel in a White Paper. "Communists should be required to register, and the mail of Communist organisations should bear clear identifying labels." This' closely follows the pattern of ! the US McCarthy Act.. "A set of applicable criteria as to what constitutes- a Communist front > should be worked out and- the Gov ernment should publish a list of sucli fronts from time to time." Dr. Knopfelmacher wanted the ' "security" screening, of. migrants to ; be extended to immigrants from the United Kingdom. And the pro-American conclusion emerges: . "Our cultural and political life should be de-Anglified. "The practice of importing: elites ; for top jobs: in the universities, in the churches, and in business pre dominantly from- England' should' be 'discontinued. The grand tour of Aus tralian university graduates should be re-directed" from Oxford and Cam bridge to more appropriate institu tions in the USA." Dr. K. denies that this is an "anti- British tirade;-" He claims, to want to protect British social and political in stitutions in Australia. "But the best way of doing, just this at the present time is to give contemporary England a wide berth." Government role Just as the pro-Knopf elmacher campaign was about to be loosed by his friends in Sydney, the Melbourne "Partisan", "a new Socialist youth magazine", as it: is. described in the extreme rightist Bulletin, put forward a demand- (as- again reported by the Bulletin of April 17), for Govern ments to "exercise- more control, or at least surveillance, over - university administration — a favorite theme of Knopfelmacher. It claims, according to the Bulle tin, that Governments "will almost certainly be. forced to play a more active role in the running of uni versities because the universities are unable to prevent scandals in admin istration and malpractices' - in staff appointments." After listing a few instances of what it considers' to be such cases, the Bulletin writer says: ! "There has been a growing interest, amongst academics in the establish ment of an independent and statutory appeals tribunal as a safeguard against prejudice, favoritism and' in competence in the appointment of university staff. "This latest allegation by 'Partisan' is bound to increase the demand for such a tribunal, especially by student clubs, which are mostly run by stu dents with academic ambitions." mmiHtimifmiiKHiiliJiilii ilitM 1 1 II ! Itll I IIMUM IMUIillHi 