 ISA GOVERNMENT WORKERS WIN I PAY INCREASES ADELAIDE : The Labor Premier of South Aus tralia, Mr. F. Walsh, has offered wage increases from 10/- to 25/ - a week for all State Government wage emplojees. TH IS offer was m?ds Ust week to the SA Labor Coun- ici.1. The Premier has offered 10/- after one year's, service, 17/6 after two years and 25/- after three years and to be made retrospective to January 1. - - The scheme is also based on ser- i vice not classification. If accepted, by the Labor Coun- . cil, these increases will cover 20.000 Government workers including 6,500 railway workers. In Sydney last week the N.S.W. Premier, Mr. Renshaw, told a de putation from the N.S.W. Labor Council to again take their demands for a service wage increase to" the Railways Commissioner. Last month the Commissioners ! for Railways and Road Transport rejected a service increment scheme put forward by the Labor Coun cil's combined Rail and Road Trans- i port Committee. An earlier deputation proposed to Mr. Renshaw that this scheme be based on a payment of 16/6 per week after one year's service, 33/- after two years' service and 49/6 after three years, and the payments be based only on service and not skni or classification. A public meeting of 300 transport workers last week at Granville Town Hall, Sydney, called on the Labor Government "to stop its procrastination and policy of eva sion of responsibility" and to im mediately grant these claims. The meeting was attended by MLA's, Messrs. P. Flaherty (Gran ville), J. Ferguson (Fairfield), E. Quinn (Wentworthville), C. Earl (Bass Hill), A. Bennett (Nepean) and P. Cox (ALP candidate for Auburn ) . Mr. Earl pledged full support for the claims, on behalf of the MLA's at the meeting and agreed to lead a deputation to the Premier. The meeting was called by the Clyde Waggon Shop Stewards' Com- mittee and was attended by dele- gates from other railway workshops including Chullora, Eveleight and . bus employees. State secretary of the Australian Railways' Union, Dr. L. Ross, told the meeting that between 5,000 to 7,000 letters have been sent to State Members of Parliament by railworkers. A conference last December of delegates and union officials, called by the ARU (N.S.W. Branch) and representing about 30,000 N.S.W. railway workers, endorsed a pro posal for . a 24rhour State-wide stop page failing early satisfaction on these/, demands. Following a 14 months' struggle Victorian railway workers last Oc tober forced the Bolte Liberal Gov ernment of that State to grant wage increases. Mr. Renshaw was reported to have told a deputation that he did not intend to follow the views of Mr. Bolte. In 1964, the N.S.W.' railways earned £101/143,665 and showed an operating profit for the second year in succession. The current year showed a credit balance of £250,000 after allowing £13Z million for interest and capital debt charges. Railworkers point out that during this period staff had declined by 1,420 and that freight concessions have been given to private industry, including the huge- road transport monopoly of about £1 million. The failure to hold staff, coupled with the deliberate policy of staff curtailment has meant increasing hardships for many railworkers. "Low wages is the main reason why the department cannot hold staff," workers say. In Tasmania, the railway workers are also pressing the Reece Labor Government for wage increases. Last month a 24-hour stoppage was held in support of their de mands. 