 : ir- — - «; 11 " L-1"1 "M—yi ... — — ! - I TRIBUNE I |! - "Big Brother " in ! Washington Australians cannot afford to ignore the sudden flurry of ' reports of statements by important United States spokesmen !. telling Australia what to do on some of the biggest issues ! of our time. Vietnam is one of these. The visiting Senator Full- j. bright, the Washington "Post", and a State Department ' spokesman , are among those who have made clear the view j,. that the Australian Government should send more troops into the American war of intervention in that country. ; I ''.UNG THE A. LP. V . ' Even more disturbing is a statement by a certain Harry Goldberg, "Asian affairs expert" of .the AFL-CIO, the main national structure of the US trade, union movement. Goldberg, after trotting around Australia having quiet ; talks with ''my friends in the Labor Party and the ACTU", ; took time out to set the whole Australian labor movement ! on the right course by Washington standards., , According to the Sydney Morning Herald (Dec. 4) he I confessed to having "worries" about the Labor Party. ! There was in the ALP "too much wobbliness and too !; many differences" on Vietnam, he said. While graciously conceding that the Labor Party will have to make its own decisions, he proceeds to attack its "lack of firm and consequential leadership", and predicts it would get fewer votes in another election. SIGNIFICANT PATTERN Australians, who have become increasingly concerned about the useless waste, injustice and dishonesty of the American war in Vietnam, and who have - never taken ' kindly to lectures from abroad on their internal affairs, will brush most of this off. They may, however, wonder about the timing of Gold- ' berg's unusual press conference. But it becomes clearer when placed alongside the in creasing failure of the enormous US forces to quell the liberation struggle of Vietnam, the growing militarist de- ; mands to escalate the US and Australian commitment, and I the increasing unity (in Federal Labor caucus, for example) of opposition to the compulsory dispatch of Australians to this war in the near future. The Menzies Government is in deep trouble over Viet- ; nam. As its recent pathetic official pamphlet on the subject , reveals, its position is getting worse. Opposition is already j: far wider than the labor movement. Uncle Lyndon has had to step in and take a hand (per- , haps, as usual, without telling Canberra first). If anything, these clumsy interventions will only acceler- : ate the Australian demand for withdrawal and a just solution, I on the basis of the Geneva Agreement. Beadline in A frica ; : The serious situation that exists in southern Africa, J involving the possibility of armed conflict, stems directly and solely from these facts: — A white racist minority has seized power illegally in Rhodesia with the aim of perpetuating their lucrative exploi tation of the African majority people, the Zimbabwe. The British Government, the power most able to influence the situation because of past and present political and economic ties, has followed a course to head off the militant African struggle for a democratic Rhodesia while putting economic pressures on the Smith regime in search ; of some new compromise. Behind this" manoeuvring stand the multi-million Bri tish and South African financial, mineral, tobacco and other interests that exploit the Rhodesian people and resources. These are the facts underlying the decision of the Organi sation of African Unity, at its emergency meeting in Addis Ababa, that member states will break off diplomatic rela tions with Britain if the Wilson Government does not take resolute action against the Smith regime by December 15. - London s reluctant course, supported and even fostered by the white man's" Menzies Government, is so far leading - inevitably to armed action as the only wav out for the African peoples, who have right on their side. ft is also v rapidly accelerating the breakup of the British Common wealth. 