 Miners' 50th Anniversary Warning given on overseas penetration j SYDNEY: A warning against "the depletion of Australia s coal ! reserves and the increasing overseas penetration into the indus- ' try" was made by Australian Council of Trade Unions senior vice- I president (Mr. J. Kenny) last Monday in Sydney. "IINLESS this is controlled Australia is going to pay dearly in the future", he said Mr. Kenny was opening the Nat ional Convention of the Miners' Fed eration at New Theatre, St. Peter's Lane, on the occasion of the union's 50th birthday. Speaking about the history ot the Federation, Mr. Kenny said that min ers and their families had suffered greatly due to shocking working con ditions „and deplorable living condi tions. "Much bitterness flowed from in dustrial disputes, and blood flowed oh occasions." He recalled the in cident at Rothbury, in Northern NSW, when police fired at miners during a strike in December 1929, killing one. Mr. Kenny also, recalled the many mine disasters due to bad working conditions and mining methods. These included: 81 miners killed at Bulli (1887), 96 killed at Mt. Kembla (1902), 75 at Mt. Mulligan (1921), 20 at Bell- bird (1923), 13 at Wonthaggi (1937) and seven at Collinsville in 1954. Special show Convention delegates and representa tives from other unions watched a dramatic presentation by New Theatre \ telling the story of mining in Aus tralia. The script of "Come All You Valiant Miners" was written by Mona Brand in honour of the Federation's 50th anniversary. New. Theatre's long association with the trade union and progressive move ment was recalled by Mr. J. Arm strong who described the presentation of the play "The Candy Store" at an underground performance to Glen Davis miners in 1952. The miners were staging a stay-down in an effort to prevent the closing down of the mine. The film "Hewers of . Coal", made by the Waterside Workers' Federation film unit in 1959, was' also shown. Mr. Walter Stone announced the winners of the competitions for liter ature, historical articles, exhibits, poems and other sections organised by the Federation for the anniversary celebrations. Program During the week the convention will work out a program of economic demands, safety and health, pensions, workers' compensation and matters effecting the Federation. A special session will discuss closer relations between mrning unions, to which representatives from the Aus tralian Workers' Union, the Stone masons' Unioh and the Water and Sewerage Board Employees' Union have been invited. . Ten Women's Auxiliaries of the Fed eration will also meet in Sydney dur ing the convention. Tomorrow (Thursday) the Federa tion's new Sydney Headquarters, at 11 Market Street, will he officially opened. 