 Sacked officials \ challenge AWU j Federal Executive ! ADELAIDE : Dismissed executive members of the South Australian Branch of the Australian Workers' Union have una- nimously declared their determination to defend the right of the rank and file to elect and control the officers of their union. This declaration follows the sacking last week by the AWU Federal Executive of the union's South Australian Executive. Members of the union in SA say that "nothing so undemo cratic or dictatorial has ever happened to elected union/offi cials in the whole history of the trade union movement." The dismissed men say they were dismissed on a list of false and frivol ous charges. In a joint statement they said "none of the officers dismissed by the inter state visitors has broken any rules or decisions of the Federal Executive council or the annual AWU Conven tion. "It is the Federal Executive that has not observed the rules and that have violated the law, defied the decision of the court and the wishes of the rank and file." The Federal Executive, which held its "enquiry" in Adelaide, removed from their union positions Messrs. Cameron, . Groth, Wright, L. Dunford, A. Begg, A. Chandler, E. Gehan, C. Brine, R. Wray, A. Brice, H. Rayner and M. Young. The secretary-elect of the SA Branch of the union, Mr. D... Cameron, together with vice-presidents Messrs. R.. Groth and J. Wright were also expelled from the union. The dismissed men have decided to ask the Commonwealth Industrial Commission to order the -general sec retary, Mr. Dougherty, to observe and carry out the rules of the. union. Defy sacking Mr. Cameron has said he would defy the decision to expel him from the umon. The other elected officers will also refuse to give up their posts. Mr. Cameron' was due to take over as secretary of the Branch on June 1, after defeating the former secretary (Mr. E. O'Connor) by 2,386 votes to 1,566. The only officials of the SA Branch who were not dismissed by the Feder al Executive were the two not elected in the ballot. They . were Messrs. O'Connor and Strachan. Mr. Wright defeated Mr. Strachan for the position of president and or ganiser by a majority of about 800 votes. After his defeat, Mr. O'Connor chal lenged the ballot in court. Following a long and costly hearing, Sir John Spicer of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, stated there was no ground for ordering a new ballot. A leaflet produced by AWU mem bers in SA said that Mr. O'Connor admitted to the court that he had privately printed no less than 1,500 official ballot papers. He then admitted sending these bal lot papers, together with stamped Re turning Officer's envelopes, to indivi dual members of the union. "Dougherty and Co. have laid no charge against O'Connor for this of fence," the leaflet said. In fact the Federal Executive has now appointed Mr. O'Connor to help run the affairs of the SA Branch. The flagrant sacking of the SA of ficials by the Federal Executive is seen by AWU members as a panic move by the Dougherty bureaucracy to remove all opposition to its anti working class policies. It is no accident that the three of ficials the Federal Executive had the affront to expel from the AWU were among the four who voted against the recent Convention decision to with draw support from Federal Parlia mentary Labor Party. The other was also a delegate from SA. & This decision to withdraw support | from the Federal ALP followed the public support some Labor MHRs \ gave to the Mt. Isa workers in their I just struggle against the Queensland i Liberal Government and a foreign J monopoly. j "Nothing that Mr. Dougherty and his clique does will cancel out the \ role that some AWU leaders played j in that dispute," AWU workers say. j The latest move by the AWU to ' intimidate the ALP into adopting poli- I cies dictated by the AWU right wing \ was to withdraw the union's delegates j from next month's Victorian State Conference of the ALP. I This boycott will affect the State j ALP president, Mr. R. Holt, who is \ a member of the AWU. ! Mr. Holt has asked the AWU Ex- j ecutive to re-consider its decision. J Dr. J. Cairns Labor MHR (Victoria) j has been attacked by the AWU Feder al Executive for his moral and finan- I cial support of the Mt. Isa workers, j Dr. Cairns said the boycotting of the | Victorian ALP conference by the AWU ! had shown the union was not going to rely on rational argument, but on pressure. , "This indicates its case is weak," he said. Victorian secretary of the AWU, Mr. H, Davis, made a frank admission when he said the actions of Dr. Cairns was not the only grievance his union had against the ALP State executive. "We do not see eye to eye with them on matters of policy," he said. 