 OPPOSITION PARTY 'BANNED I More repressions in Malaysia 1 AST week's warning by the combined Federal Opposi tion leaders in Malaya that the Malaysian Government is ,1 ' J II menacing democracy ij> worth noting by Australians, committed by Menzies to military support of that Gov ernment. As though confirming what the Opposition leaders said, the Malayan rulers, who also control Malaysia, soon afterwards banned the People's Action Party from Malaya. To add to Australians' unease, Malaysian Premier Tunku Abdul Rahman threatened military action against Singapore if it developed a" policy of friendship towards Indo nesia. All this helps to underline the query of Labor leader Senator McKenna in Parliament as to whether Australian forces are to be used in internal disputes in Asia, and his warning that we should keep out of Asians' domestic affairs. The Malaysian Solidarity Conven tion consists of the Singapore a People's Action Party and the two main parties in Sarawak, where Australian troops have been sta tioned. Malay domination Meeting at Ipoh on September 6, they declared that' there was a threat of Malay domination in Malaysia. I The leader of the main Sarawak party, the Sarawak United People's Party, denounced the Malaysian Government for "trying to intro duce political inequality to our system." The Malayan authorities retaliated 9 on September 9 by banning from Malaya the Malayan branch of the Singapore People's Action Party. In a press interview Rahman said that "Malaysia would have to fight Singapore if Singapore established friendly relations with Indonesia." Commenting on Singapore's with drawal from Malaysia, the Soviet journal New Times notes the sharp conflict between the Singapore People's Action Party and the Malaya Alliance Party. The Alliance Party, while it is a strong influence among Malaya's peasant farmers, speaks chiefly for the Malayan feudal rulers and the "comprador" bourgeoisie, says New Times. 1 Discrimination These are the social forces which are the mainstay of British im perialism in Malaysia. Hence it was this party that Britain put in power in Malaya, and later Malaysia, 1 when granting independence. 1 With this policy went discrimin- 1 ation against the three-quarter I Chinese-descended population. I "While Malaya (population €.3 1 millions) had 104 seats in the Federal Parliament and Sabah (half 1 a million people) 16, Singapore (with 1.8 million) had only 15. I The Federal Administration was staffed. 80 per cent, by Malays. The Chinese capitalists of Singa pore resented this, particularly since Singapore was contributing 40 per cent; of its revenue to the I Federal budget. | The Journal of Geneva says that i Singapore, with an annual per 1 capita income of 1300 dollars, did i not want to finance the policy of i a federation where the per capita income was 243 tiollars. "Rich and prosperous, thanks to its port and industries, the city preferred to paddle its own canoe and keep its own money." The Singapore capitalists at first tried to seize control of the Federa tion, in alliance with Malaysia's middle and petty bourgeoisie and port and plantation workers. Win control The Alliance Party saw this as a bid to win control with the support of the total Chinese-descended i population which, in Malaya and Singapore taken together, is large than the Malay. The ultra-nationalist Malay leaders put pressure on Rahman, giving him the alternative of repressing Singapore or expelling it. t Emphasising the blow to Britain s "east of Suez" policy, New Times says that British investments in Malaysia amounted to £400 millions, some of them paying 300-400 per cent, profits. British companies control 65 per cent, of the capital in Malaya's tin mines, 75 per cent, of her rubber production, nearly all the oil production in Malaysia, and 70 per cent, of Singapore's cargo turnover. . The New York Herald-Tribunes view is that "Britain must do what it can to make the new Singapore- Malaya relationship work." "Can't afford it" Some London papeis call for » I new base in Western Australia, > says New Times, "other papers say such plans are unrealistic, Britain cannot afford new ha | Even now she spends £350 m I a year on bases, and this with balance of payments overstrain 1 and confidence in the pound steaduy I ebbing." _ ..lie I The London Daily Mirror Hre | for Britain to reconsider its en | Eastern policy, as she I cannot afford a string of( Lfrom Eden to the Far East. 