 WAGES: A lesson from '65 for 1966 "T"HE National Employers' I Policy Committee has good reason to crow about so-called "historic judgments" " and other gains made during 1965 at the expense of Australian workers. The crowing was done by the chairman (Mr. Gerard) at the annual meeting of the. employers' associa tions last week (December 2) in Melbourne. 'Employers' advance' Few will disagree with the chair man when he said, "1965 will go down in the history of industrial arbitration as the year in which em ployers made an important advance towards their objective of a total wage." The "going down" in history of the Commission's judgment has already been recorded by the trade union movement as "shocking, scandalous and contemptuous." The unions asked for a modest 12/- a week increase in the basic wage to compensate wage earners for being robbed through price in creases. These prices rises the Commis sioner earlier said should not be allowed to "erode" the wage. Instead of standing to this prin ciple, the Commission decided to increase margins by 5/- to 6/- (some thing it was not asked to do) and also decided that in future the basic wage and margins would be heard together. And to top it off, profits or price increases would no longer be con sidered in fixing wages. Wages fall The employers' chairman should have blushed when he said "our success . . . was due to the high calibre of the submissions" (made by the employers' council)- "and the simple logic, contained in our pro posal." If the workers had only to rely on the "high calibre" of submis sions and "simple logic" it would be a lay-down misere. The recent ACTU Congress said that from the period 1952 to 1964 li.e. for most of the Menzies Gov ernment regime) the share of wages and salaries in the gross national product has fallen from 60.3 per cent to 55.9 per cent and gross profits have increased from 39.7 per cent to 44.1 per cent. Only when sound logic Is backed by a vigorous industrial campaign outside the court can workers ex pect any worthwhile result. ACTU claim The smallness of the ACTU claim which failed to arouse the- interest and fighting spirit of the workers was a big reason why the employers, the Menzies Government and the Commission were able to impose such a scandalous judgment. On the other hand, workers, par ticularly in the metal and building inustries, have used their industrial strength to win woge increases averaging £4 to £5 a week. The ACTU executive has now also accepted this as the only way, to break the wage freeze and to pro- tect living standards. This stand was taken by the ACTU following the rejection by the Commission to a further wage ap plication. There is also no doubt why the employers' deputations to Menzies to retain anti-union penal clauses weer successful. For years unions hav been de manding the removal of thess caluses which have been used to impose fines and costs of almost £2 million. The ACTU have also been called on to lead national protest stop pages to force their removal from the Arbitration Acts. Instead of using the strength of the trade union movement, the ACTU this year decided to meet Menzies. Menzies treated president Monk with contempt by keeping him waiting months before giving a reply to union demands. Early- next year the ACTU will be seeking increases in the basic wage and margins totalling £4/14/- a week. A national campaign is now be ing conducted for price control. The trade unions will be moving into 1966 a lot wiser and more aware of the need for their united strength in action. Gee, what a scream — this is better than all the comics!0 