 "Household savings —a big laugh" "the New South Wales Lib erals' election gimmick proposing to make it legal for housewives to keep the money they save out of housekeeping will raise a big laugh", said Mrs. Elfrida Morcom, Commun ist candidate for Collaroy, this week. , "In this period of high prices, the family unit having the hardest strug gle is that of the single breadwinner, husband, wife and young children needing their mother's care. "Does the Liberal Party really believe that a mother will be able to save anything on one wage after vital commitments such as rent and the usual biUs are met?" She could only save at the expense of food and things which her family desperately needed. "What women need is not legal title to a few pence or shillings a week, but help of a more practical nature—nursery schools, afterschool play centres, nursing aid for sick children, pre-packaged semi-cooked meals, jobs for the over-40 bracket, and in short to be treated as equal citizens. "With a family budget that makes saving impossible, it is unlikely that the Liberal Party's promise to allow women full title to mythical house keeping savings will win any votes." Mrs. Morcom also drew attention to the bad situation of Mrs. H. McLeod- Lindsay, whose husband has been sentenced to 18 years' jail in connec tion with a violent attack on Mrs. Lindsay and their son. "The plight of Mrs. Alexander Mc- Leod-Lindsay, 30, and her 3 children, aged 2, 3, and 4, who, innocent of any crime, are now condemned to live cn a pension of £8.5.0, and are threatened with eviction must trouble everyone with a social conscience," she said. "Since I returned from my visit to some of the socialist countries, friends and neighbours have asked me which I think is best, Socialism or Capital ism (Australian style). "I have answered that, under a socialist regime the people are secure when adversity strikes, the same can not be said for our System. "The case of Mrs A. McLeod-Lindsay is further proof of that. But in the meantime, we must demand State legal protection for people in such a situation." 