 YThe Realist '-new i 6 | I stones and poemsl I i "THE autumn edition of i 1 "The Realist" (2/6) I will reward any reader. The I variety and quality of the j stori s, criticism, poetry, S "and articles is right up with j any other Ijterary quarter- ly in Australia. There is j plenty of. humor in it, too. I Jack Penberthy's "A Call for... I Chicken Alley" tells of the initia- | tion of a young messenger in. a j Railway workshop, j The boy's job is to call drivers (onto shift, riding his bike to "The Shamrock" hotel, and gently awakening them. | Meggsie Shaw, a cleaner, says | of "The Shamrock," "So many j trains were driven round the bar ! the black smoke poured out the ) doors." | With the help of a' few con- I spiring barmaids the boy is more or less terrified by the trans- I formation of "Chicken" into a j cooing, dim white figure in the S darkness. j "A Romance," by Gordon | Adler of Melbourne, concerns I the cruel social prejudice against I mental illness. I A one-act play, "The Secre- j tary," by novelist Don.. Crick, is j a controlled argument, about ' - business ethics. The general | manager, successful because of I his business technique, chal- | lenges the right of his young ! secretary to want to think dif- Iferently. "A May Day to Remember," by ; Jim Hawkins, will stir memories. J In a few words the attitudes j and tough experience of thirty : years ago is brought to life. I "The Trial of Samuel Murks," j by Bill Sutton, is "the . sad tale ) of Samuel Marks, whose only ' mistake in life was to take on , a sideline." Very useful is the page "New on the Shelves," which gives a brief crit of a dozen new and important books by writers like | J. O. Killens, Sfan Heym, |« ' Dymphna Cusack and Kylie j Tennant. j A wide and interesting selec- S tion of poetry, in form and con- I tent, includes newly published j poets J. Menin (The Firestock), g John Docker (Dead Man's Isle), | and Nalder Bolton (To Justice), j Henry Kendall's poetry is | examined by Hilton Barton in g "Kendall and his 'Bell-Birds' f Joe Waters finds that "it is the j serious writer who finally suf- j fers from the censor's hammer"; j and Ray Williams sums up Jack I Beasley's book on Katherine j Sussannah Pricbard's life and j work. | Poet Victor Williams gives an j analysis of the process and tech- j nique of poetry in his article j "Content and Technique of = Poetry." It is a text that chal- I lenges mystical ideas and fantasy j about the creative process, with- g out denying the originality and j individuality of poets. I "But- What Is Symbolism?" j by Norman Talbot goes fur- j .. ther in some ways to ex- j plain the specific difference | between good and -bad writing, j Norman Talbot says "that » literature is important insofar I as it contributes something to its j readers." j And, later, making a. strong case for imaginative writing, be | says: j "From" my -own background g and experience, as well as from I other evidence, I would assert | that working people delight in j high drama, spectacle, irony, = extravagant or sly humour, | rhymes, riddles, puns, tall stories | and even extreme vulgarity." g And later "the working-class I must not be provided with | second-rate ideologically respect- j able rubbish as if they were = themselves second-rate in intein- 1 gence, receptivity or mora | CQf"11T0 " I Going on the development of "The Realist," it seems that tms j idea is on the way up in Aus j trnlift. i — d.K. I J 