 i "Why can't we become Australian citizens! SYDNEY: A Greek migrant has challenged the Menzies Government's refusal to grant him and hundreds of other migrants natural - isation and has charged it with treating them as second-class citizens. "HE Government lias ad mitted that it has refused naturalisation to 326 mi grants without reason, in cluding 140 Greeks and 60 Italians. The letter published here was sent by the migrant, Mr. Chris- tos Mourikis, to the Minister for Immigration, Mr. H. Op perman. Dear Sir, The recent Citizenship Convention in Canberra declared the need for every settler to become a citizen. I full agree with this principle. Every migrant having satisfied the residenti al qualifications should have the right to request and be granted Australian citizenship. However, what has happened to me proves that this is not the case. I am a Greek migrant, residing in Australia since 1954 being employed as a Waterside worker for the last 8 years. On three occasions I have applied for naturalization and each time I was told that my application is "NOT ONE FOR APPROVAL". Needless to say I was astonished by the fact that no further comments 'were offered as to the rejection of my application. It must be that the Immigration Department was and is in possession, of some very important information which prompted it to withhold my naturalization. And this is what I would like to know. The specific and detailed reasons. As far as I can see, during the time I have been residing in this country I have done nothing contrary to the laws of the Land. I have been employed ever since the first day of my arrival, I have been paying my taxes, and have been engaged in promoting functions lead ing to the improvement of relations between migrants and Australians. Are these the reasons for which the Department has become reluctant in granting me naturalization, or may be the fact that I am a job delegate? It is impossible for me to imagine such a thing. Therefore I repeat my ques tion: — Which are the true reasons? Reports published in the press re cently and in the past indicate that there exists a black list which includes the names of hundreds of migrants. Also it has been stated many times by responsible migrant leaders and has never been officially denied by the Government, that the latter uses the excuse of "Security Risk" to ex clude progressive migrants from nat uralization. Obviously the Government is obliged to answer the following:— © Are migrants allowed to take part in the social, economic, political and other activities of the Country? © Can they have and freely express their opinions without the fear of being labelled "Security Risks"? © Can they become members of the Trade Unions and participate in their activities? Can they follow, support and be come members of any of the legal political parties of the Country? What is legal and permissible for "Old" Australians, is it illegal and prohibited for Neyir Australians? If so, why the declarations of assimilation by the Government? © Does the Government know that assimilation begins in the factories and work places where old and new Australians work side by side? When the migrants do not feel free to participate in trade union and political activities, how can they regard Australia as a free country, how are they going to love her and consider her as their own? I appeal to the Government, and ask it to review its decision by granting me naturalization. In this way, by courageously tackl ing the cases of all migrants in a similar position to mine, the Gov ernment will gain the approval of all the migrants and the Public opinion generally, whereas, on the contrary, its persistence in refusing naturaliza tion, will strengthen the climate of mistrust, prejudice and misunder standing. Migrants will feel Australia more their own if before the law citizens are not divided into first and second class. CHRISTOS MOURIKIS, Campsie. 