 TH7L.I : " | All the time . . . uou are waitina \ by henry McCarthy s The people of Wollongong, Bulli, Corrimal, j W'oonona and other New .'South Wales south coast I towns were stunned with shock and grief latft week I after four miners were killed in a mine accident at I Bnlli I IjSJO one spoke loudly, ,not even in the pubs,,; no one smiled much, (there were no jokes trild and there was no laughter. | Yet the people 'here are no | strangers to 'tragedy— they live j with the haunting iear .of ;-a ! mine -disaster. ! .As 'the wife of a miner .put it | .on Thursday, "you ilaugh and j talk and go ;Bbout your .busi ness, but .all the time you are unconsciously 'listening and waiiting;" ! When news of .last Tuesday's I fire in .Bulli reached .the .wives j of the miners, they ran in house .'slippers, many not even think- | ing to remove 'their aprons, to 'the mine gate, just as their mothers and grandmothers bad done. The imen who died were: BOB STEWART, a young I man of '27 Who 'leaves a | wife and lour children; ! JACK MURRAY, 52, father of 3 an 11 year old daughter; I HARRY SMITH, 47, &lt;who I leaves a wife and daughter; | FRED 'HUNT, '50. | Three of 'the scorched and | .burned bodies were found by ! rescue parties 10 'hours after 'the lire. | The body &lt;of Bob Stewart 1 was .found later >witli (his head | in a ventilation shaft. | Miners bury their dead S Last Thursday, from 8.30 in I the morning until midrafternoon, | the mine workers and the | people buried their dead com- | rades in four separate cere- monies, with -sad 'demonStra- 8s 'tions of irespedt 'that are legend in -mining 'towns. ! 'Massive guards of honour 3 were formed for three of the S victims at the Wollongong I Crematorium in the afternoon, j and .about 1000 peoole marched .a (quarter of a mile from the ! Slacky Flat Showground to the funeral parlor at Bulli where the first funeral service was held at 8:30 am. ! After 'the service they marched ahead of the funeral (cortege for 5 a quarter of a mile. j 'This first cremation was held | at Woronora Crematorium. I Barry Kent, the man who made | a miraculous escape through a | wall .of flame attended the funerals of his mates yesterday. His -burned and blackened face I was grim testimony of -his race with death. j 'The pall .Of grief that -Cloaked | the coalfields last week will lift, j but &lt;the bitterness .against the searing death by fire of four j men an the Bulli .mime shaft | .will remain. j Production first saf ety second I Already this year 19 fatalities ! have occurred in the mining in- | dustry in Australia. Seven of i these ;have happened in the i N.S.W. southern .district .in 'the f last .six weeks. I This makes the mining Indus- try the third largest killer in j Australia. I A resolution from the .Miners' 1 Federation following the Bulli I tragedy says that the bigh 'I fatality .and accident rate can be | directly attributed -to the -Coal 1 Mines Regulation Act not being 1 carried -out by the -authorities S directly responsible. | The resolution says that the | Federation suspects that "pro- g duction .receives priority -over 3 .safety." 2 And to .ensure .that .another j tragic chapter is snot written into the book of disaster -already 1 over-full with the tragedies of j the Australian .mining .industry, &lt;| governments must heed the | Miners' Federation and force .the 1 super-wealthy coal owners to | put the lives of .miners before their .profits. J The southern coalfields of 1 .'N.S.-W. 'have been operating since 1 'the beginning cof the last -century j and .in that -time -have expert- | -enced some of the worst disss- 1 ters. I 'President of 'the 'Southern Dis- ! trict Miners' Federation, Mr. -W. 1 :Smart, said after the Bulli dteas- j ter last weCk: "It was very '-lucky I -only four men were involved and J mot .the whole .shift of about I 200. '"When coal dust and air are mixed and set alight it is more I 'highly explosive 'than ,gun ! powder. If this happened "hund- I reds and .not four men would be j dead." ! On the day of the funerr- g at the -Slacky Flats Showground i Mr. Smart .addressed the .mine | -workers and people. .. j "I warit each and every man S to bring his mind to .bear | directly .on the tragic .scene .and .! circumstances ,of the fire," he I said. I "Think of yourself being trap- I t ,ped at the coal face and the 1 I agony of facing inescapable ( death. J "I am certain that for the next j few weeks at 'all our mines, .safety will be uppermost in the 1 minds of all concerned. :| "But .unfortunately, our ex- I perience tells us that this will | not endure, and we will he get- | 'ting unconfirmed (reports of men ! working with damaged cables | 'and of many other incidents of | neglect :of personal safety. "So I .am .going to use the 2 words .of Bill Parkinson .(Miners' 1 Federal President) and say that j! 'every .man who leaves borne fo 2 ;go into .the mine owes it -to .him- -g self, bis wife and his family ;to !| return .home after the comple- I tion of the shift. j "He never accepts the fact I 'that it coiild happen 'to bini g 'personally — cither men, his 1 mates, can become crippled, I can :be killed on the job, but f he never sees himself in that g position. I "Unless there is ;a completely I new approach to our safety and I (safety consciousness, both as In- j dividuals arid collectively, we I (can expect that at (one or more ! of our collieries a .mass tragedy I will ocaur. ,| 