 [?] paw—— : j Rising demand for j talks in S.E. Asia J The USA is preparing for still bigger military operations against . lithe Democratic Republic of (North) Vietnam, says the Red Army Inewspaper Red Star in Moscow. ;'3 CABLING this, Tribune Mos- cow correspondent A. Watt 5lso notes that defeated US -'Republican presidential candi date Goldwater, advocate of fnuclear war in Vietnam, -has -declared 100 per cent support If or Johnson's recent bombing 'laic3s- fl In Moscow Defence Minister Mali- llovsky warned that further aggres- Ifion by the U.S.A. in North Vietnam :fwould carry with it the danger of /Starting a big war. |? The worsening of the situation i Mas added greater importance and Urgency to the past week's calls by %ie Pope, U Thant, the French Government, Indian premier Shastri |nd world-wide actions for peace by workers, women's movements, : i'and young people, for paceful nego tiation in S.E. Asia. | Pope's stand "2 For the first time since the /second world war, the Pope an nounced that he had directly inter- fyened in world politics by approach- |ig "certain statesmen" to plead Tfor a negotiated settlement in Viet nam and elsewhere. All round the world demonstra tions against U.S. aggression con tinued. Growing isolation of the Johnson Administration from all except the Goldwaterite Rightwing Republicans is shown by the U.S. press, with even the conservative ' New York Times calling for negotiations to wards the neutralisation of all south east Asia. , Collapse "imminent" "The. course of sanity is to explore the initiatives opened up by the U.N. secretary General U Thant and President de Gaulle," says the Times. "Every week the situation has grown weaker and the latest up heavals in the (South) Vietnamese military and political structure indi cate that total collapse may be "im minent." (General Klianli, South Vietnam puppet "strongman", was in power last Friday. On Saturday morning he was out. On Saturday night he was in again. On Monday morning he was out again. On Tuesday he was still out, but re ported to he coming back in again.) "Negotiate" In his strongest commentary to date U.S. publicist Walter Lippmann says "the rebels are winning the war," and stresses that the struggle in South Vietnam is a civil war. He adds that bigger attacks on North Vietnam would involve gig antic risks and y "there is not suffi cient reason to think that the northern Communists can be bomb ed into submission. "There is no tolerable alterna tive except a negotiated truce," says Lippmann. In Australia The Anglican news paper has declared editorially that "No Australian soldier has -any business whatever in South Viet nam" and accused both the U.S. and South Vietnam Government of breaking the Geneva agreements of 1954. Women in action Best action story of the week comes from Newcastle (N.S.W.) where a correspondent writes: The TV cameramen were already at Civic Park . on Friday when a group of Union of Australian women started arriving to take part in a demonstration opposing Ameri can aggression in Vietnam. The protest walk had been hur riedly organised. Handpainted slogans stood out on brown paper shopping bags — "End Vietnam War!" — "Withdraw foreign troops!" — "Vietnam settlement by negotiation!" they read. Fifteen hundred leaflets were dis tributed to busy Friday shoppers in Hunter Street. That our small group had had a big impact was our conclusion at the end of an eventful morning. Inclusion' of shots of the protest walk in the TV news in the even ing added to our sense of achieve ment. findo. peace offer Prospects of Malaysian-Indonesian peace grew when President Sukarno met Australian Ambassador Shann a week ago and once again declared that Indonesia was ready to negotiate without preconditions. Prospects appeared of mediation through Pakistan and Japan. Malaysian premier Rahman's attitude seems a degree or two less inflexible. In the British Parliament Mr. Eric Heffer, Labor MP, asked that Britain should seek means for a peaceful settlement through media tion. Howevevr the big British imperia list build-up east of Suez is continu ing and last Wednesday Australian paratroops reached Singapore ready for jungle operations against Indo nesians. These military menaces can only dim the prospects of peace in which Australia is vitally interested. On "Four Corners" on ABC tele vision Saturday night, Dr. Subandrio again made clear Indonesia's will to peace (see Page 10). THIS GRAPHIC PICTURE, received by Tribune from the In formation Department of the Independence Front of South Vietnam, shows a typical Saigon arrest of a man suspected of being actively opposed to the United States puppet regime. During the last 10 years in South Vietnam, there have been 160,000 persons killed, 680,000 disabled by police torture during detention, and 370,000 imprisoned in over 1000 jails. 