 What goes on in West New Guinea (Irian)? INDONESIA IS SHOWING AUSTRALIA THE WAY | The writer ©? this 1X2K MORTIMER, a member of j j iI-2 Central Committee ©/ Use Cimunist Pariy ©f Australia, j S . L© ;e last year he spcn&lt; a months haying conditions Indonesia, j | !sre he deals with a subject of great moment tor all Austra- j I licins— the relations o? our country with Indonesia,, especially j | as they are affected by having a common frontier — between the j | Indonesian province of V/est Irian and Australian New Guinea, j i' At one point, territories controlled by Indonesia and Austra- j Isa meet. That point, off course, is the border dividing Austra- j licim New Guinea from West Irian. ; IN view of the emotions being, stirred po in Australia) about Indo- nevi's policies ard in- ter»ionsy, If decided to loc1 into what was hap pening. in West Irian. Ur cortunateIy time did no1 permit" a visit to this Indonesian province.-. But I was able to obtain am interview with Cap tain Mohammed Yusuf Sirath, Public Relations Officer of the government! coi-ordinating of fice for West Irian, to v.sit an exhibition on Irianese develop ment, and to read up some articles by Indonesian and for eign experts who had been there. I found' nothing to confirm the periodic accusations from si e Axisiralian quarters that Indonesia is costing a covetous eye on that part of New. Guinea which we oc- cv;iy. Indonesia leaders treat this charge wii h a shrug of derision. But Indonesia could well be a challenge to Australian occupation of Papua-New Guinea in the . eco nomic and welfare field, if the I prem'-ing start it has made in West Irian is sustained.. | I After all, the border can be ! well- guarded. But it cannot be scaled oif against the peneration I of knowledge that West Irianese are being treated better than their brothers to the east. : isa 1® HI©!8© tffefSH 5@ However they may dress it up, the mining and plantation companies which guide Australian policy in New Guinea have as their main ob ject :he extraction of the greater;- poss.:" ,'e profit from the soil and Un people of the territory. New Guinea is their colony— one that has to be treated somewhat differently today from the past — tout s: :,1 a colony. In the Indonesian irrod, how ever, West Irian is an equal part - of Indonesia. Since it lags behind the development and cultural level of the rest of the country, a wide-ranging program to bring it up to the general standard is now under way. This is not to say that the people of West Irian are guaranteed free dom from exploitation. Private capi tal jATI exists in Indonesia, and i! may find its way into West Irian — defending on future political de- ; ve:ments in the country as a whe. In the field of higher education, Indonesia has already, in the 18 months it has exercised effective control of West Irian, outstripped the results of a half-century cf Australian control of Papua -New Guinea. ©The Australian Government h-vs managed Papua since 1SC6 and the whole of the Eastern New Guinea since 1914. In all that time, successive Aus tralian Governments have succeed -x! in raising the cultural standards o. the New Guinea people to the poim whc.e exactly four students from the territory are studying at Aus tralian universities. ©Indonesia has exercised control over West Irian (West New Guinea since 19G3. Yet already a university has been established at Sukarnapura, the capital of West Irian, and over JC00 students from there are un dergoing crash courses at higher educational institutions in other parts of Indonesia. Inherited Indonesia has inherited a mam moth task in West Irian from th Dutch. Holland was scarcely inter ested in this part of its East In-, dies empire while it still held the much more developed and lush islands to the west. It is indicative of their methods that, rather than encourage local industry and trade, they preferred to pay the inhabitants in Dutch canned goods and beer for copra, co balt and other raw materials they extracted from the country. Tn a total population of about 750,000, some 80 per cent, of the children and 60 per cent, of the adults suffer from malaria, with yaws and tuberculosis also common. The infant mortality rate is 40 per cent., and the aerae hfe expect ancy 25 years. No attempt 'o establish a comprehensive educ'nal sys tem. and technical stills among the population were not promoted in a,, y way. After an initial period of con solidation and stabilisation of its control, Indonesia has new begun an intensive program of" develop wait cf West Irian. Transport and communication c have hi vm priority. A system c roads is being- bmlt from the coastal towns into the interior, with the dual purpose of ending the depend ence of the towns on imported food and enabling development of the hinterland to be undertaken. Indonesia has sent to West Irian more than 3000 teachers and enough doctors to provide a skeleton medi cal service in every local area. The Commmissioner of Manek- wari (population 127,242) made this report on education during the first year of Indonesian administration, up to May, 1964: EDUCATION: Sixty new schools have been established, representing a 40 per cent, expansion of the educational facilities existing prior to 19G3. They comprise 49 primary schools, four secondary schools, and vocation al schools in agriculture, engineering and home economics. , Obviously, all this is only the barest beginning. Indonesian offi cials do not underestimate the time it will take to bring West Irian up to the level of the rest of the countrj'. Bvt their aim is nothing less. Can Australia say the same In_ , New Guinea? . A West Irianese being trained in modern industrial skills 