 Second to none in union-smashi ng deal CANBERRA: The Democratic ''Labor" Party proved its anti-Labor nature once and for all by vot ing and speaking solidly with the Liberals on the union-smashing Stevedoring Industry Bill, in Parlia ment last week. a OMISSION off the Bill's aims came early in the Senate debate when the main Government spokesman, Sen ator Wright, said: "The great body of members of the Waterside Workers' Federation may rejoice in the opportunity to join a decent union when this miserable Federation has been destroyed." The two DLP Senators, Gair and McManUS, guaranteed m advance that the Government would he allowed its Bill when they pledged their votes for it. . Had they voted with the indepen dent Senator Turnbull, or one ALP, it would have needed only one LiberallCP defector who could have blocked the Bill, — Their speeches in the debate were among the most vicious, being aimed at workers who would never accept openly Liberal anti-union propaganda but might listen to someone claim ing to be "Labor." Senator Gair, the leader of the party of two, used all the stock Liberal party arguments against Strikes. An interjection by Senator Ormonde, Labor, N.S.W., forced Gair into the position of frankly condemning all strikes. He had once teen on strike, he admitted, but all he remembered was that he lost a week's pay. "We had to go back to work and go to court as we should have done in the first place," he said. Senator McManus admitted the big gains the waterside workers had won with their present union, with its united leadership. "Everybody knows that a channel of communication existed from Jim Healy to Albert Monk, to the secre- tary of the -Department of Labor and National Service and to the Minister," said McManus. (The - late Jim Healy was for many years general secretary of the WWF). "They have been in consultation continually over the past 15 Or 20 years and out of that consultation the WWF has obtained some pretty substantial advantages. "The waterside workers already get attendance money, sick pay, long service leave and holiday pay, all. of which normally are available only JJLI a uuii'uaduai uiuuhiiy. iiicjf uavc only to get a pension and they will have everything that members of a non-casual union have, and they will still be paid casual rates. "There is not one union in Aust ralia that will be in as good a position." In his enthusiasm, Senator McManus challenged the Senate to name another union which had achieved such results for casual workers. Had McManus been speaking as a worker, or for the workers, he might have been logically expected to conclude by calling for a stronger defence of the union. Treacherous record But he spoke for the shipowners who see the watersiders' gains under united leadership as the main reason for destroying that leadership and the union itself. This isn't the first service the DLP senators have rendered the Liberals and the Menzies' Government. As Queensland Premier Gair he- came notorious for his collaboration with monopoly interests and his smashing of the Labor Government in 1957. . Rather than carry out progressive ALP policies, Gair formed the anti- Labor "Queensland Labor Party," taking with him, into it 25 of the 49 Queensland Labor MLA's. All of them have since lost their seats and Liberal-Country Party governments have ruled Queensland ever since. 