 Our far North— "poor dried up land, fit only for a college of monks" By W. MOUNTJOY QR, B, R. DAVIDSON is a distinguished Australian agricultural scientist With an international reputation for ' his research into land use in Great Britain and Africa. His book "The Northern Myth" has created a lively and, at times, ah acrimonious controversy. He is at present Research Fellow in Agricultural Economics at the University of Western Australia. In this book Dr. Davidson has produced an important, informative and disturbing study of agricultural and pastoral development in tropic al Australia, the area lying north of the Tropic of Capricorn. He writes that thoughts on North ern Australia are dominated by six motives "which can be stated in descending order of importance " 1. Unless the north Is occupied by Australians it will be occupied by our neighbors in southern and east ern Asia who have insufficient agri cultural land. 2. It is essential to hav.e a large population in the north to defend the area 3. Valuable resources in the form . of land, water and , minerals which are close to large markets in Asia are being wasted. 4. Agricultural development is es sential in northern Austria to sup ply the under-nourished " regions of the world, particularly Asia, with food. 5. Tropical crops could be produc ed as part of an important saving campaign to preserve our balance of payments. -6 , 6. The north must be developed to raise the standard of living of the Aborigines. "The Northern Myth" examines these propositions and, their rejec tion and/or qualification. Asian nations knew .of Australia s existence many centuries before Dutch, French and English naviga tors mapped its shores. The Chinese specially knew of and utilised its resources of trepang (beche-de-mer). Dr. Davidson suggest thai the Chinese saw the Australian north as explorers Dampier and Matthew Flinders did subsequently. Flinders described it « as a "poor dried up land, afflicted by fever and flies, fit only for a college of monks." In 1876 Japan was offered the Northern Territory for settlement but refused the offer, as a gift. On the question of defence, Dr. Davidson rejects the conception ol an aggressive Asia threatening Aus tralia and also that Asian nations do not have sufficient land for their own use. Arable land in Asian use totals 778 million acres; in Australia . 223 mil lion acres. Unused, but potentially arable land in Asia totals 307.9 mil lion acres. In Australia 70.9 million acres. In China alone there are available 100 million acres for irrigation which had not been used up to 1957. It is doubtful if actual and potential ir rigation land in Australia exceeds 4-5 million acres. When we look at available water resources for Central and south east Asia and Australia the contrast is startling. Australia has an annual run-ofl for all rivers of 280 million aicre- feet. The Mekong alone has a run-ofl of 400 million acre feet and then there are, to quote a few, the Ir- rawaddy 310, the Ganges 620, the Yangtze 820 million acre feet. Dr. Davidson comments: "Two illusions that Australians should rid themselves of concerning the north of Australia are that it is more attractive to Asian nations than other parts of Asia or south ern Australia. The first illusion stems from the mistaken notion that northern Aus tralia is the only sparsely settled region , close to southern and central Asia. This is far from the truth. Large areas of China, Thailand, Burma, Indo-China, Sumatra and Borneo are at present sparsely settled and are capable of being developed for agriculture. The shortage of food in Asia is by far more a question of lack of capital, education and technology than one of land shortage." This statement needs to be taken to heart by Returned Servicemen's League leaders, Dr. F. Knopfel- macher and others who intone about the alleged teeming, hungry millions of Asians waiting to pounce on a . fertile and flourishing Australia. Dr. Davidson claims, with support ing figures, that agricultural deve lopment in northern Australia is im possible without heavy subsidisation; further, that anything that can be grown north of Capricorn, with the exception of sugar, can be grown . better and cheaper in our temperate latitudes. This applies to rice, cot ton, safflower, linseed, peanuts, tob acco and sorghum. Rice growing as well as safflower has so far been a failure. Cotton is being grown successfully due to the very dry harvesting period. But even 1 here it can be shown that in the . Narrabri and Wee Waa areas in New South Wales . better quality and 'cheaper cotton, can be produced than on the Ord in. the West Kimber- leys. The limiting factor in northern : 0riculture has been that all the crops mentioned, with the exception I of peanuts, are nitrogen extractors and until a break-through is made with a suitable tropical lejgume for use in balanced pastures, then plant nitrogen requirements have to be met by the use of sulphate of am monia, nitrate of soda or urea. As the first and third are produc- : ed by giant monopoly concerns such , as the I.C.I.A.N.Z., they will not be made available at a reasonable rate to any Australian farmer, let alone those who might like to develop our north. To add to the difficulties in deve loping northern agriculture there are prohibitive transport costs. Comparative prices for Perth and Kununurra (the location of the Ord cotton farms) for urea, sulphate of ammonia, superphosphate per ton are as follows: £45, £29 and £12 for Perth and £61, £45 and £29 for Kun unurra. Dr. Davidson points out that prox imity to Asian markets for northern agricutural products, does not mean that freight will be lower than that to Europe. He comments: "Overseas freights are decided by associations of shipping companies and the; freight charged is what the association considers the product will bear." Dr. Davidson then produces a number of tables showing freight rates to London, Sydney, Fremantle, Hong Kong and Singapore to prove his contention. Other difficulties facing agricul ture in the Ord are those in con nection with insect pests and plant diseases spread by insects. These are worse than those encountered in temperate areas due to high temper atures accompanied by maximum humidity: The cost of insecticide alone to spray 1,000 acres of cotton is given as £10,000 with a. further £4,000 for aerial spraying. Insecticides are produced by powerful monopoly groups which, like the shipping com panies, charge all the traffic can bear. Of the claim that rice might be grown for export to Asian countries, he says that nearly all the countries concerned are exporters of rice. China in particular finds it good business to export rice and import wheat, the much cheaper grain. A future is seen for peanut grow ing as this plant, a legume, produces its nitrogen requirements and can be continuously cropped, without diminution of yield. Agricultural industries in Australia ' which operate without subsidy are cattle raising, wool growing and vegetable production. Wheat is only partially subsidised. The cattle industry is one which is successful and can be improved, but 1 1 as far as production in the Northern I : Territory is' concerned it should bel i stores rather than fat cattle, heftj says. 1 1 fee This is despite successes in fatten- ' ing of cattle on bulrush millet and! it appears that a break-through is If! being made with the new legume, Townsville lucerne. | Dr. Davidson may be correct, || from some points of view but for g reasons of all-round development as |'. much of the north as possible should be developed. | jj That subsidisation is necessary is | ; not bad in itself and, as Dr. David- 1 1 son indicates, we would not have®' sugar, rice, cotton, dairy and tob-pj' acco industries, without home sup-p port prices. pj What his work does indicate iSp . that northern development is injpj! hibited by the grasping hands oi|gj the shipping, chemical and fertilis-p| ation monopolies. M And, one could add, by the gen-S eral shilly-shallying of the MenziesM ic hcidd' northern development as a political football to he kicked around as expediency® dictates. si The Northern Myth, by Dr. pj B. R. Davidson, £3/3/-; Angus &|| Robertson. ||| 