 CRITICISM, ACTIVITY RISING ITHE rising Australian public I criticism of the war policy was shown in the last week by: © SYDNEY: Last Wednesday an flVOvfl/-,.. - i _ . ITu . meeting oi xdu or more m we Guildford School of Arts enthu siastically supported Messrs. J. F. cairns and A. W. James, Labor MHR's fh L- J- Ferguson, Labor MLA, in IvaT condemnation of the Vietnam © MELBOURNE: Last week Rev. James Lawson, visiting Negro UjS ergyman, just back from Vietnam, cliessed a capacity audience in spacious Nicholson Hall last week. S ,ualled for negotiations with the Front Vietnam National Liberation &lt;W C'BI2RRA: Hundreds of sta tu- LS> clasered anti-war speakers at (stnr atl0nal University's Teach-in istory, page 2). traUanRpSBAN®:: A cal1 t0 the Aus" furthpr unci1 of Trade Unions for troon/ f Terlopment of the "No made hvL am" camPaign was Council nSlaad Trad6S "H" Coming meetings and demonstra tions where all people can show what they think of the war include: — Friday, July 30, 8 p.m.: Public forum on Vietnam in the Dispensary Hall, Eustace Street, Manly, organ ised by the area peace committee. Speakers: Mr. John Mackay Sim, Miss Helen Palmer and Mr. David Rees. Friday, July 30, 8 p.m.: Public meeting in Punchbowl Masonic Hall, Albert Street, organised by the area peace committee: Speakers: Professor J. Phillips, Mr. W. M. Rigby and Mrs. P. Ashcroft. Friday, August 6: The Fellowship of Reconciliation's 19th annual Hiro shima Day service will be held in Wesley Chapel, 139 Castlereagh Street, city, at 7 p.m. It will be conducted by Rev. H. E. Rowland and the address will be given by Rev. Peter Saphin, chaplain at the University of NSW. Friday, August 13, 8 p.m.: "Don't let Vietnam become another Hiro shima" — panel discussion in Parra- matta Town Hall, organised by area peace committee. Leading speakers will take part in. a Vietnam "Teach-in" being conducted by the Sydney University Department of Adult Education over Sydney's Channel 7 next Saturday, July 31, from 9 to 11.30 a.m. They include ) Professors Wheelwright and May, Dr. J. F. Cairns, MHR, Rev. Alan Walker, B. A. Santamaria and O. Harries. Those wishing to join the audience should telephone Mr. Davies at MW 0522, extension 2588. Sunday afternoon next, August 1: In the State Theatre, Market Street, Sydney, from 3 to 4.30 p.m., Bishop Moyes and Revs. Alan Walker and E. Gwyn Miller (of Scots Church) will, conduct a "preach-in" on "The Church and Politicians." Each will make a statement and audience ques tions will be invited. MARCHES In Sydney a march will leave Hyde Park at 2.30 p.m. on August 8 (Sunday) for the Trocadero, George Street, where there will he a meeting addressed by Miss Myra Roper; Prof. E. L. Wheelwright and Rev. R. W. Cowper. 