 ! Serious armed threat I [?] 9 By Tribune's Foreign Editor I Daily press reports indicate that Indonesian right-wing f military leaders are attempting to carry through the planned coup against the national government which was exposed in u »he "September 30 Movement" broadcast by Colonel Untung. I -THEIR organised raids against 1 ® the national trade union movement (SOBSI), the. largest political party (the Commun ist Party or PKI), and mass youth and women's organisa tions reveal that the leaders are following a path hostile to the Indonesian people and their national revolution. Openly, pro-American forces are said to be taking a leading part in the offensive against Indonesian democrats, many ox whom have been jirrfistsdi I Australian daily newspapers have, I by their sensational picture-story I treatment of certain organised mob I actions in the city of Djakarta, and | their lengthy quoting of unconfirmed 9 pro-militarist reports from Malaysia fig radio, made clear their support of m the militarists. if More significant than these claims \i are the fellowing facts:— J On October 6, President Soe- 1 karno held a full Cabinet meeting on || the crisis, made no reference what ever to any suggestions of Communist involvement in the September 30 action, and renewed his earlier call for national unity and an end to revenge-seeking. ' O The same day, the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the PKI distributed a statement to the press— its only official comment so far reported in. connection with the crisis. Cabled to Tribune by Rupert' Lock- wood from Moscow, the statement said: — "Having studied the appeal by the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Indonesian Re public, by the leader of the Indo nesian revolution, President Soekarno, the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Indonesia declares its full support for the appeal and appeals to all party committees, all party members and sympathisers, as well as to all revolutionary mass organisations led by PKI members to facilitate the carrying out of this appeal. "NOT IN IT" "As for the 'September 30 move ment/ the Central Committee of the PKI considers it an internal affair of the ground forces, and the PKI has nothing to do with it. Resulting from investigations among those PKI members who were included in the list of 'the Revolu tionary Council of Indonesia' it he- came clear that nobody had approach ed them and nobody had received their consent to include them in the list. "The Central Committee of the PKI appeals to the whole people ot increase vigilance, to strengthen the national unity front (the main and driving force of which is Nasakom) in order to bring to reality the five . principles of the revolution, to give life to the 'Dvicora' to frustrate the joint Anglo-American project of Malaysia as well as to intensify the struggle against neo-colonialism in general." 