 [?] [?] BRISBANE: Least week's order by Industrial Commissioeier Toy" |@r for re-esnpiaymiesit by Mt. Isa Mines of 45 .Australian Work ers' Unl@n nra©n was a greet victory for treadle unionists end the leadership .of the Queensland Trades & Labor Councils and was a heavy blow to Mt. Ism Mines and the AWU rightwing officialdom. THE 45 men involved in the ' case include a number who have been prominent in the Committee for Membership Control in Mt. Isa. In his judgment, Commissioner Taylor said that it seemed that Mt. Isa Mines would have him believe that the rejection of applications by form er employees who had incurred the displeasure of AWU officials was nothing more than mere coincidence. That, in his opinion, was "beyond the bounds of possibility and quite incredible." Commissioner Taylor ordered Mt. Isa Mines to re-employ the men if they notified it personally, or by let ter, before August 20 that they desired to be re-employed. He said they were to be re-employed within seven days from the. date of notification or, in the event of an ap peal, within 14 days of determination of the appeal. The Commissioner's decision was followed by a statement that Mt. Isa Mines would appeal. The Financial Review on Friday, in a comment on the judgment, said: "It also means loss of prestige for the AWU as an outside organisation. "The Queensland Trades & Labor Council took up the cudgels of AWU members and through an industrial tribunal obtained a judgment for their reinstatement, when the AWU did not attempt to take any action on its members' behalf." The financial editor of the Syd ney Morning Herald commented: "The AWU establishment is indeed in a spot." Williams' threof The Commissioner's decision was followed by a statement by the AWU Federal president and Queensland State secretary (Mr. E. Williams), in which he is reported as saying:— "If these allegations of collusion are made about me or any other official of the AWU outside the Commission, we will sue for defamation. "If the Commissioner says this out side his jurisdiction I will sue him, too. "I have no doubt the Industrial Commissioner came to a decision on the material before him. But no of ficial of the AWU was asked to give evidence or comment on this sug gestion of collusion. "No official of the AWU discussed affairs with Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. out side the conference room." Aftermath of dispute The 45 men involved, all of whom had been employed by Mt. Isa Mines, had their applications rejected by the company when they sought their jobs back following the bitter 1964-65 Mt. Isa Mines dispute. The hearing of evidence in the case took place at Mt. Isa in June-July. The addresses by counsel were given in Brisbane on July 29, and Commission er Taylor's decision was given in Bris bane on Thursday last week. Counsel for the unionists was Mr. D. G. Sturgess (instructed by O'Sul- livan, Currie & Co.). Mr. P. D. Con nolly QC, with Mr. A. K. McCracken (instructed by Feez, Ruthning & Co.), appeared for the company. [?] Commissioner Taylor's judgment, dealing specifically with the case of one of the 45 men (Mr. S. Constantin- ides), and after referring to evidence by Mt. Isa Mines' general manager (Mr. Foots), said: — "The evidence indicated that all the management had before it when decid ing the application was the application itself and a record of the applicant's previous service with the company. "How can it he suggested that, on that material alone, some' reason was found for rejecting the application by Mr. Constantinides while, at the same time, the applications of many others in precisely the same position were approved? "I cannot believe that a company of the stature of Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. selects its labor force in any such capricious or haphazard manner." AWU members ami officials; Commissioner Taylor wen on to say: — "For the applicants, it was submit ted that there was a discernible pat tern running through the whole of the applications and that the real posi tion was not that these 45 men were unacceptable to the company, but that they had, in one way or another, dur ing the weeks of industrial turmoil, incurred the displeasure of officials of their union and it was at the behest of the Australian Workers' Union that their applications for reinstatement were refused. There was evidence from which it could be reasonably inferred that this was more probably so than not . . ." Commissioner Taylor said that "a umber of witnesses gave evidence of navmg clashed with officials of the mon but perhaps the most cogent violence relates to four men who left w a .to work in New Zealand." an r ai( that these four successfully ppiied, in response to an advertise ment, for work in NZ, but in NZ, he oulCt— f 0winS. they state, to the in- i«, of an official of the New to.ro a Workers' Union, their services tW terircnnated after less than three J they were flown back to pense aain at their employer's ex- "Before leaving New Zealand, they were interviewed by the press and had some harsh things to say with regard to officials of the Australian Workers' Union, whom they blamed for their dismissal." Quaafes fram "Warker' Commissioner Taylor quoted the Worker newspaper (AWU journal) as having said (in relation to what it called "the alleged 46 men who have been refused employment at Mt. Isa"):— "The 46 'faceless' men are amongst those who defied their union, who initially tried to break away from their union, and who, afterwards, be came members of a scab, bogus or ganisation known as the CMG which is being fostered, nurtured and direct ed by the worst element of the Bris bane Trades & Labor Council and the Communists." After having quoted this, Commis sioner Taylor said: — "Such blatant propaganda only serves to illustrate that the union is not merely disinterested as to whether these applicants, its members, secure their jobs back, but is violently op posed to their doing so. "There is obviously complete agree ment, down to the last man, between the company and 'the union as to the merits of the application." Mr. Taylor said also: — "None of the applicants, so far as the evidence disclosed, have been charged with any breach of union rules, and so have not been accorded the elementary right of being heard in their own defence." Commissioner Taylor 'went on to say:— "Let it be assumed however, that, despite all the probabilities, the com pany did in fact arrive at its decision not to re-employ these men without re ference to the wishes of officials of the union . . . "While I do not seek to excuse the actions of these 45 men, I am con cerned in endeavoring to ensure that, in this jurisdiction as elsewhere, per sons equally culpable should be dealt with in a substantially similar man ner. "It is beyond dispute that other employees of the company, members of other unions, took a much more | prominent part than did many of the 4 present applicants in prolonging the struggle. Yet, without exception, they were reinstated on making applica tion." In an important passage of his judgment, Commissioner Taylor said: "Concerning myself solely with what I consider to be the substantial merits of the application, I have come to the conclusion that these former employ ees of the company have been, refused reinstatement either at the instigation of officials of the Australian Workers' Union or for some other reason which the company has seen fit not to dis close. "If the former is the real reason— and I am of opinion that it is— and the present applicants have been re fused employment only at the request of officials of the union, then that fact alone would, in my estimation, he sufficient to warrant the granting of the application. "If the position is otherwise, t'.e company appears to me, on the whole of the evidence, to have discriminated against the applicants without, so far as was disclosed, just cause." 