 — — — — — — — i ii in . in i— — « m i i i nw.. i. - — i I.I. I, . — — ancanepaegeaw Contradiction in A.L.P. foreign policy By a Special Correspondent "THE Labor Party's foreign policy statements last week advanced some import ant positive proposals in the interests of peace, but these were seriously weakened by the continued basic adherence to the American imperialist position in South-East Asia. There was the clear call, in relation to both centres of war danger in South-East Asia (Vietnam and Malaysia), for positive action to resolve problems by negotiation and not by war. This was a significant develop ment following the wild daily press campaign supporting the ex treme right-wing call for some kind of ALP-DLP merger. The essence of the foreign policy of the extreme right forces in Aus tralia, including the Menzies Gov ernment, the Santamaria groupers and extermists in the ALP, is reli- ance on military force to prevent the ' flourishing of independence and democracy in S.E. Asia. T-hey are steadfastly turning deaf ears to the repeated proposals of the Socialist and other coun tries for a return to the Geneva agreements to resolve the Viet nam war crisis, and of Indonesia for peaceful talks over the Malay sia dispute. But the ALP statement sharply condemns this "force only" line, and for the first time specifically advocates peace initiatives over Vietnam. Noting the many authoriative calls internationally for new efforts to "halt the drift to war over Viet nam," the statement says: "Australia should be supporting these efforts with all its might." It then condemns the Menzies Government for doing exactly the opposite — "applauding military measures, encouraging further mili tary measures and persisting in the impossible' attitude that Vietnam poses purely a military problem which can be solved by military victory alone." "The moment is propitious to use every endeavour to bring about a cease-fire now," it says. "The possibilities otherwise, with retaliation and counter-retaliation becoming progressively more mas sive and involving even more coun tries, are incalculable for the whole human race". The statement on Malaysia-Indo nesia similarly lays firm emphasis on the urgency of pressing "an offer to negotiate a friendship, trade and non-aggression pact- with Indo nesia at the earliest appropriate time." It reaffirms the earlier proposal for specific guarantees of Indo nesian security and independence. Concerning South Vietnam, how ever, the statement also goes fur ther by sharply demanding with drawal of "Western support" from "the forces of reaction, militarism and, tyranny in that country." It states flatly that the South Vietnam people have no reason to support the regime which the United States and Australian armed forces are propping up (des pite innumerable coups and changes of puppet leadership). These statements can only signify a serious criticism of Washington- Canberra policy on South Vietnam. It is therefore all the more unac ceptable to read in the same ALP statement elaborate phrases, not only reaffirming the "crucial im portance of co-operation between Australia and America in these areas", but endorsing and even offering "sympathetic understand ing to the unprovoked, aggressive U.S. air raids on North Vietnamese populations. The people of Vietnam and all S.E. Asia, and most people in Aus tralia, will find it hard indeed to offer such "sympathetic under standing". The insistence of the ALP leader ship on pandering to U.S. militarism in this way must be getting very hard for most, people to swallow when such voices as those of the Pope, U Thant, and French and Cana dian government leaders are firmly calling for peace and AVOIDING justification and support of the U.S. raids. Such a deep contradiction in ALP policy can only confuse and weaken the effect of the valuable positive proposals already referred to, and must be seen as a dangerous conces sion to the extreme right-wing forces who are at this moment re newing attempts to shackle the ALP and trade union movement to out-and-out aggressive war policies led by the United States, main author of the war danger. Despite the negative sides of the ALP policy statement, it can be come a valuable basis for united action throughout the labor move ment to put an end to the present dangerous Menzies policies of armed intervention against Asian peoples. 