 enlists for dfoikSrsea pr®fprfittt USA will fail to exterminate the Vietnamese people US militarists have moved over to - a policy of total ex termination of an Asian peo pie in Vietnam. X . That is the main .significance of renorts appearing -n the fnain Aus- . tral' an D -.flies of American a'roc- it'es in the Vietnamese village of Chan Son, near Da Nang, in South Vietnam. The marine atrocities were admit ted even by the Sydney DaPy Tele graph, a paper which wholeheart edly supports the American- and Menzies Government policies in Vietnam It will be surprising ff Menz'es is not challenged by the Labor Op- pofs?t'on as to Australian support for US practices when Parliament meets on August 17. "Kill them all" Menzies has described the US' activities in Vietnam as "ore of the grea test-ever manifestations of justice and principle." But the only "principle" guiding the Marines at Chan Son was that expressed by a-n officer, quoted in the Sydney Daily Mirror, who shouted, as the Marines moved in to attack the village: "Kill them all. I don't want anybody moving." The report, sent by Associated Press Reporter John Wheeler and appearing in a late edlticn of tbe Sydney Daily Mirror on August 3, said, in part, under Saigon date line: "American marines, enraged by Vie,tcong snipers, killed and wound ed -women and children when they overran a villiage." "The attack occurred on M nrl'ay when the Marines crashed through the South Vietam village of Chan Son which had been taken over by the guerillas." . "One Marine threw a grenade into a bunker used by the villagers as an air raid shelter." Human shield "Moments later the shattered bodies of two children were pulled from the bunker and thrown on the ground like sacks of grain." "Houses were set on fire and sev eral villagers hiding inside were badly burned. Another marine pushed a little boy in front of him as a shield when he entered a tun nel where he suspected gurlllas might be hiding." ".4s American and south Vietnam ese troops moved in to the attack, one marine officer shouted: 'Kill them. I don't want anybody mov ing.' "Some marines showed little in clination to differentiate between Communist troops and civilians. "At the end of the villiage a woman lay gasping as blood pour ed from a wound in her side. "Around her clustered a group of terrified children, wailing and staring in fear at the marines. One child had an arm wound. "Not all the marines- approved the brutal actions of a few." Whether all the marines approv ed is beside the point. Obviously their officers not only approved of the brutal actions, but ordered them. And here, for the record, is the account (by other correspondents with the Marines)) of the same en gagement from the Daily Telegraph which published it on August 4 without expressing any regrets or giving any indication of a change in its editorial policy of support for everything the US is doing: "We moved into the vfillage, and a little boy brought out his s.-ster to solemnly display her arm. She was no more than four. Her arm had been shot through "I got me a VC man — I got at least two of them bastards' was or.e marines' exultant cry after a 10-second' burst of automatic wea pons fire and the dull crump of a grenade exploding underground. . . "The Marines ordered a Vietnam ese corporal to go down into the grenade-blasted hole to pull out their victims. The victims were three children between 11 and 14 — two boys and a girl." ONLY a few minutes to live! This young South Vietnam ese lad being "comforted" by a Roman Catholic priest vas executed a few moments Izfrer for suspected terrorist activities in Saigon. NGUYEN HUU THO is leader of the South Vietnam Liber ation Front. SIR R. G. MENZIES . . . "this is our battle". 