 While Governments stall . . . Workers serve notice for wage fights CANBERRA: Menzies' Liberal Government's excuses as to why the States may not get a bigger slice of Commonwealth taxation money did not in anv way quiten the rising anger of thousands of New South Wales industrial and white collar State employees who have long been seeking wage in creases. And NSW Labor Premier Renshaw's words of sympathy for the Federal Liberals' difficulties could only have the effect of deepening the rightful impatience of these workers with the State Government's long record of stalling their claims. rpHE Federal Treasurer Mr. Holt, L tola, last week's meeting of State Premiers that the Government's in creases in defence expenditure would interfere with the States receiving a bigger slice of Commonwealth taxa- tiTJnder the present formula increased grants are made to the States accord ing to rises in population and average wages. This would mdan an additional £30 million or so for the 1965-66 . period.. The NSW Premier Mr. Renshaw was 1 supported by other Premiers when 1 he sought an extra £15 million a year I grant to the States. I Mr. Renshaw was also supported j when he sought increased grants to I improve State services. He asked that this "betterment fac tor" be increased to an equivalent of three per cent of the total tax grant each year. This would mean an ad ditional £12 million. Although Mr. Renshaw can be com mended for these moves, the slice asked for is still too little. Even if all the proposals are grant ed it will only give an additional £27 million to be shared up between six States. No wonder Prime Minister Menzies said he had "never known a better meeting". j 'Urgent problems 1 Problems in crying need of solution Include education, transport, housing, health and the wage demands of State Government workers. These long overdue problems can further pigeon-holed because of the oaoitional money the Liberal Govern- Went is spending on its aggressive and I r$?,erous Policies in South East Asia. I T the same story the Govern- S S2? faYe in opposing trade unions' I week iC Wage Claim of 10/ a J/urer Holt also told the Prem- ausp nf fi, C1ilties musfc arise be" f'w restraints on capital out- Bod Britain. States lem-aUl tht people's Pressing prob- ems, can be pushed into the back- I ground because the Menzies Govern ment has sold big sectors of the Aus tralian economy over the years to foreign monopolies. Premier Renshaw could have gained the popular support of Australian workers had he taken a fighting stand on these matters at last week's con ference. Instead the Premier said his Gov ernment "understood" the problems facing the Commonwealth, particular ly in regard to spending on defence and the adverse balance of payments. Pubis c servanH The Premier has also been left in no doubt about the problems NSW Government transport workers (story at right) and public servants are hav ing with the cost of living. These workers are rightly becoming hostile that their wage demands are being fobbed off by the State Govern ment. The failure of the NSW Government to carry the fight to Canberra has also left the door open for anti-work ing class forces to cash in on the legitimate frustrations of the Govern ment employees. Last week's meeting of 1,000 public servants in Sydney was a good ex ample of this. This meeting of members of the ad ministration and clerical division of the Public Service Association of NSW were reported to have threat ened to withdraw their traditional support from the Labor Party unless their wage demands were met. A meeting of the Association's ex ecutive the following night decided to advise members that the association is "not political, does not advise its members how to vote in State elec tions, nor is it its policy to secure the making or breaking of Govern ments." Whilst it is beyond doubt that Lib eral and DLP forces were closely in volved in the earlier "protest" meet ing, the Labor Government, if it is returned to office, is going to have to face the fact that workers are at the end of their patience on long- overdue wage claims. 