 THE FABULOUS AME RICAN — A Benj Franklin Almanac | 7/6 (8/5 posted). gENJAMIN FRANKLIN was a fabul ous American: A leader iri , uis .. country's revolutionary war, o> o - ' signer of the Declaration of (n- dependence, diplomat who w;>n prestige for the United Stares in the courts of Europe; printer, sci entist, writer, philosopher, inver" !f humourist . . . citizen whose last public act was to sign a memoral to Congress for the abolition of slavery ... a lover of peopxe and places, of good wine and go» >d food . . . This book is a collec tion of his writings which show the man as he was. JAMES FENIMORE jj COOPER Short stories from his novels, 7/6 (8/5 posted) QUT from some of the author's novels by Sidney Finkelstein, these are tales filled with an array of characters to beguile the reader, for they are of the men and wom en who made the early days of the young United States a time of ac tion, of daring and romance! This is an unusual hook, for it was made possible by "a delicate sur gical process of cutting away con nective tissue and other extrane ous matter" from tales which lay embedded in a number of Feni- more Cooper's long-winded, tract- burdened and overly-written novels ... BO YOU KNOW? By M. Hyin and E. Segal, 6/- (7/5 posted) SPLENDID book for children II , years and upwards. Strongly bound it will take any amount of handling— and that's just what it will receive. The book tells the story of how a pencil is produced, how paper is produced and how a penknife, shirt, saw, hammer and a pair of s'oes come into being. As the book says, "you would prob ably be surprised if you were told that your note-book grew up in a forest and your shirt in a field, that your rubber boots are made of sawdust and your but tons of cottage cheese, that a delicate tea-cup and a clumsy 1 great brick are close relations, that a small hailstone can tell us which wind is blowing, that a toy tumbler can explain why ships don't keel over." | COME EAST, YOUNG I MAN ! By Wilfred Burchett, 7/6 (8/8 posted) TF your curiosity has yet to be satis fied regarding the Soviet Union; if you would really like to know why the Soviet claims that in twenty years it will have bettered American production, then this is the book for you to read. From Samarkand, and Tashkent to the deserts of Uzbekistan, from the Virgin Lands to Siberia and the Arctic snows it is full of fascin ation. This is the story of the many lands and the many peoples who are building a way of life in the Soviet Union. i Available from NEW WORLD BOOKSELLERS ' 425 Pill Street, SYDNEY. 