 i Mm © « is Swimmers thumbed ! noses at restraint iand discipline The bans placed on four Austration girl swimmers created widespread interest and I looked forward eagerly fo_ Tribune's rnmments and views. |N my opinion the Tribune 1 editorial (3/3/6S) was > nothing but a weak echo of : what has been said and re- i peated for the. past two weeks by both Brisbane dailies and, ' I understand, most of the capitalist press in Australia. It seems to me that as Commun- 1 isLs 0ur greatest contribution to the debate on the Questions laised by the swimming ban would be to point to the causes that lead some , 0f our top sportsmen and women to thumb their noses at restraint and discipline. Our job is to analyse the influ ences and pressures of ah indi vidualistic society and to contrast this with the life of sportsmen and women in socialist societies and 1 their behaviour when overseas, f However that Is matter for a lengthy article. In this letter I want to deal with or' ' Tribune's attack on the A.S.U. The following "gem" comes from the editorial: — "These sentences— are grossly inhuman acts against young people whose life, physical and mental, is deeply bound up with the self-sacrificing and patri otic career of championship swim ming." The obvious comment is: ,-Aw, come orf it, mate, yer bungin' it on a bit arncha?" ' From my experience of sport most j of the self-sacrificing is done by j the many honorary officials who give their fcne and energy to the ; often thankless task of organising and running the various sports. It is their efforts that provide ! the equipment and training for the development of our champions s against a background of complete I apathy by governments and press | as Tribune itself has often pointed | out. in the past. 1 That, their task is indeed thank- | less can be seen by the fact that | even Tribune now refers to them ; contempt, ously as "bumbling sports ; officialdom."' i The editorial then says that the ''d.sciplinary" measures ' ave been ; tahctvj by officials whose own f: '.1- j urts of leadership have already been ! under press criticism. Surely it is . out of- character for ? Tiibune to place such store by : capitalist press -criticism, j 11 further says that these officials ure apparently exempt 'from even the mildest investigation or rebuke. This just does not square with the facts. The Premiers of both N.S.W. and Victoria have thunder ed loud threats at the A.S.U. and the attack on the A.S.U. by most t the capitalist press has been of a concentrated viciousness usually reserved for the Communist. Party or. of recent weeks the Mt Isa strikers. could hardly call it an ex emption from rebuke. Tribune is disturbed that the a girls appear to have no easy chan- 1 tte of appeal and question the 1 democratic control of swimming in I Australia. f there is not enough democ- acy in the control of swimming ih»n is Tribune's duty to r aise; e &lt; atter — but here it offers no P,v. Ce that such is the case and 'c not advance any positive pro- posals towards ensuring that there is democracy As Tribune says "Sport is very much part of Australian life and cannot be excluded from the Aus tralian people's rightful struggle to demand and extc d democratic rights," But let us be balanced in this struggle and have as our ob jective democratic rights for the great army of sportsmen and women and their officials as well as the few glamour champions on top. Finally, I would urge that greater thought be given to this matter and until we get some deeper think ing and a more clearly defined policy the call at the end of the editorial to protest to the A.S.U. be withdrawn. Stan Tapper (Brisbane). (EDITOR'S NOTE: Tribune in vites further views on this and re lated matters, including the situa tion in .other sports. Tribune's criticism was directed at a small handful of top officials, afcid cer tainly not at the great body of honorary officials) . 