 Isa bosses ban I 49 mine workers I DRiSBANE: The Ameri can-dominated Mt. Isa Mines Co. has "put the f inaer" on 49 of its for- mer employees and their " families (44 women, and 150 children). Because of their activity in the long ,Mt. Isa dispute, these former employees have been shut out the gate and industrially blacklisted. How it feels to be in this situa tion is told by two of them, Aus tralian Workers' Union members, who are at present visiting Bris bane. They are Frank Alciati, 37 years old, who came to Australia as a migrant from Rome in 1952, and Jim Howieson,' a 38-year-old Scot who came to Australia eight years ago. Frank Alciati had worked for Mt. Isa Mines for nine years, the latter part of that as a contract miner. Jim Howieson had worked for Mt. Isa Mines for two years. He was an underground loco driver. Jim himself has four children, ranging from nine years to two months, and with the eldest two at State school. Jim Howieson and Frank Alci ati have not had a wage since December last year. Neither Mrs. Howieson nor Mrs Alciati is working. Those who have been unable to get their jobs back, they say, include people of English, Irish, Scottish, Italian, Greek, Finn and Dutch origin— "oh yes, and Aus tralians, too." Youngsters os victims In the town, they say, the feel ing is particularly bitter about the 150 children of the held-out mine-workers; children who will suffer so much if the situation continues. N Saying that a turnout known as . the "Save Mt. Isa Committee" had been busy against the mili tant workers during the dispute, they asked: What is this doing now to "save Mt. Isa" in respect of the workers and their families who will eventually be compelled to leave if they can't get work? Frank Alciati and Jim Howie- son both say that they applied I for their Mt. Isa Mines jobs back j i ' They were first told that their !r;i applications were being consider- ill ed and then, later, they were j | ' told that there' were no jobs for ' 1- them. : | Jim Howieson went a third I time. He asked for his refer- ences. -- "We don't give references," he was told, and he answered: "No i but you take them: .you took -i mine when I came here first, and , , i I want them back now." ' ! i As far as they know, the AWL i I officialdom has done nothing to i J get them their jobs back. ! On the contrary, they say that I = what was said to them was a j ' plain indication that AWU chiefs M did not want them back on their !' ' jobs. j Want good AWU j Like other CMC members, they I I ' resent and contradict the attempt j pf . to depict the CMC as being a !, f "breakaway." | I "We don't want to leave tlic j AWU; we want to stay in and j i make it a good union," they said j ; "And it can be a good union f s when the rank and file breaks j through the crust on top." i The two men say all the indica I j tions are that Mt. Isa Mines has | j not improved as an employer, j 1 There is still standover and 1 pressure on workers, pinprick- I 1 ing and provocation, and the | push-push-push for more produc 1 tion. | There have been accidents. f There is a lot of discontent | among workers at conditions. M Grateful to TLC I 1 Frank . Alciati and Jim Howie % son say that from the dispute ! fund handled by the Queensland j | Trades & Labor Council, they j and the other men unable to get j 1 jobs back are receiving £27 a I | week, plus a weekly supply ol f I fruit and vegetables. .= | What do they think of the treat- J | rrient they have received from the ( £ Queensland T&LC? j| "No one could have been look ! 1 ed after better than we've been," j 1 said Frank Alciati. And Jim j Howieson agreed: "It's been the > best; maybe nowhere in the world have people like us been j helped so much." j 