 'You sleep on the job or else you lose it i CANBERRA: Publica tion of a United Nations report which states that socialist China's economy is making great strides has helped indirectly to focus attention on the poverty still wracking capitalist India. In a recent foreign affairs debate Senator J. P. Ormonde indicated a belief that unless something was done by some one else to help India, she, too, would turn to Commun ism. "Only the other day a cabinet min ister from India said publicly in Sydney that one Indian in three was starving" Senator Ormonde, Labor, NSW, told the Senate. Just recently he was in Bombay for two days. About 100 yards from the Post Office he saw 70 or 80 Indian "coolies" excavating blue metal to make room for a block of flats "which by the way were not for them." Using little chisels and hammers, the workers started at sun-up and knocked off when the sun went down, said Senator Ormnode. "You have . to sleep on the job or else you lose it" he had been told. "They dug all day anct slept in the quarry at night— only 100 yards from the Bombay Post Office" he added. "I saw seven or eight women dressed in dirty clothes which were clinging to their backbones. They were carrying blue metal in baskets from the quarry to the trucks. "I also saw six or seven little babies lying at the side of the quar ry in the sun, black with dirt. Two mothers put their baskets of metal down and leaned over the babies, like dogs, to give them their four o'clock feed. "I asked what happened when one of those workers dropped dead and was told: 'Look over there. There are plenty of others to fill their jobs'. "These people have no addresses , and I doubt whether they even have . names, but they are doing this worn in Bombay". . on Senator Ormonde said that a Australian External Affairs offc. was warned not to give alms n went to a certain area or he wo be surrounded and injured. . His wife, however, had'hanaea coin to a cripple and had mm ately been surrounded by oi poverty-stricken cripples and mj ed in the press. She had finished up in hospital. ,hrpp "I was in a taxi and saw t bodies on the road" Senator onde continued. "I. do not know they died. They had no names « addresses. ir,j a "The bodies were swept arounu corner, kerosene was thrown u them and they were burnt in _ , of my eyes. That was the ea way to get rid of the bodies, pose, but who worries?" „ The position was "much the sa in Singapore, the Senator "There are people everywhere on the streets." 