 Churches call for Vietnam peace CYDNEY: Intern a t i o n a I church opinion in support of Vietnam peace hardened last week with declarations from the Vatican and the World Council of Churches. Writing in the .Vatican Weekly Osservatore della Dominica Feder- ico Alessandrini says that time does not work in favour of the Ameri- cans whose policy is increasingly un popular in south east Asia and am ong the uncommitted nations. In Geneva, the International Commission of World Council of Churches issued a declaration on March 13, demanding that talks start immediately with a view to ending the war in Vietnam. The Commission calls the war "this tragedy of the Vietnam peo ple" and stresses in its declaration toat "the south Vietnamese problem cannot be solved by force of arms" and that the current military oper ations "may only increase the risk of the war spreading." The Commission further states that these military operations gave rise to broad and sharp criticisms on the part of world public opinion, especially in Asia. The declaration demands that the South Vietnam People be left to settle their own problems. It also stresses that the "artific ial isolation of the 700 million of Chinese people" cannot be allowed to continue and that the Chinese People's Reptrolic must be seated in the UN. The World Council of Churches, which unites the Protestant and Orthodox churches of 80 countries, sent the declaration to the United Nations and to a number of govern ments. The US warmongers took another nasty knock last Wednesday, when it was announced that France had offered the Democratic Re public of (North) Vietnam an ex tended trade credit of £45 million. According to the Sydney Daily Mirror, officials in Paris saw this as retaliation py President .de Gaulle in answer to US bombings of North Vietnam and to US rejection of his calls for peace. In Saigon the militant Cao Dai religous organisation, with a mill ion members, called a news confer ence to announce a plan for pelce with the liberation forces, the Syd ney Daily Telegraph reported on Thursday. Government torces shot one man and arrested 100 when 1700 people demonstrated for peace in Phu My, 300 miles north of Saigon, the Tel egraph adds. In Rome 3,000 people demonstra ted for peace in Tuesday of last week. In the USA, 79-year-old Mrs. Helga Alice Hertz imitated South Vietnam Buddhists by setting herself on fire on a Detroit street corner in pro test againse US Vietnam bombings. She was critically injured. Senator Albert Gruerimg of Ala ska pointed out in the Senate that it was exactly a year since he had demanded the US stop its Vietnam war. Since then the US had spent' another 450 million dollars on the war, but the position had worsened. Bombing of North Vietnam was senseless, said the senator. It only frightened and alienated America's allies. Showing that he also was not frightened by President Johnson's standover tactics Senator Wayne Morse said the pretence that we are helping the South Vietnam peo ple had been discarded. "Now the Americans will wage war for Am- rican aims under American com mand", he said. 