 Charges against police show need for public inquiry SYDNEY: He could not speak — he could not read — he could not write — he could not drive, but he was arrested and hauled into Court by police who tendered a written and signed confession by him that he had stolen a car. ""THIS was the case of young John Maxwell, who was acquitted by a jury here two weeks ago. It is yet another damning indictment of police methods and it comes at the end of a year marked by I charges of brutality and cor- | ruption against the police force j that are causing widespread j public alarm. | Monstrous j Maxwell's barrister, Mr. Howard iPurnell said at the hearing: "It is a monstrous and terrible thing for anyone to say this young man could j make himself understood to anyone. ! In the Court Maxwell could only I make guttural sounds. Some years I ago he was fined £5 on an allega- ! tion that he had used indecent | language to a woman during an | argument. The N.S.W. Police Commissioner has ordered an inquiry into the case. A public inquiry into the force is long overdue and continuous inquir ing by the police into themselves is certainly not in line with what pub lic opinion is demanding. Nearly six weeks ago Police Com missioner Allan asked members of the police force to inquire into allegations that William Stinvics was bashed in a police cell and was haemorrhag- ing badly when admitted to hospital. Kidney operation Soon after Stinvics had been admit ted to hospital, Commissioner Allan had said that he regarded the allega tions against the police as "most serious". They were serious indeed. A senior surgeon at Sydney Hospital assisted hy resident medical of ficers performed a 2£hour emer gency kidney operation on Stin vics. Last Monday evidence continued in the report was released. It said that a 20-stone policeman fell on Stinvics when he attacked several police at Central Police Station. It said, that Stinvics resisted violently in the police van when ar rested and the police had to use force to subdue him and the 20-stone police man's elbow or knee could have in jured Stinvics in his fall. At the present time the Police Com missioner has in hand five inquiries into allegations of misconduct by the police in all cases the police force is inquiring into itself. Acquitted In the Central Criminal Court in Sydney a couple of weeks ago, Mr. Justice MacFarlane directed the ac quittal of two young men charged with murder. He withdrew two al leged confessions from the jury, hold ing that the police had committed breaches of the Commissioner's in structions for interrogating suspects. The acquitted youths are Alaistaire James White 20 and Brian John Baker, 16, both of North Gosford. At their first trial they had been convicted of murder and sentenced to life imprisonment. Hardly a week of 1965 passed with out some scandal Associated with the police. Early in the year an inquest was held into the death of a man in a Brisbane police cell. The man Kevin George Lane was found dead in the cell on Deceniber 15, 1964. The Coroner's court was told by a witness that he saw a policeman throw a rope around the man's neck when arresting him. In Brisbane during the year there was an inquiry involving allegations of bribery in connection with driving licences. ..... A Melbourne police constable who shot and killed a 19 years old youth last December, was dismissed from the force for carelessly handling a pistol and on two charges of having / made false statements. Also in .Melbourne a Judge in General Sessions last month, said that a youth who had allegedly confes sed to detectives was a "marionette performing a part he had been told to perform." He was satisfied, he said that the, youth, "met with some maltreatment while he was in the hands of the police ..." In- Sydney Quarter Sessions a con stable, Colin Wilfred Htuiter was sentenced to seven years' jail for his part in an armed hold-up. The Police Discipline Board in Melbourne has cleared police of charges preferred against them by a police informer known as "Mr. X." The Victorian Attorney-General and Chief Secretary, Mr. Arthur Rylah has made no reply to charges of current scandals in the Victorian police force by the Victorian Guardian. Mr. D. Menzies a Victorian crim- nologist had this comment to make on police inquiries conducted by the police themselves. "One can't expect the police force, or any Government Department for that matter, to investigate completely or impartially complaints made against themselves and then take corrective action where necessary." If Governments want to restore die shaken public confidence in the ad ministration of the law they will have to take inquiries out of the hands of the police and make them public. And they should be conducted by a person independent of the police force. 