 in ballot camoaian CYDNEY: Anger over cer tain policies of the Law Society leadership has led to a campaign to rally the votes of "small" solicitors — those practising as individuals — in the annual election for the Council of the Society. It was touched off by the an nouncement, in the September is sue of the Society's journal, that the Council of the Society has in itiated the drafting of a regula tion making it compulsory for a legally qualified person to be in reg- lar attendance at the registered office of a solicitor on all days it is open. The regulation would mean that the individual or sole practitioner would have to - find and employ a casual man as a "locum" when ever he must be away from his office. The ballot for the new Council is already in progress and the re sult will be announced at the annual meeting on October 28 in Sydney. Ten Council members carry over from the previous year, and five new ones are elected. "Small" solicitors active in the campaign are warning their col leagues that by tradition the bal- lot "is never scrutineered nor are the detailed voting results announ ced. One solicitor has pointed out that the proposed regulation assumes a large supply of qualified practitioners "roaming the countryside looking for casual work." "Apart from lowering the standards of the profession, the regulation would in the opinion of myself and others successfully prevent any new practices being commenced. "In effect is would ensure a mon opoly for existing practices." The solicitor urged solicitors to vote consciously to prevent the ex tinction of the sole practitioner. Another solicitor said there was a definite move afoot to strengthen the position of larger legal firms, which picked and chose the type of work they were prepared to accept from the public. The sole practition er, on the other hand, was the one who generally accepted whatever work came from the public. He also Criticised the Council for being party to scales of profes sional remuneration that were not fair to the sole practitioner, and also for being party to the contin ued artificial division of the profes sion and for failing to defend so- lici'tors' interests in the light of recent publicity. 