 . . &lt; With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman kAR. J. PATTERSON, advocate for the Australian Council for Salaried and Professional Associations at the basic wage case, predicted that white col lar workers would make greater use of the strike weapon to en force industrial demands. Many white collar unions had a iong history of "no strike" policies. "To talk of collective bargaining without the possibility of the. use of the strike weapon is to relegate worker organisations to position of beggars at the industrial table," he said: N.S.W. Minister for Labor J. J. Maloney has now taken steps which could mean the closing down of self- service laundries at night and on week-ends. This will be a great election stunt , , . particularly when these periods are the only times when most work ers can do their washing! It has been said around town that the Minister couldn't have, done a better job had he been the campaign director for the Libs. ? Authorities claim there is a short age of police. Well, it wasn't obvious outside the Commonwealth Arbitration Court during the basic wage hearing this week, when wharfies peacefully de monstrated outside demanding more dough. Someone gave the figure at 11 policemen for every wharf ie. ? Woolworths Ltd. on Queensland's Gold Coast is now going to sell water at a 1/- a can. Discoloured water coming from the Coast reservoirs has caused com plaints. A lot of people are paying an ex- extra 1/- for a smaller can of "dis colored water" with a slight kick in It! Just by the way Woolworths Ltd., have announced an Australian retail- record year in which sales jumped by 10 per cent to £137,500,000. Net profit was £3,460,000: ? Australian Workers' Union secre tary, Dougherty, is narked that the ABC cut out all his anti-Communist ravings in a broadcast he did about the Mt. Isa dispute. All the old gaff about the Com munist background to the dispute and the danger facing Australia ' blah blah. ;V One small fact of little import ance to Dougherty is that he could not name one member of the Com munist Parly working at Mt. Isa. Whatever attacks Dougherty makes oh the Communist Party it will never "cover up the role AWU leaders have played in the dispute. / '_ 