 Who wants violence in Indonesia? By a Political Correspondent NEWS from Indonesia, though mostly channeled through the Army leadership and therefore politically loaded to the right, makes it clear that a deep and com plicated struggle has devel oped. This week the Sydney Morning Herald and other dailies reported Army sources saying that definite areas in central Java were out of Army control, and that "communist" control existed there. This terminology is, of course, misleading. The Army chieftains in Djakarta have already taken it on themselves to "ban" not only the Communist Party, but also the trade unions (SOBSI), and organisations of women, youth, scientists and other sections. Since these, with the peasant leagues, are the main mass organ isations in Indonesia, it appears that in the specified areas of central Java, the Army takeover is being esisted by democratic organisations &lt;f the Republic. In Djakarta itself (at the western nd of Java), the Army rightwing. nder Nasution and Suharto, remain i the ascendancy, assisted by the olent demonstrations and arson oi minority of extremist Moslem nth; nevertheless a profound pol; il struggle continues. Pointers resident Sukarno has continuer demand an end to conflict, ar its and shootings. Subandrio, hi rding political lieutenant is under -avy fire from the right, who dare >t yet attack Sukarno openly. A struggle is going on within th ationalist Party itself. These things are pointers to thi rriousness of the political struggle ight in the capital. . Sukarno's several calls for "calm have run counter to what the Army leadership wants and needs. The militarist right-wing, publicised, encouraged and undoubtedly backed by the United States and Australia, have in fact already imposed a degree of civil war on the Indonesian nation, especially in Java. This, accompanied by unsubstanti ated stories of the "discovery" of victims of "communist mass mur ders" in obscure parts of Java, and of "lists" of those marked down for such murders, is part of a deliberate attempt to build an iron regime that will crush the whole democratic movement within the Indonesian nationalist revolution. New army revolt? Tuesday's Australian press report.1 of a sharp warning by an Armj leader in Central Java, that troops must make-up their minds which side to fight on, reveals a growing crisis of discontent within the Army itself over the generals' policy oi military dictatorship, oppression anr civil war. Other reports refer 1- defections" from the Army. Australian corre spondent: (Press and TV), External Affair; Minister Hasluck and such com mentators as B. A. Santamaria ©, the far right all praise and sup port the Army regime and con &lt;Jemn the "violence" of the com munis ts (PKI). However, when the press and T eports are dissected, it is found ths ill the confirmed violence, incluc ng shootings, burning of house., and educational institutes and th organised squads shouting "Han \idit", has been done by rightb nobs protected by the Army. Whatever the real story is behin "he abortive September 30 Move ment, and the killings of six gen erals at that time, there has beer: NOT ONE SINGLE CONFIRMED REPORT OF ANY VIOLENCE IN ITIATED BY THE INDONESIAN COMMUNSTS. Indeed, the only official statement issued by the political committee of the KFI since mat date (on October 5) as a directive to the whole party, dissociated the party from the Sep tember 30 events and called for ac tive support of the President's policy of calming the situation. The initiation of armed violence for political purposes Is not a method of communists, whose theory requires the development of mass political action as the basis of revolu tionary change. The use of arms, according to communists, may be necessary in some situations, but is justified only to defend the working class and | democratic movement if and when $ he ruling class launches armed at- | acks against them. | Such a situation appears to exist n the countryside of Java now. \ If the civil war now being imposed \ >y the Army does develop into ® | continuing and big scale apnea „ truggle, there is no doubt that tne | American, Australian and other out- | ide backers of the Nasution gen | rals will seek to increase their in- ? arvention. j Washington and Canberra know I lat the present Djakarta military adership represents perhaps then nly chance to construct a regime a iat would obey western impenaiis m iterests. a The present chance may never 9 ome again, for the imperialists. _ Eg le people's political struggle Eg ood, land and democratic n..,arv 9 vitably rises against the nn . | mreaucrats and the rich, Ame j nd Australian intervention vnu j jn the agenda and must be re J to the full. I H 