 The Dominican Story Rebel leader "anything but a Communist" "HE Dominican patriotic rising, started by army officers, means the begin ning of a new period in which the conditions are being created for broad, national, anti - imperialist movements in Latin Ame rica. Their aim is to resist North American imperialism and pro tect the sovereignty of nations and their right to travel chosen paths. Moscow New Times writer Vadim Listov makes this comment in an article on the Dominican crisis. He says that Francisco Caamano, whom the reconvened National Con gress elected Provisional President, is an army officer who never mixed in politics, the son of a general who held a high post under the US-backed dictator Trujillo. He is anything but a Communist or "fellow traveller." However, Washington resorted to the "big stick" against him because it felt that the re-establishment of constitutional government in Domi nica, whether under ex-president Bosch or Caamano, would lead to moderate social and economic re forms partly begun under President Bosch. (Bosch was elected in December, 1962, after Trujillo had been ousted; However, on September 25, 1963, Bosch was overthrown and replaced by a three-man dictatorship backed by the US.) "Developments in Brazil (under Goulart), Chile, Peru and Dominica (under Bosch) indicate that with con stitutional government the striving for national liberation spreads rapidly and forms deep roots," writes Listov. Hence Washington's action against the Dominican constitutionalists. Junta beaten Sparking off the US action was an agreement between two opposition parties in January, with Bosch (in exile in Puerto Rico) to organise a broad democratic front against the dictatorship and work for constitu tional liberties. Immediate reply of Washington was Operation Quick Kick — the dropping of paratroops and landing of Marines on nearby Vieques Island as a "manoeuvre." This was on April 9. The same troops were used when Caamano and the Constitutionalists ousted the three-man junta on April 24 to elect Caamano as President. Listov writes that "the present ac tion is a classical example of North American imperialism interfering in Latin American affairs. "The Marines were landed after it had become perfectly clear that the junta and its few supporters were defeated and were about to give up the fight." Though Quick Kick had been care fully worked out it grossly under estimated the patriot resistance, he adds. It did not give the Pentagon the immediate control it expected. The plan failed. "The Dominicans are using guerilla tactics and in the main have been able to hold their positions. "There is an undertone of pessimism in recent American reports; they do not rule out the possibility of fighting spreading to the countryside. This would mean a long drawn out, costly, guerilla war which the US would have a hard time winning." The New York Times said on May 7 that US actions had "shaken the ' inter-American system to its founda tions." Reaction against me US Dominica move was sharper than against the Cuba invasion of 1961. "And the significant thing is that the first to protest against the inter vention have been governments, parlia ments and political parties— in short, the voices of the Latin American bourgeosie." Listov concludes that while the Cuba revolution ushered in an age of popular-democratic socialist revolu tions in the western hemisphere, "the Dominica developments begin a new period in which conditions are being created for broad national anti- imperialist fronts to resist North American imperialism and protect the sovereignty of nations and their right to follow their chosen paths." 