 On the march from Marathon to Athens miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii ' by JIM KALDTS NSW editor of the newspaper Neos Kosmos, who has just returned from a visit to Greece, Cyprus, the USSR and western Europe. = "THE peace march held by the Greek peace movement on , May 23 last was the biggest . yet held in the western world 'I was told this by foreign visitors who joined in what was called the "third Marathon peace march." ' ' ; The. first was made by one man, three years ago. It was banned by the late Karamanlis Government and the only actual marcher was Dr. Lambrakis, whose status as a par- ' : h'amentarian meant that he could not be prevented from marching. However, the police took revenge. Some time later he was 00 inated. The Karamanlis Government was , defeated and the second Marathon peace 'march took place last year. This was followed in turn by the third march, which was far bigger. It was described as a march which began with one man and ended with half a million. Seventy thousand people started on the 26-mile all-day journey from Marathon to Athens, but there were 500,000 marching at the finish. As it. i through Athens nearly all the 1£ million Athenians either marched with it or watched it. To take part in it thousands came ir buses to Marathon from all parts of Greece. Some travelled for up to two days without sleep and then started on the march. Taking part were peace movement representatives from Britain,. Italy, Cyprus, Irak and Latin American countries. ' . Invalids and very old people joined the able-bodied in the march. Typical was a woman of 80 who, when I asked why she was march ing, said:. "I lost a son in the last war. I march because I don't want other people to lose theirs also." The march was brightened by the singing of popular songs, many composed by one of the marchers, the well-known composer Mikis Theodorakis On the way a meeting was held on the hill at Stavros, where the Nazis executed 54 patriots one day. Thousands of wreaths were placed on the hill, where former Resistance leader Manolis Glezos and other leaders paid tribute to the martyrs. On the way, also, a christening was held in the church at Agia Paraskevi. The baby girl was named Irene ("Peace") by godfather Theo dorakis. There were 300,000 "guests" at the christening who (except for the small number who could get in) assembled round the church. The march concluded with a demonstration in Areos Square, Athens The present Greek Government, of the Centre, headed by Papan- dreou, promised on i.ts election that it would restore democracy in Greece. It promised that it would release the political prisoners who have been in jail since the end of the civil war 16 years ago. It did in fact release many, but about 80 remain in jail. In general the position is better than it has been for some years, fhe United Democratic Left party 'EDA) which has 20 seats in Parlia ment has doubled its support in .he country. Some of the basic reedoms, including the right to :old demonstrations and circulate progressive literature, have been estored. However, the Government is now tomiriated by the Right, and the danger of' a militarist coup is serious. Th'e repressive laws operat ing during the civil war are still in force. iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii A strongly-backer demand still unsatisfied is for the return of the 80,000 political exiles forced to leave Greece after or during the civil war. I found Cyprus sunny, quiet and peaceful, ith the Makarios Govern ment in complete control of 95 per cent, of the island. NATO agents are making every effort to overthrow this government, but the people are united behind it. Cypriots are. very grateful to the USSR and quite openly say that because of Soviet support they were able to defeat the threat of invasion which arose last year The Greek-Cypriots have no hard feelings towards the Turkish Cyp riots and would like to live in com plete harmony with them. N The Turkish extremist leaders Have concentrated 30,000 Turks in the middle of Nicosia, the capital, holding them there by force and terror, so that they can claim that this sector is "Turkish." Turks who manage to escape tell of unbelievable atrocities being carried out in this part of Nicosia The Government is continually calling on the Turks to return tc their villages and offering their, neip in building homes and workin. heir land. (There are about 500,000 Cyprioi it whom about a fifth are Turks Cypriots are fighting for complet ndependence and after talks wit) many officials and leaders of the AKEL party, as well as ordinary people, I am convinced they will succeed. Greek resistance hero, Manuel Glezos, greeted by villagers at Stavros, where he laid a wreath in tribute to 54 patriots murdered there in one day by the nazis. MANUEL GLEZOS 