 "Bomb Hanoi" Is new peril ! A rising clamor among United States rightwingers for -Hie bombing ®f the North Vietnam oapiial, Han@i9 points to the danger of a further escalation of the Vietnam war. Cessation of the bombing of North Vietnam is a major condition for successful negotiations to end the war. Continuation of the US raids demonstrates Washingto n s lack of anv desire for a negotiated settlement. MS planes have already bomb ed to within 25 or 30 miles of Hanoi, A raid on the city itself or the dkyes along the nearby Red River could lead to an appalling loss of civilian life. 1 It could also lead to the heaviest i US air losses, of the war, as the attacking planes are shot down by the Soviet-made anti-aircraft missiles guarding Hanoi. . I Press reports from Washington I last week were that all 12CL-US planes I which Washington admits to having | lost over North Vietnam were I uowned by Soviet missiles or anti- i arcraft guns.. The real figure is | undoubtedly much higher. | The "bomb Hanoi" movement is | centred on last year's defeated Re- jg publican Presidential candidate Barry I 0.water and retired generals like || Curtis LeMay. 1 Ky criticised p In fact, despite a " : i-tic build- p up of troops and weapons in 1 ;ietnam, resistance to the US effort »| mounting both in Vietnam and at I? 10nic; the South Vietnamese pup- I pet Government of Marshal Kv is I under attack. 1 . Johnson Administration has ®en shaken by the revelation that ad senor and most trusted oiwu1'3 have put in adverse reports Hi South Vietnam US puppet I U'ctatorship of Marshal Ky. 1 (w advisers were Clark Clifford 9 Inbnan of President's Foreigr | ClTnCQ . Advisory. Board, anc i advicJ01 Kissinger, a political scienc&lt; If j..,, der President Kennedy. 1 beu>g seS0d Ky regime aS a found ,, h and corrupt. They to civil Iarge part o£ US aid 9 graft f«ans in ietnam is going as 1 Hffi Ky officiate. S press notes that the wa: has become officially more American than South Vietnamese. There are more US than South Vietnamese generals and admirals in Saigon. This point is mentioned by 600 professors and other teachers of 24 US universities and 30 leading col leges in a statement published in the New .York Times last week. "A year ago it was a civil war. Today it is overwhelmingly a war conducted by the US armed forces against a revolutionary movement," says the statement. "The American people are them selves undergoing a brutalising and -rteorrariinpr exnerience. They are coming to view without concern the inhuman suffering being inflicted in their name against a defenceless population." Cards burnt In the US' itself the anti-draft protest movement continued to grow as US Vietnam casualties rose,. Two thousand people cheered five anti war conscripts who burnt their call- up papers publicly in a New York str66t They risked sharing the fate of young Jesuit David Miller, v/ho faces trial on November 22 for burning his draft card. As he used his. cigarette-lighter on the card, Miller said; "I believe the napalming of villages in Vietnam is an immoral act. I hope this will be a significant political act, so here , goes." l Suicide by burning of US Quaker i pacifist Norman Morrison last week 3 also spotslights the growing revulsion in the US against the Vietnam war. Mr Morrison burned himself alive on the steps of the Pentagon-a method of protest derived from Viet nam itself where several Buddhists protested in this way against the Ub v puppet Ngo Dinh Diem's regime. 