 [?] 1 to ape mm | Bill. JP.IU.IUL... Iff i youth week I | Big forum seeks I petition on wages I SYDNEY: The Australian Council of Trade I Unions has been asked to issue a national petition ! seeking a general increase for young wage and | salary earners and increased allowance for stud- | ent trainee teachers. - m ? "THIS decision was made | by the 400 delegates at j the youth forum last | Thursday in the Sydney I Trades Hall. ! The forum was the highlight I of Sydney's program in the i national Trade Union Youth | Week. I Young workers, teacher train- I ees, apprentices, clerical work- I ers and other young Australians I took part in four commissions S on Thursday morning. I The general session of the | forum, after further discus- I sion, endorsed the program of | the ACTU for young people. ! The delegates suggested that j the ACTU Youth Policy and | Program should be expanded S and enriched, with considera- | tion of the proposals made by I young people in each State. I Since the policy was adopted ! many new issues had arisen, | including introduction of mili- | tary conscription - for overseas | service and the further deterio- f ration of educational facilities. I The delegates declared that | more young people would be » attracted to the unions by ac- I tion to win such trade union I demands as: higher wages for apprentices, greater apprentice ship opportunities, full adult | rate for the job at 18 for un- | apprenticed youth; equal pay | and the right to skilled training I for girls; more Federal finance | for education; world disarma- ! ment and opposition to' conscrip- I tion for overseas. c | Many young people at the t general session spoke in oppo- j sition to the foreign policy of j the Federal Government. A reso- I lution called for the peaceful | settlement of the Vietnam war. SFor next year's Youth Week, the Forum urged: f -9 Participation of young people | in the preparation of more and I brighter publicity, leaflets and ! publications. I Establishment by unions of | a youth club to allow for sport- | ing and cultural activities and I regular discussions of industrial I interests. CRITICISM I 'jpRADE UNION leaders came I: under criticism at the youth | forum on trade unions in Sydney | Trades Hall last Thursday for 1 their failure to encourage young I people to become active trade | unionists. I Bob Hansen, a printer, said I that trade union officials seemed | to have missed the point that | young people wanted to have a 1 voice in trade union affairs. I Miss Gillian Workman, a clerk, said that "we should be doing more to get a decent basic wage . . . and to make sure that young people received a fair proportion of any increases." An Aboriginal waterfront dele gate told the forum that not enough young Aborigines were active in the trade union move ment. He said it's the only way to "get them out of the hole they're living in . . . and to end the discrimination against them." Stress was laid on the need for youthful social activities, includ ing setting up of youth clubs and cabarets, functions and dances. Richard Walsham, a teacher, said that his union, the Teach ers' Federation, paid for "Status" the magazine of teacher trainees, but allowed the students to de sign and write the paper them selves, presenting their specific demands in a very youthful way. PEACE AUSTRALIANS would never allow others the right to de fend their country on the shores of the Murray River and so "we have no right to protect Australia on the Mekong River," Mr. T. Hornibrook said to a section of the Youth Forum. Speaking on "ACTU policy on peace" to the Commission on peace and allied policies, Mr. Hornibrook stressed the ACTU view that peace is trade union business and quoted from A.C.T.U. declaration on peace: "that the attainment and pre servation of peace is of sup reme importance; that all trade unionists should support to the utmost the ideal of peace; that unless peace is securely estab lished, other problems, whether social, economic, political or in dustrial, are not possible oJ solution." OVERFLOW One speaker said: "Conscrii tion has taken away our demo cratic right to choose as indi viduals to fight or not. If we had something to fight for we'd take it on— not have it thrust down our throats that we must fight for something we don't sup port." Mr. B. Robinson, secretarj of the Youth Campaign Againsl Conscription pointed out that the Government would not pay for any time that ballotted 20-year olds lost during their medical examination. An overflow audience of 50C in the Sydney Technical College Turner Hall last Friday acclaim ed a young man from Newcalte Geoff Morris, as this year's win r>er nf the Youth Talent Quest. 9 RIGHT: Youth forum delegates meet Rugby League footballers Reg Gasnier (left) and Johnny Raper last Thursday (right). LEFT: A scene from the peace forum. BELOW: Speakers at the peace forum arid the general forum. 