 | Attack on right to || ! strike angers unions jj I By Tribune's Industrial Correspondent | Mr. Justice Gallagher of the Commonwealth Arbi- \ | I tration Commission said in Sydney last week that he j 1 I considers direct action by workers "abhorrent". J No right to strike exists in I ! this country and the sooner I that is realised the better for j every working man he claimed. ! "If there is one thing that S destroys the welfare of the | working man it is strike | action," he said. j These remarks were made at the j Arbitration Commission's basic wage ! hearing" during an animated exchange j between the Judge and Mr. R. Hawke,' j advocate for the Australian Council j of Trade Unions. The Judge has already been firmly | answered by spokesmen of the Aus- | tralian trade union movement. 1 Trade union right Mr. Hawke said on the spot that "the trade union movement regards now, as it had always done, that it is the right of all trade unions to be allowed to strike." He declared the Judge's remarks were "grossly improper." The N.S.W. Labor Council last week condemned Justice Gallagher's outburst and gave full support and commendation to Mr. Hawke for his defence of the unions right to strike. Speaking to the motion, Mr. E. Ross (Miners' Federation) said: "The right to strike is the determining factor on the outcome of most industrial issues." Mr. J. Heffeman, Federal Secretary of the Metal Trades Federation, said: "The metal trades experience shows that unless applications to court are backed with some form of action, workers get little or nothing." Mr. A. Macdonald, Secretary of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council, said: "The trade union movement be lieves workers have an inherent right to take industrial action to maintain and improve wages and conditions and they will fight to keep that right." Melbourne wharfies called on the Judge to withdraw and apologise. The Federal Council of the Boiler makers' Society this week strongly op posed the Judge's statements and con gratulated Mr. Hawke for his replies. It said: "We believe that without strike action we would not be able to achieve wage justice, combat bad work ing conditions or protect our members from victimisation. There will be smiles on many jobs over the claim of Judge Gallagher (a self-confessed "reactionary") to be concerned for the "welfare of the working man." If a working man were on nearly £8,000 a year and obtained salary ad justments as easily as Judges, he too mieht find strike action "abhorrent" No worker actually wants to go on strike. But the entire history of the working class movement shows that this basic right is essential as the most reliable and effective means of struggle for workers' demands when all other means have failed. Constant struggle Spokesmen like Judge Gallagher do in fact reflect the attitude of employers, who always oppose workers' demands for wage increases or improved con ditions. This is an important aspect of the constant struggle between classes in the capitalist system, Can anyone point to one example in the whole history of the trade union movement where employers have will ingly offered to pass on some of their increased profits to the workeif? How long? The initiative has to come from the workers to demand their share. And when the unions place their ||| legitimate demands into the courts, Q|i how long do they remain there un- decided? |I| Only last week postal clerks and ;:|ff telegraphists stopped in protest against j$S the long delays of the Commonwealth p|| Public. Service Board to finalise their salary demands. Negotiations with the Board began in f|j November 1963. All the workers' efforts i to bring matters to .a head failed until i y|l| they made use of' the strike weapon -3 as a last resort :|| The Mt. Isa dispute also shows how g|| long employers are prepared to use |||| delaying tactics to deny their workers .;|i a small share of the huge profits they are creating. f j|| The original dispute began in 1961 i/M for an increased bonus claim. Rather . than pay this small demand the com jfjjf pany stalled until 1964 and finally last ; December locked out the workers. \ Only when the company demanded they return to work on its own, un just terms, did the men exercise their basic right to withhold their labour. J It is a fact that the employers and M the courts have since World War n W seriously restricted the workers right jh to strike. Through the penal clauses of both the Federal and State Arbitra- « tion Acts fines and legal costs have a, cost unions at least £li million over -a the past 10 years. Despite the views of Justice Galla- M gher, the Australian workers are n a I likely to -give away their hard wo |Mj right to take industrial action, lo. so would be to submit to an fhdi lowering of living standards, with in .jMj initiative always in the hands ot tijmj employers, motivated only by II ! search for more profit. " ||l This right was re-affirmed at t ® M . 1963 ACTU Congress and is also m I recognised by the Internatio || Labor Organisation. i 