 [?] fund Justice The importance of equal pay to the trade unions is emphasised by a special week of activity every year, but it will not and cannot be won until, this 20-yeal$- old demand of the Australian Council of Trade Unions is backed by action all the year round. j -'Equal pay that is the rate far the jab irrespective cf sex, is an 1 integral part of the ACTU economic program and a magor wage I demand. Equal Pay Week this year begins on Monday, May 17. I It has been repeatedly advanced at ACTU Congresses for more than 20 I years both as a separate decision and as part of general wage demands. I IT is no longer considered a 1 ! novelty or an exciting pro-. ;i posal involving great social A changes. It is, for the trade I unions, no less a demand for a II wage increase than are the de ll mands relating to the basic 1 wage and margins. I Iri this form it is one of the main I unsatisfied wage claims of the Aus- 1 tralian working class. I The fact that it is made the sub- | ject of a special week each year shows the importance given to equal pay by the trade unions. . But the demand will not and cannot he won if it is not made the subject of all the year round acti vity by the whole trade union move ment. Substantial -progress towards win ning this demand was made in two periods of active campaigning — in 1943 and 1958. Significant It is significant that in both periods the progress was achieved through special legislation and equally significant that both State and Commonwealth arbitra tion bodies have repeatedly re jected claims for equal pay and in the course of their decisions expressed opposition to the prin ciple of equal pay. In 1943 the Commonwealth Labor Government, using its wartime pow ers, established the Women's Em ployment Board with power to de cide wage rates for women workers who performed work usually or previously done by males. Establishment of this special Board was in response to demands of the trade unions. I Almost won equal pay 1 Wartime labor demands necessi tated a big increase in the number of. women in industry. The unions knew that the estab lished arbitration bodies would not grant equal pay or even substanti ally increase existing rates for women workers. Consequently, they made equal PaI an integral part of their agreement with the Curtin Govern ment to women taking over work usually or previously done by men. Full equal pay was not granted by legislation but the Women's Em ployment Board had power to grant this. The Board did award equal pay to some women but in the main its decisions were for equal pay for junior females, 75 per cent for adults for the first three months and 90 per cent of the full male rate after that. Another feature of the Board's activities was the wide interpreta tion it gave to the work its de cisions were to cover ' . At the time of the Board's deci sions most women workers were receiving only 75 per cent and less sof males rates. Despite fuese increases the ACTU Congress in 1943 accepted the Board's decisions as only a step to equal pay and added, "we will continue to press for full satisfac tion of this demand." Unfortunately, this was not done and when the wartime powers ended and the Women's Employment Board went out of existence the unions, except i« some isolated cases, failed to re tain the rates won during the war. In the 1950 Commonwealth basic wage decision women were award ed 75 per cent of the male basic wage. This became universal and in some cases the unions have won equal or near equal margins for women. - . &lt; However with the establishment of the annual Equal Pay Week and the convening of national gather- (Continued on Page 4) H Sydney women protest against the Vietnam war rlqual Pay Rights (Continued from Page 1) ings during the Week, the campaign got a new lease of life and the N.S.W. equal pay legislation was introduced. . Announcement of intention to in troduce this legislation was made by the then N.S.W. Premier, Mr. . J. Cahill during the ACTU Equal Pay Nationals Conference i nMarch, I958- ... This legislation, a direct out come of the equal pay campaign, has operated since January, 1959, and solely as a result of it many women workers in N.S.W. are to day receiving equal pay. Welcome victory though this is, the legislation deliberately excludes from its provisions the overwhelm ing majority of women workers under N.S.W. State Awards. Its operation is further limited by interpretations made by the N.S.W. Industrial Commission of the legislat;on. Despite these serious weaknesses the N.S.W. equal pay legislation is the only legislation of its kind in Austrsilis With these successes and experi ence to guide them the task of the unions in relation to equal pay is to obtain f-cm governments recog nition of equal pay in relation to their own employees t and equal pay legislation to cover other women workers. This requires a strengthening the ACTU Equal Pay campaign by all unions. . &lt; 