 WA miners prepare for job fight PERTH: "Bloody .awful" was W A Miners' Union secretary Tom Jones' comment on' the: State Liberal Government's proposals to solve , the new job crisis, in Collie .caused by the flooding and closure of the Griffin Co. 's Hebe deep mine. "THE Government's claim that only 40 miners will be! displaced is disputed by: the union, which says that . the figures provided . by the com pany show that the displ.ace,- ment will be far greater. The union also points out that the Government's figure of 40 is con ditional on the men working nieht shift in the open cut, and agreeing to take long service leave at very short notice. In addition, the alternative em ployment offered to the displaced miners would mean a reduction in wages of up to £10 per week. The closure of the Hebe leaves only two deep mines still operating on WA's only coalfield, plus the giant Muja open cut, and throws into the melting pot the hard-won agreement between Government and miners that no more than 30 per cent' of coal should be won i by open , cut methods. On Thursday, after weeks of hopeful and apparently successful negotiation with Premier Brand for reallocation or orders to Westerr Collieries' two deep mines, miners union leaders were summoned to s meeting with Deputy Fremier Nal- der and Mines Minister Griffith. They were handed a shock Cab inet decision that -the loss of 10.00C tons fortnightly from the Hebe would be made up by taking 700C tons extra from Griffin Co.'s Muja open cut and 3000 tons from West ern Collieries. Miner's' proposals to meet the crisis were reallocation of 4000 tons to Western's deep mines im mediately (which would have ab sorbed all surplus workers of the Griffin Co.) and increasing to 10.000" tons as the deep mines were able to supply .it. They .also proposed optional re tirement at 50 and extension of long service leave quotas. These lat ter proposals were accepted. On the eve of the 10-day Easter leave for miners, Griffin Co. issued dismissal notices to the 100 min ers displaced by the closure of the Hebe. They notified the Minei'S' Union they would be prepared to absorb all tradesmen pi'oviding the min ers agreed to allow night shift to be worked at the open cut. The union instructed members to ignore notices terminating their i services, changing their employ ment or directing them to report for night shift at the Muja open | cut. I No night shift is worked on the > I field, and in the opinion of the union such notices are contrary to the provisions of the coalmining i award. '| At the time of writing, the l Miners' Union Board of Manage- . I ment was still discussing . the lat- ' est developments in negotiations J with the Government. )! The Trades and Labor Council ! ' secretary, Mr. Coleman, con- ) demned the Government's deci- 1, sion and alleged that they are holding back from presenting all i . the reasons both to the miners and ( ) the public. 