 Lessons from I Mount Isa 11 Statement by Queensland State Executive,. Communist Party of Australia. J A major phase of the long struggle of Mt. Isa |t workers against exploitation by US-controlled Mt. 4 Isa Mines Ltd. ended with last Wednesday's return- to-work decision. KAANY more phases of this f struggle lie ahead. The 'A 1964/65 Mt. Isa dispute began ' \ With apparently simple de- 1 mands by workers for improved 1 wages and conditions — de- i mands that have not yet been A wholly satisfied, and around 1 which struggle will continue. J But, because of the nature of the cl class-forces involved, and because so ny fundamental political considera- 1 tions quickly appeared, it had a sig- nificance far beyond what appeared I J at first. _ - . J The Mt. Isa dispute -will go down j In history as a major episode in the i growing struggle of the Australian I \ people against monopoly. 1 The people's anti-monopoly struggle, j headed by the working-class, is mark- I ed by hundreds of strikes and lock- A outs of various magnitudes; highlight- t 'I ed by nation-shaking events like the Mt. Isa and GMH disputes, by sharp- 1 ening struggle in the steel, sugar, | metal, building, transport, maritime i and other industries. 1 It is also extending into the distrib- | utive. services, clerical and profession al al workers, the so-called "middle J classes", and farmers. j Against monopoly j It is marked by growing unity of I all sections of the people in struggle around education, health and enter- i tainment, the rights of young people, I women, migrants and Aborigines, for J Australian democracy and national in dependence and a peaceful foreign policy. In the context of all this, the Mt. Isa dispute rapidly assumed tremend ous significance. - IThe alarming extent of foreign monopoly control of Australian re sources was sharply illustrated when US-controlled Mt. Isa Mines. Ltd. lock ed out the workers and closed the mine last December. | Because MIM had gained control of '1 -about 70% of Australia's copper pro- l duction, the effects on all Australian r \ industries and on Government reven- &lt; ues were quickly felt. J Understanding of these great issues grew during the dispute, but the aspect of it which first caught and iheld public sympathy was the emin ent justice of the workers'- claims and the arrogant refusal of the company to negotiate on them. This sympathy was soon strengthen ed by the flagrantly pro-Company at- titude of the Nicklin Government and ds crude violations of democracy. This Government landed its arbitra tion authorities in a mess, exposed its police chiefs to ridicule and plunged' ahead with misrepresentation, slander and intimidation. The Government unwittingly evoked one of the greatest-ever displays of the Australian democratic spirit. Nation wide support for a projected State ®t0PPage of industry compelled the overnment to retreat from it's first «tort to back up its fake "state of mergency" by force. w?Stated by tbe Seat fighting Pint of the Mt. Isa workers and the frrlmg, suPPrt for them, the Gov- thiner\ .could hoPe for only one ers the unity of the work" exnAr.-QthiSj ey fund a ready and whig ce 1 in the AWU Right- aeain and re->ect6d again and loni rpJ Yorkers because of their membS? failure' fP protect their rights cn1 nd esPecf their democratic S a officials set to work tntpr«sfs L suited the Company's r-sts-under the protection of a horde of police armed with special powers. The ceaseless undermining efforts of these officials, supported by the police and by some elements in the town proved, after weeks, capable of weakening the resolution of some min ers and beginning the trickle back to work. To prevent the growth of further disunity and to continue the struggle under other forms the Mt. Isa work ers have returned to work; They have done so, without full satisfaction of their claims, but they are by no means defeated. Struggle will continue against the plans of the company and of some AWU officials to victimise prominent workers in the name of "selective re employment". New forces will replace those who have left the field, taking with them experience of great value wherever they go. More and more leaders will arise, and new phases of the struggle will develop as time goes by. This is inevitable, because the fund amental cause of conflict remains — the exploitation of the workers by a ruthless, grasping foreign monopoly. Many lessons have been learned in Mt. Isa, which will never again be the company town it was. Many lessons are still to be learned by the whole organised working class. Chief among these is the truth of the old, basic Marxist proposition that, in the final analysis, the only weapon the working class has in its struggle against capital is organisa tion. Organisation demands unity— not only on the job or within each union, but unity of the whole working class. A weakness of the Mt. Isa dispute, which was not fully overcome in time, was" the "Leftist" beliefs by some on the field that the Mt. Isa workers could win their battle alone, and that the splendid will to fight of a militant minority would prove strong enough to overcome all internal problems. The workers learned in the course of this epic struggle that much wider unity is necessary. As the dispute developed, the great importance of strong State and National trade union centres, with firm links in all unions and areas, became ever clearer. Great advances were made in devel oping unity around Mt. Isa. The Queensland Trades & Labor Council played a major part in this. Support The support, :'inanc-ai and other wise, throughout Australia was record- breaking. These were still insufficient for complete victory. In analysing the Mt. Isa dispute, workers are naturally examining the parts played by political parties. In the -ALP many, including leading figures, played a powerful part. Sharp differences were revealed be tween those who supported the rank and file and those who were passive or inclining tcr the extreme rightwing. The Communist Party is proud of what it did to help Mt. Isa workers. Communist Party members, together with many others, did a sterling job to enlist financial and other aid from the workers on their jobs and in their localities. The Guardians and Tribune carried the facts about the Mt. Isa dispute and the Communist views every week to Mt. Isa and throughout the nation. . A further, essential lesson of the Mt. Isa strike is, therefore,- that "the working class needs a much stronger Communist Party, a much more wide ly read Communist press. ;These are essential to the building of the greater, united working class force. 