 I . - .1 i Viet people ! | say "thanks" | I for ' Aust help! From W. E. Gollan, in Budapest. The Vietnamese people — even in the midst of their bitter struggle against American-led inter vention forces — do not confuse the Australian people and the Menzies Government, a South Vietnam news correspondent told me in a recent interview. , LJE is Mr. Pham Van Chuong. central European corre spondent of the Liberation Press Agency of South Viet nam. I m0 h:m soon after learning of the Menzies Gov ernment's decision to send Australian troops into the Viet nam war. "We know," he said, "that many Australian people are actively oppos ing the policy of the Menzies Govern ment, and whilst we hate .all that Menzies stands for, we receive in spiration from the struggles of the Australian people. "The news of the action of the Melbourne tugmen in refusing to handle a US warship, and the demon strations and other activities have been circulated throughout Vietnam." This embattled people— a small un developed nation of 10 million, bat tling for independence against the mightiest power in the capitalist world— could still refer through its spokesman to their "understanding of the difficulties confronting Australian people" in their struggle to end this shameless aggression. He went on to say that the just struggle of the Vietnamese people would be crowned with success, be cause the conscience of the world was aroused, and it was now a struggle in which all people of goodwill who understood what was happening stood behind and supported the National Liberation Front. This was borne out by the letter of 800 American university teachers and other intellectuals expressing solidarity with the progressive forces in South Vietnam in their struggle for freedom. I told Mr. Pham that many Aus tralian intellectuals Tield similar views, and that I was hopeful that they would find ways to take action in similar spirit. Finally, Mr. Pham reaffirmed the position of the National Liberation Front. Peace in Vietnam depends on the withdrawal of foreign troops, and the honoring of the Geneva Agreement signed by 14 nations, including Great Britain. These are their unalterable' de mands, and until they are met the Vietnamese people will continue their struggle. 