 TWO MEW COLOR BAR SCANDALS "Deep South" racism in Western Australia PERTH: Gnowangerisp, about 250 miSos south of P@rfhB is fast be coming the flashpoint among a number of Great Southern Line towns where there is unmistakable evidence of a color bar. CINCE local doctor A. R. Win- row was committed for trial two weeks ago, on a charge of manslaughter of a native baby, there has been a simmering undercurrent among a hard core group who want to send the 300 Aboriginal residents "back to the bush". It is believed that a protest group plans to drive to Albany for Dr. Win- row's trial' this month. It is alleged that 40 letters have been sent to Justice Minister Grif fiths who is currently considering whether there is enough evidence for the case against Winrow to be pro ceeded with. "West Australian" reporter Peter Beck was sent to Gnowangerup to investigate the refusal of the local garage owner to supply petrol to Native Welfare Department vehicles as a "reprisal". He found that the drive- in theatre swimming pool and sit- down meals in cafes are barred to natives who also can get only one drink at the hotel. A spokesman for the Anglican Na tive Mission said: "Many people in the town are sympathetic to the native, but there is a group which stands hard and preaches a motto of: send them back to the bush." Walgett arrests again expose segregation WALGETT (NSW): The arrest of two Aboriginals and four Sydney students attempting to "integrate" the local theatre last Satur day, has again exposed se gregation of Aborigines in Walgetf and suggests that the Askin State Government is condoning it. The actions of the State police sharply conflict with the recent state ment of the NSW Chief Secretary (Mr. E. A. Willis) at a conference on Abori ginal education, in Sydney: "Our treat ment of Aborigines will stand up to any genuine examination." The six people in Walgett, after be ing sold tickets, were arrested when they refused to leave the upstairs sec tion of the theatre. Aborigines are not permitted to sit in the upstairs section of the theatre. The students, members of the Syd ney University Student Action for Aborigines, are reported to have plan ned the move with the Walgett branch of the Aboriginal Progress Association. Placed in cells on Saturday by the Police ,they were bailed out by Mr. Harry Hall, President of the APA. They will appear at the Walgett Court of Petty Sessions on August 24. Walgett segregation of Aborigines in the tneatre, the RSL club, one of the hotels, and from jobs in local shops ?Hces was first drawn to public attention by a trade union delegation that visited Walgett last year. 