 " 1 I The Vole of 1 Thanks Debate I 9 "jpHE Queensland Parliament 9 passed a vote of thanks In 1 1891 to the volunteers who had rgone out "Shearer shooting" dur- 9 ing the Shearers' strike. 9 One of the members was a a Mr. Brentnall who made speeches 9 attacking the unionists. After 9 reading these in "Hansard" Henry J| Lawson, then working on the j Brisbane "Boomerang", wrote 3 "The Vote of Thanks Debate" I which appeared in the Queensland 1 "Worker" of July 25, 1891. I The other night I got the blues i and tried to smile in vain. a I couldn't chuck a chuckle at the 1 foolery of Twain; 11 When Ward and Billings failed tG 9 bring a twinkle to my eye, 9 I turned my eyes to "Hansard" of 9 the fifteenth of July. a I laughed and roared until I thought n that I was growing fat, And all the boarders came to see 1 what I was laughing at; i It rose the risibility of some, I 9 grieve to state— ' 1 That foolish speech of Brentnall's 1 in the Vote of Thanks Debate. Oh, Brentnall, of the olden school 1 and cold sarcastic style; .You'll take another "Worker" now B and stick it on your file; 9 "We're very fond of poetry," we 9 hope that this is quite fl As entertaining as the lines you 1 read the other night. 9 We know tha.t you are honest, but 9 t'was foolish to confess w You read and file the "Worker"; 3 we expected something less. 9 We think an older member would 9 have told the people, so — 9 My attention was directed to a certain print (you know). The other night in Parliament you quoted something true, Where truth is very seldom heard except from one or two. j You know that when the people J rise the other side must .fall. ; And you are on the other side, and that explains it all. You hate the cause by instinct, the instinct of your class, And fear the reformation that shall surely come to pass; Your nest is feathered by the "laws" which you, of course, defend, Your daily bread is buttered on the upper crust, my friend. "We aim at broader interests" you say, and so we do; &lt; We aim at "vested interests" (the ' gun is loaded too). We hate the wrongs we write against. We've felt the curse of Greed. There's little nonsense in the school where Labor learns its creed. But you know little of the cause that you are running down. You would deny there's misery and hardship in the town; Yet I could take you through the hells where Poverty holds sway, And show you things you'd not for get until your dying day. Oh, Brentnall: Have you tramped ' the city streets within? And felt the pavement wearing thro' the leather, , sock, and skin; And looked for work, and asked, for work, and begged for work in vain, Until you cared not though you ne'er might touch your tools again. Oh, Brentnall: Have you ever felt the summer sun and dirt ' . : (ft And wore the stiffened socks for B weeks, for weeks the single shirt? B And ) shunned your friends like B r ' Smallpox-i— passing on the other 1 i: .>ai4frr-f '>. ... V>.,' -V' crept -«way in; shadows>r vvith ' 8 . i your misery and mida; ; . &lt; - - Jft 