 Young German author questions the Pope's silence on Nazi links "THE Old Tote Theatre's pre sent production is Rolf Hochhuth's' controversial play "'The Representative". The plav caused a storm in West Germany when fi 'st produced It asks a lot of quest ions the acouiescence of the hierarchy of the - Catholic C',|rh to the Nnzii renime. However, it is not an attack on the Catholic Church as such, but an attempt, to lay bare the social origins of the Nazi go-ahead in Germany. Rolf Hochliuth spent several years of research in Germany and In Rome before writing his long, six-hour play. The Old Tote version has been necessarily cut to three hours. Producer John Clark says he was pleased to note that his" cuts were similar to those made by Erwin Piscator for the Berlin Ensemble production. ... "HL'HY the howl about the play? Nazis in the West German War Cabinet would have felt that the public confession of some of their intricate connections with the purple of the Church and the' bil lionaire war-fed cartels would be more than - their conscience and overdraft could stand Documented evidence to support. Hochhuth is now available. This evidence is damning of cer tarn members of the heirarchy, but in no way reflects on the hundreds of priests and the majority of rarik and file Catholics who fought against Nani-m as long as they could. ? The year :s The picture in briei is this: The Nazi Government wanted the best possible relations with ' the hierarchy of the Church, and wanted to sign a Concordat with Rome. Prominent questions were: "The attitude of the Nazi State to the Church; The legal status of the Church; Recognition of Bishops; Financial support for Catholic schools and religious teaching in . State schools " The hierarchy realised that Hitler would not hesitate to confiscate all' Church properties in Germany if they decided against co-operation. Major roles in the negotiations were played by ReiclVs Vice-Chan cellor Von Papen Menshausen, Hit ler's representative, and Cardinal Pacelli (later Pope Pius XII) and Monsignor Kaas ' for the Vatican. On March 23, 1933, . Monsignor Kaas said in reply, to Hitler's promise to exterminate Jews and Communists: "1 am extremely happy, not only from a national standpoint, but also as a German Catholic, if . these policies are brought, into practice. "Nothing could be more con ducive to consolidate the present regime. "In addition," he said, "because of inner convictions, 1 actively support the present regime." Pope Pius XII commented: "How lucky we are that in Hitler we have a personality, at the head of the German Reich, who will fight., without compromise against Com munists and Nihilism." During Monsignor Kaas's absence in Rome where he was in con ference with Cardinal Pacelli, the German Bishops decided to with draw the ban on Catholics joining the Nazi party. Then, from June 8 to 10, 1933, Catholic Trade Unions were dis banded. The Congress of Christian Workshops was disbanded on June 24, and on June 28, Goebbels threatened force unless the central parties, the Catholic parties, were disbanded. On July 20, 1933, Von Papen (for the Fuhrer) and Cardinal Pacelli (foi the Pope) signed the Concordat... Hitler's regime strengthened in world opinion. Cardinal Faulhaber said: "At a time when the world leaders observed the new regime coolly and with obvious distrust, the highest . power or earth had decided to show the world their trust in the -I new regime by signing the Con cordat." Vicar - General Steinman, who replaced Bishop Schreiber in Ber lin, said: "What we have prayed and worked for is now a fact. We have one Reich and . one Fuhrer. We shall follow our leader conscientiously and faithfully. We ask not what kind,; of persrih he is because we knov); that he who stands at the helm has been placed there by God himself." v These unsettling facts about the direct co-operation between thd hierarchy and . Hitler are one of the aspects brought out in "The F-pre seniative" by Rolf Hochhuth. The play is i:meiy. : West German Nazis, in power inside the War Cabinet, are urging, a "return to the old frontiers," a second "cru sade against Bolshevism." "The second war is not over, they repeat and repeat. A school subject with the nam. of "Ostkunde" was made . compul sory for West German schools by a conference of West German Educa tion Ministers in 1956; "The task of Ostkunde is to keej. awake our claims' to the unabandon- able territories and to prepare the young people to march out again in the cause of Europe," Dr. Ernst Lehmann, the- West Germar. educationalist, : said. At the same time Nazi general; want hydrogen bombs, and West German pilots right now are train ing in Arizona to fly nucleai combers. What has the hierarchy got to say about this? They do not expose it.. , Rolf Hochhuth himself in the book of essays, "A Plea for a New Government," says: "If the class struggle continue; to be waged from one side only, as has been the case for many years, then German democracy will be destroyed. But if the workers take up the class struggle again1 againsl their enemies, instead of capitulat ing, then they will not only defend themselves, but defend us all." — D.K Vicar-General Steinmann- (centre) and other members of the Hierarchy of the Catholic Church in Germany giving the Nazi salute in 1933. At the same time black-shirt thugs were bashing and arresting Catholic trade upion leaders, workers and priests who opposed . Ti.. the Nazis. - 