 j I A fighter for his people rif :| "T"HE appofntment of Syd- M ney Cook, as union organ ic iser for the North Australian II i Workers' Union and the Dro- ll posed support for Phillip Ro ll berts to act for his people on ff the Northern Territory Leg- i I islative Council" is the result 1 ! of years of struggle by the 4 I Northern Territory Abon- 1| I gines and their supporters.. 1 | They aim to carry forward the '|j | work of Aborigines Namatjira, ;f | Tudawali, Peter Australia and many H I others who have oeen persecuted vj | for their efforts to organise to pro- |J I tect Aboriginal rights. If | Mr. Cook, aged 27, is vice-presi- I dent of the Federal Council for 4 I Aboriginal Advancement and mem- I , ber of the Cultural Committee. He is an executive member of the Northern Territory Council for Aboriginal Rights. .Mr. Cook is a member of the Allawah tribe. The wide experience he gained as assistant Government patrol of ficer, travelling to remote areas of the Gulf country and elsewhere, to succor the sick and aged, fitted him well for his new position. Last Easter he was a co-delegate to the seventh' annual conference of the Council for Aboriginal Ad vancement held in Canberra, where he made a notable speech. He afterwards came to Sydney to confer with trades union leaders. Trade unionism is the only hope of the Aborigine stockmen on whose skilled labor the northern Australian cattle industry almost entirely depends. Receiving from 5/- to £5 a week and seldom having any better ac commodation than tiny huts, these workers have had' no change in their condition for many years. The graziers will not hand over the big profits they make from cheap Aboriginal labor without .a. struggle. The Aboriginal workers, though1 isolated from the big industrial centres, are willing to undertake this struggle and look to the. trade union movement for help. The Australian Council of Trades Union has already passed a resolu tion asking all unions to give every possible aid to the Aborigines. SYHSMEY COOK '1 