 [?] By E. A. BACON, mem ber of the Political Com mittee, Communist Party of Australia, and for mer AIF Captain. Australians of the AIF who freed North Borneo, Brunei and Sarawak from the Japanese in 1945 are dismayed and disgusted by the Menzies Gov ernment's decision to send Australian troops there now. JN 1945 we were welcomed by the people as liberators. Now the deep friendship es tablished then is in danger of destruction, for the main role assigned to our Australian Army successors is that of helping British imperialism to crush the people's movement for national independence. As one of the 9th Division troops who participated in the North Borneo campaign from the Labuan landing until after the Japanese surrender, I had the opportunity of getting to understand the people's attitudes and aspirations rather intimately. ' After the capture of Beaufort, my Brigade Commander, the late General Porter (subsequently Chief Police Commissioner in Vic toria) gave me the job of restor ing in the liberated areas the schools destroyed by _ the Japanese. This, naturally, involved many discussions and activities in many . villages. Australian engineer and supply units helped greatly with materi als and food, but what best en abled the schools to get going quickly was the ready and generous response of the unions led by the Queensland Trades and Labor Coun cil to a request for school books, stationery and other essentials. This fraternal aid convinced thousands that the Australians were true friends who wanted to help them advance. They spoke openly and often of the contrast between this atti tude and that of their Japanese and British overlords. Later . the Australian forces were withdrawn and authority handed over to a British civil administra tion. There were scenes of mass emo tion and tearful farewells by whole village populations. The people were bewildered by our departure and could not understand why we should hand them over to the British, who had surrendered to the Japanese. The British Administration made short work of the many democratic freedoms and practices introduced by the" Australians, but the people have remembered us- until today as the only foreign occupiers of their country who respected and encouraged their desire for free dom and self-determination. I found this to be true on a brief visit to Labuan a few years ago, and when I was in Indonesia in 1963, I found that the Austra lians in both the former British and Dutch Borneos were still re garded as friends of the people's national liberation movements. Now the Menzies Government is setting out deliberately to des troy the favorable image of our country created among our near neighbours by the Australians who fought and died there in 1945. 1 am confident that most former 7th and 9th Division members will agree that we veterans of those days have a particular right and duty to speak up now against the Menzies Government's un- Austra lian decision to send troops back to our battlefields to destroy the effects of our efforts for peace and friendship with out neighbours This young Indonesion directs the fire of an Australian Army machine-gun crew in Balikpapen (Borneo) in 1945. 