 i 0 ' I lUTl A A I i Whipping up ! j I I O I 1 jthe Red Bogey | I Kenya style j c | From a Special Correspondent in Kenya (East Africa) NAIROBI: A clumsy attempt — apparently in spired by rightwing elements — s to divide Kenya internally by involving the country in the Cold War ended in fiasco recently in a stormy sitting of the House of Representatives. April 1 , a Specially Elected Member, Mr. T. N. Malinda, gave notice of a motion alleging that arms and ammunition were being smuggled into Kenya "from Communist and other foreign countries . . . for the purpose of staging an armed revolu tion to overthrow our beloved government". The allegations brought uproar. Members demanded that in view of the seriousness of his charges, Mr. Malinda's motion be given priority on the next day's business. However, on the following day when the motion came up for dis cussion, Mr. Malinda was nowhere to be seen, even though he had been present in the House during consideration of previous business. Cries of "Where is the coward?"- greeted the discovery of his ab-. sence. The Minister for Information, Mr.. R. Achieng Oneke, asked that police he sent to locate Mr. Malinda and bring him back to the Chamber — . a request that was ruled out of order by the Speaker. Heated debate A heated 90-minute debate on the allegations followed, during which the House was in continual tur moil, and, according to reports, members several times almost came to blows. Only a few members attempted to support Mr. Malinda's charges directly and no factual evidence to substantiate them was produced. The Internal Security and De fence Minister Mungai — himself hardly inclined to the Left — stated categorically that, as far as the CID and Special Branch knew, there ' was no arms smuggling going on. Mr. Roland Ngala— a former leader of the Kenya African De mocratic Union, which was absorbed into the ruling Kenya African National Union when Kenya became a one-party state last December — was one of the few to back up Mr. Malinda's allegations. . Only a few days previously Mr. Ngala had denied that he had chaired a secret meeting which discussed plans to build himself up to succeed President Kenyatta, as well as "to combat Communism" in Kenya. He quoted from a booklet, ap parently a publication eititled "Re volution in Africa", already branded by the Chinese Embassy in Tan zania as a "crude forgery", to at tempt to prove there was a Com munist threat to Kenya. Replying to the debate, Vice- President Oginga Odinga dismissed the charges made in the original motion and said that Kenya would make friends with anyone, East or West. Located later by a Nairobi "Daily Nation" reporter, an abashed Mr. Malinda rather lamely denied that he had "run away", claiming that he would produce evidence to sub stantiate his allegations at the "proper time". Land problems Meanwhile, there has been con siderable controversy round the question of land redistribution and settlement of Africans on former European farms in Kenya. At present there is mass unem ployment and much desperate pov erty in the country, accentuated by a severe shortage of maize, the staple African diet, resulting from a prolonged drought. 