 "A Stranger j to Ireland" i "|"HERE has been another attempt to write a final epitaph for Ireland. It was entitled "I'm a Stranger Here Myself" and appeared in the Impact series on ABC-TV Channel 2 last Tuesday week. j The narrator, a BBC Irish- j man Patrick O'Donovan, went ! through a skillfully artistic but mystifying "saga" of rain, gloom, broken crosses, scrib- bled-on headstones and unre lieved Irish defeat, misery and massacre with just a tinge of over-determination. It seemed he sensed how big a stranger he really was to the role of the Irish people in his tory. The controllers of ideas in Ireland and England are acutely aware of the growing strength pf the movement for complete Irish independence (see the token admission of the feelings of the Irish- people in return of Roger Casement's re mains). This account of history with the core of mass struggle, or ganisation; pressure, resistance and culture extracted by spe cialists, is their answer in terms of ."sophisticated" propopanda. The Trade Union movement, of .course, was not mentioned. Jim Larkin and the lockout of the Irish' Transport' and General Workers' Union in 1913 was not mentioned. Resistance to conscription in | World War I was covered by a j chauvinist song sung by Irish ! troops in Flanders. j Irish resistance to foreign do- ! mination stretches from the first I landing of the Danes in 800 j A.D. through the Anglo-Norman invasion (12th cent.), the English ! invasions, the constant resist- | ance by secret organisations of I the peasants (Whiteboy organi sations), right up to the present I day resistance to the domina- ition of the deadly dollar. All this was summed up in | two words — "hopeless | struggle". 9 Like a rogue's gallery, leading j fighters for Irish independence | were paraded on the screen and j all except Parnell dismissed ! with a phrase — patting them on | the shoulder as they passed. | Wolf Tone — the leader of the j United Irishmen of the 1790's j united Catholic and Protestant 1 Ireland, and secured by mass | pressure the partial emanicipa- j tion of the Catholics from the 1 notorious Penal Code. I With the help of the French I Revolution the United Irishmen, I led by Tone, almost had the in- j dependence of Ireland, at last, I " in their grasp. ! Wolf Tone was summarily dis- j missed as "a collaborator with J the French." I English complicity in the j Great Hunger of the 1840's to j defeat Daniel O'Connell's mass I movement was forgotten. j (While Ireland starved and a j million died, Irish produce, I enough to feed all, was exported | by inhuman profit hunters to I England). j The 1916 revolution was sum- j med up as the outburst of a J few isolated fanatics; their "pro- | clamation To The People of Ire- | land" was just "empty rhe- j toric." , ! They had pome from nowhere, I . apparently, and were going no- I where either. I There was misery, suffering, j brutality, starvation — but the g Irish, being a rabble and help- j less, deserved it. They had no ) answer. j Modern American novels on j the restitution in South Ameri- g ca use the same technique of S declaring filth, horror, hunger I in a most naturalistic way, but j tell nothing of the organised re- g sistance of the masses of the j people enduring it (e.g. "Child- j ren of Sanchez"). j Towards the end of this j "burial" of Ireland the narrator j says the "fighting is over, the ! ghosts are buried" and "the j people have what they want." j Then follow sequences of ni,te | clubs, pubs and electric guitars j which must be what the Irish ! people have been looking for for | over a thousand years. J What vou vou think? I w j 