 j Mys tery? Farmers I wouldn't say so! | SYDNEY: The visit of a new Soviet ship to S I load the biggest single cargo of Australian export ! j wheat (33,000 tons) was turned into a "mystery" j j by sections of the daily press— evidently in the j ! interests of cold war propaganda. | yHE "Luhovitsy" is the ! last of 18 L-type tank- j ers of 33,000 tons built at | Mitsubishi yards in Hiro- ! shima (Japan), for the I Soviet Government. ! However, the press failed to I extend the "mystery' 'story to explain that this wheat sale will deliver "mysterious" cheques to Australian wheat growers suf- | fering from a "mysterious" | major drought. But there was one sure thing. One of the "Luhovitsy's" offi- | cers said: "As you know, we pay cash on the nose . . ."—now there's a real "mystery" to those who operate the capitalist econ omic system. Force for peace In fact, far from being any mystery, the Luhovitsy and its crew are a real force for inter national co-operation, trade and exchange between countries of different economic systems. The ship's design and con struction engineers were Soviet (including Anatoly Dotsenko and Vasily Maschenko now work ing on the ships), the ship wrights were Japanese, and there is equipment from England, Sweden and East Germany on board. Equipment is the latest that science can offer — one-man, re mote control of oil loading and unloading, electronic steering, noise adjusters, lodicator, auto- j matin dispatch and receipt of > distress signals, special closed I system of electric machines for LlMHWnMWaHWMMMMHMWIl washing tanks, automatic fire I alarm from any part of the ship S over 73 degrees c:, and so on. 2 What sort of men are Soviet I sailors? j "We have seen all the bad there j is in war,',' first mate Vasily Mas- I chenko - said, "that it why we ! know the difference between the j good and bad in life and in I people." I "We want friendship above i all, with all the peoples of the i world. And I can say that I ! have found proletarian interna- I tionalism in everyone of 45 | countries I've been in." S "Only a fully developed man' | can love all peoples; that is why j we continually combine study, f cultural education and wide read- ! ing with our day to day work. j Sergei Vastanov 2nd mate, j said that officers had three I months' holiday and the crew, I four months' accumulated holi- j day a year. j Most seamen work four hours ! on, eight hours off seven days | a week. j Wages on the ships ranged ! from 100 to 300 roubles a I month. Compensation was 75 | per cent of wages, for an older I worker 100 per cent. j "Luhovitsy" has a fully equip- ! ped hospital and single berth, ! air-conditioned cabins. Austra- | lian coast conditions are simi- 2 lar. ! There was no mystery about I the ship — as pressmen them- j selves found, when ship's of- j ficers readily showed them I every bit of the modern gear j aboard (see photo) and displayed j their keenness to be friends. — | D.K. j IGeorgi Meleshko (35) donkeyman on the "Luhovitsy" J adjusting the automatic loading control. j 