 Indonesia celebrates "LJANDS off Indonesia — ban "all Dutch ships", was the call of Australian wharfies 20 years aqo that echoed and was taken up by the whole labor movement and its application played a vital part in the first Asian country — Indonesia — winning independence. Last Monday week was an his toric occasion at the Sydney uniov. rooms of the wharfies when they celebrated the 20th anniversary oi Indonesia's independence, with the Indonesian Ambassador to Austra lia, Major General Kosasih a1 honored guest. The celebration was attended by some members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party includ ing the Member for Hunter, Mr. A. James and the member for East Sydney, Mr. L. Devine. Trade union officials and representatives of women's organisations were among the guests. In a speech to the gathering the Ambassador said: "Standing here speaking to you my mind goes back 20 years when Aust ralian wharfies took action against the Dutch ships. This was not only action against the Dutch, but against colonialism. "We have here on display to day some of our works of art and culture, they carry a message of good will. It is said that the great ness of a -untry is mirrored in its art and culture. I would like to add to this, that the greatness of a country is also mirrored in its friendship with neighbours." Mr. Ted Roach, assistant gen- eral secretary of the Waterside Workers' Federation, who played a leading roile in organising the ban on Dutch ships in 1945 said in a speech that the Indonesians had fought and beaten the Jap anese who tveupied their country after the DUteh had fled. When the Japanese surrendered Indonesia had declared her inde pendence, but the Dutch had de cided that they wanted back their enormously .rich colonial posses sion. "Dutch hip would have loaded arms and troops here to take back Indonesia by force had not the wharfies backed by the Australian labor movement and people, placed a black ban on Dutch shipping," he said. Wharfies had discovered arms, loaded in crates branded with a Red cross insignia, he said. "These ships were held up for two years by the Australian labor movement backed by the Labor Government and in this way the Australian people struck a major blow for Indonesian independence", Mr. Roach said. "I believe the Indonesian Gov ernment and people see two Aus- tralias, one of Menzies and mon opoly and the other of the friend ship of the ordinary Australian people," he said. Mr. A. James, MHR said that after over 300 years of colonial rule the Dutch had left Indonesia 80 percent illiterate and chronically short of hospitals and schools. He said he regarded invasion talk from Indonesia from people like Santamaria and others as "piffle". It is time Australia had an in dependent foreign policy. Miss Etnid Hampson who had worked in the "Indonesia Austra lia Association" in the 1940's, said that the friendship developed in those years of struggle still existed between the Australian and Indon esian people. "The future will judge us oh our stand for independence. Brit ain and the US can leave Asia, but we can't because we are a part of it", she said. Mr. Mat Munro acting assistant secretary of the Sydney branch of the Waterside Workers' Feder ation, speaking earlier to a meet ing of wharfies in the union rooms said that the celebration of Indon esia's independence was not only an historic occasion for wharfies . and the Australian . workers, but people who believed In freedom all over the world. 