 British origin of the White Australia policy IMPORTANT new light on ' the origin of the White Australia policy is thrown by Mr. R. Lockwood, well known Australian |ournalist, in the latest issue of the Australian magazine, Labor History. Mr. Lockwood shows that this racialist policy was not initialed by the Austrlaian working class or in fact by Australians at all. It was imposed on Australia from outside by the anti-working-class rulers of imperial Britain — in their own interests, not Australia's. Mr. Lockwood's article is headed "British Imperial influences in the foundation of the White Australia Policy". It completely confirms and reinforces the conclusions reached by the Presi- , dent of the Communist Party of Aus tralia, Mr. R. Dixon, in a pamphlet published many years ago. To those who have believed that White Australia racialism is somehow part of an "Australian tradition" con ceived in the special interests of the working class, the article will be of especial interest. Most influential in throwing a color bar round Australia from her earliest days was a man who was not an Aus tralian and certainly not a worker. Me was the permanent head of the British Colonial Office, Sir James Stephen, who, during his term of office,, "virtually governed the Colonial Empire for more than 25 years" according to one authority. Various critics of his rule called him "Mr. Over-Secretary", "Mr. Mother- Country" and "King Stephen" says Mr. Lockwood. "Stephen, in the first clear and definite Colonial Office enunciation of teh White Australia Policy, in 1841, employed arguments that fitted his conviction that Australia should be reserved for the British, and also fitted the prevailing colonialist race- superiority doctrines." In a minute . to the Colonial Sec retary, Lord John Russell, Stephen advised rejection of a proposal by NSW employers to import Indian labor, He said: "There is not on the globe a social interest more momentous, if we look forward for five or six genera tions, than that of reserving the con tinent of New Holland as a place where the English race shall be spread from sea to sea, unmixed with any lower caste," In another statement two years later Stephen said that- Asians, if admitted, "would debase by their inter-mixture the noble European race". ' And Stephen made it crystal-clear that in making his decision he was guided by the interests of Britain and not the pioneer Australians. He explicitly denounced what he called "the favorite r theory of. all colonists that the first settlers in a new country must become the pro prietors of it all and that the affairs of it are to be conducted .for their benefit rather than for the benefit of the metropolitan state". OTHER Tories and Whigs of the fime were just as strong on the point that whatever else Australians might want for what- ever reason, Australia must be kept British and white. Earl Grey who became Colonial Secretary in 1846 added his veto. He demanded that "as long -as possible the population of the Australian colonies should continue to consist in every class of persons of European race". Thus long before the gold rush of the 1850s and the later growth of the working class and its unions, White Australia, was already official policy here, imposed by non-Australians in the interests of non-Australians. When the Australian Labor Party wrote White Australia into its con stitution it was officially adopting as its own what was the brainchild of 'v British Toryism. It was accepting, in this respect, the attitude "of Sir Charles Hotham, British Governor of Victoria, notorious for his massacre of the Eureka diggers. Writes Mr. Lockwood: "It was the British Governor Hotham, half a year after lie had sent British soldiers to suppress the rebel miners at Ballarat, who introduced the first Bill to a legislature in Australia to restrict the entry of Asians ... "The Hotham Bill restricting Chinese immigration was, after having been .made more stringent by the Legislative Council, passed in June 1855." The bill giving Victoria responsible government did not apply till the next year. Sometimes the British Tory racialists mentioned the claim that the import of cheap Asian labor would cut Aus tralian wages. But they were, the last men anyone would want to quote as guardians of the workers' interests. © 