 tribune 1 End all racialism! yiUSTRALIAN racialism was under the microscope last week. The Labor Party Federal Conference took a welcome .step by dropping the "White Australia" policy from the ALP platform. The conference declared that the ALP would support and uphold . a vigorous, expanding immigration policy administered with sympathy, understanding and -tolerance. Immigration Minister Cpperman saw fit to sneer at this with a claim that the Federal Government had no White' k . Australia policy. Within a few days he had demonstrated the reality of this policy by the forcible hounding out of Australia of a tiny, Fiji-Indian girl, Nancy Prasad. Perhaps Nancy's appealing face helped arouse wide public sympathy. But the hard fact was clear to most — it was only because of her skin color that she was dragged away from the playmates in Sydney who did not care about her color. For this reason the students who went to the airport to demonstrate in protest represented the democratic sense of most Australians. There is a need for radical changes in the immigration policy. The Communist Party of Australia in the 45 years of its existence has always been opposed to the White Aus tralia policy, which is based on the concept of race super iority and race discrimination. Communists stand for immigration policy based solely on Australia's capacity to absorb migrants and applied without any race discrimination. However, the Government's expulsion of Nancy Prasad is not just a vindictive act. It relates the foreign policy of the Menzies Government who see the people of Asia as inferiors on whom "we" can impose a foreign regime even if "they" must first be burned with napalm. Australian security will in future rest on relations with Asia. "Race superiority", whether in home or foreign policy, Is hostile to that security. Atomic conspiracy Twenty years ago the United . States initiated atomic war. First-person testimony by some of the responsible US leaders, as given last weekend on "Four Corners" national TV, revealed some important facts. One was that opposition among the atomic scientists themselves to use of the bomb on Japan was widespread. ; Even an official 1 1th hour poll result admitted 46 per cent of them to be opposed. But more significant even than the terrible decision to bomb two cities ("to shorten the war") was the clear conspiracy by the military-political hierarchy against the Soviet ally . . . "to use it before Russia came1 into the war (against Japan)" (J. J. Byrnes); "to gamble for great diplomatic stakes" (at the Potsdam Conference, July, 1945) "having a great master plan in hand" (War Secretary Stimson) . It is the US leadership, no longer ashamed of having thus, initiated the ntclear arms race, who must be disarmed before the world can feel free of the nuclear war threat. 