 Aust. should keep out of Thailand £ANBERRA: A demand that Australian forces should' not be used to suppress a! genuine people's revolution in; . Thailand was made in Parlia ment recently by Mr. C. K.: ; Jones, Labor, NSW, and re fused by External Affairs &lt;Min-; ister Hasluck! On the same occasion a statement by Mr. Hasluck purporting to up-i hold the principle of non-inteifer- ! ence in Asian countries' internal.5 affairs was ridiculed by Labor ; ; members as hypocritical. Mr. Hasluck, who had passion- ! ately defended the Government's, ' policy of sending troops to dictate; i Vietnam's future and was soon toi lecture Indonesia on what to do about its revolution, took a dif ferent line about his SEATO ally, Thailand. Corruption Mr. Hasluck had been challenged: i by Mr. C. K. Jones, Labor, New castle, and later by Deputy Opposi- . tion leader Whitlam to explain : corruption in Thailand. Mr. Jones, who is not a Left- ; winger, quoted the "Wall Street Journal of August 28 as having; accused Thai officials of graft and; corruption. ' "This is a conservative American publication with a national circula- .. tion and standing equivalent to that of the Australian Financial Review," ; said Mr. Jones. "What does the Government pro-' I pose to do to eliminate this graft; and corruption? Will the Minister: assure me that if the Thai people; : revolt against this graft and cor-: ruption we shall not be involved1 in the suppression of a genuine people's uprising?" Later Mr. Whitlam asked the j Minister if he knew of graft and; j corruption among Thai officials and-' j of any efforts of the Government ; :&lt; to combat them. j j Hasluck told Mr. Jones that "we- do not make it our business, nor would it be a good principle in international relations, to interfere; in the domestic affairs of any country." He told Mr. Whitlam ; that "it would introduce a very bad rule in the conduct of Australian ; 1 internal policy if we started making . public statements about the in ternal affairs of other governments." Soon afterwards, Mr. Hasluck; broke his own rule by a comment on Indonesian internal affairs which ! drew a formal protest from the Indonesian Foreign Minister. It is generally recognised as improper for a Foreign Minister of one country to comment on the1 purely domestic problems of an- i other, as Mr. Hasluck did in Ade- 1 ladde when he told the Indonesians that their revolution had gone far enough. 