 20,000 square miles of Australia p t® phosphate moioi®Sfes By BILL MOUNTJOY Discovery of worthwhile phosphafe deposits woa'd be ra'the 1 notional interests and an achievement greater then discovery 1 of oil, yet the Menzies Government Is not prepared to u-ndorteli? such a project. j |T is preparing to hand over j future discovery, ownership and utilisation of phosphate j rock to Australia's mining' com- i panies, mostly under foreign ! monopoly capital. j About 20,340 square miles of West- | ern Australia have been granted as ) temporary reserves for phosphates ex ploration by four mineral companies. The reserves are the first areas re leased in W.A. for private phosphates exploration since 1957 when all States agreed to an embargo while a Com monwealth investigation was made. The companies are the: International Mineral and Chemi cal Development Co., of Melbourne— about 1,200 square miles around Lan- celin. Phosphate Exploration Co., of Perth— nine reserves, totalling 792 square miles, from south of Exmouth Gulf to east of Carnarvon. Electrolytic Zinc Co. Australasia Ltd., of Melbourne — three areas total ling 7,75(1 square miles around Bussel- ton, north of Geraldton and south of Exmouth Gulf. Cyanamid Australia Pty. Ltd., of Victoria— two areas totalling 10,600 square miles around Carnarvon and Broome. The ' lack of Australian phosphate deposits is the Achilles heel of the nation's agriculture. Our soils, with the exception of the black soil belt ex tending from Winton in Queensland to Gunnedah in NSW, are deficient in phosphorus in forms suitable to plant life. The three main elements necessary for plant growth are potassium, nitro- , gen and phosphorus. Australia has enormous reserves of potassium, and nitrogen is available 1 in the compounds ammonium sul phate, sodium nitrate, calcium cyan- amide and in a -highly concentrated form in synthetic urea. Also nature provides soil with nitro gen through the agency of plants be longing to the. legume family such as the famous sub-clover — its temper- late climate allies white, red, ladino — Palestine clovers. _ Phosphorus is vital to all life pro cesses of plants and animals and its role is becoming more understood and appreciated by scientists. But phosphorus needs to be in a certain form before it can be assi milated by plants, then by animal life. Natural phosphorus compounds phosphorites and apatites occur in the Soviet Union, Algeria and Flori da in the United States. Supplies Australia receives its supplies from Ocean, Christmas and Nauru islands. The phosphatic rock is treated with sulphuric acid and the result is super phosphate, a mixture of gypsum and primary phosphate, a calcium- hydrogen phosphate comparatively soluble in water and thus available to plant life. There are other phosphatic fertilisers but at the moment "super" is the main form used. Australian imports of the primary rock rose from 1,700,000 tons in 1962-63 to 2,100,000 tons in 1963-64 and a fur ther rise of 20 per cent is expected in 1964-65. Demand is rising The increased demand is due to in creased acreage sown to grain and the tremendous extension of balanced pastures. The increased demand for "super" is rapidly exhausting the reserves of phosphatic rock on Nauru, Ocean and Christmas Islands. Experts believe that, reserves will be exhausted in 25 years. Hence the demand is rising for a major research for phosphate depo sits in Australia. Already some min or discoveries have been made nota- ly at Rum Jungle in Northern Ter ritory and in Carnarvon area in West Australia. "Reluctance" The Menzies Government will of fer financial inducements and will be prepared to construct ports and railways at public expense to make discovered supplies available. "Country Life" organ of the NSW graziers in commenting on the Fed eral Government's attitude recently, stated: "Despite Mr. Fairbairn's reluctance to state how the Government would assist the search it is known that Cabinet took two important decisions last month. First, it decided to permit the export of rock phosphate from Australia if the development of any newly discovered deposits depended on an export market". Another aspect of the policy of handing over any future phosphate discoveries to foreign monopolists would be further exploitation of the nation's farmers and' pressure exerted on independent "super" producing companies. The season just ended saw a seri ous breakdown in supplies of super from Cockle Creek and Pt. Kembla. supplies had to be obtained from Victoria and a huge stockpile was built up at Tocumwal. Victorian "super" was over £1 a ton cheaper than the NSW product. National interest The high price charged and the shortage of supplies from the local monopolists has aroused the local graziers. The Graziers Association of NSW is taking steps to form a graziers' superphosphate cooperative. A factory producing 200,000 tons an nually was likely to produce "super" at £5.7.0 a ton at the list price of £7.18.6 a ton c.o.d. gross profit to the company would be £2.11.6 a ton, of which an annual rebate of £1 a ton would be made to owner users. Annual usage in NSW of "super" was running at 800,000 tons with an unfulfilled demand of 150,000 tons this year. Complete nationalisation of the Aus tralian fertiliser industry is necessary in the national interest. 