 Big ship line has color bar Melbourne University's student newspaper Farrago last week tested out reports of race discrimination by P. & O. Orient Lines in booking passengers from Australia — and found the reports correct» p. & 0. ORIENT is the big gest British shipping line running out of Australia.. Farrago sent three reporters to book passages to America. They attempted to obtain odd-berth accommodation at the cheapest rates on the Arcadia sailing- from Sydney to Los Angeles on November 8. Two reporters, both Australian nationals, were told they would have no trouble in booking a passage in any price range, including odd berths in multi-berth cabins at the cheapest rates. The third, an Asian student, Jeff from Hong-Kong, was told that the boat was fairly well booked out- out if he was prepared to pay for a more expensive fare he might be more fortunate. He had applied after one Australian reporter and before J?® her> a11 within an hour of each other. Cover-up? ,,Je r & Publicity Manager in eibourne evaded the issue at first, A a said- "We find, usually that an | "sian, Negro, whatever it may be- tvrl prafer to travel with their own tw. 3S as their ca"bin accommoda- ml ? con1ce/ned"- He denied prefer- NP,!>r.H , in 0(d-berth bookings, atfvi „U!ie!ess' ther sources indic- tion „ policy of discrimina nt tx,sts though reasons of race l)ei11J7eefuse(ien accommodation i be??hdifi?h ac&lt;rommdation in multi- beina ref?sPriWltth th6r passenSers is Eurnnpn persons with non- urnpea appearances. I are thu?er?eSfc fres out of Australia 'hite skin ®iVed f0r people with a I eans can «l,OUr' 11111688 non-Europ- friends tn L , a number of their I a long timo Up a whole cabin I n g ,ane ln advance. b lSn1Iy.heavlIy booked I modation nvi k. 0 berth accom- fre thesWp 6 0ften mon«» be- Thus Asians are at a disadvantage in getting bookings at all. In the past four weeks several uni versity people, all Asians, have been refused bookings on P & O line boats travelling to England, U.S.A. and Asia. 