 Builders' Laborers' Conference says, end the Vietnam war 1 BRISBANE: The Federal conference of the Builders Laborers. Federation held here last week-end con demned the Menzies Government for sending Aus tralian troops to Vietnam. - CONFERENCE said "this de- cision is contrary to the in terests of the Australian people and can only be looked ,at by the Asian nations as a direct act of aggression against the Vietnamese people who are fighting for their national rights." This decision further ties Australia to the aggressive aims of United States imperialism, Conference said. The following demands were pro posed as a basis for the settlement of the Vietnam problem: O Recognition of the basic nation al rights of the Vietnamese people for independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity. O Withdrawal of US troops and war materials from South Vietnam and to dismantle US military bases. Stop all acts of war by the US Government against North Vietnam. © Strict respect for. the military provisions of the 1954 Geneva Agree ments pending the peaceful reunifica tion of the country. The two zones must refrain from joining any military alliance with for eign countries. Reunification fo the country must be settled by the people in the two zones without foreign intervention. Malaysia too! On the Federation of Malaysia, con ference declared it "an artificial creation imposed by British imperial ism" to suppress the national inde pendence struggle. A demand was made to withdraw Australian troops from Malaysia. The ALP federal executive was critl- ; cised for reversing an earlier decision ! opposing Australian troops being used J in Malaysia. A call was made on the j ALP to revert to its earlier policy. Conference demanded immediate ! action by Federal and State Govern- I ment to impose . price and profit j control. ' A call was made for a £22 a week j basic wage as a family living wage, j with margins adjusted to 1947 percent- j age levels; a 35 hour week and equal j pay without discrimination of sex or j race. : Slavish reliance on the Arbitration J system to improve wage standards j was condemned. ' j Job committees I Conference also criticised the ACTU ; leaders for failing to mobilise its H ! million members against the anti-union j penal powers. j Because of the attacks on the trade ! union movement by monopoly and the j Menzies Government, strong job Com- j mittee organisation is more essential ! and urgent than ever before. . | Conference said It supported the j right Of women, to have equal op portunities with men in all fields of I employment including the building in- j dustry, and the right to equal pay. j Government 'were called on to legis- ' late to provide safeguards to women's I health when employed in heavy oc- j cupations. ' 