 [?] with Noel Counihan Among the many problems faced by the eighth annual conference of the Federal Council for Advancement, of Abo rigines and Torres Strait Islanders was that of the corruption of tribal arts and crafts through their commercialisation and exploitation on city and overseas markets. The Conference stated the nec essity for preserving some ethical relationship between the art mar ket and the tribal artist and his traditional standards The Conference, which was mark ed by the greatly increased num bers of Aboriginal and Island d de- gates, decided to urge the Federal Government to create a fund for promoting greater understanding among white Australians of the unique cultural significance -- Ab original art. # Conference was told how even well meaning people, including some in predominantly Aboriginal organ isations, inadvertently violated profound tribal taboos by copying patterns of whose ritual moaning they were ignorant, and circulating them particularly among women, who should never see them- A churmga or sacred stone design used for a badge was an example quoted. Aboriginal authcities on sacred art and ritual should have been con sulted before any such design was appropriated. Delegates to this most import ant conference included the greatly gifted Roy Dadynga of the Arnhejn Land Theatre, who is also a painter, and the Waterside Workers Fed- . eration delegation consisted of five aborigines. Organisers of Interstate Agric- ultural shows could take a leaf from the book of the NSW Easter Show, with its seven art oompetions, with" prizes of up to £500 in some cases. If the rapidly growing participat ion of well known professional paint ers in these contests is any indic ation then the standards are rising and these exhibitions, seen by hun dreds of thousands of Show visitors, are assuming importance. In fact it is proposed that a permanent Gallery be built to house them, a proposal to be supported and emulated interstate. Sydney artists are raising money to enable them to finance the Inter national Co-operation Year Art Med allion decided upon by the Artists' section of the Australian Confer ence for Peace and International Co-operation held in Sydney last October. Approaches have already been made to designers to work on ideas for such a medallion which it is intended should be awarded by a committee of prominent artists to an artist, art teaolier or even pos sibly a writer on art whom they con sider to have made an outstanding contribution to Australian art. (Quote from the New Statesman and Nation's retiring Washington correspondent (NS 9/4/65) Karl Meyer concerning American painting "The world of the galleries has be come inseperably fused with the world of fashion and high finance." 