 Our new J WISH to draw attention to the. contempt for the Australian: people revealed1 inv Sim-Herald' s , Fact (20/6/65.)' concerning-; Mir. Edi Clark, the new United States Ambassador off Australia. Ait first: reading thisi article is hilarious; at the. second) iir is in sulting—presuming it/ is: factual. This six foot, two, 16; stone multi millionaire Texan- who is; about to represent the US- nation,, says that "he has no. reason to/ know more about. South-East, Asia and. what's, going on, there than- the next man;!' Mr. Clark, is only "chairman, pre sident or member of the Board of directors of five Texan banks"; Maybe he hasn't yet heard: of the dollars being poured into Viet nam. Yet this, is the man. who, the article, alleges, "has Lyndon. John son's ears". Mr. Clark is "Senior partner of his, law firm" and: in. that role apparently judges, people by what: they say rather than do5. for he is. "very impressed', by Sir Robert. He. has. a good; command of the English language and. uses the right, words,. "He's, a powerful man." It is, of course, a "natural" that I a legal man would be impressed- | with- "right' words". Perhaps the | "average" Australian: could' be par- \ donedf; for. being, suspicious of | someone who judges others; by thejr j ability to use "the right words." ; We might a-lso be a little more. ; doubtful of an American's ability to- judge what is a "good command | of the; English: language". Whilst- doubting that matters of i hygiene or health determine a ! manfs fitness for Ambassador, it : is apparently important, enough) for ; "Fact?' to point out- Mr. Clark's ha- ; bit of "leaving his office early- in 1 the- afternoon for a steam bath"'and; i "a rub" meaning massaging. He also : diets. ' However, we: backward, dowr "n- | der Australians can take her We may be- worried about hit: ig- ' norance on; South-East Asia, perfcur- | bed: by his legal bias, but we can : be re-assured: Mr. Clark says "Ah . will work hard to have Australians \ like me;. Ah want them to love me." Mr. Clark is ambitious — he wants to remember that that it is the sin by which even the angels, fell!: , Mrs. M.. Begg,. Sydney. 