 U.S. guns in Dominica j aimed at freedom j From RUPERT LOCKWOOD i MOSCOW : American marines and paratroops are waging war against the Domenican people for several reasons but the main one is to smash their independence struggle. The popular forces — workers, peasants oppressed by American sugar interests, communists and liberal intellectuals — gained so much ground toward democratisation and independence after butcher Trujillo's downfall that the US pup pets could not rule without foreign support. Freedom for Dominicans would have inspired similar victories in other Caribbean Latin - American countries where the people are al ready hammering at the gates. While sinking deeper into the dirty war morass in Vietnam, Washington panicked at the prospect of another popular democratic regime on its own doorstep. Dominican constitutional forces had flatly refused American requests to allow Cuban Emigres a base on Dominica, the .natural platform for the invasion of Cuba. Cuba, appre ciating the new menace, has asked for United Nations action to end the intervention. The Communist Party of the United States brands the invasion as "a return to the worst days of gun boat diplomacy for the sake of the defence of the special interests of American monopolists". The invasion cynically violated not only inter national law but the Charter of the Organisation of American States which Washington itself drafted and imposed. Washington wrote in Article 17 that territories of countries parties to the O.A.S. Treaty cannot be the object even temporarily of military occupation or other forcible meas ures by another State directly or indirectly under any excuse. Closed doors In an effort to give its aggression the O.A.S. imprimatur, Washington called O.A.S. sessions behind closed door but the New York Herald Tribune admits the policy came up against opposition. Some Latin- American delegates spoke passion ately, some voted against America, several, abstained. . ' Peru's Foreign Minister Lopez called the marines invasion "a cruel blow at the legal foundations of the inter- American system." Uruguayan papers, usually pro- American, carried "Get out, Yankee!" editorials. A long list of Venezuelan representative organisations are vehemently protesting. Uruguay, Bolivia, Mexico and Peru are known to have been critical at the O.A.S. meeting in Washington. 