 [?] Has 'Sir Robert" j aot what it takes? !i , I By "Challenger" j "HE announcement last week by the 28-year - old Sydney impresario4o-be "Sir Robert Wilkie", of a £75,000 deal to pro mote two big Austra lian fights, has caused a spate of fight-talk around Sydney's gyms and pubs. The proposed fights are for a world flyweight title bout between champion : Pone Kingpefch, of Thai land, and Rocky. Gattel- ! lari, of Australia; and a j British Empire title bout j between the British title ; holder Walter McGowa ri | and ""Rocky Gattellari. I Will the bouts take place? ! "It's a good question, for so j far "Sir Robert" hasn"t got' j much more than cheap publicity. ! though „this is one of the most j important ingredients for stag ing a successful prize-fight these days. Not only does this promote1" ring the publicity gong with a "knighthood" name for himself, but he even aims to have the Thailand king come here for the hoped-for world title bout. His departure for Bangkok for further negotiations was report ed to have drawn a send-off that would have made another Sir Robert jealous. But really, as London promo ter Solomons admits, it all comes down to whether WUkie has the financial backing. Probably one of the most startling features of the pro posed bouts is the size of the purse offered to Kingpetch— £20.088 tax free. . .Should this be realised "Sir "Robert Wilkie" will find no trouble in finding pugs to fill any future bills for him. As any fight fan knows, with the exception of Rocky Gattel lari. no Australian boxer earns enough to feed himself and any drastic change in this direction would be very welcome'. Preliminary boxers at Sydney Stadium receive 30 - per round, and wnen this is compared to their counterpart in Europe, who can . get £100 or more for eight rounds, it certainly can't be termed cash incentive. Should negotiations be com- pleted and terms met. the pro posed bouts promise to be of a high standard as all three boxers have a lot to gain from a "win, especially Rocky Gattellari. sji The best we have ORLD champion swim mer. Australia's fly ing fish Dawn Fraser, has received the ABC 1964 Sportsman of the Year Award. The a\ve»-d was granted on the brs;s of skill, abil ity. rssu'ts and most of all | t-ue soctss'ip. ABC General Manager Sir » Charles Moses; presenting the j award Saturday Night on Chan- | nel 2, expressed deep apprecia- f tion to Dawn for what she had | done for Australia, and that, no | ; doubt, goes for " all Australians. S The Channel 2 -program was a | ' star-studded affair with chain- | pions of past and present in at- S tendance. Herb Elliott, Shirley | Strickland, Jimmy. Carruthers, I Kevin Berry, Bstty Cuthbert, ! Roy Emerson, Bob Simpson, j Margaret Smith. Michele Brown, Bill Northam and crew O'Don- ! nell and Sergeant, were among j the great names of Australian j sport either mentioned or inter- j viewed. j Significant was the self-criti- cal analysis of their performan- j ces by many of the athletes. j Comments by Kevin Berry and I Dawn Fraser concerning details j of their wins at Tokyo left no ? doubt in the T.V. public's mind I of the important part science plays in sport 'today. Bill Northam, the Old Man of - the Sea. who has been lauded I repeatedly by the press for his I gold medal win in the 5.5 metre - yachting, dispelled any idea of I himself being a one-man crew, j Northam granted equal merit j to his -crew members O'Donnell 1 and Sergeant for the win. and I expressed appreciation for the j team work and comradeship = they showed. O'Donnell and Ser- I geant also received a gold medal j each. . _ j The overall impression that ! the viewer got from these sports- j and sportswomen was that there j should be a lot more sport. ! I What's it | to be? : | 'i NATIONAL conference j of physical education- j ists in Tasmania this j month will "devise a sport | "nationally suited to the j Australian temperament", j The Australian Physical Edu- j cation Association claims .Aus- I tralia.- needs a national team j game or games that will appeal i to the mass of the people.- The j Association has dismissed the | present popular sport-s for the I following reasons: — Cricket, football and coif: j "Imported, riddled with rules j and tending to over-glamorise ! the individual." j Australian Rules: An adapta- | tion of Gaelic football, cannot ! be played by women and is ex- j clusively a winter sport. | Tennis : Perhaps the nearest j to the Australian national char- | acter — but it's still imported. | It would seem most of us have j been on the wrong track for | years. What then are some suit- i able suggestions? Swimming, = surfing, -boomerang - throwing. I boozing? All of these run into j some snag. Either the sport is | imported or tco complex or in- I dividualist, or as in the case of | the last suggestion, may be too | hard on the health and the poc- I ket. | We know one "sport" that fills g the bill — a very serious game | with life or death as its goal, j and open to all. from babes-in- g amis to . great-grand-folk. ! It is a special, kind of walk- I ing — walking' in pesc rrches j mid clenior.strmivxi: I 