 "No freedom in I Australia for I Papuans" — savs MHAl m ! Speaking at a seminar held in Canberra , Professor J. D. B. I Miller exposed a particularly bad feature of the Australian col onialist attitude to the people of New Guinea . Hp said onlv very few New Guineans could get immediate and direct experience ot Aus tralia "because we do not allow them to stay for long, except as students". Mr. Dirona Abe M.H.A. and Under- Secretary for Health in the New Guinea parliament said that his spon sors had to put up a bond of £100 before he was granted a permit for a one month's visit to Australia to attend the seminar. Mr. Abe, a Papuan told reporters: &lt;I find it difficult to understand why I am called a British subject but cannot live in Australia. There-seems to be no freedom at t. all in Australia for Papuans." He said the restrictions are causing "bad feeling" in the Territory. The ordinance covering this was forced through the old Legislative Council by the Administration but was strongly opposed by Mr. John Guise, who is now the leader of the House of As- .cpmhlv. Mr. Guise pointed out that this legis lation in one part gave New Guineans the right to go outside their country but by putting impossible financial restrictions (the £100 bond) they were prevented from travelling. Fiercely resented To say that this is causing bad feeling is an understatement, it is fiercely resented by most literate New Guineans. It also exposes the attitude of the Administration to the peoples of New Guinea. It it was the desire of the Administration to rapidly advance the skill and knowledge of the people to the point where the New Guineans could develop their own economy then they would be encouraging New Guineans to come to Australia to gain experience and knowhow. so that the economy could be quickly placed on a sound footing. It is. inevitable that New Guineans would also gain some knowledge of the labour movement. They would see and experience the better conditions won in bitter strug gle, by the Australian trade unions and would seek to use these methods in New Guinea. This would not suit the monopoly- planters and it does not require any profound reasoning to work" Out whose interests aire being fostered by the Australian Government and its New Guinea Administration. It also goes to show whose interests were paramount when the Federal Government refused to ratify the Charter of Human Rights brought down and passed by the General j Assembly of United Nations. This Charter provides among many other things for "everyone to have the right to leave any country, in cluding his own, f and to return to his country." - Professor Miller has done a good job in exposing this state of affairs, and his actions should gain the en- ! dorsement of most Australians.,. j 