 10,000 sign petition ! demanding government action on prices Ten thousand people in NSW have signed a peti tion demanding government action to control prices. "THE petition was present ed to the NSW Parlia- ment at the opening session last week by a deputation from the Union of Austra lian Women. The signatures had been gather ed all over New South Wales by the UAW and the Trades' Union Women's Committees. This follows the decision of the N.S.W. Labor Council to take a dep utation to the Askin Government to demand that they introduce effec tive price control. Mr. J. Kenny, Secretary of the Council, told the delegates that the N.S.W. govern ment has the power to legislate to control prices. The UAW petition asked Parlia ment to "initiate the holding of a Premiers' Conference to discuss the granting of power nescessary to en able Commonwealth legislation for Federal control of prices and pro fits" was presented to the house by Mr. L. J. Ferguson (Lab. Fairfield) and Mr. C. A. Johnston (Lab. Co- bar). Before taking the petition to Parliament the women gave out a thousand leaflets in George Street Sydney, and carried placards saying "High prices bleed us whiter than white." jpERTH: The State G-overnment has power to control prices of goods produced in Western Aus tralia. At present this power is used on a very small list of goods, and through such bodies as the Potato «fe Onion Marketing Board, the Egg Board, Milk Board. The price of bread is reviewed twice a year. Increases in the price of a 2 lb. loaf of bread are limited to Sd. for a 5/- per ton increase in the price of flour. Apart from the national price in creases arising from the budget, ov er recent weeks the following list (incomplete) of . goods and services have increased: Bread' 2d. a loaf. e Milk lid. a pint. 0 Railfreights up 2i% to '11%. 0 Cheese 2d. a pound, 0 Hospital fees. 0 Water Rates. 0 Gas & Electricity A/c charge introduced— 9/- a quarter. 0 From October 1— Car Insurance up 20%. Bus fares — 3d. for 4—5 sections. Metropolitan rail fares up to 5d. 0 Forecast for the State Budget: Car licence fees. Stamp duty. 0 University fees . will increase by approx 25% for 1966. — 0 Potatoes that rose sharply be cause of the drought-caused shortage in Eastern States still remain high. South Australia fDELAIDE: Under the exlst'ng 1 prices legislation, power exists to declare goods and services to be .controlled and to establish j prices committees with consumer j representatives, Action to use these powers, to gether with the State restoration of quarterly adjustments according to price fluctuations, would win unprec edented support for the Labor Gov ernment as well as providing a lead to what must be done on a national scale to force the Menzies Government to take similar action. Condemnation of Menzies' Budget was made by a mass meeting of Ab attoirs workers last week. The men declared that it pla.ced further burdens on the backs of the working people and they called upon the A.C.TU. to launch a vigorous campaign to achieve. a decent living wage to counter the burdens. The Adelaide branch of the Plumbers'- Union decided at its Aug ust monthly meeting to launch a campaign by its members employed by the Commonwealth Department of Works which will be designed to ob tain the Commonwealth service in crements and accumulative sick leave already being enjoyed by many Commonwealth employees. The meeting criticised the Depart ment for sheltering behind a re markably complex wage fixing sys tem which grants increments for some plumbers and not for others. 