 Opening the door for "liar, perjurer, pimp" V A/HEN the Petrov Commis sion "on Espionage" was set up in 1 954 by the Men- - ztes, Government, it had the initial suppo rt of the Federal rarnamenrary Lsuor r-arxy. That party, in which Industrial Group (now D.L.P.) influence was then strongs-took the view that the Communist Party alone was under attack. B;, fr 15 days after the opening of the her. lag the name of Dr. H. V. Evatt, then leader of the Australian Labor Party, was mentioned and a damaging statement made about him by the Commission. Prom then on. it became clear that the Communist Party was; not the only target of the Government perpetrators of the Petrov con spiracy. They were also- out to destroy the Labor Party leader and,, through him, the party itself. They aimed to discredit every organisation and individual devoted to furthering the cause of peace and progress Before the Commission ended, a great range, of personalities, whose actions had been displeasing to the Liberal Party, had appeared before the Commission Mo "spies" None of them were convicted as "spies". But many were subjected to widely-publicised accusations. Their denials were not given any thing like the same publicity. The Petrov experience served as a war: ing — above all to the Labor | Party — as to what may be expected | to come from the current "White Paper on. Communism" move if it is not blocked by the united action of the people Use of Communism as a bogey i to paralyse all opposition was prae- | tised by the Nazis. Released from a Hitler concentra tion camp in 1945, Pastor Martin ' Neimoller said: "Hitler attacked the Communists. I lamented, but did nothing. Hitler attacked the trade unions. I lamented but did noth ing. Hitler then attacked the Jews. I lamented but did nothing. "Hitler then attacked the Church. I acted, but then it was too late." In 1954, in the Petrov Commission it was alliaged that three of Dr. Evatt's secretaries had supplied information which appeared in "Document J", one of the papers allegedly given the Menzies secret police by Petrov , Boldly appearing at the Commis sion in person Dr. Evatt exposed the "document" as a forgery and a fraud. But the damage was done and Menzies won the elections both in 1954 and 1955. Many people who had not been closely following the Commission were deceived by press propaganda into thinking some spies really had been discovered, although the Commission admitted they had not. Dissolution Bill The Labor Party could have pro fited from a similar experience over the Communist Party Dissolu tion Bill, introduced by Menzies in 1950 At the time the "Bill was wel comed by Labor Rightwingers and - the Federal Caucus decided merely to seek a minor amendment. However Menzies, during a sub sequent debate revealed one of the bill's true purpose? He was discussing what might happen in a future Senate deadlock ; when Mr. Ward, Labor interjected: "You might 'declare' a couple of : Labor senators" (The bill provided for penalties on people who might be "declared" as Comunists). C Menzies: "I am obliged for the suggestion. I can think of one or two, or at least one, Labor senator whom it would be perfectly -easy to declare. "1 can also think of one member of this House who might escape only by the skin of his teeth." Chifley: "Don't make threats." Menzips: "I never do make threats I don't carry outl" Senator McKenna (Lab.), said the bill could be used to "rope in every member of the A.L.P." Bishop Burgmann, of Canberra, Goulburn, said: "I am sure a way would be found to bring a person whom the Government seriously wished to liquidate under the power of the Act, whatever the name by which he is known." Rev. Alan Walker, opposing the Bill, called for a blow in support of freedom of thought. Many Australians before they went to vote in the Referendum on Sep tember 22, 1951, (when the Govern ment was defeated) recalled that Menzies had already shown what he might do under the Bill. List of suspects hi the early stages of the debate in 1950, Menzies had released a list of citizens eligible to be declared as Communists under the Bill. The list had been compiled by Menzies' secret police (who also, of course, would compile the White Paper now projected). Within 24 hours Menzies had haa to make nine corrections to the list and apologise for the error, which could have deprived the persons concerned of liberty and even o life. -p The words of the late J. Chifley are as appropriate today as on the day he warned aa'v the anti-Communist Bill, on May 9, 1950: "One thing that the Labor Party, the people of this country and mem bers of this Parliament have aiway held very dear is the right to ire expression of opinion. "The dissolution Bill abandons that principle. It strikes a very heart of justice. It P the door for the liar, the pe J and the pimp to make chargf ;\t0 damn men's reputations do that in secret without having , substantiate or prove any charg ' It is for just those reafn®houl(i the "White Paper" proposal sh „ be squashed. 