 WA Govt. . workers win rise PERTH: About 19,000 workers in WA Government industries and undertakings will receive increment pay- ments based" on length of ser vice as a result of a decision by Chief Industrial Commis sioner Schnaars. Highest amount granted is £1/7/6 for a tradesman after completing four years' service. The Trades and Labor Council be gan negotiations about a yea-r ago with the government, asking for in crements of at least £2/7/6 for gov ernment workers after eight years of service. The scale granted is: Year Trades- Other Adult Adult man Males Females 1st nil. nil . nil 2nd 10/- 7/6 6/- 3rd 10/- 7/6 6/ 4th 17/6 12/6 8/- 5th 37/6 17/6 13/- & thereafter In the case of the railways, where an industry allowance of 15/- already applies, a tradesman will get £2/2/6 after four years, compared with a total service payment of £2/17/0 af ter eight years in Victoria. In some Industries the difference will be great er. The increment payments become part of the wage a-nd therefore en ter into calculations of overtime hol iday pay etc. Past service will count, so that adult workers who have al ready served four years will get the full rate immediately. But the order does not apply to hospitals (other than tradesmen on maintenance work) and the S.EC., Which will be subject to further neg- Df-.hpr instriiment.alit.ies not covered are fire brigades, Govern ment Print, Wundowie Charcoal Ir on workers, Rottnest Board, Rural and Industries Bank and University, al so to be negotiated. Mr. Schnaars rejected the demand, regarded as important by rail work ers, for a flat rate of increment payments to all categories of work ers- Sections covered include Govern ment building workers, railway em ployees, engine drivers, construction and maintenance workers, forestry and timber workers, storemen, tran sport workers, engineering trades men, moulders, ship painters and dockers and others. The most positive feature of the order is the blow it deals to the Employers' Federation and Liberal Government plan to block over-award payments in this State. he decision comes after months ot stalling by the Government, dur ing which railway, workers and. others waged a vigorous campaign. The T.L.C. was given power to negotiate on behalf of all the workers con cerned. 