 rage y Laws to put big business in the political saddle SYDNEY : The Askin State Liberal Government had signified its intention to pass laws to put "big business politics" in the saddle in local government in New South Wales, a Communist Party spokes man said this week. """HE spokesman, Mr. W. Brown (Sydney district secretary, CPA) sharply con demned as "anti-democratic" the Government's decision to legislate to: Abolish proportional representa tion. (Excepting Armidale where it has existed since 1928). Abolish compulsory voting. Abolish candidate groups on bal lot papers. Abolish election of Mayors or presidents by popular vote. "What is behind these moves? "Proportional representation is a more democratic form of election that gives a minority holding a definite proportion of support, a degree of representation in local Councils. The Liberal-Country Party coalition want to stop this," Mr. Brown said. A tradition "Compulsory voting, a traditional Australian democratic form, as it now stands ensures a substantial local gov ernment election vote by the average worker and ratepayer. Behind the move to abolish it lies the Liberal Party hope that the numbers voting in local elections will be narrowed to the advantage of the big local business and landowning interests. "Still further, any end to candidate groups on ballot papers would also be to Liberal Party and local big busi ness advantage, as it would blur clear divisions between real people's can didates and vested interest nominees," Mr. Brown added. "Together with these snide undemo cratic moves, the Liberal Party is throwing up the old cry 'no politics in local government.' The Communist Party of Australia has for years ex posed this false slogan, which in real ity means nothing but 'big business politics' in local government. "For example, if Communist Party and Labor Party candidates did not nominate this would leave the field clear to big business candidates who, while masquerading as 'individuals' would really be the hand-picked spokesman, of big business interests. Already big business get far too big a hand out in rate rebates and special local advantages. What is wanted is more political spokesmen for the peo ple in local government— particularly more Communist councillors who would fight business monopolies in the people's interests," he said. Pattern takes shape Mr, Brown added that the latest Liberal-C.P. moves were part of saustained attacks on democratic local government including: Attempts to change Sydney City Council wards to suit big retail ers. Changes in the Act to allow country county councils to retail electricity more cheaply to monopo lies than householders. Cut hack the roan allocations to City Council and some other Councils by 75 per cent. Change the wards in Banks- town Municipality without previous public knowledge. "All these moves to interfere with local government .voting forms call for maximum united protests fro.m the Communist Praty, Labor Party, and the people generally," he said. 