 Dailies were wrong and Vietnam leaflet right! CAMPAIGN by sections of the daily press, at tempting to indict the Com munist Partv on allegations of "intimidating soldiers and their families" has fallen flat in the face of facts. Some attacks have centred around a Communist leaflet, published early in May, showing American-led troops entering a South Vietnam village with the caption: "This is no job fcr Australian lads!" However, all the facts about the Vietnam war, including those pub lished in the leaflet, continue to show that the Communist Party is correct when it says: the Govern ment's decision to send Australians into the wrong and hopeless war in Vietnam is a crime against Australian soldiers, the Australian people and Australian relations with the Asian peoples. Respect f©r soldiers Mr. R. Dixon, the party's presi dent, told a press conference in Sydney last week:. "Our efforts on the Vietnam issue are directed against the Menzies Government's policy. "Its decision to send troops to Vietnam places our soldiers in an intolerable position, fighting for an unjust cause, among people who are hostile to the intervention armies, defending colonialism in a conflict that it cannot win," he said. Letters sent by the Communist Party Central Committee to the "Daily Telegraph" and the "Sun" in Sydney, refuting their false state ments and implications, have not been published. Here Is the letter to the "Tele graph":— "Dear Sir: On June 9 the "Daily Telegraph" published a story headed "Reds Tell Lies to Troops". It claimed that a Communist leaf let had distorted a caption with a picture taken in a Vietnam village, headed, "This Is No Job for Aus tralian Lads". As stated in the leaflet the photo was reproduced direct from the "Sydney Morning Herald" (27/4/65) which printed it on its front page using, this caption: "The anguish and terror of the Vietnam war is clearly reflected in the face of this woman shield ing her half-naked child as U.S. marines charged into her home looking for a sniper. Nearby her husband throws his body over his son cradling the child's head in his hand in an effort to protect him. The marines were on duty when called to the village of My Son near Da Sang on Saturday." The caption used on the leaflet was a fair summary of the above, stat ing that the picture "shows Vietnam peasants protecting their children as U S. Marines burst into their vil lage". f i There is, therefore, no basis to suggest that the leaflet "distorted" the caption. In fact, however, the picture it self (and we have other similar photographs) bears out the repeated evidence that the Vietnamese villagers fear the U.S. forces and their puppet troops above all, and with good reason, in view of the U.S. use of napalm, poison spraying, gas and other horrible methods against vil lages. You will recall, too, the wide spread comment aroused by a pic ture, also reproduced in the Sydney daily press, of a peasant woman flee- iner as Saieron troons sat fire t.n her village. . Your claim that the leaflet was distributed by the C.P.A. to soldiers and their families is false. The leaflet was published on May 3 and distributed in the normal way to workplaces, in the streets and to interested organisations. The leaflet, like all Communist Party of Australia policy statements concerning Vietnam, was aimed against the policy of the Menzies Government, which alone is respon sible for sending Australian troops overseas. We respect the soldiers and sym pathise with the position of . their families. We believe hundreds of thousands of Australians would agree that the Government is wrong in sending Australian soldiers to do what "is no job for Australian lads". Contradictory statements about the role of the Australian troops in the Vietnam war, between Sir Robert Menzies in the U.S.A. and Cabinet Ministers in Australia, show the need for more truth about the war. Newspapers such as your own have a responsibility to uncover the truth, and not merely echo Washington- Canberra policy. Active intervention in the h' s Vietnam war by the Menzies :n- ment can only harm A ta's future relations with As'-> We are confident ti t>uelic pres sure will ultimate ' f ;\;e a reversal of this policy Yours Eamiiully, 