 Unionist returns from Nth. Vietnam SYDNEY: "The Vietnamese people don't blame the Australian troops or the American people for the aggression in Vietnam, but the govern ments of these countries", a builders' laborer said in Sydney last week. "A/TR. J. 'McNAMARA (an executive iVX member of the NSW Branch BLF) was interviewed by Tribune on his return to Australia after a 10 day visit to North Vietnam. He and three unionists from Vic toria attended as observers the sec ond International Trade Union Con ference for Solidarity with the People of Vietnam held earlier this month in Hanoi. Mr. McNamara said the decision of the Menzies Government to send Aus tralian troops to South Vietnam is giving Australia a. "very bad image in Asia and is regarded as a direct act of agression aeainst the Vietnam- ese people fighting for their national independence." He said that unionists from 50 countries of five continents attended the six day conference in Hanoi. He and other members of the dele gation were invited to attend the Con ference while in Ct|ina during the May Day celebrations. Mr. McNamara said he saw no evidence to support the claim that North Vietnam was sending troops and supplies to the South. "I did however see the destruction caused by US bombing of the North, including a hospital and a school," he said. The North Vietnamese claim urn over 300 US planes have been shot down since they began their bombing of North Vietnam. The North Vietnamese also have evidence that the US are poisoning crops in both North and South Viet nam, he said. The three Victorian members of the delegation were Messrs. N. Wallace (organiser Victorian Branch Builders v Labourers Federation and delegation leader); G. Smith (executive member of the Plumbers Union) and T. Wor rell (Painters' Union delegate at New port workshops). A statement issued by the delega tion said: "Many representatives (at the conference) spoke of workers in their countries wanting to volunteer to go if needed and fight on behalf of the Vietnamese in both North and South Vietnam." "The Vietnamese welcomed these offers, but said that provided the US does not escalate the war further either by large numbers of US troops going to South Vietnam or by in creased attacks on North Vietnam, then they would' not need to call foi assistance by way of volunteers." Mr. McNamara said that four fifths of the South had already been liber ated by the South Vietnamese people themselves. 