 Bonn s provocative meeting in Berlin is illegal SYDNEY: West Ger many has no right to any part of Berlin, which is 110 miles inside the (East) German Democra tic Republic. Professor Frederick Rose, the Australian director of the Institute of Social Anthropo logy in East Berlin said this earlier this week on his arri val in Australia. Professor Rose pointed out that Berlin, under the Potsdam Treaty of 1945, came under a fouT-power con trol. These four powers were the USA, USSR, Britain and France. It is illegal for the West German Parliament to hold a meeting in Ber lin, a city which is NOT in West Germany and which does NOT come under the jurisdiction of that Govern ment. Professor Rose, who is revisiting Australian for further anthropological studies, said that the determination of the West German Government to hold a meeting of its Bundestag (Parlia ment) in Berlin showed that the ex treme Right wing militarists were in charge there. He said that the West German mili tarists now felt strong enough to "thumb their noses" at the Western allies who appeared to have been try ing to restrain them from this par ticular piece of provocation. The West German drive to seize West Berlin was part of their gener ally aggressive policy, he said. The leaders' arrogance was related to the decision to cease prosecution of Nazi war criminals as trom 1969. Although world pressure had forced the West German Government to abandon its original decision to stop all prosecutions of Nazis as from May 8 this year, a compromise had been fixed up which would in practice al low most Nazis to escape. Professor Rose said he lived about 60 yards from the wall marking the Berlin frontier between the GDR and the (West) German Federal Republic, Life in Berlin was normal. So-called "escapes" to the West were few. On the other hand, increasing numbers of people, especially young people, were now arriving from the West. Production of consumer goods in the GDR was improving all the time, though it had not yet reached the levels of Australia or West Gcrmanv. Professor Rose said that on buying a paper after his arrival in Sydney last week he found himself described as "an exile in East Germany". Being questioned on this he said that he attended last year's Inter national Anthropological Congress in Moscow and was very disappointed that although Australian anthropolo gists are verv liiehlv regarded there was only one Australian there, other than himself. (Except for the Soviet delegation, the largest delegation there was the American.) Professor Rose asked, with a smile: "Who is the exile?" He said that lie was visiting Austra lia to study the Aborigines in modern industrial conditions. Before the war he had studied them in primitive con ditions and, during his 1962 visit, in a transition stage. Professor Rose's next book, The Winds of Change in Central Australia, written after his visit to Angas Downs in 1962, is soon to be published. His last book, published in 1960, on Kinship, Age Structure and Mar riage on Groote Eylandt, was favor ably reviewed in the anthropological journals of many countries, both capi talist (particularly America) and socialist. Professor Rose formerly held a posi tion with the Australian Department of Territories. He was a victim of the Petrov frame-up in 1954. Soon afterwards he was offered his present Chair in a famous German university. PROFESSOR F. ROSE 