 PROTESTS GROW AGAINST BASIC WAGE DECISION MELBOURNE: Five thousand trade unionists marched through Melbourne streets last week in protest against the decision of the Arbitration Gom- to freeze the basic wage. rpHEY carried the banners demand ing a £22 basic wage and sup porting a 24-hour stoppage. Earlier, a meeting of 7000 unionists in the Festival Hall overwhelmingly rejected the Melbourne Trades Hall Council's report, and voted against the A.C.T.U. executive's decision to appeal to the Arbitration Commission to review its wage judgment. They did this to show their deter mination to see industrial action for a substantial increase in the basic wage. The marchers halted at the eight- hour-day memorial monument opposite the Trades Hall where the A.C.T.U. executive was meeting. Over 1500 trade unionists who stopped for the meeting passed a resolution calling for a 24-hour nation-wide' stoppage for higher wages. The A.C.T.U. Executive voted against a .stoppage made a new application to the Commission aimed at getting over the worst features of the wages decision and to raise the amount of the increase. It said that if a new approach to the Commission fails, then the trade union movement will be forced to seek justice outside of arbitration. ' State Labor Councils were also called on to organise protest meet ings in workplaces and mass rallies. The national convention of the Miners' Federation last week in Sydney, condemned the wage decision as "outrageous" and called for a £22 basic wage as a minimum family living wage. SA call A DELAIDE.— The A.E.U. Adelaide district committee called for a 24-hour protest stoppage, declar ing that the unions will have no future confidence in the Arbitration Commission. The Boilermakers' union proposed that the Federal Metal Trades Fed eration rely on collective bargain ing. The Plumbers' Union supported a 24-hour stoppage and the restoration of quarterly adjustments .to the State basic wage. Meetings of the South Australian Rubber Mills Shop Committee and workers at Perry Engineering and Forward Johns and Waygoods de manded action for wages increases. OERTH. — A mass meeting of 49 shop stewards from six joint rail unions at Midlands Workshops last Monday carried out their de cision to walk off the job at 2.15 p.m. They went to the offices of the Minister for Railways, where they pressed claim? for a £4 service al lowance. NSW criticism CYDNEY. — The N.S.W. Labor Council last Thursday endorsed the A.C.T.U. proposals regarding the wage decision. However, many speakers were Continued, Page 12 BASIC WAGE Continued from Page 1 critical that it did hot call for in dustrial action to back a new ap proach to the . Court. At the previous meeting, : the Council unanimously called for the A.C.T.U. executive to consider holding a national protest stoppage. The Labor Council secretary, "Mr. J. Kenny, said that he does not, want to see a direct turn to collective bargaining - "We don't want to be the ones to desiroy the . arbitration system," he said. He added: The Commission's deci sion must be opposed, and if they fail to heed the voice of the trade, union movement then we may have to find an alternative to determine wage fixation.; r It was now his duty, he said, to discuss with unions me holding , of protest: meetings in workplaces and - to call , mass rallies. Mr T. McDonald (N.S.W. assistant secretary BWIU) opposed the ACTU decision. He supported the legal moves but said it was useless unless backed by mass action. If we allow the decision to go un challenged, further attacks will be ' made on living standards. . The decision itself shows wo should not only rely on legal moves i Answering Marsh, he said: "There is I nothing to prevent 24-hour stoppages ! being held on an industry basis , metal, building maritime, etc." "We. have just seen a successfu 24-hour transport stoppage in N.S.W ' "The Queensland margin campaign was based on a workshop level with mass action and increases from 21/- to 42/- were gained," he said. Mr. J. Heifernan (federal secretary Metal Trades Federation Unions) said some criticism of the' ACTU was justified. He thought it correct for the Com mission's decision to be challenged in court but the opinion of his union (Sheet Metal Workers) was that he mould make it worth while and go .or something much more than 13/-. j He was in Melbourne when 7,000 ! demonstrated (Thursday) and turned 'Own the ACTO" noposals. . "We should listen to what the i wo risers say. I know workers are waiting tor a lead, we should not . vy and dampen clown the move | ment,!" he said. 