 coiiig skies j IB PERTH: Communist Party member Lindsay 11 Addis contested the Shire of Collie, Town Ward I election, in the recent Local Government elections, % on a policy that the Shire Council should campaign 3 to secure the widest possible employment level in 1 Collie by: x if 1. Continuing to press the demand already endorsed by the Council that the 70-30 ratio of deep mine to open cut coal should be restored. 2. That the State Government should be pressed to write into all agreements to up grade iron ore a provision that a percent age of local coke should be used in the process. Such a provi sion would be the basis of a coke industry in Collie and a new market for Collie's expand ing coal production. There were five candidates for three seats in this election. Under a recent amendment to the Local Government Act (where there are two or more vacancies to be filled), the votes are counted on a points system and the votes are counted against the candi dates. In this case No. 5 vote counted as five votes against the candidate, No. 4 as four votes against, No. 3 as three votes against, No. 2 as two votes against and No. 1 as one vote against him. The votes against each candidate are added up and the three candidates wi.th the lowest number of votes against them were elected. Mr. Addis received 1,337 votes against him. The other four candidates received 668, 723, 1,070 and 1,332 respectively. N© breakdown After the count the returning officer refused to make available a break down of figures, claiming that he is only required to declare the number of points against each candidate. However, Mr. Addis wrote to the Collie Shire Council, who over-rode the returning officer and released the first preference figures subse quently published in the "Collie Mail." They were: Roach 155, Smith 85, Addis 52, Hunter 26 and Simpson 24. Though Addis received third highest vote, he was not elected for the third vacancy. Mr. Addis has stressed that as this was the first election at which thy new system operated it is essential that a thorough analysis be made of the figures to see whether or not the new system is less democratic than before. Public opinion in Collie is generally critical of the points system. A fre quent remark is: "Who thought up this queer method of counting?" 