 ALGERIAN PEOPLE BUCK NEW REGIME From RUPERT LOCKWOOD MOSCOW: The Boumedienne junta has not yet been able to establish itself in the face of bitter opposition of the Algerian people and refusal of the trade unions to co-operate. this Is the conclusion of two | "Humanite" correspondents, Robert Lambottek and Ray mond Pracines who were ar rested and expelled from Al giers. In an article in "Humanite" (July 4) the two correspondents report that at the -time they were deported last week there were strikes everywhere and systematic sabotage paralysing many activities of the new regime: They expose the junta's repeated claim over Radio Algiers that "Not a single drop of blood was spilled' in the coup.'' Killings they say, began before dawn on June 19. The villas of two leaders of the Political Bureau of the FLN Liberation front, Hadji Ben Alia who is President of the Alger ian National Assembly and Ait El Hocine who is responsible for work in mass organisations, were wrecked by bazooka fire and both are believed killed, along with the guards, during or after the attack. Shooting All enquiries about President Ben Bella's fate since his overthrow re main. unanswered.. It is claimed that some volleys were fired into the air, but corres pondents say they were fired at crowds demonstrating on balconies in Algiers. They heard an old wo man cry to a Boumedienne soldier "My son, how1 dare you strike your own mother." She finished prostrate on the ground. In Oran "Humanite" correspon dents lay flat on their stomachs as troops fired on . children who. were chanting Ben Bella slogans. They cite reports from Bone of wives and. children of imprisoned FlN men: being shot and of. soldiers entering a hospital to execute the wounded. Correspondents say women are most active among those demonstra ting everywhere for Ben Bella', be cause Ben Bella promised them equal, rights but he hias now been re proached by Algiers Radio for this policy. The coup came after Ben Bella's June 16 announcement— not prev iously reported — that five govern ment leaders including the anti-soc ialist Foreign Minister Bouteflika were to be dismissed. All the- five are now in Boumedienne's junta. Boute- : flika has had several conferences with American Ambassador, William : Porter. Egypt, the strongest State on the African continent, is now clearly op-' posed to Boumedienne, as are Afri can Commonwealth members. CHINA HELPS 1 BOUMEDIENNE 17IRST to give recognition to the Boumedienne regime was the Chinese Government. An Australian correspondent writes direct from Algiers that there have been many spontaneous protest act ions in Algiers and fighting and death in the provinces, in support of the deposed president Ben Bella. Part of the building specially er ected for the Afro-Asian conference was blown up by Algerian workers, he writes. Boumedienne arrested many Egyptian technicians who had been working on the building and blamed Nasser. About 7,000 Algerian : workers demonstrated against Boum edienne at the opening of the Afro- Asian foreign ministers' meeting. "IMPERIALISTS" A New China newsagency report from Algiers dated June 27 said: "The imperialists and their agents have launched unbridled attacks on the Algerian Council of Revolution (the Boumedienne regime), spreading the propaganda that the situation in Algeria is chaotic, provoking and en gineering disruptive activities and even resorting to terrorist methods. On June 25 they engineered an ex plosion incident in the conference hall ..." 