 USSR, India add condemnation of Menzies on Vietnam MOSCOW: A Soviet Government warning to the Australian Government about its military intervention in Vietnam and forth - right declarations by Indian Premier Shastri and Soviet Premier Kosygin for an immediate end to foreign military interference in Vietnam have further underlined Australia's deteriorating diplo - mafic position . '"HE only foreign armies : intervening in Vietnam, are the American, and Aus tralia (with token groups of New Zealand and South Korean special troops) . Shastri, now visiting the Soviet Un ion, told thousands of Soviet and foreign representatives at a Kremlin welcome: "India and the Soviet Union stand shoulder to shoulder in the struggle against colonialism and imperialism. Colonialism is yet alive, and must be wiped off the face of the world. "We are grieved by the situation in Vietnam, which constitutes a threat to peace. We are of the opinion that all military interference from outside must be stopped there. "The bombing of North Vietnam must be stopped and an appropriate atmosphere must be created for a peaceful settlement." Kosygin, welcoming Shastri and stressing the strong India-Soviet friendship, said "It is the duty of all freedom-loving people to help the victims of imperialist machinations. This is how the Soviet Union under stands its duty. If one nation is em slaved today, another will be in dan ger tomorrow." Kosygin called for "even greater co hesion of all anti-imperialist, anti- colonial forces in militant solidarity to repulse imperialist reaction." A Sovietskaya Rossia article headed "What Price an Australian"? says that Australia has taken a dangerous step against its own interests and is be coming an accomplice in American aggression. Violates law To Australian Ambassador J. R. Rowland, who was asked to come to the foreign Office, deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Zimyanin made the following statement: "On April 29, 1965 the Government of Australia announced its decision to send an infantry battalion to South Vietnam for taking part in an aggres sive war conducted in Vietnam by the USA. In this way Australia is start ing on the road of direct and ' un provoked aggression against the Viet namese people. "This act of the Government, of Aus tralia constitutes a violation of the most important norms of international law and of the 1954 Geneva Agree ments oh Vietnam. The Government of the Democratic Republic of Viet nam, in a statement of May 1, sharply criticised this step of the Australian Government and strongly protested against it. "The Soviet Government fully sup ports this statement Of the DRV Gov ernment. ' " - "The abovesaid decision of the Aus tralian Government is part of a course of action hostile to- the Viet namese people and designed to sup:! port the United States aggression in Vietnam. "The Australian Government is known to have, made repeated state ments about its full support of Unit.?d ; States actions in Vietnam, specifically American air bombings of DRV terri tory which represent a breach of the most elementary standards of inter national law. " "Australian leading, statesmen open ly justify the use by American armed forces in Vietnam of such barbarous weapons as gas and napalm. The Aus tralian Government's policy toward Vietnam, is running counter to the interests of strengthening world peace and international detente. "The Soviet Government feels it self bound in duty to call the atten tion, of the Government of Australia to the fact that, by following the aforementioned policy with regard to Vietnam and by starting on the road of direct aggression against the Viet namese people, the Government of Australia assumed, a serious respon- 