 Advice «i Sowiet q—inregsary "LET AMERICANS GO BACK HOME!" MOSCOW: A 48-gun sciSsife celebrating the cnniversciry ©f the j 1917 revolution resounding through Moscow was mode more fes- J i five by the upward lift in production and living standards and j ! hopes for an improved international atmosphere. j TP"0 emphasise that the Sov iet Union had the neces sary additions to strength to safeguard peace, rockets of all kinds — from heavy inter continental ballistic missiles to clusters for anti-aircraft barrages — rumbled through the Red Square. After tanks, rockets, arm oured cars, artillery and long lines of soldiers, sailors and airmen, came floats, tableaus. workers, farmers and a range of sportsmen from women glider pilots to male oarsmen to emphasise nearly half a cen tury of progress in peaceful labor and recreation; At the 48 th anniversary meeting in the Kremlin, Vice- Premier Dmitri Polyansky, of the Central Committee Presid ium, said: "It is our belief that in present-day conditions it is possible to make international relations take a turn for the ! better." j Denouncing the American | war of intervention in Viet- | nam, he said : 1 'The time is not j far distant when-the American ! troops will have to think not of ! victory but of how to extricate | themselves from the morass of | this disgraceful war, how to get I back where they came from." I Assistance s I Polyansky stressed that the j Soviet Union had rendered and | continued rendering "full poli- tical support and required eco- J nomic and military assistance" j to fraternal Vietnam. ! He warned that if West Ger- j many is given any form of 1 access to nuclear arms "'The j socialist countries will not re main indifferent." On Indonesia, Polyansky said J 'The Soviet people cannot help I feeling anxiety over the fact j that in some countries which j maintain good relations with us j an anti-communist campaign is j being drummed up and progres- : sive leaders are arrested and jailed. We make no secret of ! our conviction that in no coun- ! try is it possible to ensure social j Drogress under the flag of anti- 1 "ommunism." On relations with China, olyansky said: "For our part ve did all that was possible to 'mprove relations. Now the question of development of re gions between the Soviet hrion and China, between the "ommunisf Party of the Soviet Tnion and the Communist Party :-f China is up to the Chinese leaders." . » . November 7 and May Day are two of the main holidays in the Soviet Union. This was j part of Red Square last May Day. j 