 BWIU Conference Call to protect union elections CYDNEY: The annual NSW Conference of the Build ing Workers' Industrial Un ion last week in Sydney de clared that' "union elections should not be political con tests". "Any attempt to turn union elec tions into political contests by any political party must be regarded by the trade union movement as a threat to the freedom and independence of the unions and resisted to the ut most." 'Tills declaration was contained in the Australian Labor Party report pre sented by the NSW president of the 'union, Mr. F. O. 'Sullivan, and unan imously supported by the delegates representing 20,000 BWIU members 'throughout the State. Interference "Pursuance of a policy of political interference in union elections can only assist the anti-working class forces and create disunity in the ranks of the 'labor movement," the BWIU delegates said. "An example of this is the recent criticisms of ALP union officials in Newcastle by ALP deputy leader Mr. Whitlam and the reaction to this by the labor movement in Newcastle." The building workers declared sup- iport for a Presidential Minute by the president of the Newcastle Trades Hall » ' Council (Mr. R. Miller) and unanim ously adopted by the Council on July 1. The BWIU conference strongly con demned Justice Kirby's rejection of ilhe ACTU's new wage application to ihe dealt with by the Arbitration Com mission. A. telegram to ACTU president (Mr. Monk) called on the ACTU to organise industrial action by industry stop pages on national and/or State basis 4n support of a demand for a full living wage and margins in accord ance vith ACTU policy. 'The conference adopted as union policy -a demand for a £22 a week basic wage and a £10/12/- margin for skill. Following a report by the Newcastle iDisiU'ii.t secretary (Mr. J. Foley) Con ference unanimously declared its op- posh ion ru ihe continuation of the war h; Vietnam and called for the withdrawal ci' all foreign troops in- .icludiuq An-: julians and the cessation of cubing of North Vietnam &'::" urn it-solvid to take all pos sii-1: r ' 1i furl her strengthen the iunj':/ o building ' unions in ;NA>V a dt-: : d that formal dis- «cu---' i.-. ha wis!: c hr building uuh. in &lt; '. V.-.' I- mning an associa tion ot L "'.ai'iiy. unions in NSW. 