 Socialist Havana has ! 5 ' I Mr. Whippy — and a ( prowling U.S. warship ! fS /' I From ERIC AARONS and PETE THOMAS, l i in Havana. Cuba. I1 AS housewives anywhere would be, Mrs; Eugenia Curra and Mrs. Maria Elena \ Iglesia were both apologetic because, not having expected (visitors, they had not spruced up their flats. But they made us welcome. Mrs. Curra and Mrs. Iglesia were two on whom we called during a visit to the East . Havana com munity, in Socialist Cuba's capital. This East Havana section is a group of impressive and attract- | tive buildings in which some | 10,000 people live in flats built by | the Government from 1960 on, the | year after Cuba's revolution. Mrs. Curra and Mrs. Iglesia be came our hostesses by random selections: Mrs. Curra because she chanced to be leaning over the balcony of her first-floor flat as we came by, and Mrs. Iglesia be- j cause she happened to have a flat in another building on the top I floor (the ninth) to which the lift went and because her two children were playing in the corridor as we got out of the lift. Their flats were pleasant. Mrs. Curra's flat — in which she lives with her husband (a former water- \ . side worker, and now a Govern ment port official) and two-year- old child — has three bedrooms, together with sitting room, kitchen, bathroom-toilet, and laundry. Mrs. Iglesia's flat has a similar number of rooms, but is of dif ferent design. Floors are tiled or of terrazzo. So are kitchen and bathroom walls. Gas stoves are provided with the flats, and. there is hot- water supply. Other amenities (refrigerators, TV sets, etc) are provided by the tenants. BOTH flats were cheerfully deco rated with pictures. In Mrs. Igle sia's flat, a certificate of merit awarded to her i 1-year-old son at school was prominent on one wall and in another room was a reli gious picture. Rents are set at 10 per cent of income. Gas and electricity are extra. The Curras pay 31 pesos a month as rent, plus about four pesos for electricity and 2i for gas; that is, about 374 pesos altogether out of a monthly wage of 310 pesos; On that proportion, an Austra lian family with a breadwinner getting £22 a week would pay less than 53/6 a week altogether in rent I for a three-bedroom flat, gas and ! electricity. i Mrs. Iglesia's husband works in j a cierar faetorv. 2 They pay 19 pesos a month rent | (10 per cent of his pay), plus . four pesos a month for gas and towards five for electricity for their family of two adults and three children. Like all the other flats in the building, they have the phone. (Getting the facts and figures from Mrs. Iglesia was a little dif ficult. Eight-year-old Vilma and threes - year-old Teresa, delighted at the unexpected company, carried on excitedly as if it were all put on for their own special benefit and delight). ? BOTH Mrs. Curra (who came from the country) and Mrs. Iglesia . were happy with their flats. The whole East Havana com munity has an air of pleasant assurance. The buildings of concrete and brick, are similar in basic design, hut colours and other differences give variety. Each flat extends from front to rear of the building, giving a free passage for breezes: an important thing in this city of high tempera tures and humidity. Some of the buildings are ten and 12 storeys high. It was intended to have them all high. But then U.S.A. imposed its mali-. cious economic blockade. Cuba could not then get, among many other things, the lifts that would he needed for new high buildings. So the designs of the flats be- ing constructed from then on at I East Havana were modified to re- I duce the height to , four storeys, g which people could manage by j stairways. I And the construction went on at I full pace, in spite of U.S.A. j ? J THE community, administered j by the Havana public authorities, | has a wide range of amenities. | The shops include a self-service I supermarket. There is (to name j only one amenity among many), a 1 child health clinic: 7,000 of the I 10,000 people in East Havana, we i were told, are under 16 years old. | Doctors live in the community. ! Between the buildings are wide j green lawns, with scores of bright I shrubs and trees. I Children play there without j parents being nervous of traffic — J because the busy roads are routed I around (and not through) the com- j munity, keeping fast traffic out. j - While we were there, East Hav- j ana's equivalent of Mr. Whippy ! trundled past, music (hut not j "Greensleeves") and all. | There are community organisa- j tions. \ As elsewhere, there are Com- j mittees for the Defence of the j Revolution. j (And if you doubt the need for , these, look out an upper-storey i window in East Havana and see g the U.S. warship prowling only a ! few miles out to sea. j NINTH FLOOR HOSTESS; Mrs. Maria Iglesia and daughters Vilma (8) and Teresa (3).. 