 ; Setback I to US in Dominica j RETURN off ex-president Juan ft Bosch to Santo Domingo, whence he had been expelled 1 by violence by American 1 agents only two years earlier, marks a severe setback for US imperialism. Efx-president Bosch's former foreign minister, Hector Garcia Godoy, is now provisional pres ident. The US puppet, Imbert, who was boosted by the US as the strong-arm dictator to suppress the rising of the. last April, has been ousted. General elections, are to he conducted by the Provisional Gov ernment In a few months' time. The Provisional Government of President Garcia undertook to start negotiations at once for the withdrawal of the "inter- American" (90 percent US) occupation force. Before agreeing to lay down his arms, the constitutionalist presilent, Caamano, who headed the democratic uprising in April, | obtained a special reservation | sayng "it is the exclusive and | sovereign faculty of the Provisional | Government to decide the date of 1 withdrawal of the (US-controlled) forces from Dominican territory. Summing up the results of the crisis, a Soviet New Times writer says: Washington has failed to bring the constitutionalists to their knees. "The patriots retained their positions and the Organisation oi American States mission (organ ised "by the USA — Tribune) haa to meet many of their important demands .... » , "The OAS mission agreed w delete from its draft the saying public order in Santo v " ingo would be maintained by eign troops. . . "The job has now been entiusai to a - special Dominican P0UUL force. .. "The int:vventionists also had give P their plan to include _ Constitutionalists' zone in 'international security' zone. "In general the constitutionalists have achieved their aim as s « \ jy their leader, Coionel Caama _ o lay the foundation which ivou ! j iv© the people the right to - j J ir total restoration of our P M Dgatives as a free nation ' ! j "The situation is still , I ! .lthough Dominicans are dema j: ,g the total ; >reign troops at once, w I on does not mean to do &lt;&lt; | he New York Times sorce j I September 1 that the OAS ' i .rill remain to work y I j newly-recruited... pohce force- Afirf - 