 f : ' I. II " ' - ' ' " w ! It's all over ' | | bar the funeral ! By THE CHALLENGER j Well, the suspense is all over. Burruni came | and Burruni conquered Gattelari . . . but not the I fans, many of whom no doubt have changed theiy views on boxing. "pHE inquisitive followers of the game who forked up their ten bobs out of curiosity, and found them- j selves viewing something j like a flea circus at a quart- ; er of a mile, were most j likely unimpressed and will most likely shy clear of such promotions in future. The "boxing experts," those "professors of pugilism", will have noted the decline in the standard of skill and tactics compared with the "bygone "greats", and feel less inclined to patronise future bouts. The sadistic will have oeen disgusted with the sudden col lapse of the "Gatt" and the rela tive lack of gore. The more thinking and sen sitive will have been shocked and frightened by the death- I like stillness of the "Gatt" as he laid unconscious on the mat. Relieved to see him leave the ring, walking, they will have murmured their condemnation of the game. The two fighters should have learned from the experience that "the game's no good," that it's "time to quit", and get out while they're still lucky." " The Gatt will most likely have recalled that he fought tile last round between knockdowns, like the automaton — uncon sciousness of his own move ments. - ; V _ ; ;- . He will be tpld that lie did the . wrong thing when dazed; that with more training and ex perience his reflexes will take over. when, he's in, such a con dition and he'll fight from "in stinct". . If he thinks about it at all, the Gatt wiil be horrified — he'll do the sensible thing and I . quit. > The conclusion reached by I nearly . everyone will have been, | that "the game is dying, ' it's i nearly dead." Very few will weep at the I funeral. i TENNIS: j The threat to | Aust. supremacy j jpROBABLY very few will dis- j agree with Roy Emerson ! when he says that Australia I will win the Challenge Round i and retain the Davis Cup at White City on December 27, 28, ! arid 29.' | . To most of the tennis fans j the thought of the Spanish team getting up to . win is just j a bit too incongruous with the j usual run of Davis Cup finals. | However, to. project our | thoughts forward to the Davis | Cup, the .tur'e threat of the j United States piayers flashes I to mind. L The most recent example of j this is the just completed ten- j . . nis titles at Kooyong, which saw ! the American Clark Graebner | defeat Roy Emerson to win the j men's singles. " The loss was. considered a shock defeat. The scores indicates it was a close see-sawing battle that could possibly be explained away by the fact: that Emerson considers himself : a few tough matches away from his top condition. However, tennis critics aiv> alarmed over Emerson's pre- sent form. $ Graebner's win caused forW'i. Davis Cup star Adrian Qunisc 1 to comment that- Emerson had reached the crossroads of his career, and inferred that he was beginning to find the game- too tough. Emerson, it should be re membered, is 29 years .old. The Queensland title was wo;i by . American. Arthur Ashe, who has been able to score wins over 1 : Australia's leading players. 1 At the same time he recently suffered a shock defeat by fel low. American Herb Fitzgib bon. Now another American, Graeb-, ner, has impressed by winning the Victorian title. ..." These wins by the U.S. players though by. no means a really dangerous threat to Australia's future. Davis - Cup hopes, are an indication that we hkve to be on the go to retain it. ? ' CRICKET: A place - in the sun . f By J. MUNDEY. I WOULD like to contest your contention (Tribune, 1/12/65). that cricket is struggling for survival in this country. The turnstiles ticking in Test Matches isn't /the sole indicate r of a sports popularity. Despite the increasingly heavy, burden of buying gear, more cricketers are registered in com petition than ever before in the . State Associations. In fact there is a shortage of grounds in the metropolitan areas, a shortage that prevents more from playing cricket. , , ... It is a game of great skin. Though the scoring" rate isn't all we miay desire in Test matches, it isn't easy to force accurate bowling through a well-placed field. . j r Yes, there is beauty in a deli cately placed late cut, timing in a leg-glance, power in the cover drive and courage in the hook shot that is sweet v cricket-lovers. . The , sight of a Len Huttcuj .batting, Alan Davidson bowling/ or Neil Harvey fielding is wortn going a long way to see. . Without detracting from Eaaie Miller as a sportsman, I'm ® Bill Smith's corner in criticism, your over-concentration on bo ing, in a recent Tribune A "sport" that will not survi for long in this enlightened ag is- boxing, and you would better off devoting space / another Miller— Keith, a g . fast bowler, good batsman brilliant fieldsman of a years back. 