 "Dictators" in Aboriginal reserve in SA ADELAIDE: Further evidence has come to hand to justify the SA Communist Party's call for a State Government investigation into the administration of the Davenport Aboriginal Reserve, near Port Aug usta (SA). BUILDING foreman on the Rpcpn'e took it self to "arrest" an Aboriginal woman and deliver her to the local police station. It was alleged that she had been drunk and naked when siezed by the foreman. Police say that the woman was naked when she arrived at the station and that she "had been drinking." What ever may have been the enjse the point Is that the fore man had taken the law into his own hands. Mr. W. Grubb, SM, criticised re serve. officials for their "distatorial attitude" in "arresting" aborigines. He continued- "No doubt officials should have power to exercise con trol at the reserve, but the position that natives be bundled into a, motor vehicle and taken to the police station should not be toler ated." He said that reserve officials might well be advised to find out what authority they had to arrest natives and take them to the pol ice station. Otherwise, he said, they might find themselves having to answer for unlawful airest. At the recent Federal Council for Aboriginal Advancement meeting, an Aborigine, Mr. Tim Strangways, said that reserve authorities had torn down houses without notifi cation while their occupants were at work. He said that evicted Aborigines were "kicked off" the reserve every time they wanted to visit it. Even people living there have to report when they come home from work, he said. Government "break-through" Recent statements by the min ister of Aboriginal Affairs (Mr. D. Dunstan) indicate that SA Labor Government thinking on Aborigines represents a break from the assim ilation concept of the former Lib eral administration. The Playford Government's pol- ' icy was to assiimilate Aborigines into the white community, thus deliberately destroying their iden tity as a race, and wiping out their culture. Mr. Dunstan said at a recent university forum "Dark Australia policy" that in some cases Aborig ines wanted to retain group iden. tity and what remained of their culture, and that it would be Wrong to treat these people as to be assimilated. He said that on some reserves training programs were being un dertaken to fit Aborigines to move into the general community as fam ily units and to be assimilated, or to establish group ventures either on the reserve or elsewhere. With the semi-nomadic and trib al Aborigines, the Government's was to provide them with facilities for economic development as co operative groups and education and health services. The statement that the Govern ment does not intend to enforce wholesale assimilation is encourag ing. The Communist Party believes that the Aboriginal People should have the right to exist as a nat ional minority, to have land rights, the right to manage their own af fairs and develop their culture. Any aid to the Aboriginal People should be on the basis of equality and respect. Such1 a policy does not mean that an Aborigine should be prev ented from being assimilated if it was his desire. 