 [?] From RUPERT LOCKVVOOn in Moscow yHE life of Jesus Faria General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vene- zuela, is in dar»ger, says tho International Association 0f Democratic Lawyers in Paris. Faria has been imprisoned by a pro-Washington regime for u months, in violation of his parlia. mentary immunity, and has suffer, ed serious maltreatment. A Caracas military doctor des cribes Faria's health as "alarming." "Jesus Faria," the International Lawyers' statement says, "is a sym bol of the suffering and struggljn» people of Venezuela. 6 "He must be saved, and together with him all the parliamentarians and artists, intellectuals, workers and peasants who are languishing in the prisons and concentration camps of Tacarigua and Cabure." # gYDNEY'S shyest resident, Ervir Viks, continues to attract the in terest of Soviet newspapers and war victims. "During the war," said Pravda, in giving new details of Viks' crimes ss Estonian police chief for the Nazis, "Viks headed the Tallinharyu Prefec ture's political police. "On October 27, 1942, he issued a written order to kill 243 Soviet citi zens-gypsies. "The 73-year-old Linis Kuusikek was executed only because Viks believed 'she would willingly have done some thing to help the Soviet Union if she was not . so old.' " Even reactionary West Germany re cently cooperated with Socialist coun tries in securing evidence for trials of war criminals. Wanted Nazis are more secure under Menzies than under Erhard. # EARLY 50,000 foreign cars will speed along ""Moscow's streets this tourist season. Muscovites care fully inspect all foreign models, and sometimes find their own Soviet automobiles lagging in design. In Pravda, two leading engineers point to the need for more exten sive motor transport in the USSIt, saying that "this requires develop ment of the automobile industry on a new, progressive, really up-to-date foundation." AN estimated 400,000 tourists will visit Western Russia this summer, tourists will be seeing the USSR from Byelorussia to the Pacific coasts, from the Caucasus to Murmansk. Even on the Arctic Kola Peninsula a tourist centre has been opened. For eign visitors are getting licences o hunt bears in Siberia and elks in W es em forests. # ' I AUNCHING of a new magazine, "Genetics," is one more blow to discredited Lysenkoism. First issue on August 4 will warmly Praise much-abused Mendel, on the centen ary of Mendel's fundamental worn I appearance. Lysenko's corrupt practices ant great harm to Soviet »Sripu . have recently been hotly assai e . Soviet scientists. j # . ! QINCE 1957, when the assault on t e housing crisis bequeathed ; war and from neglect durmg i Stalin era really got under > less than 109m. people have Dew housed-most moved into new ments, others given a full flat m of a shared half. ly I The figure seems fantestic--n ui- equal to housing all Au?trala has to ation 10 times over-but it be remembered that 70.C l by towns and villages were d d to the Germans, 35m. were the exist in dugouts or buf.,jes were earth, and that three f or sometimes jammed in, >s end j even into one room, at thenars 