 LIB. PRESIDENT ATTACKS MENZIES OVER CLARKE SYDNEY : The president of the Killara branch of the Young Liberals (Sydney) has attacked Sir Robert Menzies and Senator Gorton for failing to face up to the issues raised by the resignation of Gregory Clarke, a former member of the diplomatic corps. MR- 1 ONY LAMOND ac- 1 cused them of deliberate misrepresentation. Writing in the Killara branch journal, he said:: "It is becoming increasingly fash ionable among Liberals to ridicule any argument which conflicts with official Liberal Policy on Vietnam, and usually smear the name of the person who had the temerity to de viate from the party line with such descriptions as "Communist", "Dupe of the Communists", . "Misguided", etc. "Anything but a direct answer to the uncomfortable questions posed. The most recent case by the Prime Minister is worth your consideration. A few days ago a recently resigned member of the diplomatic corps wrote a well documented and thought provoking article against the present Australian Liberal Government policy on Vietnam. Questions were immediately asked in both Houses and in neither was any reply given to the policy ques tions posed. The government is certainly not obliged to answer - any and every question asked by a newspaper, but the replies given were deliberately misleading. The Prime Minister said that Gregory Clark, the man in question, had served as First Secretary in Moscow and had never had any ac cess to information on Vietnam. Senator Gorton said he was only 29 years old and had spent most of his time learning Chinese, and had served in- a working position in Moscow. . In fact Gregory Clarke had at the remarkably young age of 29 mas tered the Chinese language and served in Taiwan, Poland, Malaysia on short term assignments, Hong Js.ong as inira becretary ,and Mos cow as First Secretary. The implications by the PM and Senator Gorton were deliberate misrepresentations and one can only wonder in view of their praise for their own policies "why they should have to resort to those tactics Some weeks - back the Union of Australian Women paid a visit to Santa Claus at a big departmental store. They, told Santa not to deliver war toys to children. Our photo shows a young gentleman pondering the situation. 