 [?] i j Canberra pits axe j i I throuah NG schoolina j By JIM COOPER I S3 % B 1 The decision of the Department of Territories, in preparation 1 \ i of the budget to be submitted to the New Guinea House of As- 8 sembSy, to cut the social services vote by 1.8 per cent clearly indi- 1 ! cafes the real attitude of the Menzies Government to the indi- 1 'v qenous people of New Guinea. | INCLUDED in the social I services are social wel fare, health and education. / :| This is a change in policy jmarked by the appointment of Mr. Barnes, MHR, as the Min ister for Territories. 4 The previous Minister had. estab- 1 lished a five year plan which en- ' yisaged three-fifths of the 540,000 children of school age attending . school by 1967. f :| The expenditure of the Education ! department had shown an average I" increase of about 25 per cent per j innum in the budgets from 1962. 1 The number of children attend- \ Ing schools with approved curri- 1 culum rose from around 100,000 I to 165,000 in 1964 with the target ©f 350,00 by 1967 a long way &lt;off. j ' In this situation the Barnes Ad- | |iinistration moves in with a cut I |n social services which at best can ©nly mean a standstill in education even if all the cut in Social Ser vices is absorbed in maternal and child welfare or health. In order to get a true picture of the criminal neglect of the people's welfare it is perhaps neces sary ' to describe the real situation and the undertakings entered into by the Australian Government when they signed the Trusteeship Agree ment. Arising from factors outside their control the New Guinea people were in a similar stage of social develop ment in the 1900's as the : British were in Britain when Julius Caesar , landed 2000 years ago. The undertaking the Australian Government gave in the Trusteeship Agreement was in effect to com press this 2000 years of develop ment into a short period of some 30 years. They may not have that long. It is now nearly 20 years since the agreement was signed, hut the best that has been announced is around 10, to 15 per cent literacy. Experience, in New Guinea goes to show that this is a liberal es timate. No university The Agricultural Extension Ser vices have less than 200 people on their staff, and adult education has hardly been touched at all. Despite strong recommendations from a very responsible Commis sion for Higher Education, there is no provision in the Budget for the aj University they proposed. 9 Letters in the Australian and Terri- 9 tory press over the signature of an 9 Administration servant, but ob- 9 viously a spokesman for the Adminis- 9 tration, stress the cost factor and 9 he goes into a spate of figures to 9 prove that the costs of graduation H is excessive and anyway such a B university could not train gradua- I tes to the level of himself. 1 If the Government wishes to re tain any claims to responsibility it is essential that it makes large-scale capital investment in education in all fields — primary, secondary, ter tiary and adult. In Agricultural Extension Services, despite all their claims, they are only playing with this vital service. The people are eager to learn and where they have come into- contact wtih cash cropping there has been rapid advancement. What is necessary is that cash crops be demonstrated in all areas B so that the people can become aware 1 Of their advantages. - | How can we expect a person to g know what he can grow and sell to | other people if the existence of I those people is unknown to him. 1 The present policy of alienation | of : the people's land and its lease 1 to Europeans is against the best 1 interests of the people of both i New Guinea and Australia. I 