 B faWpSmMy BRt&pSf Mf BBKy /ffW'SHmSiSBjSB I Not two Vietnams, | but one ! s i j All those who seek to justify the American war of j | intervention into Vietnam — from President Johnson through I j Prime Minister Menzies to B. A. Santamaria — rely on the I j claim that there are two Vietnams, and that the "North" j I has attacked the "South". j j But Vietnam is not two | nations; it is one. I It is a people totalling 1 30,000,000 united by a j common language, a com- | mon history and a common ! tradition of struggle | against invaders. , | But from 1954 the USA began I its intervention to carve out an S illegal and artificial "South j Vietnam," which it proceeded to I prop up with arms and money. | It did this so as to create the; j myth of a "South Vietnam" ! which needed to be protected I from invasion by a "North Viet- I nam." | This myth was again repeated, | for example, by the Menzies I Government in its recent reply !to the Soviet Government's pro test Note on the despatch of I troops to Vietnam, j Australian External Affairs I Minister Hasluck has gone so | far as to describe North Viet- , | namese in South Vietnam as ! "foreigners." I In fact, until its interventtion j began after 1954, nobody, inside | or outside Vietnam, ever spoke | of North or South Vietnam ex- | cept as regional geographic terms I — as today one may talk of nor- S thern or southern Australia. One movement ! The Vietnamese liberation | movement, which arose to fight !the French colonialists before ! World War II began in the south and spread to cover the whole . country. It was one national movement, including Vietnamese I from all over Vietnam, and | fought for the liberation of Viet- | nam as a whole. It finally de- feated the French in 1954 and, I but for US intervention, Vietnam j would long since ..iave been one | independent country. ! However, such a situation does I not fit in with the well-known imperialist divide-and-rule tactic which has always tried to depict I a nation struggling for freedom j as an "aggressor." j Thus Ireland was accused of . ! "attacking" British - occupied I Ulster, Gandhi and Nehru were I pictured as aiming to crush ' the | Moslem minority in India, and I Indonesia was supposed to be threatening the "invasion" of | Dutch-bolstered West Irian, while g China "menaced" its own ter- ! ritory of Taiwan (US-controlled). | Similarly today the Democratic j Republic of Vietnam, from which g southern Vietnam was forcibly | excluded by the US, is pictured j as the aggressor in a war again i the US puppet state of "South j Vietnam." | Thus the Menzies Govern- ) ment's Note to the USSR last | week said that the authorities g in Hanoi and Peking "intro- . I duced interference and pressure | across the internationally recog- g nised demarcation line between ! North and South Vietnam." | 9 Historic facts j The Geneva Agreements which, | as the Note says, the Australian g Government recognised (or "took I note of"), specifically ruled out I in advance the interpretation | which the Menzies Government g puts on them. I Article 6 of the "Decisions of | the Geneva Conference" of 1954 g says: g "The Conference recognises | that the essential purpose of j the agreement relating to Viet- | nam is to settle military ques-. g tions with a view to ending g hostilities and that the military I demarcation line is provisional | and should not in any way be g interpreted as constituting a I political or territorial boundary" I (our emphasis). j Vietnam south of the 17th g parallel was merely to be a I "regrouping zone" for the de- I feated French forces to allow j them to get out of the country so that free elections covering g the whole of Vietnam could be J held in July, 1956 (article 7). j Refusing to tolerate this, the J US entered the southern part of g Vietnam as the French left and ! illegally set up the "Republic" i of -South Vietnam, making the j 17th parallel a political frontier, | instead of a provisional military I demarcation line, as required by j the Geneva Agreements. This g breach of the treaty is now sane- ! tioned by the Menzies Govern- I ment. ' | 