 African Ballet Pure dance with no limitations IT is unfortunate that the publicity which reaches the man or woman in the street about the AFRICAN BALLET now aDDearina at the Theatre Royal in. Sydney for one and a half weeks further season is concerned with the amouht of clothing worn by the female dancers.. ' / \ \ : For here is a theatrical experi ence that should be shared by all who seek a good evening's enter tainment with new and strange ex periences; and by those who are in terested in the cultural expressions of the life of the .many and varied v types of people who Inhabit our. globe. ' ' , The company of 36 dancers, singers and musicians comes from, the Republic of Guinea in South: Africa It is sponsored "by the Govern ment ; of that Republic and hasi toured many countries of the; world. . Originally formed in 1947, the En semble aimed to define the traditions and legends of old Africa and help rehabilitate. African culture. So in the programme we find a fascinating mixture of old and new expressed in song and dance. In a city setting a young girl has to choose between two braggarts with more audacity than musical talent and a young musician with a guitar . . . the efforts of the two braggarts to win the notice of the girl are delightful but quite self condemnatory. In a forest setting a young girl forgets the strict moral training of the tribe and allows herself to be led astray by the rake from town, whose dancing and acrobatics wins her attention. The couple are dealt with' by the fetishists of the tribe who guard the morals . . . in a scene of mounting horror, the Naadians with piercing - eyes, the guardians mounted on stilts, Bird Men with blood curdling tries and other sinister creatures punish the wrong doers. .. In the drama "Midnight" the "plain but sad evocation of a real happening" tells of a . happy wed ding scene, interrupted by the ar rival of a vicious police Officer who fancies the bride for himself -kid who hides his pistol in the hut of the bridegroom so that , he might arrest him at the wedding. , The whole programme, opens with a scene set -in the Baga Country and recalls how, the god Kakilambe ruled the country and ensured its fer tility. From the moment the curtain opens on the gathering of the vil lage people and the swift breaking into the vigorous dances of' the girls ... arid men to the mounting rhythms of the . drums until the curtain closes finally 'on ' the Finale of .the pro gramme, recalling each of the scenes presented, the .atmosphere in the theatre", is electric. ' , ; 1 , For here is pure - dance without any limitations ; of self-conscious- strivings. These are dances of a vigorous - people with- a rich; and colourful background." . ; j J' . The surge , of movement and ex pression is - highlighted " by the drumming and" the simple patterns of the dance. The agility of - both girls and men is outstanding arid iri dances such as the Doundomba, the. dance of courage, the dance of strong men "in which they put all the strength of their feet" the dynamic tension is almost unbearable. The contrast of the songs and the fascinating musical instruments in the quieter, scenes is a necessary relief. Undoubtedly the most significant thing about this programme is its expression of the .people of Africa from whom it has come. Anyone . who sees such a pro- . I gramme takes several steps along the road of understanding - the Africa of today that is emerg ing from the shadows of yester day - — M.W. 