 [?] [?] The resignation of General Maxwell Taylor as United States averlord' in South Vietnam was inev itable because the last, two months have witnessed the final burial of: the US military theory which he. personally developed . . . the theory of 'special war".. iiiiiiiiiniiiiniNiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiitiniiHiiiitiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiilinilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllHIC' "J"HE US world military plian. ning is based on three types of war: global nuclear war; limited local war by US forces;, and "special- waff" fought by locally raised armies, under ' US direction and "advice". Taylor was sent to- Vietnam by Kennedy early tost year- really, to step up the flagging "special war" and some 20,000; US troops were there to- help hiim Unlimited. US. arms,, ammunition and equipment were sent.. Unlimited' US air support was made available- to. support the Saigon troops. Vet by August last year, already the polity had essentially failed, as; re vealed by the beginning of US air raids, on North Vietnam installations. "Limited war" In February 1965, this went fur ther into, the "limited war" category with the start of big-scale,, regular unprovoked US Air Force bombing ©f North: Vietnam centres;. The US' gfaimfid they would; turn the- tide ins the: south by devastating, socialist North; Vietnam. Now;, after five months,, this scheme is completely discredited. It is true that US' bombs' and napalm have destroyed and damaged4 villages; schools, hospitals, roads and railway bridges., Wilfred Burchett,, Australian, cor respondent in. close touch with the Vietnam situation, writes in "New Times" (June 16): "Children have- been burned to death; in- bamboo and; thatch; schools; attacked with nagal5m> and phosphorus bombs; the aged and infirm have perished under the blazing ruins of hospitals and' pagodas . . US raids Ineffective But Burchett points out that the. relative ineffectiveness: of the raids, against specific military targets, such: as bridges; is revealed by the fact that the- raiders' have; to return again, andi again to the: same: target.. The- Vietnam. People's: Army High. Command in. Hanoi, report officially- that, ont May 26 the. 300th US. plane was, shot down- by antiaircraft fire- North Vietnam,, since the first US' raids were made on. August 5\ 1U64.. All but 12 of these- were shot down- since the major raiding- began in February,, 1965. But the ineffectiveness of the air raid phase of escalation of the war, with direct use of American forces, is most clearly shown by the fact that the National' Liberation- Front forces in SOuth Vietnam: have; great ly steppedl up> their activity in&lt; the- same period;. The Americans; have- now ' had to- "internationalise" the war by com mitting big: numbers of. US! ground: forces as the main: ground shock, troops. The Menziies Government sent an Australian battalion. "Time" (July 2) said that the 75,000: US troops; already in; Vietnam, by- the- end of June- might he doubled: by summer's end (August). With what result? control of the war US publicist Walter Lippmaim re cently wrote: "Our side has been losing steadily control of the country side. It has failed to win the allegiance of the peasants, who- .. .. ., are the one; and. only source of military manpower \ Burchett adds: "Lippmann is dead right ; . . the- Saigon- army is- declin ing- in total1 strength1. "It can. no longer make good its losses on the battlefield' and by desertions. "The regular Liberation, Army on the- other hand- is growing, by leaps and bounds. "Today 10' million of South. Viet nam's 14 million population are in the Liberated Zones." The NILE'S, stepped-up- activity up to the end of April,, 1965, killed, wounded or captured 49,250 Saigon troops— more- than .in the- first six: ' months- of 196$. They killed' or wounded. 1,283 US troops— 6d per cent more than. in. the- first six months of 1964. fir the- past, NLF- actions- were mainly of smalL-seale guerrilla, dimensions. This- year, they have several times- wiped out a whole- battalion in one engagement, and in one case Cm- May) a whole; regiment, was wiped out.. . . Tire US maintains arms supplies The general picture given by battle reports from' both sides continues to show that the- guerrillas do- not rely for arms, on North Vietnam:. The capture of American? equipment of alH. types keeps them quite well sup. plied. In the first four months of. 1965). the NLF captured 8)861-. US-made weapons ranging; from- rifles to artillery ... a 63 per cent increase over the- six months, of 196$. In May, the. NLF' began, to go alter US and' puppet troops wherever they were— in blockhouses,, fortified air bases,, on: guarded highways, in Sai gon restaurants and- the- US Embassy itself. FOr May-,, incomplete- NLF figures give 1$,648: (including 571- Americans ) on the Saigon side, as killed,, wound ed or captured in clear-cut battles in which at least a platoon was wiped out each time. If skirmishes and deserters are in ducted,, the figure was- over 20;G00i Examples, of NLF' battle; summav ries. clearly indicate1 the- scale: of US weapons; being; captured:: May Si-??. Tra1. Vihhy two posts cap; tared: and a rescue battalion: routed;. 168 Saijgon troops killed and- wound ed.. Captured:. 46- men; 26- weapons;, two- military- motor cycles, four radio; transmitters. May 8; Cu Chi) defeat of. three- raiding Saigon battalions; 300) of them killed. Captured 100 prisoners, with; their weapons;, nine radio trans, nutters: Six ptones shot down;. The May figures for capture- of weapons; showed- that in- the- 20) big: battles between; May 10; and: 201 the NLF' wiped out nearly $,0QQi troops; and captured more than, 2,000- weap; ons; The number of troops captured was the greatest ever in any one. month In two actions &lt;Ba Ra and ?huoG. Biiahr). over 300/ troops, went: over to the NLF. Biggest US defeat Biggest single defeat, of the Amer ican side in May was around Song Be, a, provincial capital 75- miles from Saigon., On May 11, Liberation forces des troyed the? defences, airstrip; artillery park, training school and headquart ers; , Fifteen American' officers were; among: the? 300 troops killed, and: Iff Americans; were; among the; 1,000? injured-, or- captured; The 700 weapons captured included five armoured vehicles and- two- 155/ mm guns (6 inch artillery)) as; well as- many mortars; machine guns- mid sub-machine guns. Fourteen1 planes (including helicop ters) were; shot down; More recently "The Australian'1 ('Jiily 6): reports that Quang Ngai;. am armed outpost, of. the majpr base off Ba Gia, was over-rim by an: NLF force- in a- few minutes and1 briefly occupied. Then the: NLF men. took, away two US, 105. mmi howitzers. (about 4" artil lery) plus two ammunition/ trucks; 