 MORRIS WEST: Catholic appeals to a Nation 's worried conscience SYDNEY : A controversy on the rights and wrongs of the Vietnam war has been raging in the columns of the Sydney Catholic Weekly, which editorially has invariably followed the Men zies Government's line. The argument was initiated by best-selling Australian author Morris West, who last week declared his opposition to the sending of Austra lian troops to Vietnam. It is a reflection of the winds of change blowing through the Roman Catholic world, of which the TV "dialogue" between Rex Mortimer and a Roman Catholic spokesman discussed in last week's Tribune was another symptom. While the discussion . raged in its correspondence columns, the Catholic Weekly published a very favorable review of Morris West's anti-war novel on Vietnam, The Ambassador. In the opening blast— or bombshell — of the controversy Mr. West chal lenged the editorial in which the Weekly supported Menzies' troops- for-Vietnam decision. In that editorial the Weekly ad mitted that the decision had been "greeted coldly" by some of Australia's non-American allies and was "bound to provoke criticism and protests" within Australia. Author's reply Replying to the editorial in a letter the following week (May 13), Mr. West points out that in the same issue as i.ts pro-war editorial, the Weekly had carried part of the Pope's Encyclical, "Mense Maio," which had said: "Today, as if no lesson had been learned from the tragic experience of the two conflicts which shed blood on the first half of our century, we have the dreadful spectacle in certain parts of the world of antagonism on the increase between peoples and see repeated the dangerous phenomenon of resort to arms, instead of nego tiations, to settle the disputes of the opposing parties. . . ." Contrasting the Catholic Weekly's pro-war line with this, Mr. West says: "I wonder to which voice an Aus tralian Catholic is supposed to listen. In the face of the deep concern ex pressed by the Holy Father about recourse to arms, I wonder how any Catholic journal can commit itself to so blunt, unequivocal and unglossed a recommendation to military action, "Perhaps it is time to introduce a Third Voice into the argument — "'But I say to you: Love your enemies; do good to them that hate you; and pray for them that perse cute and calumniate you.' "Would it not be more Christian to open our doors to 800 Vietnamese displaced by war than to send 800 Australians to kill some more of them?" In the following issue of the Weekly, Mr. West is criticised by two correspondents who in turn bring a reply, supporting Mr. West, from Pat Peck, of Miranda, on June 3. This correspondent quotes a speech by the Rev. Daniel Berrigan S.J., editor of the US journal Jesuit Mis sions, given at an anti-war rally in New York on February 13 last. In this speech Father Berrigan said: "As Americans we share in the guilt of a nation which is waging modern war and which is preparing for total war. "To men of conscience such works cry out to heaven for redress. "They also sow into man's future a poison which the unborn will be condemned to breathe— hatreds, divi sions, world poverty, hopelessness. In such an atmosphere the world comes ever closer to the actuality of hell. "Today the futile and childish hope is repeated like an obsessive incantation: through war we can make peace, through bombing we can restore order, through torture we can enforce submission. Mean while, like a nightmare come to life, day by day, the reality becomes clearer: there is no future for war in Vietnam. No future "The war offers no future for th« people of that country, no future foi the Chinese, for Russians or Ameri cans. For violence begets violence, torture begets frenzy, conscience and principle are submerged in the hor rors of the moment and both sides, and the armed world watching, edge closer to the final step of final war. Under such a threat, the inevitability of history is repeating itself, a fierce monologue .in the ears of all — 'War can never be an instrument of justice in the nuclear era' (Pope John). "It is a lesson Hiroshima has not availed to teach us, for when the living are determined on war, the dead cannot be beard." Reviewing The Ambassador in the Catholic Weekly of May 20, John Dawes says it is "the best of West . . . Morris West's greatest work . . . great by any standard" while he agrees that it may well annoy the Americans. MORRIS WEST . . . Catholic author. 