 Latvia, Estonja, Lithuania Where is the old bitterness now? From RUPERT LOCKWOOD RIGA: Lectures in socialist economy are now given in the former stock exchange of this city, now capital of the Baltic socialist republic of Latvia. It has been turned into a technical institute. "TECHNICAL progress in these formerly feudal countries has become almost a religion. Already Latvia makes every fourth rail car m the Soviet Union, every seventh washing machine and many of its buses. Latvia has 25 large new towns never known to Australian Latvians, 17 times th 1940 industrial output compared to 2.7 times for neigh bouring Sweden and second place to Estonia in the world for per capita printing of books. In a land where the peasants re mained in poverty and semi-serfdom till the Soviet form of government was established, a Latvian state farm under a woman manager uses com- putors to promote output increases. Latvia lost nearly 30 per cent of the people killed in the war and others by emigration. Growing contacts established with Latvians t broad, excepting the minority who were war criminals, will find a warm welcome and useful jobs awaiting all who return to Soviet Iatvia. 25th anniversary These were some of the things 1 found during the celebrations of the 25th anniversary of the establishment oi socialist government in the Baltic republics. . For the occasion, open invitations were extended to Estonians, Lat vians and Lithuanians living abroad to return to see with their own e»2s the progress of their old homelands In Tallin we newspaper correspon dents met Estonians from America, Canada, Finland and Sweden. In Riga there are Latvians visit ing their homeland after long absences in America, Brazil, Canada West. Germany and Scandinavia. In Tallin visitors and correspon dents from abroad watched in won der as aftei blasts from long hunt ing horns 8000 Estonians — peasant girls, fisherme miners, little child ren and others all in national cos tumes— carried out in unison the most complicated and inspiring folk dance moveme. fs. Under the awning ol Tallin's giant music bowl a costumed choir oi 33,000 from all over the Republic stang tplk. songs to over 100,000. In Tallin's ancient town square :tyhere medieva' gyves, stocks and other devices still stand near the ' walls of the Baltic merchants' cdunt- " ' ' . I ing houses, costumed dancers were still swinging over cobble stones at midnight. They performed Estonian and Fin nish dances in the red glow of the northern sun travelling just below the horizon Australian gift They danced for the Estonian Soviet Republic, which every 20 days surpasses its total 1940 industrial output and which now uses shale of the kind wasted at Glen Davis (NSW) to produce higher per capita electric power than the United States, plus petrol and a wealth of chemicals. Tallin's botanical gardens have a fabulous orchid display donated by Oskar Savik, of Sydney, in a tribute to his motherland. A. young Estonian worker al ..the, Prebaltic thermo-powei ; = station leaviro the plant after: -the knock -off whist, e. Since the defeat of armed fascism in world war II, many hundreds of . millions of the world's peoples have joined in t ta-k of building a socialist c. d trvelv human society / 1 H--ide of t'-erri, millions -of p — 'e in former colonial countries, learning frcm their y-rs cf experience of beirg m'-hH'and retarded, are tu'n- i n towards socialism as the surest way of advancing their ernonres and their people. In most socialist countries, advances in all spheres have been spectacular and consoli dated by the people's partici pation in management. Below RUPERT LOCKWOOD dis cusses advances in the -social ist Baltic States in his report direct from Riga. On the other hand, countries like French Somaliland des cribed at first-hand by ROGER MILLISS, still stagger under the load of foreign domination. But for those who rule with mace and machine-gun, time is fast running out. 