 [?] , With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman CYDNEY read a lot of bally- hoo about a big "turn" at the Opera House site last week at knock-off tune ... slinky women in glittering tights, champagne, brandy and gin ger and what-have-you. Incidentally, the refresh ments were for sale — not free. K was described as a publicity stunt. The real drum is that the Opera House Trust okayed it as a "party for the workers' 'and threw open the gates to a motley assort ment of people. Despite press tales, less than 100 . of the 500 workers stayed to have a geek at this bad- taste display. The old hands contrasted it with the day Negro singer Paul Robeson give a free lunch-hour concert on the site for the workers back in 1960 and sang to a packed "house"— the first great artist to perform there! ? Reg Oliver (an AEU organiser in Sydney) said he was astonished the other night to open his door at 8.30 p.m. and be confronted by a young boy, about 11 years, soliciting sub scriptions for Packer's Consolidated Press. The boy, one of many young can vassers, said he would win a free trip to the Snowy Mountains if he got the most subs for the "Telegraph" or "Women's Weekly." According to the lad this was arranged through his school (Peak- hurst Public) and that a man had brought him and other boys to can vass that night at Panania. "It's fantastic that a wealthy com pany should stoop to using children, particularly to walk the streets at night. "And if what the lad said is true, it's shocking that public schools should encourage this practice," Reg said. ? Sir Richard Kirby (President of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission) last week expressed concern at a "favored" few getting unfair wages. Following so close on the recent £30 to £40 a week increase in judges' salaries, we thought at first it was bold self-criticism. The "very bad thing for the com munity," according to Sir Richard, isn't judges' salaries or those of company directors, or huge profits generally — but over - award wage workers in some industries have wrung from, their employers. 