 Ludwig hits out FRANKFURT: The "Frank furter Rundschau" has de nounced statements of Lud wig Erhard, Premier of the Federal Republic (West Ger many) against 25' authors of the essays "A Plea for a New Government". JgRHARD paid particular attention to Rolf Hochhuth, young author of "The Representative" the con troversial play currently sold out at The Old Tote Theatre in Sydney . In a salival pre-election blast Er hard called Hochhuth "a pampered puppy" who knew "nothing at all about economics". Swinging wildly he then collected Guenther GRASS ("The Tin Drum"), Uwe JOHNSON, Hans Werner RICHTER ("Group Forty Seven"), Martin WALSER, Erhart KAEST- NER, Heinrich BOELL, Ernest BLOCH and Rolf SCHROERS. These writers have consistently criticised the severe limitations of democratic freedom and intellectual enterprise during Erhard's period of office. Erhard said: "They have lowered themselves to the level of petty political functionaries, but still want to be considered seriously for the title of poet and writer. This we can never agree to . . ." Erhard then applied a few use ful holds from the recent past. He said: "There is a certain kind of intellectualism which sometimes transforms itself into idiocy. I con demn with all vigor efforts of these intellectual meddlers to undermine the affluence of the Federal Re public. Their criticism is a lot of nonsense." Later during speeches at Dussel- dorf and Colonia Erhard aban doned the Marquis of the Muses, completely and threw a few below the belt. "Recently," he said, "poets have been developing the habit of making political and social criticism. It is naturally their democratic right to do so. "But this right works both ways and their criticism must be treated on its merits. "In politics and economics they are incompetent and ignorant." Commented the. "Frankfurter Rundschau": "We have behind us the bitter experience that the spirit that animates such language also pre- . pares the way for the burning of books. "Erhard can go on bragging about liberty. It won't do him much good because his record creates little faith in his 'liberty'. For him intellectual liberty ends where authority begins. The poet is per- ' mitted to dabble in a few lyrics about the moonlight and fairies, hut must leave politics to those holding the whip hand." 