 THE PATTERSON SACKING A THREAT TO LIBERTIES M ernes shuffles to the tight ANBERRA: The removal of Dr. Rex Patterson from a high public service position because he had announced he would be an ALP election candidate is seen here as a threat to all public servants with ALP or progressive lean ings. It is of a piece with the Liberal Party-DLP demand for a White Paper on Communism which would "name" people suspected of "Communist" sympathies wherever they might be. Menzies' attack on Dr. Patterson coupled with his barrage against the Vernon Report on the Economy and the refusal to alter the Government's decision to exclude East German athletes from Australia marks a fur ther swing to the right by the Gov ernment. Mr. Webb, Labor, WA, asked whe ther the removal of Dr. Patterson from the position of head of the Northern Division of the Department of National Development meant that "the threat of dismissal or regres-. sion hangs over the head of any member of the Public Service who may indicate his intention to repre sent this party at an election?" Although Mr. Webb's question was directed to Development Minister IFairbairn, Sir Robert Menzies in sisted on answering it and he made 1 what Mr. Bryant called a "slighting remark" about Dr. Patterson. Mehzies said it would be "monst rous" to suppose that Dr. Patter son would be left in his position while "doing his best to defeat the Government whose private commu nications he would be aware of." The implication was that Dr. Patter son might use his position to party advantage, and the same implication might be used to sack any top pub lic servant not wholeheartedly sup porting the Government. - In a later debate in the Senate, Senator Keeffe, Labor, Queensland, showed that Dr. Patterson was well within his rights. The Public Service Act would not require him to resign earlier -than one month before election nomina tions closed. Dr. Patterson had never given the ALP any information that came to him in his official capacity. Had he intended to do this he would have concealed, instead of announc ing, his support of the ALP. The Government had used "under hand tactics" to create a new position especially to "pigeon-hole" Dr. Patter son, said Senator Keeffe. . Menzies was reported to have said Dr. Patterson's action was "monst rous", yet some years earlier a Mr. Prowse, a permanent officer of the Department of National Development, had contested a seat for the Liberal Party, without being denied access to any documents and without los ing status when he was defeated and returned to the department. Mr. Keeffe snowed that Dr. Pat terson was one of Australia's most able public servants. Twice he had turned down posi tions offered by the World Bank to concentrate on northern development in Australia. "He was largely responsible for the northern development program for this government and can claim full credit for the beef roads program." Other projects for which Dr. Pat terson was responsible would be scrapped or delayed. "In a matter of a few days the Government can create a Second Division top level job, using public funds so that an officer can carry out innocuous work. This is a complete waste of public funds and the talents and qualifi- cations of one of our best public servants." Senator TCeeffe m inter! the Hanberra Times as saying the Government would now have to deal in the samo way with Liberal candidates if the occasion arose. 