 [?] GOVT. PLOT TO STIFLE CRITICS . .-a- a - A new ana serious dangerto AusTralian democratic rights has appeared in the Mensies Government's open threat against maritime unions, on the pretext of the war in Vietnam. This followed last week's boycott of United States warships by Melbourne tug- men, members of the Victorian Branch of the Seamen's Union, as a protest against the use of American and Australian troops in Viet nam. At Port Kembla, too, Australian seamen last Saturday "greeted" the visiting US minesweeper "Advance" with large slogans opposing US policy in Vietnam. MEETING that morning organised by the Seamen's Union, Waterside Wor k e r s Federation, Building Workers' Industrial Union, Painters and Dockers and Miscellaneous Workers protested against in tervention in Vietnarh. Then about 1 50 held a protest march through Port Kembla. In an attempt to intimidate the widespread public opposition to the policy of sending Australian troops, Labor Minister McMahon said he would "investigate" the activities of the Waterside Workers' Federation and the Seamen's Union; Earlier, Liberal MPs in Parliament had urged action against Labor Party and other critics of the war policy. Last week's Sydney newspapers also conveniently featured stories of "chaos" on the Sydney waterfront. Anyone with only a slight know- . ledge of the Sydney waterfront knows that the so called chaos and port congestion is caused by insufficient cargo storage and handling facilities. The Assistant secretary of the Syd ney Branch WWF, Mr. S. Barrett, revealed that yesterday (Tuesday) 900 waterside workers were Unable to be placed in jobs because of this con gestion. At the same time five ships were unable ..to get berths in Sydiiey and one ship, the "Auckland Star", could only work one gang instead of 12 because of the poor facilities; "Our actions have always been guid ed by what we thought was in the best interests, of the working people , of this country," Mr. Barrett said; "History has proved . we were right in the past in our struggle against pig iron to Japan." "Were we wrong with our opposi tion to German fascism, troops ; to Korea, non intervention in Suez and South African' apartheid?" ' "Millions of people throughout the . world are in agreement with lis in our opposition to US agg'ressioii in Vietnam," Mr.' Barrett said- In Adelaide, as U.S. General Stro- ther, C-in-C of the North American Air Defence Command, arrived at the Arkaba Lodge Restaurant, he was met by demonstrators carrying placards demanding the US get out of Vietnam. Canberra vigil CYDNEY : Officials at Rev. Alan Walker's headquarters said on Tuesday their switch board was jarqmed with calls from supporters planning to take part in tomorrow's (Thurs day) march and vig.il in Can berra over the Vietnam war. The demonstration to be. held at Parliament. House, is being organised by a committee of 20 churchmen. They have called for men and women from all over Australia to support them. The demonstrators will Assemble at 11 a.m: in the Methodist National Memorial Church in Canberra and wiil march to Parliament House. A declaration of wnolenearted sup port for the Federal ALP opposition to sending Australian troops to South Vietnam, and a call for their with drawal and a negotiated settlement in Vietnam, were made by the Queens land Labor-in-Poiitics Convention in Townsville last week. The Convention also called for a Federal Labor fact-finding party to go to South Vietnam. In Brisbane, over 30 students and young workers on Saturday morning demonstrated for 50 minutes in Anzac Square against, the Vietnam war and the despatch of Australian troops/ The youpg people sat down in a group on the grass and held up placards with slogans such as "No Diggers for dollars," "ALP opposes Government decision on Vietnam." Anzac Square was also last Friday the scene of a vigil by women in silent protest against the Vietnam war and the decision to send Australian com bat troops. 