 Unequal pay is wage robbery for super profits The Communist Party asserts that unequal pay — pay discrimination based on sex — is essentially a form of wage robbery and a means of increasing ..profits. "THIS is the sole reason for its continuance. It is an additional form of exploitation imposed on women in the pro fit-making process. "Australia's Way Forward" the Program of the Communist Party of Australia adopted by the 20th Nation al Congress in June 1964 reaffirms the Communist support for the "principle of equal pay for the job" and "equal opportunity for women j in all trades and professions and in g political, social and cultural life". I Food, clothing, rent, fares and f amusement ail cost the same for g women as for men. Many women S have families to support while many | men are bachelors. g The tender concern for the woman j worker lest equal pay adversely af- | fects her by undermining her femin- j inity or resulting in her losing her = job is revealed as hypocrisy by life j itself. | None sacked ! Women teachers in NSW now get \ equal pay and not one has been j sacked as a result, the truth is the : economy needs the labour of women, j Extra pay would in fact allow women to be more feminine; to j spend more on clothes, cosmetics, hairdo's etc. although the extra mon ey would go mostly to provide educa tion for the children, to pay off the home and raise the family's living standard where the married woman is concerned. Alongside equal pay women must win equal opportunities for training, apprenticeship, promotion etc. but for women equal opportunity mean special facilities for child care, maternity leave, shopping facilities. These are the responsibility of soci ety and the boss whom her labour enriches. The quaint concept persists that married women should be denied the right to work, or be the first to be sacked in times of crisis. The Labour; and trade union movement must demand the right to work for all, men and women, married or single;. Equal pay is a just wage demand. Its realisation would remove the pool of cheap labour that holds down wage levels. It would raise family living standards and guarantee men jobs in face of mechanisation and automation, it would increase the people's purchasing power. Equal pay is in the interest of all workers. Kising profits are a clear in dication that equal pay can and must be granted. 