 Wharf Conference A Contrast To Panic Legislation / SYDNEY: The results to date of the ali-in confer ence to settle waterfront problems stands in contrast to the Federal Government's panic legislation aimed against the Waterside Workers' Federation. ' Lgst Thursday's conference in Sydney of representatives from the WWF, Australian Council of Trade Unions, employers, Federal Government and the Stevedoring Authority adopted a conciliatory attitude to the solution of these problems. The Government and employers have m fact been obliged to enter into negotiations with the WWF and the AGTU. For the past 12 months the WWF has made un successful attempts to have such negotiations take the issue of recruitment of waterfront labor, agree ment was reached that there would be no discrimination against any applicant on poli tical, racial or religious grounds. Where previously applicants seeking work as waterside workers applied through, the WWF, they will now do so through the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. Agreement was reached that before there is any recruitment or cessation of recruitment both the WWF and the employers must be consulted. Where the number of applicants exceed the number of men required a ballot is to be held as in the past when conducted by the WWF. All successful applicants before being registered must also establish that they have applied for member ship of the WWF. The WWF must also be consulted in any particular cases where it' may have objections to the regis tration of a person or objects to the failure of the Authority to regis ter a person. Blatant, unprincipled Another important agreement was the establishment of the clear grounds on which an applicant may be re jected. These are on health and physical grounds, past record in the industry, or a person's criminal record. On the last point, the WWF has been subjected to : some blatant, un principled attacks by Government spokesmen and some newspapers as part of a smear campaign against the Federation. Last week's conference said the ASIA when considering this matter should be mindful of men being able to rehabilitate themselves. Strong criticism One aspect of the Government's wharf legislation which has received strong criticism is the insertion of a new section into the Stevedoring Act (36A) governing disciplinary in quiries against waterside workers. This gives the Authority the power to suspend a man's registration or cancel his attendance money rights without even notifying him that it proposes to do so or proposes to conduct an inquiry. The Federation has condemned this as a denial of _ the basic prin ciples of natural justice. Last week's conference said that if the WWF represented waterside workers as has been customary and adopted a reasonable attitude to calling of witnesses there would be no occasion to resort to this section of the Act. The conference will meet again in Sydney on November 11 at which the economic claims of the Federa tion will he discussed. These include industry pensions, a mechanisation fund, wage increases, attendance money and long service leave. Last Friday in Sydney the WWF isused a 51-page book presenting to the public "The case for the water side worker." Describing as a "vulnerable figure," the book said the union and water side worker "are misrepresented by people who have never been on a wharf, let alone at a ship side load ing or unloading cargo. "Editors who hide in their ivovy towers pour torrents of words on the defenceless heads of the wharf ies; managing directors who have never lifted anything heavier than a cock tail glass are tremendously know- ledgable about sling loads and output per hour. "Radio and TV jokes abound con cerning slow motion on the water front, news items ' are colored by stories of the lazy 'man with the hook.' "That of course is the fairy tale," said the Federation. ' Next week Tribune will give the true picture as revealed by the book. 