 INSIDE STATE PARLIAMENT By the State Political Roundsman LABOR M.L.A. Mr. J. Fer guson last week suggested to the Legislative Assembly that there might be at present enough bread crumbs in not req Ired to pay for takeovers of small bakers by monopolies, by way of paying unjustified increase for bread, and that this criminal wasteful practice of dumping stale bread is eliminated?" Mr. Ferguson asked. Chief Secretary Willis, in refusing to hold an enquiry, said -there was no foundation in Mr. Ferguson's suggestion of an artificial price increase to help monopolies. AFTER the Mayor, of Randwick Aid. ;W. ,H. Haigh, protested at the decision of the NSW Gov- ' ernment to auction Crown land in South Coogee, we loqked up what Premier Askin had promised in his policy, speech. The Mayor protested following an announcement by Mr. F. L. Lewis, Minister for Lands, that 130 blocks of Crown land in a sub-division in Macleay St. South coogee would be auctioned. Most of this was formerly set aside to build Housing Commission flats. The Mayor estimated that the blocks auctioned would now bring £5000 each. Mr. Askin in his policy speech prior, to the last .elections' said. "We will . greatly accelerate 'the release of. Crown land building blocks. "A limited number in exclusive areas would be auctioned but the bulk will be disposed of by ballot." ljTINISTER for Justice Mr. Mad- dison will introduce before Christmas legislation eliminating any compulsion for landlords to provide alternative accommodation when serving tenants with notices to quit, Anotlie- bite into remaining ten ants' rights. Leader of the' Opposition (Mr. Renshaw) said in the House last Friday that "Labor regarded the "alternative accommodation'' clause as the cornerstone of the landlord and Tenant Act and will1 oppose in the Upper House any attempt to repeal it." ? jyjINISTER for Public Works Mr. David Hughes said last week that he would consider a suggestion that the State Government ask the Commonwealth Government to es tablish an overseas shipping line. The suggestion was made by Mr. R- A. McCartney, Labor . Member for Hamilton. ' . Mi. McCartney in asking the question pointed but . that soon there would be r' .35 per cent freight increase for :67 different commodities ahd: that 'the jstate dockyard .could ; build t the Jshipp re-: quired for an .overseas iiuae| 