 USSR celebrates 48th anniversary of the revolution EXT Sunday, Novem ber 7, marks the 48th anniversary of the Rus sian revolution, when workers and peasant farmers of that huge country took political power. They ended the govern ment by representatives of capitalists and landlords and began building the first state owned and controlled by the working people— the Socialist Soviet Republic Union. For the occasion, Tribune asked some questions of Alf Watt, who recently returned after two years as Tribune correspondent in Mos cow. ? Q: How will the people celebrate this anniversary? A Thnta bn lAirfnl na1obidfinn6 YVJ.ll UO in every city, town and village, and every factory and farm. There will be gift-giving galore, for the birthday of Soviet Power is a close runner-up to New Year's Day and May Day as an occasion for felicitations and goodwill. Q: Why does it occupy such a high position in the Soviet calendar ? A.: On this date, 48 years ago, they commenced laying the economic and social basis for Socialism and Com munism. Their country has come a long way from the wooden plough-primi- tive industry economy of 1917 to the position where it is within cooee of challenging the United States for leadership in world economy. Their advance is even more remark able when the devastation of war and the unceasing enmity of the capitalist powers are taken into consideration. . Q: What of democracy and civil rights in this new so ciety? triet democracy has many interesting facets. n ae» r example, the rule that tha blding elected positions (with exception of a very small minority Trnrt Pte) fo the Party, Soviets, Q® Unions, Young Communist League and all other organisations, shall serve for two terms only. We met many of the millions affected by this rule. For the great majority, their elected position was a voluntary public ac tivity; those holding full-time posi tions spoke freely about their eventual return to their regular jobs. One, holding a high position in the Ail-Union Central Council of Trade Unions, summed up the general feel ing in the words, "We don't regard a trade union official job as a life time profession." A society that has produced so many able people that it can rotate millions of elected positions in this way, and in so doing give millions more the honor and experience of leadership and service to their people, demonstrates a quality that the so- called "free world" cannot possibly emulate. Nor ,are the people exempt from this rule, allowed to go their own sweet way. I cite only one incident, that occurred in the local Soviet elections early this year. Nominations for these two million deputies' posts are made at general meetings of workers in factories and other places of employment. The chairman of one Leningrad District Soviet, a full-time office holder not subject to rotation, was refused re-nomination by his factory because he had "lost the spiritual qualities" needed for the job. In other words, he had developed a bad attitude to people. . To this one incident I could add others, all pointing to that fact that bureaucratic tendencies meet not only criticism but action. It is true, of course, that the basic tenets of Soviet democracy were diminished in the years of the Stalin personality cult, but what is hap pening nowadays is more- than a repair of the damage done. It is a new flowering of Soviet democracy as it prepares to pass into Com munism. Q: In this period of the transition to Communism, what role do the ordinary people— the factory workers, clerks, students, teachers, etc. — play in the day-to-day ad ministration of Soviet life? A.; One illustration of this role is the huge army of over 20 millions who, in one way or another, help the Soviets to govern the country. This number DOES NOT include those who fill honorary positions in V. t ' $ the Party, trade union and other organisations. The size of this latter can perhaps he gauged from the fact that the trade union groups, the primary organisation, consisting of up to 50 workers, each elect a chairman, a safety delegate, social insurance delegate and cultural delegate. Public activists who help the Soviets serve in a variety of ways and on a variety of committees. House Committees help the official bodies in the administration of the flat blocks, in ensuring cleanliness, planting greenery, organising recrea tion and child care. Our flat was visited twice a year by a Committee member worker who checked on the presence of mice and vermin. And when white flour first became available after the severe drought, the ration was dis tributed by the House Committee. Other committees see that new flats are allotted according to rule and without favoritism. There are parents' committees for each class in the schools, child guidance councils attached to the militia stations, public inspectors who check on the cleanli ness of shops and the quality and price of the goods they sell, and the accuracy of the scales. Public activists concern themselves with health and hospital administra tion, with militia activities, and with legal advice. In the form of Comrades' Courts they "try" persons accused of minor breaches of public order, using as their corrective weapon the force of public opinion. There are literally millions of "Druzhniki," or Public Order Brigade members, who give one night a month ot patrolling the streets and courtyards. They have no power of arrest, and, though an offender must accompany them to the militia station if asked, their sharpest weapon is a report to the Comrades' Court at their place of work or in the block where they live. " The very great respect accorded the Druzhniki by the public was illustrated by a slip of a girl, cap tain of a Brigade in Sungait. She told us of taking a drunk to his home one night, and returning the next day to speak to him about his conduct, because he was too drunk to be spoken to on the night of the offence. Q: Is there freedom for discussion? A.: Yes! Another aspect of this their rich democracy is the enor mous amount of vigorous discussion of their own affairs. A three-year discussion, participated in by millions, preceded the radical changes in the system of control and management of the economy just decided upon. Many thousands of the near 400,000 letters received by Pravda last year dealt with this question, and though only a few were published, the gist of all was sent to the Central Com mittee for their information. Letters to the press is an impor tant form of public expression, and the four national papers received a total of one and a half million letters last year. Every smaller paper re ceives its quota. Education Each letter is given an Individual reply. Where investigation of the matter raised is called for, and is beyond the capacity of the paper's own staff, the matter is referred to the appropriate official body, and the Party or trade union organisation, with the paper making a check-back to satisfy itself on the results. Pravda has voluntary volunteer committees in hundreds of towns who help in these investigations. Q: How much study do the Soviet people do? A.: One in three Soviet people over the age of seven years study in the State educational system, not includ ing the numbers who attend the People's Universities and the interest circles attached to every theatre, museum and club. Mr. W. A. Westerman, Australian trade mission leader, and Mr. Mikhail Kuzmin, First Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade of the USSR, initial , a trade agreement between Australia and the Soviet Union. 