 "Yes, and it's got so much to be modest about!" -TRYING to attribute virtues to a mediocre political char acter, someone said of him: "He's a very modest man." ' To which the retort came: "Yes, and he's got so much to be modest about!" It's something similar with the faceless National Civic Council: it's got so much to be faceless about. So much so that it appears that the NCC is now trying to make a virtue out of its facelessness. , It's got out a funds soliciting pamphlet. Ort the cover and inside it has what's supposed to be an NCC character, "This Man." He's got on a business suit.. He's got one hand out. The other hand is in his pocket, making sure nothing falls out. But, and this is the real point, he's got no face at all; just a white blob, like a night-game football that hasn't been blown up properly. And so that's the NCC's image ol itself: a man without a face. As we've said, the faceless "This Man" pamphlet is putting the bite for money for the NCC. At the same time, the NCC has got out a circular letter ("Dear Sir/Madam . . .") also with the Big Bite. We learnt from the Man Without a Pace that the NCC has "a two- fold aim". The first aim is: "To ensure that the public policy of Australia commends Christianity to our Asian neighbours." And how does the NCC do that? It supports, for a start, what USA is doing in Vietnam. That involves incineration of hum an beings— men, women, children— by napalm, destruction of villages and the people in them by high- explosive, use of the frightful "Lazy Dog" which sends up to 10,000 steel darts scything out. Is that "commending Christianity to our Asian neighbors"? The NCC is shrill in support of the Menzies policy of committing Australia deeper and deeper with USA in Vietnam. You don't hear, of NCC leaders lining up to go, but they're all for others being sent. The second aim is: — "To ensure the survival of Aus-, tralia against the dual Communist strategy of external aggression and internal subversion." Now, what's that all about? To start with, what "external aggres sion"? Neither the Soviet Union nor Peo ple's China nor any other Socialist country has 50,000 or more troops in Vietnam, or is, day after day, carrying out air raids against the territory and people of North Viet nam. That's part of what the USA is doing. The Man Without a Face doesn't go into that. When it comes to pinpointing any "Communist aggression," the Man Without a Face is reticent. The pamphlet has a lurid draw ing, with blood-red ink. It's very hideous, but it's scarcely convincing. And what about Communist "in ternal subversion"? The circular letter talks darkly of "the machinations of Communism in the factories and workshops." Does that make you shudder? It doesn't, eh? Then you must know something about what Communist policy really is. Very likely, you've read, for ex ample, ,of the Communists' five- point economic program, featuring a £22 basic wage and control of prices. Those Communist "machinations" are directed towards higher living standards for workers and their families. Diabolical, isn't it? Then the NCC letter says: "They that is, the NCC men with out faces fought it in the GMH dis pute last year. They see it and op pose it in the tragedy of the Mt. Isa dispute; they see it approaching "in the sugar industry— also in the development of Central Queensland at Gladstone; in the. threatening troubles of the meat industry . . ." But at- GMH, workers (with active Communist support) fought a giant US-controlled monopoly for modest demands for a pay rise. But the NCC fought the Communists, which means the NCC fought for GMH against the workers. And it boasts of what it did! So too, on the NCC's own story, in the sugar industry (that's CSR's domain) and the meat industry (that's where Swifts and Vesteys and Borthwicks get' the gravy). How handy for the monopolies, when faced with workers' pressure, to have the NCC's help. Who can the NCC go to for money? It can hardly go to workers. More and more workers are seeing the real face that the NCC wants to hide. Then who finances it? Remember how "Security" was able, on its own story, to hand over —off its own bat— £5000 in cash to Russian defector Petrov? If it could do that, then couldn't it hand over cash (as well as dossier informa tion) to the NCC? Does it do so? And what about US Government secret funds? And how much comes 1 from the monopolies, direct or through camouflaged channels? Let the NCC come out and say truthfully where it gets its money. Will the NCC do that? Certainly it will— but not until it's definitely proved that the moon is made en tirely of green cheese. But subterfuge and secrecy, and the bearing of false witness, cannot succeed. Workers know what they want. And they know who Is helping them to win these things— and who is helping the big employers to resist. No Wonder the NCC puts its This Man in a business suit and takes off his face.- -PETE THOMAS. 