 How the white rule was | OBENGULA, chief of the Matabeles, was well-edu cated according to the African tribal standards of the 1 880s, but unluckily he was not a Rhodes Scholar. He was not, to be precise,' a student of the methods by which, at . that time, British imperialist magnate Cecil Rhodes was grabbing large tracts of African territory which didn't belong to him. So Lobengula felt no cause of alarm, but rather pleasure when, in February, 1888, a British mission ary, Rev. J. S. Moffat, came to see him. As author Leonard Barnes wrote in his book Empire or Democracy, the Matabele already knew Moffat, who-had worked among them, and trusted him. He had no fears, therefore, when ' Moffat asked; him to sign a letter agreeing not to cede any of his ter ritory without the consent of the British Government. "As Lobengula had no intention of ceding any territory to anybody, surely there could be no danger in saying so," writes Barnes. However, to Moffat and Rhodes, the declaration meant a British op tion on Lobengula's dominions, and opened the way for yet another treaty, which was brought to Bul awayo the following October by two more agents of Rhodes, named Rudd and Thompson. This too, Lobengula signed— with hesitation. This was overcome . by the agents, who pointed out that in return for what he was giving them, they were giving him 1000 rifles with ammunition, something they would not do if 'they wished him ill. Once again there was a disagree ment about what . he had signed. Afterward Lobengula wrote to Queen Victoria that "some: time ago a party of men came to my country,' the principal one appearing to be a man called Rudd. They asked me for a place to dig gold . . . A docu ment was written and presented to me for signature. I asked what it contained and was told that in it were my words and the words of those men. I put my hand to it. "About three months afterwards I heard from other sources that I had given by that document the right to all the minerals in my country". The "place to dig gold" had turned out to be the whole of present-day Rhodesia! ' Lobengula had no right, under tribal law, as he knew, to make any such concession. He at once repudiated the treaty- and took punitive action, in accordance with tribal tradition, against the Prime Minister whose mistaken advice he held responsible for what he had done. Rhodes' agent Thompson, who was still in Bulawayo, listened all night to tribal, justice being done and fled at first light. However, the Rudd concession had been signed and on the basis of it Rhodes obtained . from the British Government a Royal . Charter for his British South Africa Company (pre- sident, the Duke of Abercorn; vice- president, the Duke of Fife). In brief the charter gave Rhodes' company the right to make all treaties and laws over a wide area, with limits to the west and east, but none to the north. Rhodes' dream of an all-British Cape-to-Cairo route was now on the agenda. The Matabele had not known what an important place in it their homeland held. Learning fast, Lobengula tried to stave off Rhodes by granting con cessions to a rival, Lippert, being persuaded thereto by the Rev. Mr. Moffat. He did not know what Moffat knew, that Lippert was another secret agent of Rhodes. When Moffat told him later, Lobengula said: "AH white man are liars".: . Soon he found they could do worse | than lie. Rhodes' settlers, the fore- , runners of Ian Smith— those who have "done so much to build up the country" — swarmed into Mata beleland like locusts. The Matabeles bravely used their 1000 rifles. But the Company baci machine-guns. I By November 1893, notes Barnes, I the Union Jack was flying over ihe a smoking ruins of Bulawayo. 1 Christmas the white Rhodesians, H were able to celebrate, along win | the birth of; the Prince of Peace, g the death of .King Lobengula witn g thousands of his people and 8 soaring of Chartered £1 shares J a price at £9/10/-. The massacre wa g easily financed out of the new I ital. 9 