 CAAT will sail into French tests j "j"HE campaign to sail \ an unarmed fleet ! of ships of defiance J into the zone of French is nuclear weapons test ing this year is gather ing momentum in Syd- i ney. | Meeting again in Sydney | this week, to report pro- Igress is the Committee Against . Atomic Testing | (CAAT) which recently j staged a Sydney Harbor ! launch demonstr a tion ! against French warships. CAAT is the Australian ver- I sion of the New Zealand organ-; S isation, Campaign for Resolute I Action against French Tests J (CRAFT). | Already CAAT has received I overseas support from such or- !ganisations as the Bertrand Rus sell Peace Foundation (Britain), "Liberation" magazine (USA) , I Voice of Women ' " ' Action Civ?nue (France) , French Democratic I Women's Association, Swedish i Women's International League I for Peace and Freedom, Women 9 Against War (England)', Women | of Uruguay and Women Against | War (USA). | The aims of CAAT are: 1) To | prevent French riuclear wea- | pons' tests in the South Pacific; 1 2) To join world-wide public ft opinion against nuclear testing, which continues to contaminate S the world, and 3) To stress that I these aims are in agreement j with the aims of the Partial 1 Nuclear Test Ban Treaty of I 1963. Mrs. Janice Symons, Sec- 2 retary of CAAT, said last week 1 that the plans include the sail- | ing of a boat into the French 2 Pacific nuclear test zone and to j stay there in defiance of the | French Government. I Mr. Don Henderson, Secretary | of the Firemens and Deck- | hands' Union, said that a I meeting of the . waterfront j unions would soon be called to 1 plan a drive to involve all I unions. | The committee is already seek- j ing seaworthy craft for the f expedition, and it is hoped that j a boat will go from each Aus- j tralian state. ! Already about a dozen mem- | hers of the Firemens and Deck- j hands' Union have volunteered i as crew members. 1 Concerning the seriousness j of the danger of the French g tests, Dr. ; Linus Pauling, the I Nobel prizewinning bio-chemist j of the U.S. had this to say. j "I believe the French intend i to explode a 20 megaton bomb j in the Pacific. If so, it will lead j to serious damage in 500,000 | children now unborn, and cause j ",000 people to die 15 to 20 I -vrs ahead of normal because I cancer. If nuclear testing con- 2 >ues- 15 million people will die j cancer throughout the world | and two million will suffer g marked physical and mental de- . fects." 1 C.A.A.T. has called for support i from all individuals, groups | and institutions which agree | with the aims of the project. I All financial donations and 2 communications should be g addressed to: CA.A.T. Treasurer, | c/- H. Gilmore, F. & D. Union, I 151a George Street, Sydney, or j c/- Jan Symons, 3 Kareela S Road, Cremorne, N.S.W. I 