 Stoking up the teenage a furnace 1 By KATH OLIVE B.Sc., A.I.D. VOUTIjLWEEK' HEALTH NOTE During Trade Union Youth Week the mutual rela- tions, needs and activities of adult and young work ers received special consideration. This should stimulate cor?;"nued attention to them through the whole year. The first need of any human being is food. In 1954 the National Health and Medical Research Council endorsed a report of its Nutri tion Comm'ttee, in which Re commended Dietary Allowances I for Australian Conditions were set out as a basis for. planning diets in Australia. A lad of 13-15 years requires about 3000' calories per day, 85 grams of protein. 50 milligrams of ascorbic acid (vitamin C), 1.4 grams calcium, and other nutrients. At 16-19 years, hts requirements increase to 3S10 calories, with 100 grams of protein. The high calorie and protein requirements (more than an. adult man's) are because of his very rapid growth and building of body tissue at this time "He eats more than his father!" All mothers of teenage sons are familiar with the stage where "He eats more than Ns father. You can't fill him up." Girls have similar Increased protein and calorie requirements in their teens, but their stage of most rapid growth is earlier as a rule. At 13-15 years, they require 2,500 calories wt.ih 80 grams of protein, and at 16-19 years have slowed down to 2,300 calories. However, they do need adequate iron-containing foods to meet the increased demands on their blood- manufacturing tissue due to menstrua tion from early teenage onwards. To achieve this level of nutrition on a "typicallv" Australian diet pat tern requires daily something like this: A pint of milk (protein and total calcium requirement); A couple of eggs; 10 slices of bread and butter with cheese, peanut butter or other protein-type filling; 4-6 ozs. meat (raw weight) depending on its bone content; The usual types of vegetables and fruit, including one orange (vitamin G). The expense of keeping faeaJhy Work this out lor one teenager for one week, and its total cost will he at least £2/5/- (Newcastle prices), including seven pints of milk, over one dozen eggs, 2:; lbs. of meat and nearly one pound of cheese. Multiply this by three or four teenagers in a family and it turns into half the basic wage, without even starting to feed mum and dad, or provide clothing and shelter for anybody. To get anywhere near the recom mended allowance for teenagers requires a lot more family income than many families have. You can- reach the calorie requirements on the cheaper, foods, but protein foods are dear (meat, eggs, etc.). Certainly those young people living in rooms or sharing flats must often fail by quite a bit to reach a good ...andard of nutrition through their .aek of cash. It is often said that the cheap cuts ui meat are equally as nutritious as d:e more ccsciy, and this is fairly true as far as the actual meat goes, cut not we.ght for weight, as the cneap cuts have a relatively high percentage, of bone and gristle. Irish stew (mutton chops) is a delicious alternative to fillet' steak, but as an alternative to mince it is merely monotonous. In other words, one cheap cuts are fine when you . n also afford dear ones. Greeks proles? in Adslrkfe . L . A eiing of more t?ian Jb3 (-rr k migrants was held lart S'«r\?y to protest at the noll/ical events in Grecee. The mee"ng, which was organ ised by Pla'on, tlie Greek workers' club, was held at Olympic Hall. It f' ' a to: the Greek Government condemning he »(ing of Or re;: far it. -lg the constitutions! r'ghts of the people and applauded the ex- Premier, Papandreou, and the EDA political party for their stand against the King's aetion. The meeting set up a Committee for Democracy in Greece to carry on the campaign. 