 SOVIET LEADER W VIETNAM I Soviet Premier Kosygin's acceptance of | the North Vietnam Government's invitation | to visit the country emphasises again the I firm Soviet support of North Vietnam. | jJNDERLINING the warnings I previously given, it is a ser- | lous rebuff to the Washington | would-be war-spreaders. I The last warning was given on De- I cember 30, when, after a series of US-backed South Vietnam raids on North Vietnam, the USSR said it would give North Vietnam whatever help was necessary to repel US J aggression. Presence of Air Marshal Vershen- | in in the Soviet delegation to make ! the coming visit emphasises the im- | portance of this warning. 1 Crisis for USA I At the same time the collapse of I the South Vietnam US-backed re- I gime of Tran Van Huong last week I meant the worst setback yet for the I US quest for a stable puppet govern- I ment to fight for the imperialist I cause there. I The American press and a number I of politicians are full of criticisms of I US. policy and are voicing demands for the recall of the US Ambassador, Taylor. Meanwhile, the Menzies Govern ment, through Defence Minister Paltridge, last week announced in creased Australian aid for a cause which is now obviously a lost one. Announcing the addition of another 17 military "advisers" to the force already in South Vietnam, Paltridge said he was leaving Saigon with "a slightly more optimistic view than that with which I arrived." He must be the only politican in the western world who feels that way. As the London Daily Telegraph (Conservative) says: "For Washing ton last week's coup was worse than just another setback in the familiar series. "It is not just the re-emergence of General Khanh that must cause dis- since he obtained. American I acceptance and support in his I earlier dictatorial incarnation. "The disquieting new factor is that the Buddhist demonstrations which have now brought him back to power were noisily anti-American. The re moval of the Ambassador, General Maxwell Taylor, was demanded in the same breath as that of the Viet namese Prime Minister, Mr, Huong." The Teelgraph points to the lack of "any dependable political anchorage in South Vietnam" for the US and asks "May not Khanh be . ousted in his turn by some other officer?" Even Palridge admitted in his "optimism" statement, that a "stable government is indispensable" to suc cess. But' as, the London Daily Maili points out, this is precisely what does not exist. It says that Khanh 's coup of last week "brutally disrupted American policy . . . General Khanh, in staging (South) Vietnam's eighth coup in 14 months, has shattered Washington's hopes of establishing a stable civilian regime." American leaders would also obviously like to know where Pal tridge gets his "optimjism" from. Not reported in the Australian press was the comment of Senator Fullbright, Chairman of the US foreign Relations Committee, that the. South Vietnam situation was now "very distressing" and Senate maj ority leader Mike Mansfield's view that the Khanh coup "makes a dif ficult situation that much more dif ficult to contend with ... It looks as if we are dealing with coup on coup rather than with a stable government. Senator George D. Aiken said that Taylor had "about oulived his use fulness" in South Vietnam. Typical of the illusions still ruling in Australian Rightwing circles was the Sydney's Bulletin's editorial comment, dated January 29, that Huong's was the most stable government possible in present cir cumstances. The "stable" Mr. Huong had al ready been toppled— on January 27 » MR. KOSYGIN fr . 