 What happens when Communists win a Council majority ? by JOCK GRAHAM I Communist candidates will contest the NSW local government elec tions on December 4. JOCK GRAHAM, vet eran coalminer, poet and short story writer, here recalls the way communist councillors worked effect ively for the people of Kearsley Shire in 1944. |N ; 1944, Kearsley Shire Council in the northern (Maitland) coalfields, was, I understand, the first Shire Council in Australia to have a communist majority. Its territory stretched from Wol- lombi to the south-west, to Mt. Vincent in the east, and from Branxton in the North to Kearsley. Its main townships being Kurri Kurri and Wieston, Greta and Aber- main. Twenty-three populated areas and over 600 miles of roads. When the Shire was established in 1927, with a part of old Tarro Shire, its annual rate income was £27,000; however, deterioration of certain areas of land values had reduced this amount to around £19,000. Furthermore, devaluation of the pound sterling under successive U.A.P.-cum-Liberal Governments had cut the purchasing power of this sum down to about £9,000. The Shire's roads, footpaths, , bridges, etc., were in a bad state ' of disrepair, and there was an almost total lack of amenities. . . . This was the heritage the people of Kearsley handed over to five Com munists in 1944, electing them on the slogan "TIME FOR A CHANGE," and with a policy and program to ensure that the change would be in the best interests of the Shire's people. ? |T was a staggering blow to the. ruling cliques of the per- / iod. They had returned their supporters term after term with the use of the big mega phones of the daily press and radio/to which they had, as now. almost exclusive rights. To say they were dismayed is not \ sufficent:: The Communist, Gulliver, had become the giant on the Local Government Bench. Wires ran hot, and the little men ran hither and thither The houses of the new Communist councillors were be- Uj pi vbb 1 tipUi Iwl bi W llCVv was their intentions? Did they think they would be able to run the affairs of Council efficiently? Had they had any previous experience? "Oh, we've had plenty of experi ence," they replied. "We have served the workers well in the field of industry and farming in the Mining Unions; in the Miners' Women's Auxiliaries; in the great Unemployed Workers' Movement; in Coal Boards and Co-operatives. We have helped establish the 40-hour week, a pen sion scheme and' paid annual holi days — we intend to help them win as much for themselves in the civic field. "We will have advice from a Lord Mayor who is a member of our party, and we will have the full backing of our party in our work." JN planning their work, the first job fhey did was to go to the people, to their pro gress associations, their trade unions, their P. and C's. and their halls at public meetings They explained the financia1 situation, their intention to fix the "death" bridges, th- streets, to provide amenitie- ' They listened to the ne.onl- went . ahead with . thei- plans. : The Council's rate was threepence in the. £ the lowest, except one, in the State. The rate was raised by one penny. This brought in about £6,000, which still left the Council ' with a purchasing power of £12,000 on pre-war values. Then they . hammered on the door of Government with the people's peti tions, and the picture of the dilapi dated Shire they placed on the desks of ministers, and soon the work for a better Shire was in full swing. Among the greatest of Council's achievements were: s 1. The building of a fine brick, 1 glass and tile structure of a modern baby clinic . and health centre — the first in the coalfields— on the best hill sight in Kurri Kurri and only one 3 minute from the shopping centre. On the foundation stone is the name of councillor Nellie Simm, whose indefatigable work and ability contributed most to the success of the project. 2. An Olympic swimming pool based on the best in Sydney at that time, situated between Kurri and Weston. Many boys and girls from the area have attained State cham pionship class. 3. The straightening of Heddon Greta "Death" Bridgel 4. Making trafficable .roads into the outback township of Buttai, about eight miles out. 5. Initiating a scheme for the buying of electricity in bulk from Maitland Railways, and for its reticulation by Council to the people who were being robbed by Colliery Companies, and whose franchise had by th expired. The Surveyor reported: They (Council). , would be able within a year to cut electric power cost by half and lighting by 25 per cent. ... 6. Making possible, despite insuf ficient Council money for this pur pose, a "National Fitness" Christmas holiday of three weeks for the chil dren—sports, beach picnics, milk and ice-cream daily. 7. Sewerage and Hygiene. \A/HY, after these great achievement (all of which can be verified by council re cords, the Health Inspectors, Mr. J. McBlane and Mr. W . Baker, besides the people of the Shire) were communists not returned to carry on thie good work?. It was because the Government at Canberra, alarmed at the growth of Communist successes in local government, and backed by mono poly interests, decided to alter the franchise from voluntary voting to one of. compulsory voting as in parliamentary elections . . . Because, alarmed that the Communist, Gulli ver, was breaking the legal inhibi- tional strings and the barricades of lying propaganda, the little men ran hither and thither on election day —but in every available car that was made available, from limousines to 1920 vintage. People who had taken no previous interest — who did not know who their councillors were nor cared — were virtually carried to the booths. But the Communists were not without blame. Relying on their „ scrutineer, Councillor Simm, they didn't provide for accidents. Councillor Simm was busy with other . women, helping out on a travelling show, half of the pro ceeds of which guaranteed towards the £1,000. for the Health . Centre, the raising of which would gain another £1,000 from the colliery proprietors. This had been pro mised. ....... This night the last of the money was raised and the £1,000 won. In her enthusiasm, and right on time to go to the booth in Kurri, Coun cillors Simm met with an accident which held her up. She arrived one minute— just one — late, and was refused admission. She. was de feated by one vote. The limousine and ballot box experts preferred her absence. Personally I do not think she was defeated— not really. The . return of the old Councillors entailed a sickening reaction. The electricity scheme, ensured then of complete success, with electrical apparatus at cost price supplied by Council, was immediately scrapped and the franchise handed back on a platter to the Caledonian Com pany. The new Councillors increased the rate by 33 l/3rd per cent., and added a town improvement rate which soon rose to 1/- in the £. And with the Olympic swimming pool completed, the new reactionary Councillors accepted the gift by the Communists to the people and magnanimously had their name inscribed on the foundation plaque. ? | BELIEVE there are some valuable lessons to be learned from the work of this council. First, they will provide assurances . to the people of what Communist Councillors have done for them, and what they can still do. There are lessons; also of the need for vigi lance and more vigilance in the struggle against the usurpers of people's progress. It should be known that because of the work of this Council for the people, that the vote for our can didates in ensuing parliamentary elections increased. For it had been clearly shown in practice that Com munists, given a chance to prove their claims to serve the interests of the people better than any of their, competitors, can indeed prove it. Work around local government and, as a consequence, In local government, provides the mass work of utmost importance for the building of our party. And a strong Communist Party is the best guaran tee of gaining Communist majority Councils like the one above, to which I had the honor to belong. 