 Minister tells conference Education beyond financial scope SYDNEY: In answer to a charge from the NSW Minister for Education (Mr. C. Cutler) that militancy was not in keeping with the teaching pro- fession, Mr. S. Lewis (NSW president ot the I eachers Federation) said that the al lowances of teacher trainees "did not allow for much dig nity". yHEY were both speaking at the annual conference of the Federation in the Sydney Uni versity Union Theatre which Mr. Cutler opened Mr. Cutler was referring to two orderly demonstrations of teacher trainees held outside the N.S.W. State Parliament in protest against the small increases. These demonstrations were accom panied by a "Poverty Day" during which students in both city and country colleges wore their oldest clothes to lectures. Mr. Cutler said education demands were beyond the financial scope of the State. He said he "hoped the Federal Government will do a little bit of re thinking in this matter." - The majority of the- 8,000 teacher traineees in N.S.W. will receive an annual allowance of £280 following recent increases ranging from £20 to £40 per year. These increases do not commence until March next year and fall short of the £535 a year paid to trainees in Victoria. The Federation lias described the increases as "so . diminutive that they will do nothing to dam pen the discontent - of thousands of trainee teachers and of their parents." The 380 conference delegates, rep- Continued on Page 12 , ,\ Mr. Cutler . . . militancy not in keeping with dignity Education conference : I Continued from Page 1 resenting about 180 Teachers' Asso ciations throughout N.S.W., warmly applauded Mr'. Lewis when he said: "The activity of the Federation in upgrading wages and standards has done much "to develop the dignity of teachers." Mr. Cutler said the establishment of an Education Commission is Government policy and will be put intc effect. He said he had been asked by the Federation when this is to be done. "I have no intention of rushing into a matter which is to have a lasting effect on education." He denied there had been a cut back in finance spent on education since the Askin Government came to office. "At the" same time I do not say what is being done is enough," he said. Mr. Cutler said he had been criticised for reviewing the school building program. "It's easy to approve building plans but not so easy to get the money. "I "won't approve any more builf m ing until I know how things ai&lt; || SinS- .v a ; 1 "The Premier (Mr. Askin) ana : g| are seeking more money for educa g tion," Mr. Cutler- said. : | Mr. Lewis said the percentage oi || the gross national product spent oj || education in Australia is lower tnap m many countries including the USA, || USSR, the Netherlands, the Scan- g dinavian. countries,- the UK, Canada || and Italy. . I He said it was essential that tn? gg Federal Government contribute uias; j| sive sums of money to the State m for public education. . i "To secure such large sums fr 1 the Federal Government, it is nece | sary for teachers to join wiu | parents, trade unionists, Prima.j i producers, manufacturers and jw . i Government and Opposition _ Mem | bers of State " Parliament in | greatest . movement yet organised. , i Mr. Lewis, said the Federal « I eminent should immediately 1 necessary funds for public educat | and set up a national committee | inquiry into primary, secondary g technical education. f 