 i B8t 18 aA Jk | « B j g « B 1 BB K Jm ffiSBSH BLJ— JB 35-hoor week planned in next 2 years A new labor code to be introduced in the Soviet Union for 70 million workers in time for the anniversary of the 1917 revolution will provide for a 35-hour week with 30 hours in heavy and dangerous industry. |T will introduce a five-day week with two days off (to go fishing, Ivan Dvornikov deputy chairman of the Trade Union Law Commission told me) and a minimum of one month's holiday for all. Hours may be reduced before the code Is law, he added, but it de pends on the progress of the eco nomy. Another important feature of the new code is that it will not include a number of terms that are in the present code which was drawn up 43 years 'ago. "Though this code has often been amended, life has gone past it and we cannot patch it up any more", Dvornikov said. "Terms like unemployment, labor exchange, unemployment allowance, employer, are obsolete for us. Espe cially the younger generation of Sov iet workers who don't know what they are." Trade union Law Commission The new code is being drafted by the Law Commission of the All Union Central Council of Trade Unions. Dvornikov explained that trade unions, like all Soviet organisations, had the right to introduce their own legislative proposals to all govern ment bodies right up to the Supreme Soviet. Unions drafted laws on all aspects of life of the workers. The law on rights of union- committees in fac tories was drafted in this very build ing where I was talking with Dvor nikov, as also the law on settlement of labor disputes, on industrial safety and on social insurance. For this work the Central Council has a law commission of 65 members, only five of whom are full-time of ficers of the commission. Others include union officials, factory com mittee chairmen, workers from fac tory benches, from administrations (who in Soviet practice are members of the union that covers the industry) and legal men -from the State Law Department who are also unionists. Legislation drafted by the commis sion goes first to the Central Council for endorsement and then to the Presidium of Supreme Soviets which, Dvornikov said, usually agrees to the proposals. Any amendments the Pre sidium wants to make must be done in consultation with the trade union central council. These facts, testifying to the great power and importance of trade unions in Soviet society, are an effective rebuttal of the slander that Soviet trade unions do not look after the interests of workers. 