 Tenants "THE recent exposure in Tribune (December 9) in relation to a North Sydney invalid pensioner tenant's stand against authority as well as against his land lord, emphasises the urgent need for much more- attention to be paid to this phase of the working class struggle. This conflict between tenant and landlord is not just a peculiar pro- | duct of Australian conditions. It | runs throughout the capitalist part I of the world. No matter if there is | a short wave of prosperity or a j long period of depression in any ! particular count it is evident ac- I cording to how well the tenants s are organised and what political I importance this phase of working | class struggle assumes. j Reading through the article, it is | plain to see that this case was a ! long struggle on the part of this ( determined invalid pensioner to use | the Rent Control & Tenancy Acts ! for his protection and it is not dif- | ficult to understand why his health | was undermined still further. 1 As he states, had the other ten- I ants been as determined as he, the. | battle would have been shorter and | easier with the same decisive re- ! suits. ' j - I would like to add if the Com- | munist Party had been paying -at- S tention to this phase of the work- ing class struggle it would have been j even shqrter still with perhaps bet- I ter results. | In order to stress its importance, | it may interest Tribune readers to I know ' that in the United Kingdom j we had and still have a National | Tenants' Defence League with an S affiliated membership of two and a | quarter million people of every pbli- j tical hue. I Incidentally, in my view, the word "Defence" does commit ten- j ants' organisations or associations | or leagues -to fight something or j someone ana conjures up in peo- I plers minds "Action." I I trust that the recent High j Court . judgment and the NSW j State Parliament action will bring 1 home to the Communist Party that j we must grapple with this problem j and give it the attention and lead- ! ershin it riahtlv deserves. I A-E.R. (Earlwood). j 