 I TRIBUNE ' " . . - - I " Trade agreement Doints the way "THERE will be a widespread welcome throughout Australia ' for the news of the initialling of a new Australia-Soviet trade agreement. ' v In a cable from Moscow, Tribune correspondent Rupert Lockwood says the proposed pacr couia open 1© way to a change in the trade pattern to Australia's advantage. Mr. Lockwood's cable continues: "The USSR's capacity to buy Australian wool, grains, butter, meat, fruit, honey, cannfed foods and processed metals has been restricted by Australian reluctance to buy Soviet manufactured goods and machinery. "Australia continues To. buy cotton textiles, machine tools and oiT from countries with which she has unfavorable trade balances and which are steadily reducing their pur chases of key Australian commodities, though the USSR can supply these products and is supplying tftem to many other .countries, W - "The trade pact negotiated at the talks, continuing from September 6 to 18, could be a ,step.. towards a breakthrough that would not only increase Australian sa I es.; of, wool and - other primary products' but of manufactured goods ranging from steeT to small ships". In line with Mr. Lockwood's view is the opinion of the Australian Financial Review, which said on Monday that, 1 the draft agreement "suggested a new dimension in Aus- I tralian-Russian trade agreements". It opened up new possibilities for the export of Aus tralian raw materials and, "on the importing side, the Rus sians have surprised, the Australian, mission with the wide range of manufactured goods available at competitive prices to other industrialised cpuntries", says. the Revjew. There should be no obstacle to the formal Conclusion of the agreement— something that the Australian labor move ment has demanded over a long period of years. The need for it is underlined by recent revelation of Australia's sagging trade balance. It should also lead to an all-round improvement of Soviet- Australian relations and such outdated cold-war absurdities as the banning of visiting Soviet trade union deleaates from Australia's shores. That sort of thing belongs to the dead past. The new proposed trade agreement points to'the new/better future I which could and must be oirs. 