 ... but they are still at large and have rearmed THE WEST GERMAN GOVERNMENT has announced that it will invoke the Statute of Limitations in May 1965. Nazi war criminals will be free from then on. THE SOVIET GOVERNMENT said in December "the decision is devoid of any political, legal or moral grounds. The crimes of the Hitlerites were directed against the fundamental interests of all peoples of all mankind. . ." f"HE town of Verden, West Germany, in 1952. c It is a bright autumn day — the leaves of the elm and oak and ash are tender yellows and burnt reds — gently they are broken off by the winds and scatter spinning to the earth. Along the cobble-stones, over the dried leaves comes a rhythmic- treading 6,000 men, not smiling, not serious. They have no uniforms, except the tattoos invisible under their suits; tattoos of girls' names, Ilse, Lotte, and words like Kreig and Faterland; and on their hands, though the years have washed it away is the blood and tens of thousands of innocents. This is Hitler's murder gang, the scum of Germany and the gaols of every captured capital in Europe— the Waffen SS. 450,000 ex-SS There are 450,000 ex-members oi the SS in West Germany. This rally is one way they are keeping alive the 'old spirit'. They say: "Germany's hour of destiny will come again! We will finish off the Jews! We'll get back our lands in the East and revenge Hit ler and the Reich with Russian blood!" On they come across the quiet village square, over the whispering leaves, -They have come to hear ex-SS Generals Herbert Grille and Felix StOinder charge the West German" Government with with holding rightful military pensions from ex-fascists and Nazis; and they want positions in the new German army. The guest speaker is Major Gene ral Hermann Rancke: "Roosevelt and the Western leaders stabbed Hitler in the back when we were defending Europe from Bolshev ism',, he says, "but Efurope again will need our army to fight for the old ideals, the old honour!" This Rancke is wanted for mass murder! And so are Lammerding, Meyer, Dietrich, Zuchbold, Naujocks, Depp- ner, Paur, Brendel, Reinefarth and twenty thousands others! All living in West Germany! All wanted for murder! — that is apart from those already released after serving a few years of their "sentences"— ihe Generals like von Manstein, the Admirals like Doenitz, and the Air Marshals like Kamhuber. And who are getting war pensions in West Germany? Men like SS General Karl Wolff. He shipped 5,000 Jews daily to Treblinka death camp. He lives in Kempfenhausen on a full General's pension. Here's another: Dr. Franz Schle- gelberger, Hitler's State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice. He was one of the formulators of the Nazi terror laws. He's getting a pension of 2,890 marks a month. The widows of Goering, Himmler, and Heydrich all receive handsome pensions. Nazi victims suing for restitution can get nothing! 800 nazis in the judiciary How do they get away with it? First of all, the courts and the judiciary are packed with old Nazi judges and magistrates — 800 of them. There's that suave . gentleman with the cool courtroom manner Dr. Konrad Roediger. He was for merly the legal expert in the Nazi Foreign Office. He was directly im plicated in the murder of millions of Jews "and other vermin". He serves today as a High Judge at the Federal Constitutional Court at Karlsruhe. There's the ageing, professorial, smooth Dr. Rehder-Knoespel. The Chief Prosecutor in Nazi-occupied Prague (360,000 executions and murders). On February 8, 1944, he demanded the death sentence for seven Czechs for having given a sandwich to a Soviet prisoner. He is now Senior Public Prosecutor jn Mannheim. ' One after the other, the "hang ing judges" who left a trail- of swinging corpses across Europe, who hanged Czechoslovakian trade un ionists, Ukrainian peasant leaders, Soviet Komsomol members, French resistance fighters, and one or two Australians, now preside, "judge" and arbitrate in. the courts of West Germany. And the Waffen SS? Does iny- one remember any of their criims? They were the mobile murcter squads, with the gassing waggons, the Death's Head brigades. They did the Kharxov "job" (90,000), and the Lvov "job", they were there at the Warsaw ghetto, they did the Lidice "job" in Czecho slovakia, and the Oradour-sur- Glane "job" in France. They have over 30,000,000 civilian victims on their "consciences." Oradour-sur-Glane? Remember, the SS swooped on a defenceless ; French village, bundled the women and children into the Church and the men into the barns (at the point of an automatic) set them on fire, drank Cognac and mowed down any who broke out! Who was the commander? Lt. Gen. Bernhard Lammerding (SS), now living (actively) in Dus- seldorf, West Germany. The French asked the West Ger man government for Lammerding. Adenauer said: "According to our information Herr Lammerding is a German national and our constitu tion forbids the extradition of Ger man nationals." And the "Death doctors", did they get them? They made live typhus experiments, "freezing and cooling" experiments, sterilization with x-ray experiments, bone transplan tation experiments! There was Dr. W. Heyde, the euthanasia doctor, who was re sponsible for the deaths of 60,000 ("useless eaters") in the German asylums and for the murder by phenol injections, freezing, starving, parasite experiments, sterilisa tion of 140,000 political prisoners. He has now got a flourishing medi cal practice in Flensberg, West Germany. In Bavarian schools 11,000 out of 12,000 teachers dismissed because of Nazi sympathies were reinstated in 1949. Text books say nothing about the Nazi atrocities., Bonn's FBI is headed by Hitler's former Intelligence chief Generel Reinhard Gehlen. The Bureau is staffed with 4,000 former SS offi cers and security agents. i in the declaration on f 1 german atrocities sign- | j etd in 1943 by govern- | | ments of the soviet un- s J ion, britain, and the ( ! united. states it was j solemnly proclaimed i i that at the time of | ! the granting of j i any armistice to any | | government which may | S be set up in Germany" j | measures would be tak- | en. to try and punish i ! the german war crim- i i inals and that "the g i three allied powers | S will pursue them to the ( i uttermost ends of the g | earth and will deliver \ ( them to their accusers | I in order that justice g j may be done." ! 