 [?] ACTU Congress discussion - » / . Peace policy will be a vital issue at ACTU Congress EVEN the most cursory glance at the agenda for the forthcoming ACTU Con gress reveals how important the question of peace is in the trade union movement. There are 52 agenda items from -21 affiliated organisations, 19 unions with a total affiliation of approx imately 450,000 members and two Labor- Councils, dealing .with the issues of world peace anc inter national policy. Many different viewpoints and issues sire dealt with in the agenda items, but the overwhelming major ity call for unity of action in opposi tion to the Menzies Government's pplicy. Anti-Ausfraltan The anti- Australian character of this policy is becoming more and more apparent and opposition to it is aris ing from all sections of the Australian people. The Menzies Government Budget is clearly seen as being a war budget. All the tax increases in the Budget are directed .towards financing the military adventures initiated by Ihe Menzies Government. Attacks on . the people's democratic rights are being prepared under, cover of the White Paper on Communism now being campaigned for by the Liberal Party organisations, by NCC forces and DLP representatives Plunder of the workers' pay packets and attacks on democratic rights are the inevitable result of this war pol icy. The oft-repeated 1959 ACTU declar ation that "unless peace is securely established, other problems, whether social, economic, political or indus trial are not possible of solution" Is shown to he completely correct , by these events." Must tight more \gorously To successfully fight for improved economic standards, to successfully defend" the democratic rights of the Australian people, the ' trade . union movement must fight more vigorous ly against the Government's war policy. ; The trade union movement has played its part in the upsurge of peo ple's opposition against the Govern ment's policy, as expressed ih: the many protest demonstrations to, the US representatives in the various cities, sit-down demonstrations in the centre of Sydney (where workers were arrested), deputations and vigils to Parliament at Canberra, big pub-' lie rallies in the Town Halls and theatres of Australia's cities and other activities. ' . But union leadership and participa tion could and should be greatly im proved. An examination of the activities would reveal that the trade union movement has played too small a part in this most vital recent activity The ACTU Congress therefore should be an occasion for a strong reaffirmation of trade union peace policy; Its decision should be designed to unite all forces in the trade union movement for united action in associ ation with all peace forces, aimed at changing the Federal Government's war policy. Trade union policy Present trade union policy as ex pressed at various ACTU Congresses and Executive meetings is a clear arid sharp alternative to the Menzies policy. Expressed union policy: Calls for the settlement of in ternational disputes by negotia tion and without recourse to . war, and for all nations and peo ples to have the right of self- determination. Demands a total ban on the manufacture, stock-piling, test- - ing and use of nuclear weapons. . . Calls for . general and complete world disarmament. Opposes sending young con scripts; overseas. This , is- a policy around which it is possible to gain the utrnost unity Added to these policy declarations is the decision ot the Interstate Ex ecutive which opposes sending of Australian Troops to Vietnam and calls for observance of the 1954 Geri- eva Agreement; . No .doubt ..the ACTU Congress will be an arena . of struggle on these, questions, for there are a number of resolutions which seek to com pletely change the progressive peace policy of the Australian trade union movement.'. " One resolution even seeks complete obedience to the decision of the Fed eral Government. Other resolutions violently attack the socialist world and seek to create division and confusion. Peace -forces at the Congress nped .to be alert to defeat these attempts at division. \ A progressive ACTU peace declara tion followed by a successful South Pacific Trade Union Conference against the French tests and for the complete outlawing of atomic weapons can greatly strengthen the peace movement in Australia. The present situation requires th; t the slogan "Peace is Union Business" be vigorously applied by all- trade unioinists. 