 Ho Mare HigoshSnigsS Nation-wide peace marches and rallies i SYDNEY: Peace inarches and rallies in main Australian cities to fee held next Saturday , Sunday and Monday will develop and extend the mounting campaign against the Vietnam war and Australia's involvement in it. -rHEY will -be. held to conrv; ' memorate the dropping of the first atom bomb on Hiro shima, Japan, by. the American's 20 years ago on August 6. In Sydney . there -will be a city march starting at 2 p.m. on Sunday August 8 from the ; -Elizabeth— Liver pool Streets corner of Hyde Park to a meeting at the Trocadero, George Street, beginning at 2.30 p.m. Addressing the meeting will be Miss Myra. Roper, noted, authority on education, Professor E. L. Wheel- wright of Sydney University, Rev. I R. W. Cowper and Mrs. Phyllis La tona (expected back in Sydney that morning from Jakarta— see story I page 4). - The topic of the meeting will be "Which road for mankind — Hiro shima or the United Nations?" Or ganisers are the Hiroshima Com memoration Committee. Melbourne j In Melbourne there will be a march (rom Frankston, starting on Satur day August 7, to a meeting at Earl's Court, St. Kilda, on Sunday at 3 p.m. Brisbane In Brisbane a public rally called by the "Peace in Vietnam Commit tee; No more Hiroshimas" will be held at the Albert Hall on Monday August 9, at 8 p.m. the speakers to include Mr. A. W. James MHR, Mrs. Betty Gale, president of the Women's International League for Peace, and Freedom and Rev. Can on D. Thawley. Next Friday night, August 6, at 7 p.m., the annual Hiroshima Day ser-r vice of the Fellowship of Reconcil iation. will be held at Wesley Chap- > el, 139 Castlereagh Street, Sydney at 7 --p m. t; - (speakers, Revs. H. E. Rowland and Peter Sa-phin) with a discussion to follow. On the same night, at 8 p,m., will be a lecture by .Professor C. P. Fitz gerald, national president of the Australia-China .. Society . in the Building Workers'. Industrial Union Hall; 535 George Street Sydney on the . changing attitude , to China in Canada and the USA,' arranged by the Australia-Chiiia Society. Parramatla In Farramatta, Sydney, on Friday August- 13, at 8 p.m., there will be a panel discussion in the Town Hall on the topic: "Don't Let Vietnam Become another Hiroshima." Taking part will be Mr. T. Uren MHR, Rev. A. C. Towner, Mrs, Latona and a youth speaker. Last week in Sydney successful meetings to present the case for peace in Vietnam were held in Black- town, Punchbowl and Manly. In Blacktown between 100 and 125 people cheered Mr. Uren, and Mrs. Gale when they called lor the withdrawal of Australian troops. A group of people who had come apparently to disrupt the meeting later accepted an opportunity to ask questions and present their case and proiessea inemseives sausnea wiui the result. Mr. Uren said he feared that if foreign troops were not withdrawn from Vietnam the result might be nuclear war. At. Punchbowl Mr. W. M. Rigby and other . speakers addressed over 100 people in the Masonic Hall and were well received by an audience which donated £25 to the ' peace cause. At Manly the majority of the 50 to 60 people present agreed with the case put forward by "Mr. W. J. Latona (chairman), Mr. J. Mackay, Sim and Miss Helen Palmer. / A man who said he was a member of the Australian American Assoc iation spoke in support of the Gov ernment's policy. He accepted a pro posal by the organisers of the meet ing to take part in a public debate. ne meeting suoscrioea zz tu peace funds. Adelaide march The annual Hiroshima Day Peace March will take place next Sunday, August 8. Preparations for a colorful demonstration are being finalised. Organised- by the SA- Committee for International Co-operation and Disarmament the public is being asked to assemble at the Piccadilly Theatre, North Adelaide, at 2 p.m., ready to move off at 2.15 p.m. This year the theme is "Internat ional Co-operation and Disarmam ent" in support of the United Nat ions' International Co-operation Year. The march will proceed to a pub lic meeting in the Kings Ballroom, corner of Carrington and King Wil liam Streets, Mr. W. Hayden, Queen sland MHR, will address the meet ing. A youth peace march will take place on the week-end, starting from Gawler ? a.m. Saturday and joining the main march at the Picadilly 2 p.m. Sunday. For the Saturday night "stop-over", there will be an "old mill" barbecue dance at Anderson. Walk, Smithfield; 7.30 p.m. . 