 j " Billy . Borker" , is in print CRANK HARDY'S Yarns of 1; Billy Borker, which burst | on the; Australian scene |J through ABC tfslevision (feat- I; unng actor .reter Carver J, I have been described by Clem- I ent Semmler, one of the I ABC's top executives, as "one j of the few original and auth- I entic contributions to Austra- I lian television." However,; the high appreciation I they won from viewers Undoubtedly I stemmed from the very Australian I content. All the characters and yarns 1; are in the ..spirit of the Australian | tradition of mateship. I They also reveal again what runs | through the author's other works, I I from Power Without Glory— Hardy's % stand with, and intimate understand- | ing of Australian working class peo- | pie and his ironic insight into Aus- | tralian conventions and institutions. p AH who saw the TV series and the wide circle of readers who have ap-' ; predated Prank Hardy's books will be pleased to know that "The Yarns of Billy Borker" have now been pub- lished in book form by A. H. & A. £ W. Reed. | A selection of titles will give an I idea of the Australian fabric of the I fare offered: "The Only Fair Dinkum 1 Raffle Ever Run in Australia", "Pian- 1 ists are Made Not Born", "How the 1 Melbourne-Sydney Argument was I Settled", "How Would I Be". I As Clement Semmler says in his H preface: "Billy Borker, of the people, U yet larger than life, is thus of the m stuff of legend; he is .in the same » bracket as Paterson's Saltbush Bill I and John Manifold's Bogong Jack." I But whatever one-s estimation of I Billy Borker's place in our cultural 1' heritage,, certainly this collection of I stories makes very entertaining read- I ing, very appropriate for this time of I the year and just the thing to read p again— and again— when one's spirits lj . need lifting. || The well-known Australian artist, H Vane illustrated the book with eleven || black and white drawings. He also H designed the book jacket. JM I THE YARNS OF BILLY BORK- H ER, by Frank Hardy. Available H from New World Booksellers, 425 I Pitt St., Sydney and other book- I shops; . 22/6. H One of Vane's illustrations . . 