 Australia responded to aid Indonesian independence "TWENTY years ago, on Aug ust 17 ,1945, as the Jap anese armies awaited the sur render signal from Tokyo, a small group of men met in deep secrecy on the island of Java and proclaimed an inde pendent Republic of Indo nesia. They were demanding no more than the fulfilment of the promise made to all colonial peoples by the Allied powers, but their historic deci sion was to plunge them into four bitter years of fighting before their old Dutch masters were to acknow ledge that promises are made to be kept. The struggle for Indonesian in dependence was to have far-reaching repercussions in Australia. For the first time, the anti-imperialist move ment had reached our doorstep, demanding from Australians an un equivocal indication of where they stood. Ausi. response To our great honour, Australians passed the test with flying colours. Those who had met Indonesian poli tical refugees in this country, and the soldiers who came in contact with them in the islands, were deep ly affected by their courage, diligence and gentle kindliness. On the other hand, nothing but contempt was felt for the Dutch colonialists who had fled their island possessions at the first whiff of Japanese fire. Subsequent events have not fully borne out the promise of those first years, and history will record the overwhelming responsibility of the Menzies Government for the deter ioration of our relations with Indo nesia. But those who, in those difficult days for the young republic, acted to prevent the Dutch from using Aus tralia as an arms base for the re- conquest of their colony built up a reservoir of goodwill in Indonesia that still stands us in good stead. Many are the stories that could be told of the activities of those days ... the ' steadfast determination of the seamen and watierside workers ... the financial aid . . . the demon strations of youth and students . . . the leadership and propaganda of the Communist Party of Australia . . . the final endorsement of the. cam paign by the Labor Government over the violent opposition of Menzies and his Liberals. ' Rex Mortimer sends from Mel bourne this reminiscence of one 1946 episode: — Students act We students of the Melbourne Un iversity Labor Club, over 506 strong at that time, were raring to go when the call came from the Seamen's Union. A Dutch ship was in port, they told us, carrying arms for In donesia. The crew were Malayans, with Dutch officers. The seamen had tried to persuade the crew members to walk off, but they spoke no Eng lish and appeared to be afraid of the officers. Armed officers One of the Malayan students readi ly agreed to do the interpreting, and we quickly rounded up 100 or more students for support and raced for port. There we linked up with a group of seamen and approached the ship. The Dutch officers swaggered ar rogantly up and down the decks, pistols on hips, herding below any of the crew who ventured to the wharf side of the ship and blocking the gangplank. It looked hopeless. Then we noticed a congregation of the crew up forward, as far from the officers as possible and conceal ed by the upper works. While some occupied the officers, shouting slogans and pretending to make lunges up the gangplank, our interpreter edged to the bow and began a whispered conversation with the. crew members. The Seamen's leaders had pledged that if they came off, they would be protected and flown back to Malaya. Han off ship It worked. By the time the Dutch had run up the deck, pushing and beating the crew members out of sight, the message had got home. Later, the crew members, taking advantage of a break in the officers vigilance, had run down the gang- plank into the arms of the waiting seamen. Soon they were lodged in the sea men's mission, filled with food an drink and the centre of a constantly changing crowd of people making sure they were secure and con tented. Next day, negotiations were ?£ ed with the Federal Government about their return home. an were flown at government expens As for the ship, not until it JJj . emptied of all military supphesj it allowed to up anchor and m out of the heads. A small incident in a great strug glei but it meant one less ship of colonial power to bn g fering to a brave msurgent peopi 