 IS THERE SOMETHING TO HIDE AT BULLI? I0ULLI (NSW): Mine work ers at the Old Bulli mine, j|j scene of the November 9 | disaster that claimed the lives | f four men, went on strike | for 24 hours last Monday be- jf| pause of "cover-up" activity 'n the section of the mine gfy where- the men were killed, a Breaching all previous mine acci- || dent procedure the management (Broken Hill Pty. Ltd.) entered the ri saster section of the mine and M "egan flooding . it with "stone dust" if/ avd ey Proposed . to remove the s"Uttle car involved in the accident. a This took place on the eve of an inspection by parties to the inquiry 9 ivto tlle fre — an explosion that killed H the four men. S3 ("Stone-dust" is' spread in a mine fA 0 lay coal-dust, which is highly m xP|0swe when mixed with air. An m disasf01) as sParke( Bulli f, . ,J"t is long-standing practice that / dprfn1 an inquiry into a mine' acci- Hi ppr j1S held the area con- !a is virtually sealed off until |j pessary inspections are made. K Chf»pLPite the Pinion of the District H that tK nsPeptor> Mr. V. Parkinson, If section should be made safe and then left until after the inquiry, the Chief Inspector of Mines, Mr; Anderson, informed the Southern District of the Miners' Federation that his Department had given per mission to the company to engage in these activities. He said it would in no way prejudice the inquiry because the Department had a complete set of pictures of the position of the shuttle car. It was the management's intention to remove the shuttle car for exam ination and to restore it to its original position, he said. Mine workers are asking, "Why the rush?" The inquiry opens in Sydney tomorrow (Thursday) and will ad journ to Bulli" on Tuesday, Decem ber 7. One. .reason for a lot of questions about the action of the company (obviously with Government backing through its Mines Department) in changing the conditions in the disaster area of the mine, is that other areas- that badly need "stone- dusting" are being neglected. - Mr. Lance Nobes, secretary of the Bulli Miners' Lodge, who was working in another section of the mine when the explosion occurred, told the Tribune last week that there had been repeated requests for more "stone-dust" to be spread in the mine. These requests had been refused on the grounds that machinery used for the purpose was defective. At South Bulli Mine last week a big body of gas was found by a mineworker. The Southern District Check In spector, Mr. V. Parkinson, said that if it had not been discovered it could have led to an explosion, with results worse than the Bulli disaster. He extended his inspection into other sections of the mine and found traces ot gas in several other places. Last Friday at the Appln Colliery a shuttle car cable blew up, caught alight and burned, filling the section of the mine with dense smoke. All the men rushed out of the pit except three, who put the fire out with extinguishers. ' - ' 