 US youth don't want to fight in Vietnam The refusal of increasing numbers of young Americans to be conscripted for the Vietnam war is behind the Admin istration's decision to call up married men for Reserve Duties. New York Worker correspondent Daniel Mason says this, commenting on defence secretary McNamara's decision to call up 145,000 men for reserve duty announced on Septem ber 30. The decision will take thousands of married men away from theii families to prepare for eventual com bat duty. It implies an admission that des pite the loud claims about the turn ing of the tide, the Administration does not think the 140,000 American troops already in Vietnam can do the job. Mason says: "The conscription ol the older family men follows the ad mission by Selective officials in Washington that the young people are becoming a generation of draft dodgers. "Further confirmation of the I American youths' refusal to particip ate in the Vietnam war was the an nouncement last week by Selective Service officials that they are plan ning to introduce universal conscrip tion, which will put even those re iected for military service into . camp: under the command of the Pentagon for the two years they are iable to service." American and Australian losses in the so-called "iron triangle" fighting in south Vietnam were mainly wast ed, according to US observers. Newsweek magazine says that al though the Americans and Austra- lians were authorised for the first time to use gas "the paratroopers found plenty of tunnels but netted not a single guerilla." Newsweek tells how US manpowe is being lost in small actions. "Using one of their favorite wiles", .t says "Viet Cong snipers earlier in .he week lured a company of para troopers to a hill in D Zone and then proceeded to chop it up with withering machine-gun fire . . Tours later Air Force helicopters -vacuated the decimated company. "South of the US Marine base ai Da Nang a patrol of 13 leathernecks yas ambushed by nearly 200 Viei Dong, some of whom wore live .lucks on their heads for camouflage Popping up from bunkers and sugar cane stalks, the guerillas let loos&lt; with small-arms fire that killed o ' wounded 10 marines." - Near Bien Hoa five out of si men of a patrol were killed "by : Vietnamese ambush. 