 'SICK' BUILDING INDUSTR Y Th® Playford Goyernmesii Is responsible for wbat the "Advertiser" real esfafe writer describes as a "sickness m the SA bu ilding industry". TRUE to Its nature as a Gov ernment which considers profiteering the greatest vir tue/ it has given protection to the get-rick-quick brokerage system. Under this system, land agents, estate developers, and a whole crew ol finance manipulators nave moved into the industry and replaced the legitimate builders. The Housing Trust has not been immune ..rom this invasion. The speculators have oeen able to take advantage ot, and intensity the system ol sub-contract piecework, which had developed earlier in the industry How we are in the era oi croken- down working conditions &lt; won oy the trade union movement over years of struggle), and of jerry built homes Contract work Men work up to 60 hours a week for pay not comparable to wages plus normal overtime rates Safety is ignored, resulting in a spate oi ac cidents While the trade upions protest at these things, the home buyers com plain of cracking walls, falling piaster improper ventilation, warping wood work ana leaking rocv (One can re call the vigorous protest of 100 3rab ma Lodge home buyers). The Trades and Labor Council ano the Master Builders' Association seni a deputation to the Playford Govern ment demanding an inquiry Into the building industry but thp Government would not agree Commented Building Trades D'eder ation Secretary (Mr. D. J Marshall): "Playford 's sponsoring of, and collu sion with, the sub-contracting build ing brokerage system condemns him as unfit to hold office " The Communist Party stands toi_a properly planned joint State and. Cora monv ealth Government effort to builo good quality, reasonably priced homes em " W s lahm -ind mlying the necessary materials and money j This is in line with the Party's plan Continued on Page 4 _j 0 Building industry Continued from Paoe 1 to oppose monopoly domination with genuinely national enterprises tt serve the interests of the people Meanwhile the CPA has a short term course of action calling for: an inquiry into the building ra dustry; . n end to the present brokerage system and its vicious sub-con tracting methods; registration of builders ana sub contractors requiring good char acter, trade efficiency and finan cial stability; cancelling of a builders licence . tor violation of or failure to com plete contract, violation of build ' ing, safety, labor, compensation or health laws and failure to keep ' records, etc. I legislation to allow foi the main contractor to be the employer ol ( all labor on the site and that no J sub-contract price be legal un : less beneficial to workers' normal wages and penalties; the Housing Trust tc ouila its own homes, employing day labor; the provision of adequate low interest housing finance to work tng families 