 - TRIBUNE I i/ r . . ; . 1 % , , ;;H; I The case of Dr. Knopf elmacher | THE Professorial Board of Sydney University has rejected j | an application by Dr. F. Knopfelmacher for a political ! | philosophy post — and in so doing has raised some import- 1 j ant issues. j e ' 1 I Already there are reports of a campaign by the extremist j | Right forces of the Santamaria-Wentworth circuit for a I | reversal of the Board's decision. J © . I j This campaign will purport to be an appeal to Aus- j | tralian democratic sentiment, against what is being called j j "political discrimination". ! 1 If in fact Dr. Knopfelmacher had been rejected because j j of his widely-known rightwing and anti-Communist poli- I tical views, protests would have been understandable. j j The right of any person to be considered on his or her j j merits for an academic or other job, without discrimination j I on grounds of political or religious views, race or property | j qualifications, is a basic right that .should be defended J I if threatened. i a I 1 ' Notorious cases of political discrimination over univer- j ! sity jobs in recent years have included the refusal of appli- s I cations by Drs. Russel Ward (NSW University) and Y. j j Brenner (Adelaide University). f 'I !' As the men concerned were judged to be liberals or j I even, leftists, there was a significant silsnce from the Right | I- about these rejections. j I | j The real issue j | I Indeed, a major aim of Dr. Kriopfelmacher's energetic j j activity inside and outside Melbourne University has been j I to dig out and exclude from academic staffs (even his own j ! Psychology Department colleagues) highly qualified people | 1 whose political views he disliked. j j And this is, in fact, the issue involved. The majority j j of the. Sydney Professorial Board (a very representative f ! body comprising all professors) are reported to have firmly j f opposed on two occasions the appointment x>f this applicant, j I who has made public, Witch-hunting attacks on academic s j colleagues who disagreed with him on political or other j | social issues. j j In this, the professors were evidently reflecting the i I widespread concern in Melbourne university circles, arising j j from Knopfelmacher's past activities, to maintain ordinary j J professional standards of relationship nd 'respect aqrtpng = j! academic colleagues; ; | ' ; _ " i i J I Such concern may well be. understopd; by reading,, in | the August, 1964, Jesuit magazine, "Twentieth Century" j sweeping references by Knopfelmacher .to . "moral and | j intellectual corruption", "intellectual incompetence" and j i "moral depravity" among Melbourne University staff mem- ; j j bers allegedly influenced by Communist Party "members j 1 and fellow travellers". j ; |: ' 8 - Now the same kind of language is reported as being j ; | used by him against Sydney professors who have voted j j against his application. > j McCarthy methods j I In the same article appear clear signs of a campaign | J to open the door tc rightist political control of traditional j I academic freedoms in Australian universities, by means of- j ( new forms of government intervention. v . S S However, neither Knopfelmacher's academic qualifica- j j tions nor his McCarthyite political ideas appear to be at j j issue in this ,case. But McCarthyite PRACTICES, elevating j | ruthless anti-Communism to a sort of supreme "virtue" j 8 and crucifying all who disagree, are unacceptable to demo- I j crats and should at all times be combated. | 