 SUPPLEMENT on vBuSSi Jiffy B«h ffls Bp SKf s& jjBssPiBKip BbB BB jSh Ei iOshuShh 81 -89 flBsB sjmJ' 99 999 HB HHb fiflp Ha HH P9?.- tHIf bkhS w Hfl 99 1 HHhRV v H iHB # The story the daily press ignores . . the inside story of long-oppressed, heroic pea$(/nf people, fighting for their land, independence and democracy under the blast of US bombs t the searing of napalm and the swirl of choking gas . . . BASED ON EXCERPTS FROM A NEW , FIRST-HAND BOOK BY FAMOUS AUSTRALIAN WAR CORRESPONDENT WILFRED BURCHETT. Vietnam today is the centre of danger of a world nuclear war which could bring immediate disaster to involved countries- such as Australia, Throughout the world, a wave of concern, argument and protest has arisen since the news of United States expansion of the war from South to North Vietnam, including, wide spread air-raids, and the use of napalm, phosphorus and gas. In both America and Australia — whose armed forces are in Vietnam - — the voices of protest are rising from press, political circles, trade unions, citizens, church, literary and other figures. in reply, official spokesman like Prime Minister Menzies claim that the armed intervention in Vietnam is to "defend freedom" in the South, against "attacks from the North". These are important questions: ® Who are fighting in South Vietnam, and why? Are they "from the North", or led or supplied from the North? What sort of regime is the USA sup- porting in the South? ® Has the USA any right to be in Viet nam? I Only when. these issues are made clearer can the majority I of people act strongly enough to put an end to the present I US-Australian policy of "no alternative to force", -and to I support a settlement that brings justice to the people of Viet- I nam and international peace to the region. I In this supplement are reproduced selections from a I most important new book "VIETNAM: Inside Story of the I Guerilla War" (International, New 'York) that answer these and other questions by means of first-hand reporting. I WILFRED BURCHETT, outstanding Australian war corre- 1 sPondent in World War 1 1 and subsequently the best western I reporter of events inside the former Indo-China States, puts I into focus the 25-year-long struggle of the Vietnamese people 1 tor independence and democracy — first against the French I Co'onialists and now against the Americans. I k j8. ave no that these excerpts, and especially the I ? s!Jse" 0 he available shortly in Australia) will I Jeis3en the active public demand for an end to the 8 A«aC n a«d application of the 1954 Geneva I greement principles to ensure Vietnamese self-determina- I « and the withdrawal of foreign troops. VIETNAM is suffering today. But her people, already fighting 25 years for freedom, are winning. BELOW, Young woman guerilla in jungle. 