 [?] STRAIGHT TALK ! ABOUT A NEW | CITY BUILDING I j What should we look for in public buildings? j | Does the taxpayer get full value for the money spent? | One of the most competent architectural critics in Perth g was recently interviewed by Tribune about the controversial J new £3,000,000 Commonwealth block of offices. I j pERTH— and Australia— jj needs much more in- | formed and factual criticism | of architectural matters. | The Institute of Archi- 2 tects here forbids its mem- 2 bers to criticise each other's g work in public. Thus the | public is left entirely with- ! out informed architectural 1 criticism. I As this lack of criticism I goes back for decades, and I it takes hot only a consid- I erable amount of training I but also practice to be an I architectural critic, recent | criticism, such as that on the j Commonwealth Offices, has g been extremelv suoerficial. | Architectural criti c i s m | should not be vague; it j should pinpoint the faults on I factual grounds. It should | not be subjective— likes and j dislikes, my opinion against I yours. Such treatment will j not get us anywhere. j So»e principles Criticism must be based on prin | ciples:— 9 First, the analysis ot a huilcV I ing's economy for its purpose | 9 Secondly, the fulfilment ot the 1 functions of the building. 2 Thirdly, the basic aesthetics of g the bu'lding, which — contrary to 1 common belief — can be based on | facts, without introducing any per 2 sonal likes or dislikes. I Apply these principles to the criti 1 cism of the Commonwealth Offices. ! k 2 C1RSTLY, the building is g described as a "prestige j building" and its price is in ! the vicinity of £1 per cubic f foot. 1 It is very questionable whether 2 one should swallow the concept that 1 every one of our public buildings 1 is a "prestige building". In this light I it can be stated that £1 per cubic 1 foot is very expensive when private ! office buildings are very well built 9 at around 14/- or " 15/- per cubic 2 foot. 1 The height of the building is men- 9 tioned as 213 ft. from ground level, 2 for 16 levels. 2 Even allowing 17 levels, this would j mean an average floor to floor | height of 12'6", where the useful g ceiling height would be sufficient at 1 .Q' in the majority of floors. I It is obvious that absolutely no at- tention has been paid to economy. S It is a pity there is no Hiorough | criticism of puhlic buildings from 2 this point of view; if there were,. 1 the public would be aware that most 9 of our public buildings do not take I economy into account at all. j Its fun f ion ! The SECOND POINT is how the | building functions. The description | states that the public elevators are grouped at one end of the building. If the description is correct, to have the public elevators at one end of an 180' long office building is very wrong. Further, It is questionable, from a functional point of view, whether, with a strongly sloped site, most of the office space should be con centrated in a building of consider able height, when horizontal expan sion would be much cheaper and lso probably would function better. The THIRD ASPECT, aesthetic, has been treated in a dilettante way. Remarks that the building looks like "one more Weetie box", or that the elevation of the building takes too much notice of sun control, or its elevational treatment is heavy, are subjective statements. The fact that somebody takes notice of and gives great emphasis to sun control does not necessarily mean that the elevation must be bad from an aesthetic point of view. And such a criticism, from the architect of the NSW State Govern ment Offices on Parliament hill, is remarkable, as the State Govern ment's Offices themselves have been oriented, for sun control, entirely into an east-west axis, although such orientation is aesthetic murder to the existing pattern of the city in this area. Under fire Further, the aesthetic qualities of the Commonwealth Offices, so harshly criticised will not, because of the situation of the building, ever have the same influence on the city as the State Government offices. The masses of the latter/on top ot the hill, contradict the most basic rule of aesthetics — that one does not plan a big slab building ovei a city, on top of a hill, because this reduces the scale of the town and spoils the skyline. It would be much fairer it this criticism had mentioned that he suggested Commonwealth Offices are 180 long by 213' high — a very unhappy proportion. Considering the drop in the levels and the size of the site, there is ab solutely no reason why this basic proportion could not be changed. I The strongly criticised east- west | elevations of the building are by no I means as undesirable as was im g plied; in fact, the proposed solution | is much cleaner than that of the State Government Offices. | ? 