 U.S. Decides: Mote Aussies for Vietnam (A statement by the general secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, Mr. L. Aarons) . t It is now clear that many more young Australians, including conscripts, are to be sent to Vietnam. The evas ions and subterfuges of Menzies and Hasluck mean nothing. THE United States Administra- tion has already decided that more Australians must go, because they are needed to cover up American isolation in tliis unjustifiable war of aggression. It is already certain that the United States can never defeat the Vietnamese people. There fore, increased Australian in- | volvement is a criminal waste of I lives and a terrible threat to | Australia's future relations with 1 all South-East Asia. | .The most important new fact I of Australian political life in 1 1965 was ever-growing oppositipn 1 to the Vietnam commitment. 1 The public debate which began | in April has not died down, but is growing in breadth, intensity and vigor. The Government is on the defensive, afraid to con front its critics and more threatening to its opponents. Demonstrations are bigger and more frequent. 1966 will see a great growth of the protest movement and a new dimension in Australian politics, with foreign policy becoming- and remaining a central issue. The Geneva agreement is the , basis for peace, and this agree ment demands withdrawal of all foreign troops, allowing the Viet namese people to decide their own future. Ohly the US Ad ministration stands in the way. While Australians prepare to relax over the holiday period, celebrating "Peace on Earth, Goodwill to' Men," the United States continues its indiscrim inate napalm and high explosive bombing of civilians in north and south Vietnam. . All Australians should be alert for new and more menacing developments, possibly during the Christmas-New Year period. Australia's honor and its future depend upon a reversal of the Menzies-Hasluck foreign policy, withdrawal of Australian troops and support for ending US aggression to ensure peace and self-determination for Vietnam. Make 1966 a year of action for peace in Viet- | nam! 1 