 Big business reaps a harvest as wheat, bread prices rise SYDNEY: The recent wheat price increase is an excellent example of how big business seizes upon every opportunity to increase prices . Mr. Joe Bailes, a spokesman for the Communist Party, of Australia, re cently said this in a broadcast over a network of NSW radio stations. MR- BAILES went on to say: I The price of Wheat to the farm er was increased recently to 7d. a bushel. This amount was determin ed under the cost of production - index of the. Wheat Stabilisation Agreement. During the year there had taken place steep increases in the price of fertiliser, fuel, machine parts, bank rates and similar items which/taken together, increased the cost of pro- ducing the wheat approximately 7d. a bushel. To the 7d. a bushel in crease to the farmer the government added another Id., making 8d. a bushel or approximately £1/3/0 a ton increase. Unwarranted Then the millers ' and merchants got in for their chop. The price of flour was increased £2/4/0 a ton. Bran and pollard, a by-product, went up £2/15/0 a ton. Wheat meal also increased £2/15//0 a ton. Bread also is to go up, and com menting on this, Mr. Cass of the Wheat Board said that the proposed 2d. increase in a £lb loaf of bread would be eight times greater than any increase warranted by the wheat price increase. Then also wheat used for stock feed has increased far beyond the 7d. a bushel the farmer gets. The rub . ' Here I would like to give an actual case of a poultry farmer in the met ropolitan area. Prior to the increase, the price he paid for wheat was 16/6 a bushel for ton lots or more. A delivery since the price increase cost 18/- a bushel for a 70 bag lot, which is 1/6 a bushel increase — or approximately 4/6 a bag more. Taking this 70 bag delivery as 210 bushels, the wheat grower would re ceive an increased price of 210 7d.s, which is £6/2/6. But the poultry farmer who bought the wheat had to pay an increased price of 210 l/6s, or an increase of £15/15/0, Which is £9/12/6 more for the 70 bags than the. increase paid to the farmer who grew it. The monopoly group who gain the benefit from the increased price of flour, bran and" pollard, also, through their subsidiary bakeries gain from the increased bread price. Thus monopoly adds more fuel to the in- flationery prices spiral which re- duce the standard of living of the people, including the wheat farmers. High- prices and low wages for workers also have - their effect on primary producers. The demand for agricultural products depends pri marily on the purchasing power in the hands of the working people. Farm prosperity, the prosperity particularly of the small family farmers/ is Unked with that of a prosperous working class. 