 tMreaten world poacc A FRENZIED call for the ' atom-bombing of China last week by a leading Ame rican Conaressman hiahliahts the danger- inherent in the continuing escalation of the Vietnam vyar. The Congressman, Mendel Rivers, Is not part of what is sometimes called the "lunatic fringe" of poli- tics _ — He is chairman of the House of Representatives armed services com mittee. ; At a public meeting in Hartford, Connecticut, on August 12, Rivers declared that the U.S. must be ready to "use our atomic power to wipe out Red China's atomic capa bility", in order to "stop Red China". The cry to A-bomb, the Chinese People's Republic has been taken up ' in Australia by Liberal politician W. C. Wentworth and echoed in general terms by the Democratic Labor Party. General Sir Ragnar Garrett, for mer top-ranking brass-hat in the Australian Army, has demanded that Australia have atom bombs. Since the withdrawal of Singapore from Malaysia, the campaign has been strongly stepped up and one paper says it is "growing from hour to hour." , There is also the possibility of the transfer of Britain's nuclear base from Singapore to Australia. Contributing to the frantic desire of Rivers to spread "death and deso lation (in Johnson's phrase) in '"CB3na"a'weiras "Vietnam may well be in his uneasy consciousness that American opinion is swinging Strongly in the opposite direction— towards friendship with China. In a lecture to the Australia-China society in Sydney early this month Professor C. P. Fitzgerald of the Australian National University" said that, contrary to a widely-held as sumption, important American or ganisations deplored the U.S. Ad ministration's China policy and strove to change it. Growing support These organisations were backed by religious movements and busi ness associations, which had wide spread support and were very active on the West Coast. The Committee for Changing Our China Policy originated in San Francisco and now had the support of the San Francisco and Seattle Chambers of Commerce. Towards the end of last year, said Professor Fitzgerald, a series j of meetings sponsored by the Cham- j bers of Commerce, the Committee &lt;j for Changing Our China Policy and | the American Friends (Quakers) j with the co-operation of members g of the staff of the Universities of I Washington (Seattle) and the Univer- j sity of California (Berkely) were j held in thes cities. J The meetings were rather like I "teach-ins" said the professor. j Typical was the meeting at i Berkely. where is became plain that the overwhelming 'Thajority "of the J audience of 600 who had paid a j dollar for their seats, favored a ! change of policy on China. ! There was almost entire agree- ment that the present ban on travel I to China and trade with China | should be abandoned forthwith and j recognition of the Chinese People's Republic achieved step by step. j A strongly-held opinion was that I the war in Vietnam was in many j ways a direct outcome of Washing- ton's inflexible policy regarding I China and that no successful nego- j tiations to end the war could be t expected so long as the present j policy was maintained. I What Professor Fitzgerald said ! might be noted by the Australian I bomb-China school. j They think they are following J an American line which, if the ef- j forts of many Americans are sue- I cessful, may cease to be the Ameri- can line. 