 Strong ALP stand on troops to Vietnam Tribune Political Roundsman yiUSTRALIAN Labor Party conferences in Victoria, NSW and South Australia overwhelmingly backed Fed- eral ALP policy of opposition of Australian troops being sent to Vietnam. The Conferences took this stand after some of the most important and exhaustive discussions on for eign policy heard, at ALP Confer ences. Delegates to the South Australian Conference cheered and applauded Mr. Calwell when he called for the withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam. Last Saturday the Federal Labor Leader, Mr. Calwell, told delegates attending the Victorian Conference: "If we stake everything as Sir Robert Menzies stakes everything — on the outcome of the war in Viet nam then we are doomed to failure." "If we are so mistaken as to stake Australia's future on military conquests in Vietnam then we doom ourselves — and probably the world —to nuclear destruction." At the NSW Conference a left wing amendment asked, in addition to adopting the Foreign Affairs Com mittee report, that the Conference place on record its appreciation of the stand taken by Mr. Calwell, Mr. Whitlam and the Federal ALP Execu tive against the despatch of Aus tralian troops to Vietnam. Despite initial reluctance by the NSW officers to accept the amend ment, and opposition by the extreme right, it became apparent during the debate that the majority would vote for the amendment. The chairman of the Foreign Af fairs Committee, Mr. J. A. Mulvihill, after consulting the officers, then ac cepted the amendment as an ad dendum. Decisions of the Victorian Confer ence that will go as recommenda tions to the Federal Conference could go a long way in improving relations between the ALP and the trade union movement. A resolution carried urges the f ed eral conference to declare that: A fundamental principle of the ALP is that the party shall in no way interfere in the internal affairs of unions; trade union members have the right to stand for election to trade union office irrespective of their political affiliations. The only criterion which trade un ion members should consider when electing officials is their capacity to advance their organisation and mem bership industrially. This contrasted with the speech by Mr. Whitlam at the NSW Confer ence whose anti-communism and at tacks on the Victorian ALP was a move urging the Federal Conference to legalise ALP interference in the internal affairs of the trade unions. There was a very big division at the NSW Conference over the role played by the right wing State lead ership in the recent defeat of the Renshaw government. A manifesto issued by 34 ALP of ficials of unions on the eve of the Conference set the tone for discus sion. The manifesto pointed out the ALP was undergoing a deep and continued crisis and called for a return to basic fundamentals of Lab or. It said that Labor lost the elec tions because the Renshaw Govern ment failed to carry out the deci sions of the trade union movement. The officers of the Party knowing how vulnerable they were following the defeat in the elections, present ed with the report a supplementary report. During the debate Mr. Wyner (Ship Painters and Dockers) describ ed the supplementary report as juvenile, giving trivial reasons for the defeat. Delegates could not adopt the Executive report without adopt ing also the supplementary report. Mr. J. Heffernan (Sheet Metal Workers) said that the Renshaw Government had lost touch with the rank and file. They had, with a couple of exceptions, no industrial policy for the elections. At the end of the debate Mr j. Garland, federal secretary of 'the Amalgamated Engineering Union moved that the Executive report and the supplementary report be adopted together with the manifesto issued by the 34 unions. The amendment put to Conference was defeated by 371 to 272 votes. Having convinced enough of the Centre to support the supplementary report, the nominees on the officers' ticket then won all contested posi tions. The officers' ticket for the Execu tive excluded three extreme right wingers while McCarney another ex treme right winger did not stand. Both the centre and left wing i strengthened their position on the Executive. It was significant that the leader of the Federal ALP, Mr. Calwell, was elected as a member of the Victorian delegation to the Federal ALP Con ference. This was the traditional ALP way that Prime Minister Curtin went to Federal conferences. While Federal Secretary Wynd- ham's proposals for representation to federal conference was not voted on at the Victorian Conference many ALP members are worried that Wyndham's proposals could mean that the Conference would be domin ated by politicians. At the NSW Conference the adop tion of the officers' proposals, which included representation to the Fed eral. Conference from every Federal Electoral organisation, is aimed at strengthening NSW right wing in fluence at Federal Conference and weakening trade union influence. Other decisions taken by the NSW Labor Conference include: Reaffirmation of the demand for removal of penal clauses from the State Arbitration Act. Restoration of quarterly cost of living adjustments to the basic wage. A worker to receive compensa- | tion not less than his full pay. | Long Service Leave for casual | workers i Strong opposition to mding || juries in accident cases. f| 0 That in any investigation into the stevedoring industry considers- tion be given to nationalisation oi p the wharves. r ' I'v? 