 Independence call gathers momentum in New Guinea That Papua-New Guinean people need independence, are ready for it and are increasingly demanding it was shown during this month's seminar held in Port Moresby by the Australian Associa tion for Cultural Freedom. "jHE Sydney Morning Herald's special reporter summed up the seminar by saying it had ''demonstrated the political sophistication and knowledge" of some of the Territory's indi gene leaders. The seminar has further exposed the falsity of the Menzies' Govern ment claim that independence can't be granted, nor even a date for it be set. The Foot Commission, represent ing the United Nations, called for independence in 1964. The issue was sharply raised dur ing the seminar by Professor Sib- narayan Ray. professor of Indian Studies at Melbourne University who said that the Menzies Government was pursuing a "disastrous policy". It was putting up a facade of de mocracy which fooled no one, the professor said. Despite the Territory elections, the Australian Administration still controlled the country. Indigene "Undersecretaries" had no real power. ,This disastrous policy was the same as that previously pursued in Africa, added Professor Ray. The Administration should train a class of people to "plan for them selves" and for this "desperately needed tertiary education." Yet tertiary education had been shelved on a false pretext. No graduates This was denied by the Education Director, Mr. Johnson, who replied to Professor Ray. But Mr- Johnson cr "1 not explain why, if tertiary education had not been shelved, Australia had not yet produced a single New Guinean university graduate in 60 years— and still had no University in New Guinea. He did not convince Mr. John Guise, leader of the indigenous mem bers of the House of Assembly, who said the territory's education sys tem was lagging and needed drastic revision. The "wastage" of young people ceasing their education oeoause faci lities for continuing it were lacking was increasing. Mr. Guise wanted -o know why the Australian Government should not follow Kenya and other African states which had sought internation- al aid developing its educational system. Though not allowed the privilege of higher education, there are plenty of New Guinean indigenes who show that they have everything necessary to lead a modern nation, and some of them spoke at the seminar. Among those the Herald corres pondent admits showed "political sophistication and knowledge" at the seminar were (besides Mr. Guise) Paulias Tonguna of the Department of Education, Oala Oala-Rarua, pre sident of the Port Moresby Workers' Association, and Lepani Watson, a member of the House of Assembly. The Herald man said Oala-Rarua's paper, delivered to the seminar, was one of the most impressive. The Herald man also mentioned "several younger Papuan delegates,' who made suggestions for the Ter- ritory's progress, who were "typical of a number of Papuans whose knowledge of the Territory's prob lems is striking. "Talks with them reveal highly informed opinion not- only on the Territory but on problems in Afro- Asian countries." Such comments strengthen the conclusion of Mr. Murray Graves, writer of series of articles in The Australian, that independence for Papua-New Guinea is inevitable. He suggests 1975 as a "reasonable" date, but gives facts indicating it could be much earlier. He lists a number of Territory parliamentarians as having the ne cessary leadership qualifications and nominates Mr. Guise as "the first national leader to emerge in the Territory" and a man who would "be able to do the job"' as Prime Minister. 