 I a 5 1 Vietnam: Sydneypratejts WORKERS RAID U.S. CONSULATE For three days last week, demonstrations, deputations and a succession of pickets and leafleting squads took place outside the United States Consulate in the centre of Sydney in protest against the new wave of US air attacks on North Vietnam towns. Nexr week, a big delegation representing many thousands off people in the various States, is scheduled to descend on Canberra when Parliament resumes. These actions have joined with a new wave off international protest activity touched offf by further acts of unbridled aggression by the United States, which last week and this week has expanded the Vietnam war with air raids on North Vietnam. These US Air Force raids, and the landing of thousands of US Marines in South Vietnam, have ended the "military — adviser"' disguise previously used by the USA for its War of intervention there. But South Vietnam's powerful Buddhist leaders have greeted the arrival off the US Marines with demands that the US withdraw all forces from South Vietnam ai?d stop the bombing of the north. This is a major new blow at the crumbling US position there. Last Wednesday, in Syfincy, going straight from tlieir stopwork meet ing, up to 300 waterside workers walked in a mass along York Street to Wynyard square and stormed up the stairs of the US consulate into the consul's office. At the counter an official told them the consul would see a deputation of four only. He complained that the watersiders were "disrupting our work", bringing shouts of "You're disrupting Viet nam!" Finally the workers filed out of the office and down the stairs, shouting: Go home, Yanks!" and other slogans. In Wynyard Park Mr. M. Munro, waterside workers' vigilance officer, who headed the deputation, reported b ick later on his interview and. a mo- ti Dn was unanimously carried con- d mining the US actions. On Thursday morning, a continuing vigil was begun by teams of men and women wearing protest tunics. ' By late morning Friday this opera tion had built up to 50 to 60 people, who picketed the consulate through out the lunch hour, carrying placards and wearing tunics demanding an end to the bombings. For three hours green- jacketed de monstrators paraded up and down Wynyard Street outside the consulate. The jackets bore peace slogans. Then, about midday, they were joined by a contingent of waterside workers holding aloft placards saying "End Yank Murder Raids!" "Get out of Vietnam!" "17,000 Killed in Yank Raids!" and "Don't be Yanked into Vietnam!". At noon a Peace Committee and trade union deputation headed by the Rev. Allan Brand, Chairman of the NSW Peace Committee, interviewed a US consular official and handed in a letter of protest. As the deputation entered the con sulate, demonstrators ranged up on either side of the doorway bearing their slogans aloft. Joining Mr. Brand in the deputation were the Federal Secretary of the Australian Railways Union (Mr. M. O'Brien), the Secretary of the Build ing Workers' Industrial Union (Mr. P. Clancy and the Assistant Secretary of the Waterside Workers' Federation, Sydney Branch (Mr. S. Barrett). Members of the Peace Committee, the Union of Australian Women, youth groups and other organisations hand ed out peace leaflets during the lunch hour at street corners near the consul ate. They were well received. In Sydney and Port Kembla last Wednesday, waterside workers' stop- work meetings condemned US aggres sion against the people of North and South Vietnam, demanded the with drawal of foreign forces from Viet nam and called for a negotiated settle ment on the principles fo the Geneva Agreement. DEPUTATION TO CANBERRA The New South Wales Peace Com-"\ - mittee for International Co-operation and Disarmament has invited all sup porting organisations and individuals to join in a deputation to Canberra next Wednesday, March 17, on the Vietnam issue. The deputations will press for a negotiated cessation of hostilities and setlement of the conflict based on respect for the principle of the Geneva Convention of 1954 which prohibited all military intervention in Vietnam. It is anticipated that appointments will be between 12-1 p.m. and between 2 and 3 p.m., and the delegation will assemble at Parliament House steps, Canberra, not later than 11.30 a.m. Seats in a hired tourist coach may be secured by ringing 61-4643 or 61-2504. 3 DAYS' I ACTION I TQP PICTURE: Some of the demonstrating waterside workers. CENTRE: Members of Women' for Peace . patrol outside Consulate. BOTTOM: Peace deputation emerges from Consulate, headed by the Rev. A. Brand (right), seen with Mr. P. Clancy (BWIU). MT. ISA Continued from Page 1 withdrawal of it proceeded smoothly and efficiently. "In the circumstances, it is sheer audacity for any AWU official to raise questions about the T. and L.C.'s capacity to pay relief which the AWU officials have withdrawn. "To raise such questions seems to be a diversionary tactic to sidetrack attention from the guilt of those who have, in effect, joined with Mt. Isa in an attempt to starve workers into returning to work on terms of sur render. "The workers of. Queensland and Australia will not desert Mt. Isa workers but will continue and ex pand their support for this heroic struggle. "The dispute can be settled by reaching, through genuine negotia tion, terms based on the Mt. Isa iirfYlr-rrQ' civ Tvrnprrnm. inelud- fTWM VAW -V -O-— ' ing re-employment of Mr. Pat Mackie. "We emphasise once again that the Mt. Isa mine should be taken over by the Government, to be operated as a public enterprise, to serve Aus tralian public benefit and not profit for foreign monopoly interests," Mr. Macdonald said. CPA statement The Queensland State Committee of the Communist Party of Australia last week-end extended warm greet ings to the Mt. Isa workers and called on all Party members and the people of Queensland to give un stinted support to the Mt. Isa work ers. "We view with ' disgust the Queensland Government's slanderous misrepresentation of the facts about the Mt. Isa dispute, in a clumsy and futile effort to cover up its own part in the creation and continuation of a situation which is causing hard ship to many people and seriously affecting the Queensland and national economy. "We support the trade union de mand that the Government convene a conference of all parties to the dispute to achieve a settlement by negotiation on the basic of the work ers' claims." it stated. "Our Party, which has campaigned persistently for nationalisation of key Australia industries, declares that the time is overdue for nationali sation of Mt. Isa Mines. 