 [?] MHR calls to admit athletes I By THE CHALLENGER I A plea for the admission of the German Demo- 1 cratic Republic athletes to Australia and treat ment by Australia of the GDR and West Germany as equals was circulated to MHRs last week by Mr. G. Bryant, Labor, Victoria. IjUR. BRYANT said Im- | migration Minister 1 Opperman's refusal of visas I for GDR athletes due to | come here for the pentath- 1 Ion championships was "a j I relic of the cold war and | out of date". I The Minister "acts as if East Germany does not exist, just as j China, Mongolia, North Korea j and North Vietnam do not . ex- E ist", said Mr. Bryant. j The GDR had existed for al- 1 most 20 years and had as much right to recognition as West Germany he added. In a recent visit to the GDR he found shops well stocked with quality goods at prices much the same as in Australia. The Berlin Wall covered only 12 or 15 miles of the 40-mile border between East and West Berlin. # i "East Germany is developing i trade relations with an increas- | ing number of countries." | "As far as entry is concerned 1 8 Australia is becoming one of I the world's most restrictive countries," said Mr. Bryant. "Continuation of this will seriously restrict the movement of our own athletes. "This is a plea for recogni tion of all countries and for the encouragement of freedom of travel." ? Closed season jOTUNTING is a part of man's 1 cultural heritage that has | in many ways retained even | the city dwellers' interest. 1 Originating out of the sheer 1 necessity for survival it has 1 I developed to the stage where 1 I it has become in many coun- | tries a sport, which though res- 1 1 pected by many, is abused by a 3 i number of avaricious people 1 I seeking financial gain, and 1 1 wealthy "sportsmen" seeking the big game hunter's prestige 8 regardless of the irreparable 1 damage done to the preserva- tion of valuable species of wild | life. I Tass news service reports I that the government of Somalia 1 I (north-east Africa) has decided 8 | to put an end to the extermina- a 8 tion of valuable species of its | I animals. 1 I Recently, by decision of the 1 | Council of Ministers, special 8 8 regulations were introduced for I I the hunting of leopards, ele- | 1 phants and rhinoceri. 1 This decision orders all 1 owners of leopard skins, ivory j tusks, and horns of rhinoceri, I to register their property I within a week and to acquaint themselves with the new hunt- j I ing rules. I Before the adoption of this 3 decision safaris, organised I mainly by foreigners, slaughter- 9 ed without any permission valu- I able animals and smuggled tusks | and skins out of the country. 8 Such a decision could be well 1 noted by the Australian Gov- I ernment, and a closer check be 1 made on the hunting of all Aus- i tralian wild life, especially I the unique marsupials. 