 » 1 1 it IImim Women as Administrators ! ! A CORRESPONDENT writes: I | am not suggesting that some I women have not done their soc- jial duty in, local organisations j.irv the past, but how much more !" could be done. It is generally accepted that they, can assist in making cakes, fete., for sale in aid of this or ! that, but in framing policies and j administrative functions — no, j. they go back to making, cups | of tea. j It is often written and said that | women in countries behind the "Iron I Curtain" are performing tasks of ar- | duous labor,, street cleaners, builders' | laborers, railway porters, etc., and ! because of this they are not given j a status that the "free world" ac- cords them as WOMEN. | In Poland, Russia and China in 1 1961 I saw women working at all I sorts of tasks and as administrators j of railway systems, etc. I In: Warragamba, N.S.W: was j. pleased to see a woman driving, a j garbage truck, leaping out from the | driver's seat, grabbing the cans, I throwing them on the truck, empty ing, dropping on " sidewalk and- up to | drive on 'urther. j It more than pleased me, it made » me proud to- see- women are. not f afraid- or incapable of showing their | abilities." (Bill Denchficld, Warrar Sgamba). IF President Johnson's Administra tion decides to appoint Mrs. Pat- ; ricia Harris, an Associate Profes sor of Constitutional Law, an Ambassador to. Luxembourg, this would be history-making. But unless the whole of the Negro people is freed, from all forms of racial discrimination, such isolated cases of Negroes being appointed to high positions is just so much window-dressing and will only serve to highlight the irony of the status of the majority of Negroes in U.S.A. ® © YM" ANT a manicure, ladies? Then U..S.S.R. is the place to get one. A friend of mine- on a visit there at present says her manicure cost 38 kopecks (4/- Australian) — about a third of what we pay here. READING about "Boycott" (the name given to groups of women in England who study food prices and refuse to. buy commodities they consider overpriced), reminds me of another purchasing hazard — shoddy and inferior goods. Never, never accept faulty mer« chandise. Write direct, to the manufacturer. In many cases your goods are replaced accompanied by a cour teous reply. Manufacturers depend upon the purchasing power of we houses wives.. If is good to make use of this power. — Mary 