 So this is democracy! Thank you. Sir Robert, for the lesson! Tribune's Parliamentary Roundsman £ANBERRA : The way the Government conceived and rushed the Stevedoring Industry Bill through Par- liament is a valuable de monstration of what cap italist democracy really means in the hands of gov ernments like Menzies'. it is all the more interest ing because simultaneously the Soviet Union was demon strating the working of social ist democracy in its top-level meetings and decisions con cerning the national econ omy. The Australian Stevedoring Indus try Bill of 1965 was a measure of great importance to a vast number of Australians, especially trade unionists and in particular the mem bers of the Waterside Workers' Federation. In framing it, the Government followed a course exactly opposite to that of the Soviet Government and the Soviet Communist Party. So far from promoting discus sion of the Bill, great care was taken that it should be discussed as little as possible, if at all. Especially was it intended to be kept secret from the workers, in particular the waterside workers whom it particularly concerned. Asked early in the Budget session of Parliament whether he was pre paring any legislation concerning the waterside workers, Minister, McMahon, refused to say because he wanted to "keep them guessing." The enemy "They" were, of course, the water- siders. To the Minister they were not (what Soviet watersiders are to the Soviet Government) fellow citizens, fellow workers whose collaboration it seeks in reforms aimed for the benefit of all as is the case in socialist so'cieties. To McMahon the watersiders are the enemy, part of an enemy class who must be kept guessing as to now and when he will attack them on "D-Day". - When the legislation was announced on September 24, a pro-Government paper wrote admiringly of the way the big secret had been kept, although it must have been known to hundreds. The same consideration dictated the ramming of the Bill through Parliament. It was nothing to do with a national emergency. There was no invasion threatening Austra lia—no great strike impending. The reason for the haste, as the yancy sun's man m Canberra admitted, was to have the Bill in torce before the W.W.F. could de velop an effective campaign against Iv« I Reichstag full Parliamentary debate would not have been so dangerous to the government, as it had the numbers o vote down any opposition. But ev®? that was not allowed. f '"?e was passed into law a rtnight after it was introduced— allnmo . J.us enough discussion Govern h chambers for the had hf1 t0 be able to say » I ad been discussed. ! liamifnf supPsedely democratic Par liament was turned into a rubber- stamping reichstag. The Bill affec- ing the life and work of hundreds of thousands was forced into law by Government MHRs whose lilywhite hands suggested that most of them had never lifted a load on the water front or (probably) anywhere else. They knew nothing about the water front and didn't want to know. Mr. Turner, Liberal back-bencher, had only just been sounding off against the Government's treatment of Parliament as a rubber stamp. 'Mr. F. Daly, Labor, NSW quoted an article written by Mr. Turner in the Canberra Times on September 28 while the waterside debate was ac tually on. Mr. Turner recalled that because of the Government's practices, the Aus tralian Parliament might suffer the same fate as the Roman Senate and become "left as a venerable but use less monument of antiquity." However, Mr. Turner raised no pro test when, as Mr. Daly said, McMahon walked into Parliament and sought to "destroy in one night the Water side Workers Federation." "Stealth" Opposition leader Calwell said the Bill was "conceived in stealth", and the Government's refusal to allow reasonable discussion was "almost equivalent to governing by decree — a practice that was followed in Europe in recent unhappy times." As he truthfully said: "The Govern ment does not care whether or not the House considers the Bill. It wishes merely to go through' the form of consulting the Parliament." In the Senate the Government al lowed 20 minutes for a debate on the 22 clauses of the Bill, less than a minute per clause. It refused every Opposition plea for time for proper discussion of a measure that will profoundly affect all Australians. Questions were chopped off or ieft unanswered. If all this passes for capitalist democracy, what can be said of democracy under socialism? Just completed at the end of Sep tember were important meetings of the Soviet Parliament and of the Cen tral Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Full discussion Important decisions were made for the future economy of the country, but they were taken only after the fullest discussion by all sections of the Soviet community. Ideas for reforms associated with Professor Liberman's name were put forward some years ago, and during those intervening years there have been few, Soviet workers who have not, directly or through their elected representatives, expressed an opinion about them based on experience. It was the same with the regional economic councils. The decision to abolish them in their present form in favor of greater centralism wasn't made by one man alone, or even by the cabinet alone. It was made after six or more years of experience and a full discussion in which all work ers were expected to participate and most of them did. This is standard practice with Soviet legislation today. Whether it is a change in the Constitution, in the educational system, the mar riage laws or the collective farm system, it is only made after the fullest and freest public discussion. CANBERRA . . . from the air THE KREMLIN . from the Moscow River 