 WHARFIES TO CANBERRA ON PENSIONS, WAGES SYDNEY: A national delegation of waterside workers will ar rive in Canberra on March 23 to press the Federation's demands for pensions, increased wages and the establishment of a national overseas shippinq Bine. QTOPWORK meetings called by the Federal Council of the Wat erside Workers' Federation were held in ports throughout Australia last week in support of these de mands. All the meetings endorsed the pro. posals from jbhe Federal Council, and most ports stopped for 24 hours in support fo these demands. Members of the Melbourne Branch of the Federation will hold their stoppage tomorrow (Thursday). Federation officials say that all the major ports will send represen tatives to Canberra where they will raise their demands with MHRs. and Senators. In Sydney a Pensions and Wages' Committee has been established and members have levied themselves 5A to finance the campaign. Spokesmen for the committee said that carloads from most ships work ing in the port will -go to Canberra. The Foreman Stevedores Union has pledged full support for the WWF campaign and will also send a delegation to Canberra. Last week's meetings were called by the Federation to plan the next steps in- the campaign. It was agreed that Mr. Justice Gallagher from the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission act as con ciliator on the issue of pensions. Earlier stopwork meetings called for action including weekly national 24-hour stoppages. About 4,000 Sydney waterside workers at their meeting last week said: "23 years of negotiation with shipworkers have produced no re- sults We are prepared to hold our hand to enable further attempts tc negotiate provided these are con cluded expeditiously" The meeting pointed out that the same employers have agreed to pay industry pensions and make avail able mechanisation funds to water side workers in other countries. "Unless shipowners show willing ness to negotiate and not seek to use talks to delay, the Federation will be forced to use its industrial capacity,' the Sydney men said. The Federation is also . calling on the shipowners to meet the balance of a 7/. an hour wage claim. The workers have only received 1/2 of this claim made by .the Federal Council in 1963. Shipping line In support- -of- -a— national- overseas- - shipping line, the Federation points out that the freight bill to Australia last year was £430 million. Of this £350 million goes overseas and is a total loss to the Aus tralian economy. Of this huge cost structure only about £22 million is spent on wages to waterside workers. 