 for | Hourll book > shelf THEY LIVID TO SEE IT Short- stories 6/6 (7/2 postecf). TX7BITTEN by German authors who survived Nazism. Each story is the favorite of he who wrote it. One, the story of a hero who knew fear, makes one realise that adherance to a principle is the. final strength. Ordinary love for a child makes it possible to defy the worst sys tem the world has known; and finally life in a concentration camp demonstrates that compas sion and understanding can rehabilitate even the most selfish human being. A poem, "I Shall Witness the Day," leaves no doubt about the future. THE RAGGED THOUSERED PHILANTHROPISTS 11/6 &lt;12/8 posted). QENERATIONS of workers have been influenced to accept social ism by reading Robert Tressell's working-class classic. Alan Silli- toe, a leading proletarian writer, has written the introduction to this paperback edition. This is a book of tremendous humanity, ; in which the workers' struggles ' of today are reflected in the story of English workers of over 50 years ago. Also in a hard cover at 27/6 : per copy. VICTIMS AND .HEROES .. By K. Simonov, 17/6 &lt;19/5 posted). POWERFUL inovel which tells the story of the opening months of the Second World War on the Russian Front in 1941. It is the , first Soviet novel to reveal the truth about these months — the first to ask Why the Soviet Union . was unprepared — why Hitler's army was able to advance so far , and so fast.. The author graphically portrays the bewilderment, of the Soviet : people and jalso the steeling of the people as ' the months went by. There is no sparing of criti- ; cism, which goes right to the top. This fine novel was priced : at 37/3. Get your copy while they last at the cost price of 17/6. HARLEM USA 7/6 (8/8 posted). JJARLEM, USA, gives us an idea of feeling of the Negro, in America and why he feels the way he does. The problems which confront the Negro in Los Angeles are not so very different from those which face the Negro ©£ Harlem and the human being who emerges as intelligent, sophisticated, cosmo politan, urgently demanding his rightful places in the world, is | very much the same. I Available from: NEW WORLD ' BOOKSHOP I «25 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 