 There will be no " return to Stalin " From RUPERT LOCKWOOD flORI (Georgian Republic) : Outside a theological semi nary — now a museum and art gallery — where J. V. Stalin studied for the priesthood, is a plaque announcing that he was a-student there from 1 894 to 1899. While studying the plaque in company with three or four other visiting correspondents, an elderly Georgian woman began talking earnestly. A Russian mterpreter told us that she was volunteering warm praise of Stalin, "a great son of Georgia." Gori, Stalin's birthplace in Georgia, was visited by a group of overseas newspaper correspondents, both Communist and non Communist, and American TV crews, as part of an officially arranged tour of Georgia. Some foreign newspapers and radio and TV news services jumped to hasty and impossible conclusions about the arranged visit to Gori. Here in green, clean and lovely Gori is what some "correspondents claimed to be the only surviving, publicly displayed, large-size statue of Stalin remaining in the USSR. The tall statue stands in the main town square, in front of a civic administration centre, and bore at its feet, when we visited Gori,. a red banner recently flung up there. A short walk through an attractive garden from the hotel where we were billeted is the house of Stalin's childhood, with its humble furnish ings, still open to the public. The Stalin Museum, of which the house is the front portion, is closed. A caretaker let a few of us into the foyer. Near the entrance door was a single painting of Stalin; at the head of the stairs was a single statue of him, bearing a faded posy of blue flowers. Georgians live and remember long; in Gori were elderly towns folk—one of them 104 — who knew Stalin as a child. Some correspondents pressed them and other Gori veterans for their views on Stalin. A few praised Stalin, others were . silent, others critical. Family loyal ties are " potent in Georgia, and Stalin's neglect of his elderly mother was remembered. Georgian nationalism perhaps in fluenced some who praised Stalin— the best-known statesman ever to be born in Georgia. One correspondent, on evidence too flimsy to merit attention, talked of angling his despatch, "What Ggri thinks today, the USSR will think tomorrow." Georgia, like all other Republics, suffered under the personality cult: national ties did not prevent Stalin and Beria from victimising some of Georgia's finest sons and daughters and the economic penalties were severe. Not in Stalin's birthplace nor anywhere else In the Soviet Union is there a shred of evidence of a "return to Stalinism," as some foreign commentators imply. The Brezhnev reference to Stalin at the twentieth anniversary com memoration in the Kremlin of vic tory over Hitlerlsm was merely a brief statement of fact on Stalin's part in organising the defence of the USSR against the Nazis. There is no revision of the Twen tieth Congress resolution on the cult, but Stalin's historic role, as well as the terrible ' human, social and economic damage inflicted by the Stalin cult, are put in more balanced perspective than in some of the more emotional speeches of the past. The vital point is that a "return to Stalinism" in the USSR is far beyond the realms of possibility. Resentment over the losses suf fered by Soviet society because of . the cult and determination to win consistently increasing living stan dards and democratic rights are characteristics of the political scene.- The visit of overseas corre spondents to Georgia — including Gori — was made in the hope that more people abroad would hear of the breath-taking magnificence of the Caucasus, of the life and cus toms of the mountain and Black Sea coast people, and come here as tourists. 