 AEU conference condemns war budget DELAIDE: Important de- I cisions concerning Viet nam and national economic questions were made at the District Conference of the Amalgamated Engineering Union just concluded. The conference represented 13 branches, union members from 18 firms and two country centres- Port Augusta and Broken Hill. Com monwealth Councillor (Mr. C. Southwell) attended. Conference declared it was "gravely concerned" at developments in Viet nam, which could "escalate into a world conflict involving the horror of atomic destruction." It called for "a return- to the pro visions of the Geneva Agreement of 1954, which involves the withdrawal of all foreign troops from Viet-nam," and declared that "not until the people of Vietnam are free from foreign military intervention can the basis be laid for a settlement based on the principle - of the right of all people- to self determination." The conference welcomes "all genuine initiative for peace that has a realistic approach to this serious situation", and supported the "policy of the A.L.P." and the with drawal of all Australian troops from South Vietnam." It condemned the Menzies' Gov ernment's Budget which aims to solve the Government's financial problems "at the expense of parti cularly the lower income groups". It noted that company profits re mained untouched. The conference declared that people had to pay higher income tax and increased prices for petrol and other commodities "in order to pay for unpopular overseas adven tures." It endorsed the resolution of the J S.A. Metal Trades Federation which 1 called for the greatest possible protest I from job meetings and workshops. | Referring to the basic wage judj- H ment, the conference said it \ra| "convinced that no real advance in I wage standards can now be tnaJeJ through the medium of Arbitn tion." It called for a campaign for ove award rates of wages to "take th form of mass meetings at the fas tories preparatory to opening direo negotiations with employers." The A.E.U. Commonwealth Counci and the A.C.T.U. were urged Jo adopt the policy of collective w gaining. .1 The conference called for a has I wage of £22 and a fitter's mar® I based on the A.C.T.U. estia ®19/ I 48 per cent which could be 