 Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee at the Sydney Town Hal! lasf Thursday nSghf "I feel fine " "\ FEEL fine" is the refrain of Sonny Terry's song about a "woman who treated me mean". "I'm not ashamed to. sing the blues, well, people ain't that new", sings- Brownie Mc Ghee. American negro, blues singers Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee gave their only Sydney performance in the Sydney Town Hall last Thursday night. "If you see me laughing, it's to keep from crying," says another blues number. "I'm a stranger in this town, if I ask you a favor please don't turn me down"— the blues singer to the new town. He might be broke on the road as Sonny and Terry were in the vacuum of the thirties. He doesn't know how this town, in this county, will accept him. He sings "Stranger Blues" by way of introduction. Maybe he won't play blues guitar with the virtuoso ease of Brownie McGhee, but he will have the same undertone, the same violent opposi tion, that all semi-condemned- men keep tight within them. Some say it on the picket line, some say it in the ;boxing ring, some say it in music. This folk musician reckons most of the sounds he hears are some sort of music; _ most of the simple words that folk use round his place, good enough for songs, and all the things that people do good enough to sing about. Then he will sing his repertoire of songs in the cellars, saloons, anywhere the blues can stand up, and get a dollar. There's blues for everything a man does from getting out of bed in the morning to working on a chain gang ("I'm a long time gone"), to the baby crying in the pram, to the dogs hunting the fox in the bayo woods. All the musical sounds the singer hears he makes into music. But he's not just a mimic like a wild bird, he puts the heart's longing into his translation of the dog's bark, the baby's cry, the rhythm of the nine-pound hammers. But most of all the blues is the sound of silence, that certain kind of silence that surrounds the colored man, the minority, the body and soul tabooed by smothering prejudice. In the silence Sonny Terry's incre dible harmonica wails and see-saws, sobs and argues, but the wall of silence is still there when the har monica stops. "I'm an engine without a wheel," he says. So he whoops out, hollers, tries to shout down the wall and it recedes for a whole minute then blows back in.' He hears the dogs baying the fox, the terriers yelping far behind pre tending they'll be in at the kill. The chase is on. Who is the quarry? Maybe next time those hounds will be after the negro boy who sang "Corn bread, peas and molasses." "They give you corn bread, peas and molasses in the gaol. At home it's a luxury but, in gaol, they give it to you all together, so you end up sickened by what you used to like. That's in gaol." says Brownie. But what about out of gaol? What sort of bars are there out of gaol? The blues can tell you, if you can hear them. And when you do you will see the blues everywhere, and they will etch out the life that put them on the musician's tongue. But the life that crippled, tore and busted the bodies of Sonny and Brownie couldn't fit their spirit with a little iron harness. "Keep walking, keep walking," the song says as they leave the town, knowing now, of course, that there'll be lots more "Good News" for all men "born with the blues." D.K. 