 " — — — — i- i i The strange case ot Mr Wilson I H'SBANE: The case of I a certain Mr. Noel Wil- 8 son of the Queensland ! branch council of the I Clerks' Union has raised I some sharp questions about 8 the relation between the 8 dominant group in that branch's leadership, the National Civic Council and the Liberal Party. Mr. Wilson is a member of the Federal Council of the Liberal Party and of the Queensland State executive of that party. That makes him a leading fig ure in a party which is backed by monopoly giants; the huge ex ploiters of trade unionists and I other sections of the community. 3 But this, in the eyes of the top I clique in the Clerks' Union, is no I barrier to being a big-shot in the I union, made up of rank and file 1 men and women who are being i exploited by Big Business inter- | ests of Mr. Wilson's Liberal Party circles. So Mr. Wilson is a Queensland branch councillor for the Central and Southern division of the Clerks' Union. He got that posi tion with the support of the rul ing faction in the union. (Mr. Wilson could' also be a member of the National Civic Council. Being a top man in the Liberal Party would he no dis qualification in the eyes of the NCC hunch.) Mr. Wilson stood for the ballot for eight Clerks' Union delegates to the ACTU Congress, to he held in Sydney in September. Again, he had the support of the decisive clique at the top in the union here. Early last week, there were gleeful statements in the Bris bane Telegraph, the Courier- Mail and over the air and else where that Mr. Wilson of the Liberal Party had won one of the eight posts as delegates. Mr. Wil son himself was quoted. Then the roof fell in. The Tuesday (June 8) Brisbane Telegraph had a single-column item away on Page 7 under the unspectacular heading: "Ballot claim." This is what the item said:— The State president of the 1 Federated Clerks' Union, Mr. W. 1 J. Barry, said it seemed strange 8 that Mr. Noel Wilson, a Liberal member of the branch council of the union, haci been informed I that he had been successful in the ballot to appoint eight rep- | rescntatives to the Congress. 1 Mr. Barry said that, although 8 he was a candidate to represent I the union at the Congress, he 8 had no knowledge of the result I of the ballot. I Somebody had told Mr. Wilson I but, as president of the union, 8 he had not been notified. "I have no official intimation of how I fared in the ballot, but it is quite obvious that a branch councillor has been notified that he has been successful," lie said. President out There are 17 branch council lors on the executive of the 22,000-member union, and they appoint the ACTU Congress dele- I gates by secret ballot. 1 Next morning's Courier-Mail 1 | also had an embarrassed item, 1 I down on the lower half of Page I I 5, under a single-column head- I line: "Result is not known." The questions at that stage: I were: Was Mr. Wilson's informa tion correct?— had he been elect ed? And, if so, who told him? He had been elected. That was 8 confirmed in Friday's Courier- 8 | Mail. 8 Others elected as delegates in- 8 eluded Miss Riordan (an NCC 8 member), three men by the names of Dobbie, Machin and 8 Muller (all of them prominent in 8 the DLP-QLP), and W. Thornton 8 (manager in Queensland of the NCC's News-Weekly, and who works from the NCC's office in St. Paul's Terrace). There had been ten candidates for the eight positions. One of the two unsuccessful candidates- (and he polled lowest of the ten) was Mr. Barry him self, for ten years State president of the union! Mr. Barry is no leftwinger; he's to the Right. But, pretty plainly, in the eyes of the NCC-DLP-QLP- Liberal Party crew he's 'not far enough Right. So, even while president, he's heen elbowed out of the union's delegation. In fact more Clerks' Union councillors voted for the Liberal Party man as ACTU Congress delegate than voted for their own union State president. 