 ACTU Congress to j - | discuss vital issues | of peace and jobs | SYDNEY: The developing crisis in Aus tralia's foreign policy and domestic economic situation will have a big influence on discus sion at the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress to commence in S wdney on September 77. --HE ACTU Executive, backed by the unanimous support of the six State Labor Councils and by the overwhelming majority of trade unions and workers, has expressed its opposition to the Federal Government's policy of sending troops overseas to Viet nam and Malaysia. The effects of developing economic difficulties, aggravated by the adverse economic consequences of Menzies' war policy, will be revealed in the form of attacks on the living stan dards of working people. Some of these effects will be re flected in the Commonwealth Budget to be brought down in August and in the curtailment of State Govern ments' spending on works and services. Congress will also be faced witn an intensification of attacks on demo cratic rights, including the right ro strike. Thus, it can be seen that the Con gress will be the most important since World War II. These issuer are ital for the trade unions and their members. Proposals to meet and overcome these problems will be reflected in the resolutions submitted for inclu- s;— i on the Congress Agenda. Resolutions "or this Agenda must be submitted to the ACTU office by June 18. This Agenda is printed and circulated some weeks before the Congress. It is standard practice to include resolutions submitted subsequently on a Supplementary Agenda. The resolutions on these two Agenda Papers and proposals sub mitted by the ACTU Executive con stitute the business for the Congress Current ACTU policies on such mat ters as peace, living standards ,nd democratic rights are progressive in character. In view of these developing crises, progressive 'orces will be seeking to maintain and strengthen these policies. These efforts reflect the workers' best interests. Efforts will be made by certain extreme "rightwing" forces the op posite direction. Discussion can be expected at the Congress over the hesitancy and failure of ACTU Officers and Execu tive to give full effect to many aspects of existing policy. » o jrne outcome is important to all | v/orkers and they should by every g means available to them make their | views and desires on these matters | known. j FOOTNOTE: The 1965 Congress j of the Australian Council of g Trade Unions will open in the ! Paddington Town Hall, Sydney, I on September 17 next. g Held every second year, the s ACTU Congress is the most im- | portant gathering of the Austra- j lian trade union movement. I It consists of the ACTU f- j ficers, representatives of the six I State Trades and Labor Coun- j cils — which are also branches j of the ACTU— and from certain 1 Provincial Labor Councils, to- j gether with delegates elected by j and from the trade unions affi- j liatcd to the ACTU. j These latter constitute the &lt; overwhelming majority of the j Congress. Congress decisions are made by majority vote and are final and binding on affiliated bodies. j The total number of unions I affiliated to the ACTU, the num- g ber of delegates credentialled to 1 the Congress and the number ol j trade unionists represented by j these unions and delegates has ! been constantly increasing. j Approximately 100 trade unions J are today affiliated with the j ACTU. ! It is anticipated that nearly j 530 delegates will attend this j year's Congress and they will represent almost 1£ million or- j ganised trade unionists. | The only 'arge trade union or ganisations not affiliated with the ACTU are the Australian Workers' Union and some of the "white collar" organisations. The A.W.U. remains unaffilia ted despite repeated demands by rank and file members for affilia tion. Some of the major organisa tions covering "white collar" workers maintain an association with the ACTU through the Aus tralian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the High Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations. Consequently the ACTU Con gress, being the governing body of the main national trade union centre, has a very wide influ ence. ' 