 | GMH profit i f ROSE to | £20% million I ADELAIDE: General Motors-Holden, the Ame- I rican-owned giant company, has tried to deceive I Australians into the belief that its profit dropped j in the last 12 months. j _ is all-time record I profit-maker among all j companies operating in Aus- | fralia. . ! The GMH annual financial state- | ment published on July 10 claimed | that the company's net profit of I £18i| million represented a fall of | £393,000. j The Sydney Morning Herald analysis that day quoted the company's report I as saying the results had been achiev- g ed "despite the strike at the com- j pany's plants in October." I At the time of that strike, daily j newspapers attacked the workers for g "disrupting the motor industry." ! However, the detailed accounts re- ) veal that in fact the huge company j had its highest-ever levels of turnover I and sales, both at home and in ex- j ports. The demand for its products g was ahead of capacity. 1 Out of the year's total profit, the I directors concealed nearly £1,500,000 by:- S ® Increasing the allocation for S plant depreciation ' by £732,000 j over previous year. g ® Increasing allocation for future 1 taxation. g In addition, a further £453,000 was \ removed from the 1984 profit to "ad- g just" the previous year's taxation pay- I ment. If that payment had been pro- g perly assessed and allocated in the | 1963 figures, it would have more than | covered the so-called "fall in disclosed g net profit" for 1964. | The additional £1,500,000 in increased I allocations from profits for tax and i depreciation then provide some indica- S tion of this American company's in- J creased exploitation of the Australian I workforce. I The dividend paid to the parent f company in the US increased from | £8,170,000 to £9 million. The latest g profit equals an earning rate on the ! company's ordinary capital of 136.7 | per cent. g This took place despite the strike I last year and despite the three per I cent drop in the share of the market, j Work position j While GMH scoops in the profit, i the workers are faced with uncertain g job prospects as indicated by the fol- j lowing reports received by "Tribune". | In SA, in one department (prob- | ably in others) the foreman was ! told to cut his schedule. He has | to find other work for the men g while things get better. S ® About 90 men have been told j to take a week's holiday which g was owing to them. S ® About 30 workers who were | transferred from midnight shift i at Woodville to the day shift at- g Elizabeth gave notice, claiming j that they could not live on the | day shift weekly wage without - j overtime. The Company let them ! go. j 9 For the first time, the Company g has set about to enforce financial S union . membership. Man have S been told to pay up their dues— j or else! j Cinly a skeleton staff are work- I ing overtime. | 