 New threat to \ democratic rights j RECENT events have pointed clearly to the growing danger j of an attack by the Menzies Government on Aus- 1 tralian. democratic rights and liberties in an attempt to | intimidate the opposition to his war policies. Major targets in such an attack would be the Com- j munist Party, the Labor Party and the peace movement ! generally. J As a cover for this, sections of the press and some J politicians have already made wildly untrue statements, j along lines traditionally concocted by the. secret political I police and circles close to them, concerning alleged acti- | vities of Communists. j One such malicious fantasy was printed by the Sydney | Daily Mirror (1/5/65) which claimed that Communists j were likely to intimidate families of Australian soldiers 2 sent to Vietnam. ? It made false and insulting claims that such intimidation g had occurred during the Korean War. j Such a thing would in fact be fundamentally opposed to 1 Communist policy which is always aimed at guarding the J security of the Australian people. j WAR RECORD j The record of thousands of Communist Party members j in World War II, both in uniform and on the vitally im- j portant industrial front, is sufficient witness to this policy 2 and to their patriotism. I It contrasts with the treachery of Menzies and the 2 Liberals whose policy directly helped Japanese fascism to ! threaten and actually attack Australia. | The Communist Party today welcomes the growth of J the movement in Australia of opposition to the Government | policy of supporting the American war in Vietnam, which | it has long branded as suicidal for Australia. It works to | alter this, policy. j A similar stand was taken in relation to the Korean j war of 1950-51, and this stand was vindicated by the ulti- j mate abandonment of the American-led efforts, after 2 enormous destruction and slaughter, to occupy socialist = North Korea. f In Korea for that hopeless cause, the Menzies Govern- = ment sacrificed the lives of 281 Australian soldiers and | 42 Air Force pilots. In Vietnam, Australian casualties J threaten to be much higher for a cause just as bad and even I more hopeless. In seeking to avert such a tragedy the Communist | Party serves the interests of all Australians and not least j the soldiers and their wives who would be the first unfor- | tunate victims of the Menzies policy. j WIDE IMPLICATIONS j But the new Menzies threat carries much wider impli- \ cations, as recognised by Opposition Leader Calwell this S week at Townsville in his warning that Menzies may launch I a new campaign of war-hysteria associated with a general j election. j Liberal MPs last week indicated in Parliament that j Labor and peace movement spokesmen were already in | the Government's gunsights. j Their coufterparts in the Sydney City Council unsuc- j cessfully attempted to place a ban on demonstrations and j meetings in Sydney's Wynyard Park, and were commend- j ably rebuffed by the Labor Councillors. j The unanimity of the Federal Labor Caucus opposition j to the sending of troops makes it all the more likely that j Menzies will resort to attempts at intimidation and divi- | sion, as he did in the notorious Petrov case frame-up in 1954, for electoral purposes. J One weapon he forged well in advance, in 1960, with f the aid of the present Chief Justice, was the amended ! Crimes Act, which provides for penalties up to, and includ- ing, the death penalty for normal political activities oppos- j ing the Government's foreign policy. I For this Acf to be invoked, it Is only necessary to have j Australian troops in action to support a foreign govern- I ment which has been proclaimed as "friendly". j It is at such a time as this that Australia's deep 8 democratic traditions (particularly freedom of speech, ! publication and assembly) need active defence and exten- I sion, by all those thousands of people now becoming active i against the Vietnam war policy. j TRIBUNE | 