 The day of the Austcong .. rjECEMBER 3, 1854, was the Day of the Austcong. On that day there appeared on our soil a half-armed group of freedom-fighters or variea views who willingly risked and gave their lives for democracy and independ ence. . Like the "Vietcong" of today, they wanted land reform, the vote and freedom from police-state tyranny. . Like the Vietcong, they took up arms only after it had been made clear to them that they would not get their basic rights in any other way. Not one of today's "Vietcong" would refuse to accept and echo the defence of Austcong , leader -s Lalor, who said: "(...loaded around me; ,1. saw brave . and honest men who had come thou-. ' sands of miles to labor for indepen dence. I knew that hundreds were in great poverty who would possess wealth and happiness if allowed to cultivate the wilderness which sur rounded us. "The grievances under which we had long suffered ' and the brutal attack of that day flashed across my mind and with the burning feelings of an- . injured man, I mounted the stump and proclaimed 'Liberty' . . . "Neither anarchy, bloodshed nor plunder were the objects of those en gaged in the late outbreak. Stern ne cessity alone forced us to do it." The parallel here suggested does( not exactly leap to mind from a reading of Historical Studies' Eureka Supplement, published originally at the time of the Eureka Centenary in 1954 and now republished, with additions and revisions, by Mel bourne University Press. Yet the Marxist historian will find plenty in the material so conscien tiously and painstakingly here col lected and displayed to equip and hearten the champions of liberty in our own age. Certainly the Eureka Austcong had everything (material and ver bal) thrown at them that is aimed at the patriot liberation movements of .today and with at least equal "justification." The Eureka men did 'not merely have the support of "foreign in filtrators" — they were themselves largely "foreigners." Of the 19 slain martyrs whose names are given here, only one — William Quinlan, of Goulburn, NSW — had been born in Australia. The rest were from Ireland, England, Scotland, Germany and Canada. Americans were also heavily in volved and one of them, John Joseph, a Negro, was among those tried (but not convicted) afterwards. Tney naa tne impuaence to come to a country not their own and fight for its liberties, breaking all its laws on sedition and subversion, both those then existing and the others since established by Menzies and others. Mark Twain' called it "the finest thing in Australasian history . ... another instance of a victory won by a lost battle." For few revolutionaries has vic tory come so completely or quickly after such a loss. Within a year of their rising the Austcong were out of jail and had been given, or promised, nearly everything t.bcy had sought. For the "Vietcong" it is taking longer. But whether it takes IK! minutes or 20 years, the final vic tory of democracy in all parts of the world is certain. And what Australian of today who knows what he owes to Eureka will stint, his applause and support when some white or yellow Lalor in a foreign land "mounts the stump and pro claims 'Liberty'"? — W.A.W. ( Histori cal Studies' Eureka Supplement Melbourne University Press, £1). 