 ' y Housing racket J I under Brand Govt. PERTH: Under the Brand. Liberal Government, j housing has become one of the worst rackets, with land prices forced to an all-time high by real estate speculators and the quality of houses brought to an all-time low by the contract system of building. "Spec" houses being rushed up would he the slums of the future, a building worker said. "JHERE is a splurge of flat building to be sold at exor bitant prices as "home units". In a recently built block at the beach the cheapest unit was £5000. The unlucky buyer got no. land and a heavy mainten ance problem. "Not only was the work on this block of flats disgraceful, but I would defy any town con ncil supervisor to pass it, a worker told Tribune. "The builder got away with murder. Some of the walls were' out of plumb two inches in eight feet. The joinery was so green that it will -warp in no time. Low standards "Sand lime bricks arc being used ex tensively for brick veneer houses built by contract for the State Housing Com mission. They will be mainly for pur chase by people with incomes below £25 a week. They crack over every , door and window." Lower standards, said this worker, were being brought about by fierce com petition between contractors to make a profit from low tenders, while .the building firms were sitting pretty. The contract system resulted in in- ense exploitation of the workers, es pecially youngsters of 16 to 19 years. _L_ i ; Many of the contractors were them selves working up to 100 hours a week. "Boys of 16 are running up to the roof carrying about 18 tiles," he said. "They will be worn out by the time they are 30, at' that pace. "The pace is so hot that two brick- layers and two labourers are doing all the brickwork for two houses a week. "One building firm recently put on seven apprentice bricklayers, saying - that they would work with first-class tradesmen. But they were put with piece-work gaiigs, who had to deduct the boys' wages from their own share. The boys found themselves working as. lab- . ourcrs for two-thirds of the day, not learning enough about bricklaying, then told oft' for being too slow. Against time "Time has become the driving force and tradesmen can't do the good work, they would like to do. "Many workers who are employed by contractors do not understand that they are not covered by workers' compensa tion. They have to take out a personal policy, which docs not cover hospital expenses. "Migrants are often victims of the contract system. Builders tell them to buy a cement mixer and 'become their own boss'. They need £30 a week to get through, with payments for the machine, but many are only making £20. "As contract workers, they get no holidays. , "The contract system is breeding antagonism between piece and day workers, who don't understand each others' problems well enough. "Many of the piece-workers still need more education "on The functions of 'unionism. ".Campaigns- by the unions can get big results. Late last year, a drive among Italian workers by the Brick and Rubble Wallers' Union got 100 to join the union in three months." 