 Big union says A.LP. should fight Government on foreign policy SYDNEY: The Federal Conference of the Boilermakers' Society has called on the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party to declare itself as being fully opposed to the foreign policy of the Menzies Government . | EADER of the Opposition, Mr. A. Calwell, is called on to make a forthright de claration of the Labor Party's unqualified opposition to con scription and demand that all Australian troops now on for eign soil be returned to Aus tralia. The conference which recently met in Sydney represents 28,000 boiler- makers from 41 branches of the Society throughout Australia. Conference said it has no objec tion to the training of Australian personnel in the defence of Aus tralia on a voluntary basis. It was however concerned that as a result of the policy of the Men zies Government many young Aus tralian lives will be sacrificed to defend the dictators of some of the Asian countries in which some of these youths will be sent to serve. As a program for apprentices, conference called on the Metal Trades Federation of unions to cam paign for: full daytime training of appren tices; improved facilities at technical colleges; all necessary technical books to be supplied free of charge; all necessary tools of trade to be supplied by the employer; fares and meals to be provided free, of charge to apprentices attending full daytime techni cal training; and apprentices be given a paid pub lic holiday during ACTU Youth Week; French tests ; . In declaring opposition to the proposed French nuclear Pacific tests, " the boilermakers have asked the ACTU and Metal Trades Fede ration lo consider placing a ban on all French shipping. A protest cablegram has been for warded to General De Gaulle. Members of the Society are called on to fully support any action de cided by any section of the trade union movement to prevent these tests. An agenda item will be submitted to the ACTU Congress this Septem ber calling for strong and positive action against nuclear testing. The Federal Government was strongly condemned for its actions in disposing of Australia's .natural resources to overseas monopoly com bines. Conference drew . particular atten tion to the exploitation at present taking place in the iron ore, bauxite and alumina industries. Foreign capital "The penetration of foreign capital into vital sections of the Australian economy is causing concern to the entire labor movement. "The two recent struggles (GMH and Mt. Isa) clearly show the ex tent to which these giant monopolies already control our affairs." Conference called for the continu ation of public agitation to prevent foreign investors taking their profits out of Australia. "The Labor Party when returned to office must take steps to nation alise major enterprises with a view to socialisation of all industry", con ference said. The Boilermakers also have called for effective action to he taken against the use of repressive legisla tion aimed at restricting workers from taking industrial action in sup port of their economic demands. Conference will ask the Metal Trades Federation to convene a con ference of presidents and secretaries of the State Branches of the Federa tion with a view to organising a national stoppage of metal workers in .opposition , to the penal clauses of the Arbitration Acts. The ACTU has been asked to raise the matter of repressive industrial laws and proclamations, such as the recent Queensland Government pro clamation concerning the Mt. Isa dispute, with the International Labor Organisation, with a view to having these laws condemned by this body. Left To right: MR. J. BEVAN, General Secretary. MR. J. CONVERY, Adelaide Secretary, Boilermakers' Society of Australia. 