 Mass protests force Franco to release Spanish Communist MOSCOW : The Franco Government's sudden withdrawal of capital charges against Spanish Communist leader Jus to Lopez de la Fuente following the dramatic intervention by Dolores Ibarruri has shown that massive public pro tests could now; secure the actual release of Franco's political prisoners. JUSTO LOPEZ was charged by the Spanish Government with having directed military operations in of the Spanish Republic during the Spanish Civil War. He is still serving a sentence of 23 years imposed upon him in Madrid last December for having conducted illegal activities and propaganda. Sixteen other Com munists under the same charge were sentenced to terms ranging from three to 28 years. Included is a woman. At least 9 other Spanish democrats were jailed last July for terms ranging from 2 to 28 years. These include mainly trade union leaders. A report in Paris from the Madrid correspondent of the France Presse Agency dated February. 26 says the Ministry for Information announced the dismissal of the Lopez case under the Statute of , Limitations. However, the London Daily Worker of the same date reports the military prosecutor as saying: "I have received orders to finish the matter. The accusation is maintained together with the proesecution's demand for five death sentences." Dolores Ibarruri (left) chairman of the outlawed Spanish Com munist Party, told a Moscow press conference last week that she had applied to the Spanish Government to return to help in the defence of Justo Lopez. This decision plus her moving and anxious appeal, attracted even greater attention to the crime which was being prepared in Madrid, according to Etienne Gilbert in the French Communist Party paper Humanite. Gilbert has visited Spain several times as correspondent of Humanite. Official circles in Madrid were staggered by the statement ,of Dolores Ibarruri, chairman of the Spanish Communist Party, he adds. Humanite reports that Spanish extremists were in the process of speeding up the trial. Protests of world democratic opinion were the most effective means of defending Lopez. Powerful protests reached the Spanish Embassy from every section of the French people. The subsequent withdrawal of charges against Lopez was brought about -by the broad movement of protest in Spain and many other countries, according kto "Humanite". This victory confirms that the position in Spain has changed in the last two years. Opposition to Franco has consider ably strengthened. An article in CPSU paper Prav.da refers to big strikes in Asturia, de monstrations by Madrid railway workers, student protests and rally ing of democratic opposition. All this is undermining Franco and compels maneouvres to prevent new outbursts of popular anger. Berlin reports the Spanish poet Markos Ana, who himself spent 20 years in a Franco prison, as saying that though the charge against Lopez had been dropped he is still in danger. In a letter published in the Mos cow press, Lopez' sister, Julia Lopez de la Fuente, appealed: "Friends all over the world please understand my anguish. Mothers, wives, sisters, please understand me. "The life of my brother is in dan ger. My heart knows no peace and every day brings fresh anxiety. Any thing can be expected from those who rule Spain today. Protest against the jailings and demands for the release of all poli tical prisoners from Franco's dun geons can be made to: The Spanish Consulate General, 8 St. Mervyn's Ave., Point Piper. Senor Ministro De Justicia, c/- San Bernado, Madrid, Spain. Senor Ministro De Information, Paseo De La Castellana, Madrid, Spain. 