 Labor Gov'ment should ponder its course By L. KELTON, Communist campagn director for the NSW State elections. COR almost a quarter of a century N.S.W. has had a Labor Government. . In that time the people's strug- gles have secured from the Labour Government such notable results as the 40-hour week, 3 weeks annual leave and long service leave. But also during that time (par ticularly in the post-war years) native N.S.W. enterprises have been swallowed by giant monopolies who are protected from the wrath of the people (except in the case of R. Ansett) by repressive legislation. This does no credit to a govern ment pledged to foster the people's interests. The penal powers of the Arbit ration Act and the rather absurd trading laws governing small shop keepers are but two examples of the N.S.W. Government's subservience to the States financial giants . and their disregard for thousands of trade unionists and small shop- = keepers who have been penalised I by them. j At the present time a relatively j few monopolies dominate the in- j dustrial, financial and commercial | . life of N.S.W. j A State Liberal Government ! would accelerate the process. j In steel, decisive for modem in- \ . dustry, t_he Broken Hill Proprietary group, comprising 14 companies with 35 operating plants, mines and quarries dominate the field. . The Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand (I.C.I.A.N.Z.) is a vast organisation whose products range from slide fasteners and cartridges to dye stuffs and anaesthetics. Explosives, pharmaceuticals, plasters, aircraft! paints, ammonia products! synthet- : ics and virtually all industrial j chemicals are made by I.C.I.AJST.Z., j its subsidiaries or by companies in ' which it has a substantial invest- I inexib. The Colonial Sugar Refinery is another wealthy, powerful organisa tion which refines, and as a Gov ernment appointee, markets all bm a fraction of the Australian suga; output. In virtually all significaL spheres of production from process ing the food we eat to manufac turing the knives and forks » eat it with control, rests in th lands of financial giants whose ir erests are opposed to those of th -- .'orking people, many primary pr . ucers and small business peopl 'Ommunisf Party an&lt; working class unity Communist candidates in tl\ State elections will voice a gim ing public demand for the national sation of certain monopolies, th B.H.P. in thev first place, and othe measures to restrict monopoly pow ers. . At the «ame time the Labou " Party and Labour Government are .assured of Communist support in its current struggle against the Ansett transport monopoly or any other similar issue it undertakes. The A.L.P. and Labour Go vera - ient might well ponder its ure course. Is it to proceed towards increased nbservience to domestic and for- ign monopolies and the consequent rowth- of unpopular legislation hey demand? Or . is it to recovei ome of its lost prestige by grant- ng the workers demand for a yt>- cur week and otherwise facilitat- ng the people's struggle against he monopolies The Laboiir Government can be eturned to -office by fulfilling now he popular and well justified de- nands of working people. A turn in the electorate towards '.he Communist -Party, however dight, while- returning a Labour Government would represent an advance for the working people But only a slight turn towards the Liberal Party, with their D-L.P and Country Party allies would lead to more serious difficulties fr most toiling people. 