 GMH makes Henry Ford leek a philanthropist! \ In a Minute and 20 seconds a worker must assemble jj the fuel pstmp/ fuel lines, carburettor and oil filter to j| a motor. I THiS must be repeated 40 times per hour and 360 times per day. Incredible as it might seem to a home mechanic, this is the daily grind of cne worker at General Moto.rs-Holden's latest plant in Fishermen's Bend, Victoria. In 1950, one GMH worker produced the equivalent of about two cars pei year. In 1963, this figure was eight and a half cars per year. The speed of the assembly line &lt;pre-determined with split-second precision) is geared to produce an exact number of parts per hour. In 1964, GMH produced 700 vehicles a day, or 90 an hour. a TTnirien rolls off the line every 40 seconds in the company's two assembly plants at Dandenong (Vic toria) and Pagewood (NSW). « Time end motion The time-and-motion experts have long since divided the» worker's every working second into more than 10 parts. If for instance the worker takes three paces to get to his parts, the "experts" move the bench to -within his reach, even if this leaves prac tically no room for natural move ment. If the company can squeeze an extra 40 seconds out of each worker this will produce an extra Holden. To go to the toilet a worker must wait for a relief man. If you happen to remain in the toilet block for more than four minutes the foreman may come up and knock on the door. In 1963, GMH workers in N.S.W. went on strike for 10 days in demand of a tea break so they did not have to drink their tea on the run. "The Golden Holden" These are a few of the striking facts revealed by two Victorian work ers, John Arrowsmith and George Zangalis, in their book, "The Golden Holden". Both men have worked on -the as sembly line. The recent sacking of 2000 Austra lian workers by this American com pany has once more focussed atten tion on the company's plunder of Australia and its arrogant disregard for the people who create fabulous profits for U.S. multi-millianaires. The book documents the history ana growtn ox xnis piunaer. This history shows that from an original capital of less than £1 mil lion the US. shareholders have re ceived back £77 million in divi- dens after ploughing back £11 U mil lion, to expand assets to at least £114 million and inflating sharehold ing to almost £14 million. Back in 1931 General Motors from America assembled imported com ponents in Australia and used locally made bodies (from Holden's fac tory) tor their various vehicles. A helping hand When GMH was formed in 1931, U.S. capital was £965,800 and Austra lian £561,600. In 1937, the company made just over £1 million. Out of this, £784,200 worth of free shares were issued to U.S. share holders lifting their holdings to £1,750,000. The Australian share holders got nothing. After the second World War an all- Australian car was given attention by the then Labor Government. In 1944 the GM Corporation agreed, very reluctantly, to the proposition that GMH build a car, hut in effect v,re not going to spend one cent of U.S. money on this. If GMH wants a car it will have to find all the cash for it in Australia." The late J. B. Chifley (the then — . x 9 « roi rrime. Minister; ar raiigeu a million advance to GMH from the Commonwealth Bank. The first Holden rolled off the assembly line on November 29, 1948. Then the "benevolent" parent com pany &lt; that had given us "Australia's own car" sat back and skimmed off the cream. A steady rise in yearly profits be gan going to America, £14 million in 1950-51 to £84 million in 1959. The Australian shareholders only got £33,696 between them each year. But the GM monopolists wanted the lot so they bought out 97 per cent, of these shareholders for £1/15/- on a £1 share. The new company, GM (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. was registered in 1959 and became a fully owned subsidiary of the. GM Corporation. Now we have the "All-Australian Car with the All-American Profits." And the profits continued to rise. In 1960 and 1961 they were not required to publish a balance sheet. In 1962 they again came to light and showed almost £12 million. Menzies does his bit In January! 1963, the shareholders gave themselves a New Year gift, of about five free shares for each £1 share. This meant their capital was inflated to £13,750,000. Over £8 mil lion profit also went to the' US in the same year. Last year the Australian public was staggered by announcement of a profit of £20 million. The Menzics Government has from the very beginning been a great friend to these American exploiters. In 1951 the Government lifted the 2/- in the £1 tax on undistributed profits from all companies, saving g GMH £7.4 million. jg In 1953 Menzies entered into a | taxation agreement with America, g reducing tax on profits going out of Australia from 7/- to 3/- in the £1, saving GMH £14.1 million and all, US companies in Australia about £70 million. Other tax concessions in the form of depreciation . of plant and equip- 1 ment since 1957 have saved GMH a g further £19.5 million. S Altogether Menzies has allowed I GMH to avoid paying at least £41 I million in taxes. 1 The authors of the book also ex plode the "know-how" myth as a "smokescreen." Could we have designed a car in Australian free from all help? At t.hp pnri nf the war the GMH Australian engineers built a car de scribed by L. J. Hartnett (the former general manager) as a "beauty, away ahead of the first Holden, giving us several good ideas to he incorporated later in the Australian Car." Only 16 US citizens were on the GMH pay-roll in 1964," so these 16 must have an awful lot of know-how," ! the writers say. j In 1938, when GM in America went over to all-steel bodies, such bodies I had already been in production for 12 months in Australia. J The Australian GMH workers showed their hostility to their ruth less sweat shop conditions and low wages when they went on strike last year for a £3 wage increase. The Communist Party has long proposed that GMH be nationalised Uo nnorofinrie nnnfrnllorl mr -O aiiu no wj body to be known as the Common wealth Vehicle Building Commission. Such a commission, responsible to the Minister for Labor, could: © Manufacture vehicles it considers suitable- for Australian conditions and sell them at a price consistent with sound business principles. Fix hours of work, wages and conditions after consultation with trade unions. Publish and make available to the public an annual report. No large cash payment is war ranted to the American shareholders since the £77 million received in dividends is a "fair" return for the outlay of less than £1 million. But for those who want to see "fair play" the GM shareholders could be bought out at the rate of £1/15/- for each £1 share, the same as GM paid Australian shareholders! Imin. 20 sec. is the time in which a 8 GMH worker must fit the 1 9 FUEL PUMP 9 FUEL LINES 9 OIL FILTER 9 CARBURETTOR t t'-«e motor. 'mmm bm immmmmm 