 WHERE WOULD THE ! MONEY COME FROM? i — — ! Both the Communist Party of Australia and the Australian j Labor Party enter the State election aiming to prevent the elec- j tion of a Liberal Government, which is pledged to Big Business poli cies and full support for Menzies' warlike foreign policy. "THIS is not strange for both Communist and Labor Part ies have a majority of workers in their respective member ship and each, to a greater or lesser extent, expresses im mediate and urgent aims of the workers' mass organisa- tions — the trade unions. Many policies of the two parties are similar and, together with the declared socialist objective of both, they demonstrate the possibilities for united action, despite the im portant ideological differences that provide grounds for discussion. The vital points of Communist policy are based on urgent common needs among the people and are feasible for concrete enactment as progressive reforms. Where can the money come from, to pay for these reforms? The Communists propose money raising in conformity with the gen eral approach of the labour move ment. It is unfortunate that from time to time rightwing members of Labor Governments fail to enact many of the measures discussed by trade unions and even ALP Confer ences, and act timidly in the face of firm monopoly opposition. Communists, elected to Parlia ment, would work to influence a Labor Government to stand more steadfastly to real Labor policies and reject monopoly intimidation. Such unity in parliaments would reflect the unity of the labor move ment in general for genuine work ing class reforms. it would still make available vast sums for investment by the Gov ernment in services to the people. Similarly there exists a State Government Insurance Office. In surance companies have numerous millions of public money available for investment by them. The de velopment of the State Office into various insurance fields like fire, could assume a public monopoly character, thus enabling the State to utilise the vast capital resources in the interests of public develop ment. The ultimate aim could be to embrace all insurance. Attention should be directed to the proper co-ordination of indus tries and services with adequate trade union representation on such bodies, appointed by the trade union movement, with power to change. State transport control and co ordination, properly tackled, could save millions in interest payments and provide a profit for the Gov ernment, real increases in living standards of transport workers and better air, road and water trans port services to the people. How ludicrous it is that air traf fic which is profitable is allowed in private hands whilst railways are financed by the public purse! Ferries fall into two classes: pro fitable ones retained by private in vestors; unprofitable, unloaded on to Government hands. Road trans port is allowed in competition to rail, further weakening State fin ances. Co-ordination of power is another need. This has been tackled by the Government so far as electric power is concerned, but should be broad- -ened to include all power such as coal, oil and gas, as well as elec- . tricity. This should make possible a re versal of current policy which charges the public on the higher scale and monopoly and industry on the lower scale. How to use taxation The States have full taxation powers save those they ceded to the Commonwealth in the Financial Agreement. Thus any field of taxa- tion not utilised by the Common wealth lies within State Government competence. For example, the Commonwealth no longer exploits the field of land tax; NSW has entered this field. Communists oppose indirect forms of taxation putting the burden on the majority- of the workers who provide the main market for goods whose prices conceal the tax. (Beer and cigarettes are examples.) Taxation should be on a basis that provides that the wealthy minority class of monopolists should con tribute the major share of revenue. Thus, Land Tax should not apply to the householder or small property owner, but a graduated tax should operate beyond £10,000 U.C.V., drawing most from big properties and big rural estates. Monopoly makes great gains from its unaistriDUtea proms wmcn it ploughs back as expanded capital investment. This avoids taxation and is widely used by big foreign investors like General Motors Holden and Mt. Isa Mines, as well as Australian monopoly. The State Government should in tervene in this field (naturally not used by Menzies and Co.) and im pose a Capital Gains Tax which could provide the means to pay for many of the demands and re forms sought by the united working class movement. However, the examination of new fields of anti-monopoly taxation open to the State Government should, in no way detract from the basic demand and properly organ ised struggle for more finance from the Federal Government for educa tion, health and other needs, in cluding the return in full of the Petrol Tax for use for roads with in the State by government -and municipal authorities. However, there is need to avoid regarding the Commonwealth as the sole source of revenue, for this would leave the monopolies rela tively free of obligations to make a. just contribution to the cost of the nation's needs and the people's de mands. Local Govt. Local government finance is in crisis. Funds from national re venue are a priority need, and every effort is needed to force recogni tion of this fact. But the Councils and the State Government can assist by developing a system of differen tial rating. Monopoly, undertaking the use of land for exploitation, should not be treated like the -home owner using land, for his dwelling. At present homeowners' rates are utilised to provide facilities for monopoly. An Industrial Rate for enter prises, as distinct from UCV rate as imposed on workers' homes, could help provide greater funds and ease the burden for munici palities and home owners. Private banks, using subsidiary companies, are reefing millions in interest payment from the hire purchase racket. Interest rates are often levied flat, thereby permitting more than double use of the same money to earn further profits. The Rural Bank of NSW is the State Government's own bank. . It should, directly or through an agency, undertake the big-scale fin ancing of hire purchase business at fair interest rates which, in com petition with private banks, would soon secure the major business. The State could, in time and it necessary, create a State monopoly in hire purchase. Whilst passing on the Advantage directly to the people. 