 [?] INTERNATIONAL TRADE UNION CONFERENCE PROTESTS AGAINST PROPOSED FRENCH TESTS I Trade unions call |i « for sanctions against France ' SYDNEY: An international trade union conference last week in Sydney called on trade union movements in the South Pacific area notto handle any goods or equipment to be used in the French nuclear testing site. Conference declared that if France and any other nation in the Pacific continues to ignore world opinion and persists, with the preparation for testing nuclear devices, sanctions and other steps be' considered to prevent such ; tests. . - / . . - " yHE conference was jointly convened by the Australian Council of Trade Unions anc! the New Zealand Federation of Labor in protest against the French Government's plans to test nuclear weapons on Gambia Island in the Pacific. Conference said it was concerned about the immediate effect this test ing can have on people in the vicinity of the testing area, its long term ef fect on people everywhere and all other nuclear testings. The 150 delegates included over 25 from New Zealand, six from Singa pore, two from New Caledonia, one from Malaysia and from all states throughout Australia. For new UN call on A-tests and arms A declaration made at the con clusion of the three day conference called on the respective Govern ments to immediately sponsor and support a resolution in the United Nations calling on all nations to cease further nuclear testing and make every endeavour to achieve total world disarmament. International trade union affiliates are asked to support the conference decisions. "The Trade Union Movement, 1-. accordance with its purpose of ad vancing the economic and social conditions of working people, re- - cognise that the attainment, and preservation of peace is of supreme importance, and the development of peaceful relations, co-operation and respect between all nations is es sential for the preservation of man kind and the only means of escape from the threat of nuclear annihil ation", the declaration said. "These aims can be assured as the result of agreement by the major ' nations on complete and general world disarmament with ' suitable and related control measures." . All nations are urged to participate in the UN Disarmament Conference for complete and comprehensive dis armament throughout the world. A call is made on all nations to sup port a total ban on, and the destruc tion of, all nuclear and other weap ons of mass destruction on a universal basis with effective methods of inter national control and inspection. The 1963 limited test ban treaty " was applauded as a first step towards a possible reduction of nuclear ; weap ons. ' - All nations,' which have not already done so, are called on to immediately sign the test ban treaty, the provi sions of which should be extended to cover all testing, including under ground tests. Conference said tht Uhe scientific vantageEM|;nucl.gy!;:b0|ie' Tftsed in ease and hunger rather than for the extermination of mankind. "Day of protest" Many delegates urged that the final declaration should include specific proposals for protest action. Mr. A. Macdonald (secretary, of the Queensland Trades and Lahor Coun cil) proposed that failing a favour able pronouncement by February 28 concerning the French tests, a com mon day of protest be held and that all trade union organisations in the South Pacific be asked to participate. Mr. Macdonald had earlier proposed that a protest delegation be elected to go to the French Government. Mr. A. Emanuel representing the 300,000-strong Malaysian Trade Union Congress, also called for a day of demonstration in each country against the tests. The Auckland Seamen's Union pro posed a week of protest activity to be determined by national organisations. Mr. T. Skinner (president of the NZFOL) who chaired the conference, told delegates during his opening speech that the task of conference was not just to talk and carry resol utions, hut to make positive decisions. Some delegates, including Messrs. Short (Federated Ironworkers Associ ation), Maynes (Clerks' Union) and the French delegate from New Cale donia (M. Pedespan) indulged in anti- communism in an attempt to side track the conference. At one stage the chairman (Mr. Skinner) stopped an outburst by Mr. Maynes. The final declaration was decided by. the steering committee of the con ference. Many delegates expressed the opin ion that the final document should have been presented to the full con ference. MR. A. MACDONALD, secretary Queensland Trades and Labor Council. MR. T. SKINNER, president New Zealand Federation of Labor MR. s. HARRIS, Boilermakers' Federation of New Zealand. MR. E. BLACKER, Clerks' Union of New Zealand. MR. C. FITZGIBBON, general sec retary Waterside Workers' Feder ation of Australia. The. conference in session, Trades Hall, Sydney. 