 ARU State Conference SA Govt, should take over private railways ADELAIDE: In a resolution to be before the South Australian confer- I ence of the Australian Railways Union, the State executive has called on I the SA Government to take over all privately-operated railways. I "THE resolution, adds: "It is further considered that the former Liberal Government sold out the assets of the people in the Coffin Bay lime-sands de posits, deal with the Broken Hill Proprietary.- We therefore call on the State Government, to take over these deposits in the interests . of the people of this State. A wide rang of subjects will be discussed at the conference, to be held on September 23 and 24. These range from small job ques tions to the big issues of interfer ence in the affairs of the trade union movement and the war ini Vietnam. The 72 agenda, items reflect con siderable interest by the membership in improving job conditions, includ ing those that should have been corrected decades ago. There is a firm demand that the workers should share in mechanisation and cheaper running costs' "by way of improved- wages, amenities and conditions as well as cheaper fares to the pub- lic". In a strong attack on concessions to mi oncPes and the "milking cow" role of the industry, the res olution states: "We call upon the new State Labor Government to enter this area of transport oper ations in vigorous competition to the road Transport hauliers". On trade, union interference the agenda item states: "Conference considers the- recent attack by the NCC — DLP forces, a certain Labor politician, aided and abetted by the anti- worker press, against the so-called 'unity ticket' issue as dir- ( in! irference :n the affairs of the trade unions" .... ... After surveying the Vietnam war a resolution declares: "We believ I that the Vietnamese, and all peop . I should have the inalienable I to determine whatever form oi g I ernment the majority of the P I desire i I "Events have confirmed our op I ion that the majority of SpuUi I namese people do not suppo I military rulers which exerj?se suP. I trol in Saigon, neither do they I port the intervention by the E States and Australian troops. f "Conference therefore E urgent negotiations betw I National Front (Vieteong) for I military Government' in I the purpose pi: ,,1onient o! I (a) Concluding a settlement i (b> Tremoval of foreign at®" I (c> Jot the implementator I the Geneva Agreement w | tions to be held throughout | nam." I 