 Labor! traditional "Haii|ls €:.'policy goes j ' -? &lt; . ; . back to the Boer War m m mmui mum hi numy minim Next month's policy-making Federal Conference of the ALP should result in a further strengthening of the Party's stand against the dispatch of | Australian, troops to south Vietnam. W ! f This would be in line with traditional Australian Labor policy as laid down I in the very first years of the party's existence. The first time Labor had to pronounce on a vital question of war and peace was in 1899, when Britain started a . war with Dutch South African Republics the Transvaal Republic and the Orange Free State. I The debate ih the NSW Legislative Assembly was specially interesting be- | cause of the anti-war stand of W. M. Hughes, later Prime Mincer of the ; I Commonwealth, and Wi A.Holman, later Premier of NSW. a I "-these men are to be sent To the Cape to be employed the:-e to shoot down men who are defending their own homes. "These men are to act the part of what can only be de- J : in scriueu « awown «wriw. « j cause of which they know, j nothing". ">. ' ' a , So spoke Labor MLA W. , A. Hoi- man in the NSW Parliament; But it .wasn't about Australian . troops for Vietnam that this leading ALP personality spoke these pas sionate words. The "Vietnam" of 1899 was ..the Transvaal Republic, in South Africa, I which was not conducting itself as ; I its would-be imperialist masters I thought it should. 1 Like the Menzies of today, the I anti-Labor rulers of the Australian I States rushed in with offers, of I troops to teach the "Boers" a lesson | —or, as similar people put it j today — to show them that "aggres- I sion" doesn't pay. " j To anti-Labor orators, the British | Empire and even civilisation itself j were threatened with total collapse | by the Boers of the Transvaal ' and J.- Orange Free State. x Here were the "frontiers of free- j dom," as Menzies calls. them today. | They were breached by the Boers' i refusal to treat immigrant gold- hunting Englishmen ("Uitlanders" they were called) as their electoral equals.' The main Uitlanders were million aire companies, like those organised by Cecil Rhodes. They owned the mines and wanted to own the country too, pushing aside the Dutch-descended farmers who were i the original European settlers. | When Boer President kruger re- i sisted this, he was called" by every name applied to today's "Vietcong." However, this did not deter W. M. Hughes, w. A. Holman and Arthur Griffith, in particular; .Their speeches on the Boer War and the NSW contingent set out principles which have since become traditional to the Labor Movement, even . though Hughes and Holman themselves departed from . them. I 1 Hughes said: It is a thing that has never yet stained the annals (except once) of- toe great British race . . . that they should have deliberately embarked on this iniquitous enterprise . . . the in amous task of exterminating these unhappy people. . . ao!t Is aSainst the law of nations, gamst justice, against the eternal principles 0f religion upon which allsf ! tS o£ the EmPfre is shorn? be founded, that we deliberately force upon an- "5 , 4 other nation, a foreign nation, our interference in regard to their internal affairs." , ' . . Hughes quelled shouts about his "disloyalty" by saying, "We stand here in company with some of the most illustrious Englishmen that have lived durihe the last 100 years." Among them he cited William Pitt (Lord Chatham), who had de nounced the; war against the Ameri can colonists, Charles Fox, opponent of the war against the First French Republic, and John Bright, who campaigned against Palmerston's Crimean War. He went on: "When it comes to a great pugilist attacking an infant /and asking his little, brother to come arid hold the infant while he gets at him, it savors too much of political bravado and swashbuckling to be on all-fours with the noble traditions of the_ British race-" # But the real fireworks of the debate started with William Arthur Holman; then only 28, but already a leading Labor propagandist be cause of his excellence as a speaker. Speaking of his English birth, Holman said he saw "with shame and indignation which I can hardly express the name and reputation of that Empire (the British) being dragged in the dust at the behest of a little gang of swindling specu lators on the Rand." Edmund Barton, to become later the first Commonwealth . Prime Minister, interjected to ask whether Holman wanted "the Boers or the. British to win." Holman replied: "While my couritry is fighting in a just cause, I hope I shall he as ready to . sup port its claims as any other mem ber. But as this is the most iniquit- . ous, most immoral war ever waged with any race, I hope that England may be defeated." Uproar exploded on the Govern ment benches. Cries of . "Shame! — Withdraw!" were answered with counter-shouts of "Bunkum!" from the Labor benches. ? - Intimidated by the Government, Rightwing Labor leader McGowen deserted Holman. But Arthur Grif fith, later to be a minister in the first Labor Government, finished his speech with this call: "Let us refrain from imbruing our hands in the blood of a brave people who are struggling, as I hope we should struggle; fighting, as I hope we should fight; willing to shed the last drop of their blood, . as I hope we should he willing in similar circumstances to shed ours, for the independence of their country." . For nearly three years reactionary papers and politicians stormed at Labor's anti-war pqliticians. But they were vindicated when, after terrible losses, the British Govern ment signed a peace which guaran teed the substance of independence to the Boers as demanded by the anti-war forces. The aim should be the same in Vietnam— without the losses. — WAW. 