 t Joint Soviet-Vietnamese Communique: i (1 — 1 hmiuhimiiwbm.wiiimmhiii 2 COMPLY WITH TERMS OF ! I GENEVA AGREEMENTS I QBSERVANCE of the terms of the Geneva Agreements is among the key terms for settlement of the Vietnam situation, laid down in the recent joint statement by repre sentatives of the Soviet Union and the (North) Democratic Republic of Vietnam. Under the terms of the Agreements no foreign troops or military personnel are al lowed in Vietnam. No for eign bases under the control of foreign states may be es tablished. A delegation representing the Communist Party and the Govern-" ' ment of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, headed by Le Duan, First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Vietnam Party of Labour, was in the Soviet Union from April 10 to 17 on a friendship visit at the invitation of the Cen tral Committee of the CPSU and the Soviet Government. The joint statement made at the end of the visit said that the Central Committee of the CPSU, the Soviet Government and the Central Committee of the Viet nam Party of Labour, the Govern ment of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam denounced the piratical actions of American imperialism in Indochina, the armed intervention against the people of South Viet nam, the open acts of aggression and attacks on the Democratic Re public of Vietnam- ? The imperialist expansionist policy being carried out by the United States of America is a flag rant violation of the Geneva Agree ments of 1954 on Vietnam. It is aimed at sabotaging the peaceful reunification, of the coun try and the conversion of South Vietnam into an actual colony and military place d'armes for the United States. In violation of the Geneva Agree ments, the United States set up its military bases on the territory of South Vietnam, and illegally sent its armed forces and weapons there. It unleashed a bloody war of (extermination against the Vietnam ese people, resorting to barbarous means against the peaceful popula tion, including the use of napalm bombs and poison gas. The aggressive actions of the United States in Vietnam not only create a threat to peace in South- East Asia, but also aggravate ten sion throughout the world, in crease the danger of a military conflict with grevious consequences for the peoples of the world. The delegation from the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam pointed out that the international solidarity and all-round assistance rendered by the Soviet Union play an im portant role in the strengthening of the defence of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and in enabl ing it to give a rebuff to the mili tary provocations of the imperia lists. The support of the USSR and other socialist countries strengthen the Vietna"— se people's faith in the ultimate victory of their just cause. I The delegation expressed the profound gratitude of the Vietnam ese people to the Soviet people for their great international support and assistance. The delegation of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam expressed gratitude for the warm and frater-, nal welcome accorded it by the CPSU Central Committee and the Soviet Government during its stay in the Soviet Union. The Vietnamese people also highly appreciate the constant sup port of the Scrviet people in numer ous meeting and rallies of protest against the aggression by American imperialim and in letters from Soviet working people who ex pressed their wish to volunteer to fight shoulder to shoulder with their Vietnamese brothers against the aggressors. If United States aggression against the Democratic Republic of Vietnam is intensified, the Soviet Government will, if need be and in the event of an appeal by the Government of the Democratic Re public of Vietnam, consent to the departure for Vietnam of Soviet citizens who, guided by feelings of proletarian internationalism, ex press a desire to fight for the just cause of the Vietnamese people, for . the maintenance of the socialist achievements of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. Having discussed the situation in South Vietnam, the Soviet Union and the Democratic Republic of Vietnam consider that the South Vietnam National Front for Libera tion is the genuine exponent of the will and aspirations of the people of South Vietnam and is its only legitimate representative.. The programme of the Front enjoys the broad support of the mass of the people be cause it proclaims indepen dence, democracy, peace, and end to imperialist interevention and the formation in South Vietnam of a national democratic coalition gov ernment carrying through a policy of independence and neutrality in ful conformity with the 1954 Geneva Agreements. It was noted during the talks that the Statement of the Central Committee of the South Vietnam National Front for Liberation of March 22 this year evoked a posi tive response in the Soviet Union and met with support. ? The Soviet Union and the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam ex pressed their firm confidence that the just struggle of the people of South Vietnam under the leader ship of the South Vietnam National Front for Liberation will be crowned with complete vic tory. No matter what means the im perialists resort to, they will not succeed in enslaving a people fight ing for their independence and freedom. During the talks the USSR and the Democratic Republic of Viet nam expressed their opinion of the recent statement made by the United States President in connec tion with the situation in Viet nam. This statement shows that the United States is still keeping to the line of extending the acts of aggression against the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, and further spreading the war against the people of South Vietnam. It is not trying to seek ways to a peaceful solution of the Viet namese problem. It is significant that , the state ment by the United States Presi- . dent on a so-called peace, settle ment has been made at a time when further bombings of the territory of the Democratic Re public of Vietnam 'are, taking place and when there are further move ments of American military units and weapons to South Vietnam to step up the bloody aggression. These aggressive action are con tinuing. The Soviet Union and the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam agreed that for a solution of the Viet namese problem it is essential that there be an immediate end to the aggressive actions by the United States against the Democratic Re public of Vietnam; in conformity with the Geneva Agreements the Government of the United States must evacuate its forces, service men and arms from South Viet nam and end the aggression against South Vietnam and the infringe ment of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. In the period before the peace ful reunification of Vietnam it is necessary, in accordance with the Geneva Agreements, that the two parts of Vietnam have no military alliances with other countries and no foreign military bases or ser vicemen on their territory South Vietnam must settle their own affairs Or the basis of the programme of the South Vietnam National Front for Liberation. The peaceful reunification of yietnam must be effected by the Vietnamese people themselves with out outside intervention. There was also an exchange of opinion On questions pertaining to the situation in Laos and Cambodia in connection with the constant intervention of the. United States in the affairs of those countries. A realistic way to a solution of these problems is scrupulous com pliance with the Geneva Agree ments of 1954 and 1962. For these purposes it would be useful to hold the appropriate in ternational conferences. ? Examining the question of mea sures to strengthen the defence potential of the Democratic Re public of Vietnam, the delegations of the ' Democratic Republic of Vietnam and the USSR noted with satisfaction that the understanding reached earlier on -these questions was being implemented, to the ex tent and in accordance with" the procedure envisaged. The Soviet Union and the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam reach ed an understanding on further steps to safeguard the security and defend the sovereignty of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, and agreed on appropriate mea sures for these purposes. The Soviet Union reaffirmed its readiness to. continue rendering the necessary assistance to the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam to re pel aggression by the United States. The USSR and the Democratic Republic of Vietnam emphasised thaf with the imperialist forces 1 becoming more active and in view 1 of their attempts to suppress the | liberation movement of the peoples | it is now more necessary than ever 1 to have unity of action and greater I solidarity of the socialist countries | of all who are coming out against i'l imperialism and colonialism, for |1 freedom and independence of the M peoples. || In the interests of safeguarding m peace, freedom and independence ||| of the peoples, the Soviet Union and li the Democratic Republic of Viet- 1|| .nam appeal to the governments and li peoples of all countries to take the 'm necessary steps to put an end to f|| imperialist aggression by the || United States in the area of In- ll do china. ||j The continuation and extension H of the American aggression in S Vietnam is. a provocation not only ||| against one socialist country— the Democratic Republic of Vietnam— m but against all -socialist countries. J At the same time this American ||| aggression is a provocation against ||| the niational-liberation movement ||| of the peoples of Asia, Africa and || Latin America, against- all peace- || loving peoples, against all who m cherish the cause of peace and Wk national independence. fm In the interests of peace and ||| international security the forces of m imperialism and aggression that m are encroaching on the freedom |f and rights of the v:etnamese M people, must be curbed. || 