 Death of Bill Yarrow WAR HERO . . . SMALL FARMER . . SHIRE COUNCILLOR ... HUSBAND AND FATHER . . . COMMUNIST ... gRISBANE: The tragic death occurred in Cleveland, near Brisbane, on Tuesday, November 2, of Bill Y arrow, , DCM, at the age of 54. Bill Yarrow, to the time of his death, had been an active member of the Communist Party and. a leader in the Redlands area of small farm ers of whom he was one. To the large number of mourner —relatives, farmers, Rats of Tobruk.. people from all walks of life — who attended the service at Mt. Thomp son-Crematorium, Mr. Alex Macdon aid, member of the Central Com mittee of the Communist Party of Australia and secretary of the Trader & Labor Council of Queensland said "His fellow-comrades in the Com munist Party of which he was : long time member, those farmer with whom he served on committeer of fruit and vegetable growers and his former comrades of the Rats oi Tobruk Association, will miss hir friendliness, generosity, mateship and warm confidence in the people "Always a strong fighter for cause0 in vhich he believed, Bill Yarrow's life was bound up in both war and peace with activities of the people "Recognising the deadly dangej .vhich faced civilisation during the second world war when the fascist tide threatened to engulf mankind; this gentle man who even then hated war, joined the AIF. "Then for five long yearp Bill Y"ar- row fought throughout the middle ' east and in the New Guinea cam paigns. His courage was of the high est order. and he won the Distingu ished Conduct Medal in the blood bath that. was El Alamein. "He became a member of that highly regarded assembly— the Rats of Tobruk — whose association has remembered him today and to whom he " was affectionately known as 'sandbag'! "It was during that most devastat &lt;ng of all wars that Bill Yarrow sickened by. war, yet realising thai vars are. caused by men and "car mly be ended by men, joined th? Communist Party of Australia. "By that act, Bill became one o- 3ur thousand members of our party ,i Australia serving in the armed orces in defence of their countn nd of world democracy. "As a man of peace he was more ecently deeply disturbed at Austra ian troops going to Vietnam, deeply iisturbed too at other development? hat increased the danger of a thin, vorld war. "Bill learned first hand that bit nonopolies, caring for nought but orofit, were, prepared to sacrifice and did sacrifice tobacco farmers, of whom Bill was one, when with others he was ruined. "He learned that in the Redlands area he loved and to which he returned — small farmers without fin ancial help freely given face almost insurmountable difficulties. "Bill Yarrow served several times as a shire councillor of the Red- lands Shire and he had been presi dent of the Cleveland Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association for the last two years. "Before that he had been secretary >f that organisation for many years. "Bill was a member of the Red- ands Show Association and also ."ound timer despite indifferent iealth, to assist young people by ms ,vork in the National Fitness organ- nation. "Bill Yarrow of the Rats of Tobruk, Bill Yarrow, a leader or faIejJ' 3ill Yarrow, ' member of the com munist Party, Bill Yarrow splendid husband and father, is no more. "To his many friends and especi ally to his family we again express -ur sincere sympathy at the passing f this fine man. "For all here we say: Farewell dear iend, farewell dear comrade.' As a bugle sounded the Last Post, he curtain drew on the caske '.raped with the Australian flag- To Bill's wife and family, Tribune extends its deepest sympathy. 