 I -'i'oiarfs® iilfeicls B@@lx i .-. — — - -« ' ' '— ' . ._ A»/-iyafcggr-fCT&lt;pa3«rgi«5w»wgg««wwTiwwrm&lt;8a I j By JUDAH WATEN I I From Goa to Rostok j in the "Erfurt" j COR just on a month we 5 have been passengers I on a 10,000-ton cargo ship I of the German Democra- S tic Republic, the trturt . from Goa in India to Ros- J tockV the port of the j GDR. | The "Erfurt" was built in f the GDR and is one of many I ships in the line which is | rapidly expanding 'and becom- 1 me- one of the principal ship- | ping lines in Germany, West and | I cannot say anything technical 1 about the "Erfurt". But is is a S fine looking ship, up-to-date, I comfortable and well run. J There are 64 people on board, s including the three of us, I the only lassengers, although I there is accommodation for 12. S Of the ship's company three ( are wives of men on board, j Every married member of the j crew is permitted to take his I wif on one journey a year. I The average age of the men I s about 23. ' The oldest man is Captain Cleive and he has just turned I 40. The first mate is 30. I All the men are in very fine I physical condition. I I wondered how the highly I qualified young doctor, who is J also a doctor of science, filled S in his time. ) But evidently he was busy in | the tropics where the ship spent I most of its five months journey- j ing and where the unaccustomed | climatic conditions created many | nealth problems S l have learned too, that he I fills in his spare time working | on a thesis which will earn him | a third doctoral degree. S Everyone from captain to | deckhand has told us about 1 him with pride. I # ' | THE- ship's company as a ! whole enjoys a demo- j cratic way of life that will J not be found outside the I Socialist world. I There are easy-going every Saay relations between officers and '"be crew and they fre quently meet together in com J mittees - on the ship. | These include the ship's j Council which represents every I section of the crew and meets I regularly to discuss all import- I ant matters concerning the I ship and plans for the future J Then there are the trade | union, youth, cultural and | social groups. I And of course there is the j Socialist Unity Party (Com S munist) branch | From, my observation the 1 meetings often conclude on a | social note, with beer being ! consumed The ship's company has an I appei'je for the good. German beer m board which reminds I me srl home. ! Some of the meetings take j place in the lounge which is also . | a kind of common room for of | t'icers, engineers, sailors and I passengers Groups of youngsters occasion I ally play records on the big | radiogram, western hits includ ! ed I They were doing this one nighi | when we were enjoying beef j and' Soviet champagne with the captain, two officers, . an en gineer, a steward and two sailors. All of us seated at a round table. There are no social distinc tions on board and everybody eats the same solid fare. The leaders of the GDR, those Communists and anti-fascists who gave years of their lives to the struggle against Hitlerism have educated a new generation of German people in the best tradition of the German work ing class, in the tradition of Marx, Engels, Liebknecht, Rosa Luxemburg and Ernst Thalmann On the "Erfurt" we see some thing of the new generation, certainly of sea-faring men, a significant section of the work ing class. From my talks with officers and sailors I am left iri no doubt about their pride in the GDR, in their patriotism; | ALSO found they had a deep abhorrence of naz- ism and the policies of the Bonn Government which seems so determined to follow in the footsteps of the Kaiser and Hitler. Most of the men do no remem ber the Hitler years but they know what calamities Hitlerism brought to the German people In their groups and organisa tions on board they have studied Germany's past and they have had many discussions with anti fascist veterans, including a pas senger on one journey who had spent the whole of the 12 years of the Hitler regime in theBuch- enwald concentration camp. Captain Cleive plays a big part here. The son of a left Social Demo crat, the captain was deck hand on a German merchant ship- in 1940 and was subse quently interned in France when the German merchant navy was captured by the allies. When he returned to his home town in East Germany he plunged into the work of bring ing about the democratic re formation of his country. He was active in the German- Soviet friendship body and later when there was a great demand for seamen he returned to the sea. Later still he went to naviga tion school and rose quickly in the company. The captain is very well react He is an admirer of Xavier Her bert's "Capricornia" and knows thoroughly James Aldridge's novels based in Egypt, which he believes are a valuable aid to an understanding of that coun try. Most of the ship's company are big readers as I learnt from visiting the library. Apart from the fact that a high percentage of the men are S studying, for there are opportuni- j ties for advancement open to all I of them, literature is extremely j popular among them. The ship's library speaks toi the GDR's cultural values. There you can get some ol the oest German and world litera f.ure. There in the library you can see that, a great Communist 'hirlwind is sweeping away all that was corrupt and life-hating &lt;n German thought. MAGAZINE_ PEOPLE! i Mi I .... '.1 I ,r«T— 1 TTTt I I II I I llllf 1111 I ,11 I I 1.11,11 ! ' I— ! h 