 "Captive Nations Week Means War j McMalion, John Birch, j and an unholy crew | SYDNEY: Federal Labor Minister McMahon spoke at the open- j ing raliy of Captive Motions \eek on October 2 lastj while the : literature of the American John Birch Society was being sold at j the entrance to the hall. ! During his speech, a pamphlet was handed out which, , as openly as it j dared, called for a third world war against the socialist nations. i LJEADED "Truth About the Captive Nations," the pam phlet has a concluding section called "What 'To Do. "The western powers must proceed without delay to a peaceful deliberation of the European Captive Nations, in the first place," says the pam phlet. (Presumably it means "lib eration".) "Governments in exile for all Captive Nations should be formed by the political refugees, supported and recognised by the western powers, with the aim to boost the morale of the peoples at home, and finally to bring about their liberation. "No trade should be con ducted and no cultural ex changes should he accepted by the west with the communist regimes. . . "If peaceful means are not possible at present, then con ventional arms must be used, as they are used by the commun ist side in the so-called "wars of "If this is not done as soon as possible, a nuclear holocaust will become inevitable, whether we want it or not. . . "We can influence the gov ernments at elections, as' far as democracy still prevails in our country, to implement such an active policy of liberation of the Captive Nations in Europe and elsewhere." Means war The idea of this program Is "to prevent the .breaking out of World War II, a nuclear war, and one which might be ignited by the Berlin Wall 99 To most people, including the fascist-minded types, at the rally, it is just the program needed to ensure the breaking out, not the prevention, of World War III. But it was the program commended to the public at a meeting whose objects were enthusiastically sup ported by the Federal Minister for Labor. It seems, at a glance, to be opposed to the policy actually being followed by the Government of which Mc Mahon is a member. Australia recognises the Soviet Government— not a Russian "Govern ment in exile" which McMahon's Captive Nations' friends say should be set up. Australia has just signed an impor tant trade treaty with the Soviet Government — again opposed by the "Captive Nations" Week Committee to whcih McMahon pledged his keen support. Australia has welcomed cultural intellectual leaders and figures from the socialist states. There is a bril liant young Hungarian pianist in Australia now. He shouldn't be here, a'- rding to McMahon's 'r'Johba - Birch -Society- minded friends with whom he warmly shook hands at the Captive Nations' rally. There can be no question of Mc Mahon pretending he did not know where he was and whom he was fraternising with— a pretence put up by other Liberals such as Migration Minister Opperman when caught in the company of fascist inclined Croats. McCarthy's book sold This is not the first of such meet ings that McMahon has attended. And to get into the hall at all he had to walk past a table full of blatantly- Inkm OiiAk dAAinftr miKliAo. jpaiaucu uuiui uuvii wwwuvjr tions. Being handed free to enquirers was a pamphlet headed "Australia — or South Irian," published by Tidal Publications, Box 3266, GPO, Sydney. It carries no printers' imprint- contrary to Australian law as gener ally understood. After a violently- worded attack on Indonesia, including the statement that "Indonesia is a Communist- controlled country," the pamphlet advertises Birch Society and other publications, which, it says; may- be had from Tidal Publications (nbt listed in the Sydney phone book). . Among these publications are The Blue Book of the John Birch Society —written by the -founder of this fascist movement, Robert Welch — and Welch's book The Politician, purport ing to show that President Eisen hower was a traitor to the US, or perhaps (as the brochure suggests, "too naive to know what he was doing"). Also boosted is a similar attack on the late General Catlett Marshall, former US Chief of Staff and Secre tary of State, by the late Senator McCarthy. Today it is not too much to say that McCarthy, ' the man and the "ism," stink in the nostrils of every decent person who is politically literate.' US Judges "traitors" But he is the commended reading of those with whom McMahon ex changed smiles and handclasps on October 24. Also touted in the pamphlet- brochure McMahon's friends spon sored that day is a volume attacking the US Supreme Court. The book, Nine Men Against Ame rica, "shows how this body (the US- Supreme Court) under Chief Justice Warren has been destroying every safeguard which might prevent the Communists from carrying out their plans," says the brochure. After scanning through some ot the literature being sold at the door and handed out in the hall,' this : speeches . i£»r> £ > ' » > -V &lt; - from the platform came as no sur- j prise. j The Australian Communists were j denounced as "traitors" to their j country — perhaps a compliment com-, j ing from persons who also count as j traitors: President Eisenhower, the S late General Marshall and the nine I Judges of the US Supreme Court? Sane persons present might have thought they had wandered into a j convention of the fascist-to-lunatic j fringe who might be pitied, but j perhaps best ignored. ! But there, sitting in the middle of j them, himself raving about the "cap- j tive or jailed" nations, demanding j that China be kept out of the United &lt; Nations, big-noting himself as the j man before whom the power of world j Communism had collapsed overnight ; when he and his Stevedoring Bill appeared ...on the scene, was the i Federal Minister for Labor. That's what he is now. But if he and his fascist-minded backers have their way, he will be something else soon. Chairman Colin Roderick him self emphasised that their main guest speaker had bigger things ahead of him than the Ministerial position he now held. The workers and other democratic- minded Australians will have some thing to say about that. They, had better say it soon, however. History tells that the worst way with incipient fascism is to ignore it, or laugh at it. Mr. McMahon 