 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman jCTORS' EQUITY has put its foot down to ensure that members of the Aus tralian Ballet Company don't have to rough it during their planned overseas four. These dancers, many of them young women under 21, are being expected to find their own accommo dation, meals, etc., out of a weekly wage of £19. Hotel accommodation in Tokio costs about £40 a week, while a pound of fish from a stall in Rome costs from 18/- to 27/-. The Federal Government should weigh in the money and put an end to this scandalous situation. There is a lot of difference be tween a group of dancers and a battalion of troops. The former however will do more good for Australia's reputation over seas. ? TALKING of troops — according to the Department of Labor, if a lad gets married by May 30 he is entitled to indefinite deferment from national service. A mother remarked that maybe the Government is thinking . of widows' pensions. An army spokesman said that only those who are not being called up have been notified. For 'Vse young men who are still ire where they stand , you w . still .i about two and a half weeks ».o get spliced. ? ACCORDING to Australian Medical Association, W.A. Branch cir cular of April 23, the first intake of National Service Trainees will be called in for medical examination "on six evenings early in May. For each 2£ hour evening session, the doctor will be paid £11/11/- (plus 2/6 a half mile travelling allowance). Total for six sessions — £69/6/-. Basic pay for trainees is £16/16/- . a week, or 2/- an hour, just about ' l/50th the value of the man who will say "fit" or "unfit". ? The Boilermakers' Society in Syd ney has asked Labor Council to do something about safe working on j- city buildings. Welders working high up on the steel structure on the Goldfields : House job at the Quay were given £3 a week "not to worry about ade quate staging, catwalks,, etc." : v A foreman- at a conference on this -.matter said: '"What we-i want- is a new breed ofJraen." . y-:v. ; - 