 Australian Ballet's farewell season "J"HE Australian Ballet is pre- senting a six-weeks sea son of ballets at the Theatre Royal (Sydney) as part of a farewell season before leaving to participate in the Common wealth Arts Festival later this year. . The first of three programmes con sists of "La Conservatoire" by Bournonville — part of a very fam ous old Classical Danish Ballet — first performed in 1849 — "Yugen" a new ballet by Robert Helpmann and "Melbourne Cup" a revised version by Melbourne choreographer Rex Reid. "La Conservatoire" is a challenge to such a young Company but a very necessary one if it is to meet international competition. Set in a ballet school, the ballet consists of simply presented exercises and short variations performed under the eye of the dancing master. Compared with the excerpt of this ballet which may be seen in the de lightful Danish Film "Ballet Girl", one can see that the atmosphere of the original production has been carefully recreated" by the producer Poul Gnatt (a graduate of the Copen hagen school) and that on the whole our dancers are beginning to master the technical difficulties hidden under the grace and charm of the ballet. "Yugen", around which most of the interest of the current season centres, is a ballet based on a Jap anese legend with music by Yuzo Toyama and decor and costumes by Desmond Heeley. Helpmann has set out to capture "the most gracefully refined expres- . sion of beauty". Believing that the Australian Ballet should draw on the legends and cultures of its neighbours, he has chosen the story of the Moon God dess whose wings are stolen while she visits the earth to swim in the lagoon. She cannot return to the moon and it cannot shine until the wings are returned to her by the fisherman Hakuryo who found them while gathering shells. The part of the Moon Goddess is beautifully danced by Kathleen Gor- ham and Hakuryo by Garth Welch v with his usual reliability. The style of the movements of the ' - principals and the village folk seeks to capture the' atmosphere of Jap anese theatre rather than re-create traditional dance forms. The action is interspersed with interest through the portrayal of the fishing, the -wonderfully effective scene where the Goddess swims in the lagoon and the later dances where the bright red fans highlight the white kimonos of the girls and the black and white costumes of the men. "Yugen" may not be a very pro found ballet in terms of characteris ation and choreography. It is very distinctive, and cannot fail to appeal because of its beautiful staging and clear dance pictures. "Melbourne Cup" to music oi the period of 1861 arranged by Harold Badger brings the programme to a very bright and breezy conclusion. Coming after the artistic delicacy of "Yugen", the garish colours and overdetailed .costuming of the first scene, set in the bar of the Theatre Royal, Melbourne on the first Cup ' Eve in 1861, are rather hard to take. The part of the Jackeroo, cleanly danced by Bryan Lawrence, stands out in comparison with the worldly characters of the saloon. One can only be relieved that he finds a nice girl for himself in the form of Elaine Fifield as the Debutante, whom he meets later the same evening in the gracious dignity of Government House. The Cup Scene, with five leading girl dancers as different horses rac ing in the cup accompanied by their respective jockeys, relies on its fast tempo and presentation of the full cast of the ballet — each busy in their own world cf interest but drawn together by the magic of the now famous race. — M-W. 