 I! More 'fuel for TV Congress | II. I TV big shots never pieard of "high purpose and good will" I \A/H0LESALE violation of the Broadcasting and | VY 7e|evision Act by controllers of commercial I television in Australia is undoubtedly one of the 1 facts that will be examined at the forthcoming 1 national TV, congress in Sydney. I The congress, to be held on March 20 and 21 , 1 has set itself the task of building support for I the findings of the Vincent Senate Report on I television in Australia. 1 Systematic violation of the Broadcasting Gon- 1 trol Board's standards for Australian television 1 becomes clear from reading some of the clauses I of the Broadcasting and Television Act and de- I scriptions from the Sydney press of programs being I regularly screened. 1 By a Special Correspondent 1 "|"HE introduction to the I set of standards for I television says that "only 1 the good will and high I purpose of those who act- I ually operate the stations land plan the programs lean ensure that television I will be used constructively J for the benefit of the com- Jmunity. 1 Standard 8 reads: I "-> program should contain- I matter which, if imitated, could I be harmful to the well-being of if individuals or of the community; H this includes such sequences as If those which: || (i) demonstrate any technique M of crime in such a way as to '1 invite imitation; J (ii) arc likely to incite any per il son to crime, violence or anti- _ H social behaviour; || (iii) deride or otherwise discredit 'm the law and its enforcement, or S significant social institutions; M (i ; display in detail any form if violence or brutality. M Those are the standards — but ||| Where's the 'good will and high pur- || pose' in the following programs? |j SAM BENEDICT: "Season for II Vengeance". For twenty years a M woman waited her chance for ven- || seance against a man. Now she g stands trial for running him down 1| with a car. i ACADEMY THEATRE: "The ||D.I." Dealing with the struggles of Iff a battle-hc.rdened marine drill in- ystructor who is faced with the task "ii converting a group of newly in- M!",, . youths into a hard-fighting If unit \vif,-;n only a fe weeks. HITCHCOCK HOUR: tnivc Poi-" While a woman LI ,in the Phone, her adopted fnrtwr6,vns in a garden pool and a blacknSier61 threatens throuh areth6 g/'andiloQuent and precise iiv wLSandaSs set 0ut for fam y programs. They read: (a) the selection of subject should treatment of themes H outln t nhleSOme aIld fresh || look. On no account should li the mcr "orhid aspects of life be presented in such a way that they appear to play a greater part in life than they actually do- (h) The following in particu lar should be avoided: (i) torture or suggestion of torture; (ii) orror or undue sus pense; (iii) the use of the superna- . tural or superstition so as to arouse anxiety or fear; (iv) other -atter likely to lead to undesirable emotional disturbances in children (e.g. hysteria and nightmares) ; (v) dramatic action should not be over-accentuat ed, particularly by sug- gest5ons of excessive vio lence. Morbid sound ef fects intended to anti cipate or simulate death or injury should not be d. -These are the standards. The fol- ' lowng programs can only be inter preted as "rcughly complying" with them:, ZERO' ONE. "The Creators" — Actress Didi Druson receives a threat telling her she will never reach the age of 25. SCREEN PLAY: Katie Moffatt shoots and wounds her underworld admirer ... THE DEFENDERS: "The Hidden Fury"— The financee of a psychiat rist is shot dead on her wedding eve by one of her women patients. IT'S DARK OUTSIDE: "A Case for Identification". A madman with an insane hatred .fcr foreign ers poses as Det. Sgt. Swift. REDIGO : "Hostage Hero Hiding". Man continues live-for-the-moment existence. CLIMAX: "The Scarlet Web" - Man- wakes from blackout holding blood-stained r'Metto. / 77 SUNSET STRIP: "Only Zeros Count". Stuart Bailey goes to the aid of the girl attacked by a mail and finds he has landed himself a job investigating counterfeiters and deceiving a beautiful blonde. ACADEMY THEATRE: "Bundle of Joy." A young shop assistant .loses her job but is re-instated when she finds herself mistaken for the unwed mother of a foundling baby she has rescued from the steps of a home. Commercials (34 b) advertising matter should be presented with courtesy and good taste, disturbing or annoy ing material such as blatant sound effects, persistent repeti tion and words and phrases im plying emergency should be avoid ed; every effort should be made to keep the advertisement in har mony with content and general tone of the program in which it appears. The Television Program Stan dards will continue to be disregard ed by the TV moguls until the Aus tralian public demands a change. The National TV Congress in March this year, - gives every inter ested organisation and individual a chance to discuss and examine the Vincent Report, which is a far-reaching analysis of the corrup tion of television standards. The address of the Convening Committee for the. Congress is 72 Stanley Street, East Sydney, N.S.W. P.O. Box 309, Potts Point. Telephone 31-7718, 31-7719. wuum iiumiiiimuimwmnmiiii liiiiiimiimiimiuwuuuuimuuuiumummmiumiimuu miuummnuuummm Peter Carver plays Billy Borker in Frank Hardy's series of Australian yarns "Tales of Billy Borker" on ABC-TVS Monday nights at 8.20. 