 [?] Boycott S. Africa! j I AST week the South African Minister for the Interior, Mr. Jan de Klerk, was highly indig- nant when the president of the South African Rugby Union Board, Mr. Danje Craven, had put the Government on the spot by forcing the Premier, ' Dr. Verwoerd, to state that ! Maoris would not be able ! to tour South, Africa as j part of a 1967 "mixed i team" ! of New Zealand | All Blacks (Rugby Union) . \ Apparently the Minister would | prefer to keep the South African | racial policy quiet. ! Obviously the South African I racists have learned something j from the mistakes of one of his- j tory's greatest racists, Adolf Hit-, i ler. | Hitler and the Nazis propagat- j ed the "Aryan race" and "Nord- j ic" theories which depitched Hit- ! ler as the leader of a super j master- race. j These delusions however were ! shattered somewhat in the field j of international sport, j Prior to the second world war, ! at the Berlin Olympics, the j champion negro runner, Jessie j Owens, made the Fuhrer fume by winning a string of gold I medals and becoming the out- j standing athlete of the games. Again in 1938, the great Ameri can negro boxer, Joe Louis, bat tered Hitler Germany's world champion prospect, Max Schmel- ing, into ignominious defeat in less than a round. So badly beaten was Max, that on his return to Germany, he had to be carried from the plane on a stretcher. These were bitter pills for Hit ler to swallow., No wonder the Verwoerd gov ernment can't see any future in allowing "mixed competition'- in . sport, either national or interna tional, that will undermine the basis of its racialist ideas and encourage the coloured people to intensify their fight for true equality. The Johannesburg "Star" criti cizing Dr. Verwoerd for his ac tion in barring Maoris, said that he was seeking to impose his pattern of discrimination on New Zealanders, and saw Dr. Verwoerd's statement as a slap in the face for the New Zealand ers. Until such times as the South African government abolishes its apartheid policy, Australia (and other countries that nroclaim thp. democratic rights of people) in = the field of sport at least, should | consider placing South' Africa I under a total boycott. j Rugby League j by RON MACKERRAS. j JAST Saturday at the Cricket | Ground I barracked for | North Sydney, but at the end | was glad they were beaten, for f they did not deserve to win. j Any other result would have S been bad for Grand Final attend- ' ance figures, for there are thous- j ands of League fans in Sydney j who still believe Souths can win j the Grand Final; there are none I who believe Norths could win, j ! even with 30 points start. j Souths scrambled home from \ a team that was not worthy of a j semi-final berth. During the sea- j 1 son the team scored 318 points. I I Of these Griffiths scored 181 j j from a try and 89 goals and Irvine 39 points from 13 tries— ' 1 " a total of 220 points. The remain- I E ing 98 points were shared by the I j balance of this season's first I i graders. I f Souths can make the first I grade Grand Final interesting, !'. but I will be pleasantly surpris- j ed if they firdsh within six points I of Saints. | . The reserve grade game should j be a real thriller and my plug j goes to Balmain, but I certainly j would hot he giving any points ! start. ) Parramata thirds should win a I hard-fought Grand Final. ! I Col Pearce is our best referee, I J but allowed several glaring ob- I I structions by South Sydney ! against Norths players getting up j and playing the ball cleanly. I I .The last occasion, an obstruc- I I tion to Ken Irvine during the j last few minutes, caused the ball ! to shoot out of his hands as he j ! was almost to his feet. Pearce | i| ordered a scrum and Irvine j /' showed his disgust at the deli- | t berate obstruction and loss of | | possession. j 1 , ; Balmain's First and four re- ! I ' serves leave for New Zealand j j next weekend. They are a good j side and should be undefeated I on tour. I A tip for Sydney clubs looking j for a good hooker and open for- ward— Elwyn Walters of North- ! ern Suburbs in Brisbane. f Feminine forecast j attractive Sydney high j school student, Patricia, a j keen and critical follower of j League contributes the follow- I ing:— j South Sydney, though not in | top form, proved to be the bet- ! ter team against Norths last I Saturday. i Norths played extremely well, j but in order to atone for their j shocking failure against St. I George in the second semi-final j should have defeated Souths r 47-7. j Souths winger Mike Cleary j I was not in top form as he was | I still suffering from a leg in- J I jury received in the first semi- i final against Parramatta. j Also, half-back Ivan Jones was j not fit. - He had been ill dur- j ing the week. ! These two players should be ) in A-one condition for the j Grand Final. s Souths have defeated the nine I time premiers twice during the | season, 14-4 and 17-8, and bar- £ ring, set-backs through casual- j ties, should be able to defeat | them again on Saturday. j 