 SOVIET MAN SWIMS IN SPACE .... U.S. AIRMEN BOMRIMOCINTS 111 1 MB— MBBBMWlll IIHIIMMCBBBBW— — PBB— I — — B BBBBBBBBB8E— BaBBBBBB— B aMBBiMUlMMBaBBBBMMMBB Barbaric raids with phosphorus, napalm, gas! Not satisfied with "ordinary" military aggression,' the United States Government has turned to use of force in most barbarous forms in its war of interven tion in Vietnam. The USA has admitted using poison gas, ' ; white phosphorus and napalm (jellied pet rol) bombs there. The phosphorus and napalm bombs have bee« used in raids on North Vietnam as well as against liberation forces , in the south. The poison gas, inducing mass vomiting and nausea, has been used by puppet troops in the south under US super- vision. | The Geneva Protocol of July 17, 1925, which has been signed by most civilised states, hut not by the U.S.A., prohibits the use in war of "asphyxiating, poisonous or other gases and of all analogous liquids, I methods or devices" which, it says, has been "justly condemned by the I general opinion of the civilised world." 1 In Sydney, rolling demonstrations continued outside the 1 US Consulate this week demanding a halt to American raids,, I opening of negotiations and withdrawal of foreign troops. I (See Page 3.) I Last Wednesday, hundreds of delegates descended on I Canberra for this purpose. (See Page 9.) 1 VA/HITE phosphorus burns alive I persons in the area in which 1 it is dropped. 1 Napalm adheres to human I skin on contact and inflicts I terrible burns. I Use of it by the US in north Korea I in 1952 drew world-wide protests. I The then Archbishop of York, Dr. 1 Cyril Garbett, in a diocesan letter on 1 May 14, 1952, said napalm was a weap\ 1 on "which inflicts terrible and. in- discriminate loss and suffering", . se- 1 cond only to the atom bomb. 1 Christians, he said, should demand I the banning of all such weapons. I Even Nazis, who used vile methods 1 in the last war, tried to keep them 1 secret. I Another example of barbarity is the 1 statement by South Vietnamese ex- ! premier, Nguyen Xuan Oanh, that three South Vietnamese intellectuals, found "guilty" of fostering a peace I movement, had been thrown out of a plane without parachutes. (Sydney Daily Mirror on March 17). Later reports said that men of the same name had been escorted into North Vietnam on foot. But the state ment by Oanh, representing the South Vietnam government on an official mission, shows that his government and its US patrons approve of cruelty as a policy. Apst. planes? Admissijpii \ that Thailand is being used ds . a base for US planes attack ing North Vietnam and Laos, raises the question as to whether Australian Air Force bombers, also stationed there, will soon be used in these murder-raids.. V Australian servicemen in South Viet nam as "advisers" can see that the war against the liberation force , is lost, according to a report cabled to The Australian from Da Nang last Monday. ' A 11c icpuit quutca Yyoiiaiib unieex J. S. Stewart of NSW as saying "I can't say I'm sorry to be leaving ... I want to get the hell out of here be- ' fore the big bang comes . . . I've got a feeling it's coming soon". In effect demanding unconditional surrender of the Vietnamese in north and south, US General Maxwell Taylor, US Ambassador to South Vietnam, said on Monday that "raids would continue until the enemy 'gives in . . . There is no limit to escalation." Speaking in London after talks with the British Government, Soviet for eign minister Gromyko said , the chief task of today was to end US aggres sion against Vietnam. "That is the first of all first steps which must be taken" he added. The question of a new conference was one for the "countries principally involved," the victim of aggression, the Democratic Republic of (North) Vietnam, and the aggressor, the USA. US horror bombing reports have caused a boilover among British MPs, forcing the Wilson Government to ask the USA for the facts. But the Men- zies Government continues full sup- | port of the USA. | Last Wednesday, delegates from ! peace movements, trade unions ! and other bodies in several states ! massed at Parliament (below) in I Canberra to demand an end to | the war of intervention in Viet- I nam, by means of negotiations. iTOP: US marine symbolises reli ance on armed force as he I guards US Embassy while dele gates, approach, on their x>ound of embassies. 