 Students ""amazed" at Aboriginal support : SYDNEY UNIVERSITY students who returned to Sydney last Friday from, their fortnight's "freedom ride" against anti-Aborigine discrimi nation in country towns have been angered by a "Sunday Telegraph" at tack on their efforts. They see this anonymous article as part of a calculated I campaign by a minority to dis- credit, in advance, the results j of the report on their survey of conditions among Abori- ! gines in the towns visited. | The success of the survey and ! . other acivities was stressed by I spokesmen on Friday night when ! the 30-odd young men and women ' of the group, including' two of I Aboriginal descent, alighted from j their bus at Sydney University and met the press and a crowd of rel atives and friends at a short re ception. Mr. Charles Perkins, unofficial' leader of the group, said the suc- I cess of the expedition had passed j all expectations. 1 The aim, he said, had been to | conduct a sample survey and take I other action: — To highlight discrimination ! wherever it appeared. I To break down barriers against Aborigines by direct stud- ! ent action. I © To stimulate Aboriginal I -thought and action in resisting | discrimination, together _ with Eur- I opean thought and action, j He paid tribute to all the mem. I bers of the group for the devoted | way in which they had worked to- I gether, despite differences of back- ground and ideas, in the survey and other activities. 9 Students explained that the sur- I vey had been based on a series of questions, put to Aborigines in the various centres, under such headings as health, housing, in comes and occupation, Aboriginal attitudes and European attitudes. Before departure, the questions had been checked and amended by a sociology expert and the stud ents had been lectured by a pro fessor on how to conduct the ques tioning. One student said: "While not a fully-developed, scientific survey, it will prove to be a significant sam ple survey and a valuable guide to reality on some important prob lems of these Aboriginal people." (In Sydney, the annual general meeting of the Australian Abori ginal Fellowship has expressed full support for the students of S.A.F.A. in carrying out the survey and con gratulated the students for the ser ious way they were carrying out the survey.) Aboriginal support MR- PERKINS said a .most im portant feature of their work had been the surprising degree of active support from the local Aboriginal people them, selves. "This was especially true among the young people," he said. He said those people, including some prominent Aborigines, who had criticised the students on the ground tliat they would leave the local Aborigines to "face the music" afterwards, were quite jivrong. "We were amazed at the support they gave us," he said. "At Wal- gett, 300 Aboriginal people saw us off." A young Aborigine whom they picked up on the road told them that Aboriginal people near Nam- bucca Heads had stayed on the lookout on a hill for two days, watching for the students to come. Everywhere, their coming was anti cipated with strong interest. ' Mr. Perkins added that the ex tent of support and interest among the European population was also significant. "In none of the towns were most j Europeans against us," he said. "A lot were definitely with us, and only a certain hard core showed opposition." " He said it was up to the gov- ernment — even more the govern- k ments in Queensland and Western y Australia and the Federal Govern- nient — to take far-reaching action to sweep away the very real social In discrimination they had found. -j "We need a Civil Rights Bill, to make all forms of discrimination on the basis of racial difference I illegal," he said. ' v' Trade unions ad | Meanwhile, a new wave of trade union activity, in pursuance of the Australian Council of Trade Uni- ons policy for Aborigines, has built up in the wake of the students' ef- - forts. ,;5 In Sydney, the NSW Labor &lt; Council decided to obtain through the Government all details of the alleged events against the univer- sity . students' who visited Walgett. The Council stressed that , ACTU policy laid it down that it , _ is the natural right of the Abori- ginal people of Australia to enjoy a social and legal equality with other Australians." v| The NSW branches of the Build- | ing Workers Industrial Union an i the Sheet Metal Workers' union \ had called for a full investigate into the forcing of the studen bus off the road after leaving w J gett. 1 The Central Council of the__Mh|" I ers Federation last week_ reaffirm | support for equal rights in the Au= | tralian community for PeP;efhe j Aboriginal descent, and that j time was over due for the rem of all legal, industrial and soc discrimination. . "We deplore the persistence" discrimination in some c0U" towns as exposed by the Syo university students, and aPP Ia . them for their unselfish a ' ; , courageous activities in that gard," it said. ; 