 Behind the swinging doors, a huge swindle? A PENETRATING an alysis by Mr. H. C. Mallam, MLA, in the NSW Parliament last week or the crash or the H. G. Palmer electrical appliance empire, has thrown into public ques tion the activities of some of the biggest capitalists in . the State. Only after Mr. Mallam' s . address did the Attorney- General (Mr. . McCaw)_ reveal that a limite'd investigation into the H. G. Palmer affair was under way. A motion of urgency moved by Mr. Mallam that inspectors be appointed under the . Company Act' to- investigate H. G. Palmers, their former auditors and activities of MLC Ltd., who took the firm over, was defeated by supporters of the Askin Government. (Inspectors un der company law have power to call witnesses' and take evidence under oath.) Since then Federal Treasurer Holt has announced that the MLC Assur ance Co. will be formally investi gated by the Commonwealth Life Insurance Commissioner, under Division 7 of the Life Insurance Act, 1945-61. (This Division con tains stipulations about extreme secrecy.) Mr. Mallam, told Parliament "The public has been fleeced," and said .that the story of H. G. Palmer had "every appearance of being one of super-colossal financial skulduggery, involving some of the leading figures of big business in this .State," "We must see," said Mr. Mal lam, "whether 30,000 people have been victims of a daylight swindle and whether the gentlemen going through those swinging doors in Martin Place and North Sydney have acted within the law." Holding up a 24-page prospectus of H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd. issued on January 15, 1965, Mr. Mallam quoted from its front cover a statement in bold print that H. G. Palmer was a subsidiary of the MLC Ltd. He said the prospectus was Intro duced by a statement by the then Managing Director, H. G. Palmer, who wrote, "The acceptance of credit and debtors are continually being scrutinised and all bad debts are progressively written off." Mr. Mallam said, "There is no suggestion of impending collapse here." The auditors' report in the pros pectus, as furnished by McBr-ide, Hinton & Co., had referred" to an amount of £31 million outstanding, on time payment, hire purchase and TV maintenance agreements as "tangible assets" without any refer ence to bad debts. "The - directors were just as re sponsible when they authorised the publication of the prospectus." ? Mr. Mallam noted that H. G. Palmer had become a subsidiary of the MLC on June 25, 1963, and MLC's deputy manager, Dr. A. H. Pollard, joined the Palmer board. About the same time, Permanent Trustees were substituted as trustees for the debenture stock holders. Mr. G. B. Kater (a prominent business leader), Chairman of Directors of Permanent Trustees at that time, was also a trustee for the policy holders in MLC Assur ance. "Just how he could reconcile his obligations to serve two interests I simply cannot understand," Mr. x Mallam said. The directors of H. G. Palmers prior to the MLC takeover were Sir" Norman Nock, Chairman; H. G. I Palmer, Managing Director; C. H. I Trentham and N. H. Palmer. Messrs. j B. J. D. Page and R. N. Cadwallader were next appointed to the Board. On May 19, only five months after the prospectus was issued, the MLC announced that it had been found necessary to write off an amount of £4 millon on account of bad debts, and. £250,000 on account of stock. i Mr. Mallam pointed out: "If j essential information is suppressed j from investors, it is an offence, j which the Minister says is the | . basis for the laying of criminal 1 charges." i . After referring to the- "get-away" | by the auditors on September 17, | Mr. Mallam stated: "Trying to fol- | - low the ins and outs of the MLC | members of the board is like trying | _ to follow a game of musical chairs. g "H. G. Palmer is no longer with | the organisation. The other original | directors, Sir Norman Nock, N. H. jj Palmer and C. H. ' Trentham, have | also abandoned the burning ship. "After the takeover in July, 1963, | Mr. Vaughan, deputy chairman ol 1 MLC, joined the board. In October, | 1964, he seems to be replaced by | 'R. - N. Cadwallader, an accountant | member of the MLC Board, and | Brian J. D.' Page, a solicitor and | partner of Freehill, Hollingdale jl Page, solicitors for MLC, and also jl a member of the MLC hoard. jj "In November the Attorney- I General was advised that Mr. Kater m had resigned his position on ML/ fg as trustee for the policy holders. || ""The present directors of H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd. are b j James Kirby (chairman), Mr. A. r. Deer, general manager, MLC, | stepped in when Messrs. Page j Cadwallader resigned in May la &lt; j Dr. A. H. Pollard, I manager, and D. L. C- I 