 The demand is: Action for wages! Nation-wide strike action in support of ACTU basic wage claims was rejected only by the narrowest possible margin on a vote of a divided ACTU interstate executive. KAEETING in Melbourne this 1 week, the executive voted 8-all on a proposal for such action. It is understood that ACTU Presi dent (Mr. Monk) voted for national strike action and the other three ACTU officers (Messrs. Kenny, Evans and Souter) voted against the proposal. The executive met in special, ses- j sion to consider rejection of a move to have the recent li/o wage increase decision reviewed. While rejecting the proposal for im mediate national strike action, the ex ecutive carried a resolution which said: , "In the light of the failure of the : Conciliation and Arbitration Commis- S sion, we must now step up our indus- j trial campaign to secure higher wages j outside the Commission." j The resolution named "as mhiimum I immediate claims" a basic wage of j £17/2/- per week and a minimum mar- j gin for trdaesmen of £8/6/- for a week ' of 40 ordinary hours with related I wages for other workers. I The executive called "on all affiliat- ed unions to widen and intensify the ! existing campaign now being conduct- I ed . . . in support of these minimum I claims where they are not being paid j and to increase over-award payments." | Emphasising dissatisfaction with re- i cent decisions of the Arbitration Com- I mission, the resolution said "the only | relief that workers can secure in this situation is through over-award pay ments secured outside the award-mak ing system. The trade union movement has never been limited to the proced ure of compulsory arbitration in its pursuit of industrial justice. "Where arbitration fails to do justice, as at present, action outside the system must be taken." Sydney slopworks One hour protest stopwork meetings held throughout the Sydney water front yesterday (Tuesday) called on the ACTU to organise nation-wide all- union protest action against the ad verse wages decision. The meetings were called by the 15 unions which comprise the NSW Lab or Council's Water Transport Group and include; seamen, waterside work ers, foremen, firemen and deckhands, shipwrights, watchmen and stewards. The meetings also asked that the NSW Labor Council call a meeting of all shop stewards and job dele gates in the Sydney Town Hall on September 8 to deal with the Com mission's wages decision. They protested against the heavy fines and other penalties being inflict ed on the WWF (on Tuesday a further £5000 in fines was imposed.) Telegrams were sent to the ACTU executive calling for an immediate meeting of all Federal unions to dis cuss the "vicious use of the penal powers against the WWF and other unions." A national trade union petition call ing for the withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam was also given full support. 