 Action against wag© decision I SYDNEY : A rank and file engineering delegates' conference here last week called on the Australian Council of Trade Unions to organise a vigorous campaign to reverse the Arbitration Commission's new wage-fixing policy. ONFERENCE. condemned the ComnHission's recent basic wage decision .as a "biassed, anti-working class judgment". The Conference, representing 18,000 Amalgamated Engineering Union members in Sydney, called for a wage of £32/12/- a week for a fitter. About 150 delegates, elected and financed from workshops throughout Sydney, met last Wednesday at a full-day Conference in the Trades Hall. Bare needs Conference declared that the bare needs of an average family, would require a basic wage of not less than £22 per week; in accordance with the accepted ACTU marginal formula, the margin for a fitter should be 48.5 per cent, of the basic wage — that is, £10/12/ — making a total wage of £32/12/-. The Commonwealth Council of the AEU is asked to declare this amount as the national wage policy of the union and to inform all kindred unions, the Metal Trades Federation of unions and the ACTU. "Our experience . . "Our experience is that a sum of £32 would be needed to allow an average family to exist. "In the light of this, engineering workers are not, in fact, receiving any margin for skill in the true sense," the Conference said. The delegates demanded that all ACTU basic wage applications should | include not only the price rise ingre- ; dients but include a claim for a real i increase, in living standards, and the restoration of quarterly adjustments. Workshop campaigns Workers everywhere have united workshop campaigns and forced ployers to pay wages far in excess what the court 'said is "what lustry -can afford to pay." These united actions with other etal workers have established an erage over-award payment of at ast £4/10/- for the base classification a fitter. Conference said strong workshop rganisation has been the backbone if such campaigns. Workers were' urged to strengthen , their shop committees and workshop organisation in preparation for the tremendous campaigns that will be necessary to lift living standards to what they should be. Full support was given for a Metal Trades Delegates' Conference being held in the Sydney Town Hall on August 25. That conference is called on to organise a program of industrial activity, including the holding of combined stopwork meetings in sup port of higher wages. The conference will also be asked to consider adopting a policy for the development of collective bar gaining in preference to arbitration. Price control The AEU delegates condemned the Federal Government in making large handouts to monopolies, including overseas investors, by taxation con cessions. the granting of oil and mineral rights, land grants and Government contracts. A demand was made that a prices tribunal be set up by Federal and State Governments and that price increases only be allowed following a. public examination Conference declared complete op position to the Menzies Government's anti-union legislation. It called for the abolition of all sections of the State and Federal Arbitration Acts which provide for penalties' against the unions and allow interference in the internal affairs of trade unions. A demand was made on the ACTU to carry out the decisions of the 19w Congress calling for positive leader ship to remove penal legislation. "At the 1965 ACTU Congress a posi tive program must be adopted and put into operation immediately to prevent a recurrence of such legislation as was used against the Mt. Isa unionists." "Treacherous action The delegates condemned "to® treacherous actions of the Democra i Labor Party and the National Civ Council in interfering in the axiai of trade unions." - A declaration was unanimously mag that the trade union movement snow be free of interference from aw i political party. , ., n( Delegates said it is the rig unions to conduct their affairs their rules and constitutions. 