 I Hie Buy h Bed T A Short Story by JCCK GRAHAM i 1 THIS Public Ward is 20ft by 16ft. It is furnished with four beds. Small panels by each bed carry the bed-light switch and power points for empr gency buzzer and muted mdio Bed cabinets are topped by shining metal water juos and glasses. The floor is polishe Two broad windows stretch al most from floor to ceiling. Through them I see part of the lawn and of the next ward rooms' building. The round-edged iron roof of its window shades are brushed gently by the branches of myrtle trees, whose flowers have already suc cumbed to the bleak winds of late Autumn. Rising above the roof of the build ing from the other side are the pin- acles of two pine trees, the fringes of their waving green fingers silver ed by the sun. ? "URTAINS are drawn around bed "B". Pinned on their folds where they meet, a white black lettered notice reads: KEEP OUT TREATMENT IN PROGRESS On bed "C" an oldish slim man is reading a book. At the top of his bed a notice warns that this patient is being prepared for an operation. .1 hear later that a dangerous ulcer has made the operation necessary. A factory fitter reclines on bed iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii llllllllllllllllllllllllllll "willi ill"""" "D", his strong young arm bandaged and in a sling. "A bit of a nick," he told me. "It poisoned and left a huge hole in the arm." "Getting compensation?" I asked. He scowled. "Now I do — the bludgers tried to get out of it. Took me two months." "Not much in it, is there? "No with a wife and two kids there ain't." "I screwed my head and read the notices on my bed— bed "A". One read: MEASURE INTAKE AND OUTPUT— Follow Carefully. The other simply ordered: FLUIDS ONLY. The curtained occupant of bed "B' is a fine looking lad on the threshold of thirteen. Later, when the germ danger was not so acute, the curtains were open ed a little, and I had occasion to see his burns. They looked terrible, running half way round his upper thigh and affecting his genitals. Blood was oozing from the scab here and there. I was about to inquire the cause of the accident, but withheld the question at the brisk entrance of the sister and a nurse. The ward is rarely vacant oi nurses, all of them pretty, capable and amiable. Mostly their work is laborious and long, but they have always a sweet smile for everyone The boy in bed "B" jokes with them, and to them he applies his limitless imagination, as on one oc casion after a long silence: "Hey," he calls to me, "I've got it! When I get home I'll have a scooter made for nurses . . "A scooter?" I say, "What in the world for?" "Aw, a special kind of scooter . . . to carry their medicine trays and wash basins and tea and all that. They'll fit into places. All they'll have to do is just step on the scooter and whiz along the passage and in and out of the ward rooms. ' He wonders which he likes best. They all like him. Bed "B" boy reads comics. Boys allowed to get about act as comics exchange mediums. They are mostly sexy and violent and gaudy and lurid. I tried to explain what they were doing to children. When I finisned he said: "I like the 'Madman' best." I felt frustration, but asked him to tell me why. "Well," he explained, "you know the 'Sleeping Beauty?' I nodded. "The one in the airy Tale?" "Right, everyone wants to protect her, don't they?" I nodded again— "Well?" "Well the madman, is different, he cuts off her head." "Oh," I said, and felt stumped. But then I explained how such "comics" have a tendency to devel op young minds into emulating their "heroes." I instanced the training of nazi youth. How they were made to hate and kill all who opposed Hitler, and about what was happening in Viet nam- He broke in on my discourse and said, "My brother's in the army, and I'm going to be an army motor mechanic. They teach you. You get good wages, and you can go back to civvies with a trade." His brother trained boys at a military camp. So I got back to comics. He said he liked poetry, so 1 com posed some rhyming lines about the commercial use of toys that build a war psychology: We have lots of lovely toys For your little girls and boys, Even toddlers may join us in the fun— We have fighting 'planes and tanks And cannons that shoot blanks- It's a joy to pull the trigger of a gun See the wisps of smoke arise From the rifle to the skies- Play make-believe to kill, and you'll look wild, For our snarling masks for nip per — Makes you look like Jack the Rip per — Oh, it's lovely entertainment for a child. I watched him while he chuckled over the lines. When, he had fin ished he laughed and said heartily "That's real good!" I drooped. "It is not a matter to laugh at, matey. Don't you see? All this boosting of the toy weapons trade is for two main reasons. First! to make big profits out of rubbei and tin, and second, to make our kids weapon and war minded .' He broke in again: "But you don't have to buy 'em if you don't like "em." I turned my head so he wouldn'i hear me speaking to myself: "Give it away," I was saying, "You can't win against T.V., Radio, Comics and cracker nights and . . ." \ stopped — "Cracker nights. I won der ..." ? rpHE young man in bed "D" has gone. He must attend a Special ist with his arm for at least a month. He didn't look happy. His wife was in to see him last night. She brought her two lovely baby daughters. They romped around, but their mother looked peaked and worried. The new occupant is a boy oi about eleven, and is a casualty from the football field. His head struck the goal-post. Things move quickly here Bed "C" was empty most of the day; now its occupant is back after his major operation. He is suffering a great deal, and he tries to repress the irrepressible cries of anguish. A six-foot tall instrument stands by his bedside. From an extended arm at its top a plastic bottle con taining fluid is suspended. From the lower end of the bottle a flexible tube curls around and enters his left nostril and connects with his veins. In medical terminology this instrn ment is an Intravener. Its purpose (except for checking on the patient's condition) is beyond my ken. His wife came in about ten min utes ago. She sat down quietly and looked anxiously at his face. He could not see her but he knew she was there. The hand closest to her lifted feebly, searching. She pressed it softly and put her cheek against his forehead— "My dear", was all she said. It was all that was necessary. His spasmodic breathing became even and quiet and he slept. In a few minutes she released his hand gently and went away. Walking past me she paused u moment and whispered irrelevant but beautiful words: "He never harmed anyone or anything in all his life." ? J HADN'T given bed "B". boy awaj "Have you read this?" I asked him "It tells of a man who got severe burns like you got," and I handed him my copy of "The Tracks We Travel," open at "STEEL IS MY FLESH." He read it diligently, and asked a few questions— I was making pro gress. Shortly after, he removed to a ward nearby. The young man who took his place was the victim of a car smash. His injuries included a deep gash re quiring fifteen stitches across his forehead; broken ribs; a busted back, arm, and- foot. He was barely conscious when the two policemen came in to question him: "Got your Licence?" His answers were spoken with ob vious difficulty: "In m-my pocket." "Where were you?" "Highway . . t-to Canberra." "How did it happen?" "Don't know. . . . two cars . . . side of me. Only know there was a hell-of-a bang . . . don't know more." "We got your wallet. £3/10/- in it— that right?" "About that ... glove box £6/5/- . . . my bag with clothes in back." "We've got the bag. We'll get your money— if we're not too late"— they departed. 'pHE kid in bed "D" and myself are going home tomorrow. Nurse tells me the boy from bed "B" is not happy in his new billet, so I go along to see him. . He looked a bit down, but soon cheered up. He had been bleeding again. He told me his soldier-trainer brother had caught some boys get ting away with stray shells from the training grounds. "He made them drop them, and kicked all of them on the bottom." "One of the shells was alive and Ed. - fixed it harmless." He laughed. He read my thoughts. "Don't you reckon he did right to kick them? They know they are trespassing. The notices — " "To most boys," I interrupted, "a notice is a challenge. Have you al ways retreated from a notice -warn- ink you not to pass?" He pondered a moment, grinned, and said, "You think he shouldn't?" "Let's say he kicked the wrong blokes, mate. The guilty parties are those who have the responsibility of keeping the range safe." "But how about Cracker night? Did all the boys take notice of the warning to play it safe?" "I s .ppose you're right," he said, and smiled ruefully, pointing to his leg. "See what I got." "Care to tell me. how iLhappened?" I asked. "Wel-l, we were playing around, and I had six bungers in my trouser pocket, see? And some silly coot put a lighted hunger in with them. They went off almost together— like a machine gun." He paused. "I couldn't get the belt of my pants undone, so I clawed them out with my hand, and it got burned too." "What a damn shame," I said. I waited a bit and asked him if he thought something should be done about a proper, control of Cracker night. "You know what?" he said, "if there was a vote to have no cracker night, I would vote for that. What do you think?" "That might be going- a bit too far I said. Why not confine the making and selling of crackers to small safe crackers, and let the kids have their fun. Ban the dan gerous conditions and let the kids play under safe conditions— what do you say to that?" He looked at me, eyes reflecting serious thought. "Like in .that story, 'STEEL IN MY FLESH'," he said at last. "Like the men wanted the ladle made safe and it wasn't and poor Harry got burned. You mean like that?" and his voice and eyes were urgent. I never felt so happy. "You've got it, mate, just like that." I got up to go. "I'm going home in the morning. Would you like me to come up and see you later?" "You bet I would," he said. His pleasant smile followed me as I rounded the door. ? jsJEXT morning, sitting on bed "A" waiting on the ambulance to take me home, I absently drew mind pictures of the backgrounds of patients with whom I had lived dur ing the week: Railway background: Track labor; shunting; firing; driv ing; platforms. Incessant trains; Continued on Page 7 j The Boy j In Bed "B" Continued from Page 6 animals for slaughter; people hurry ing with tense faces; heavy-weighted responsibility— Grinding wheels . . . Ulcers. Factory background: Labor; power machines; speeding belts; boring gear; hammers; trolleys and trucks- grinding . . . arm injuries. Trucks background: cars; traffic; speed; confusion; crash; cars grind- 1 ln? . . . Head stitches, busted ribs, | iot, arm and back. IPoal mines background: Dark roads; foul air; lethal dust; boring, snooting, loading; fire-damp explo- sions; roof eaves-in; leg amputation; t closiures; dole — all lumped together | until I thought of — j "A CRY FROM THE GHETTO" 1 by Morris Rosenfield ! The clock above me ticks away the day, hantis are spinning, spinning, like the wheels. I cannot sleep or for a moment stay. 'fee like me and does not It throbs as though my heart were beating there— A heart? my heart? I know not wnat it means. e clock ticks, and helow I strive and stare. Jnd so we lose the hour. We are machines." onwV!?6 ?oy in bed "B" has as yet anri kackground of love and' care, him 6 crue mischance that gave That Tments. of agony and bate, brina 1f-me ,ischance was also to on whX story of on® "track' "Stpoi t we travel — the story of eel My Flesh." f mauhn be bas tound the track leads to wfd brtherhood which ' ' be has tnt b6uter World' and n « j-4 Hh shining1 eyes. St8PS forward 4 U 