 [?] Argument goes on around penalties on girl swimmers On March 3a Tribune condemned the cctbn of the Australian Swimming Union f@r imposing heavy suspensions on girl swimming champions: Dawn Fraser 10 years, Linda McGili four years, Nan Duncan three years, MarSene Dayman three years. On March 17, Mr. Stan Tapper (Brisbane) criticised Tribune on grounds that it made an unjustified criticism of officials who carried heavy responsi bilities in amateur sport. IN reply to Stan Tapper (Tri bune, March 17) it seems to me that his opinions do hold some water, but never theless he has missed the point a l?ttle in regard to the un published reasons for the banning of the four girls by the Australian Swimming Union. Secondly, has it occurred to anyone why this drastic disciplinary action was taken after the girls had competed for their country in the 1964 Olympics, each doing so with honor? Thirdly I would like readers to judge for themselves about the following statement by Mr. Holland, manager and Australian selector quoted in the "Bris bane Telegraph" (March 2): "The fact is swimming costumes, tracksuits and other equipment are supplied by sport ing goods companies at no cost to the ASU. "After reports of swimmers not wear ing official costumes came back to Aus tralia, the companies threatened to withdraw their support. "A single tracksuit costs something like £12, and this runs into a bit of money when 30 or more' have to be bought." Certainly it was common knowledge that discipline was lax and. certain swimmers were "carrying on" in Townsville before they left for the Games. Why wasn't action taken then and even before, years before? Evidently because without Dawn in particular, Australia and our swimmers would have lost prestige and enthu siasm, not to mention gold medals, of which we gained very few in swim ming. I support "Tribune's" ideas in respect to the years of expulsion meted out. What a slap in the face to Dawn, the only woman to wiii three gold medals in succession. What a finish to the promising careers of the others. Their swimming days are ended in competitive sport, for without continual top competition their talents .would not develop. Is this democracy? I have played a number of women's sports including basketball, hockey and sottball for a season of eight years, ?ac.h club is quite rigid in terms jji discipline, training, attendance at form68 ant wearnS regulation uni- , Each club in turn is responsible to f ,Queensland Women's Association or the sport concerned. All money is 'ai?ec .through the players themselves forms 8 kfnSs the equipment and uni- The officials are honorary and do an excellent job. They are. not involved ror financial gain, but because they support their particular sport, have par ticipated in fixtures, or have some asso ciation with a club. But competitive amateur 6port has cen ruined over the past years by the root of all evil, .money. " Cost of equipment is so fantastic it is out of all proportion; huge sums of money are involved in exchange of players inter state and internationally (this is evi dent in football codes); the cost of travel to sportsmen and sportswomen when they are representing their State or country is ridiculous. Consider the little assistance given by the government to such people and what should be given,- for certainly -the" government is quick to "claim" them when it means publicity for Australia. Control of costs has to start some time and some place and certainly the sooner the better, or it won't be long before the spirit of fair play and the will- to win will be lost. I congratulate "Tribune" on its sport column and - hope you will continue and expand it. This element of Aus tralian life is very important and be longs in our history, for today we are highly rated in sport and create a great deal of international friendship through this medium. (Mrs.) Fay Price, Brisbane. 