 Usfashi supporter CHJILTY OF EXPLOSOViS CHARGE USTASHI (Croation nazi) supporter was found guilty in Geelong Supreme Court last week of being in oossession of exDlosive sub- stances in suspicious circum stances. The man, Ambrozije Andric, 26, was bound over by Judge Mitchell to be of good behaviour for two years. Although elements of the Ustashi movement (war-time quislings in Yugoslavia) have committed offences in Melbourne on several occasions in the past two years, this was the first time any heavier penalty than a £10 fine has been imposed. There . were some notable features to the trial of Andric, which lasted nearly two days. These included: The extremely restricted nature of the charge laid by the Crown, in view of what V police actually had "on" Andric. O The open attempt by Andric's counsel, Mr. J. J. Hedigan, to "excite anti-communist prejudice among jurors. The evidence revealed however that he had thrown a half -brick through a window of the Geelong West Town Hall on February 19 while a dance was in progress: through the hole made by the brick he had then thrown a pepper bomb (with detonator and fuse) followed by a second "bomb" of ammonia concentrate and pyridine which, in the words of a police inspector who gave - evidence, "produced a vile smell." The dance on February 19 was be ing held by the Yugoslav Settlers' Association, a body which favors the assimilation of Yugoslav migrants into the Australian community, as against the Ustashi policy of opposi tion to naturalisation and support for a policy of military training in Australia for an anti-government war in Yugoslavia. Andric's counsel, Mr. Hedigan, warning the jury against being swayed by the political "labelling" of people, the judge said that if actions such as Andric's went unpunished, "next time he will put a little gelig nite into his bombs, people will be hurt and there will be real trouble." In the days before the trial, Ustashi elements in Geelong threatened two members of the Yugoslav Settlers' Association with death if they ap peared in the case. Prominent in the public gallery was one of the Ustashi chieftains in Australia, Mr. Srecko Rover, wear ing in his lapel the badge (a sword through a heart) of the Ustashi Ges tapo. 