 WoiicMgoag 8 Women recruit 2000 for peace By DENIS KEVANS - IllUIIIIIIIIIIillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilll There are still plenty of spaces on the war memorials of Australia. This is one reason why I wanted to hear the story of how last week 25 Wollongong women dramatically brought the issue of Australian involvement in Vietnam onto the TV, radio and press of that city. Their daily vigil at the War Memorial, Crown Street, Wollongong, started last Monday week, 9 am till 2 pm, and lasted till Friday. They ran a roster system so babies could be looked after while they were away. Mary Smale, Secretary Southern District Min ers Women's Auxiliar ies. told me. "7 "We collected 2000 signa tures for our petition calling for the withdrawal of Austra lian troops and a peaceful solu tion in Vietnam in less than 24 hours, and in this quiet part of Wollongong. "We were even more amazed at the young 'surfies' who came in groups to sign it." Was there .opposition? "On Monday morning a man from the RSL made a Verbal attack on one of our members saying that we were 'desecrating the Memorial'.. "She told him that she honoured the memory of the men who had died fighting against fascism, and remem bered with sorrow the first genera tion of Australian soldiers who had been butchered in the first war. "But," she said, "if we allowed their sons and grandsons to be snatched and used in this war of shame in Vietnam then we would be dishonouring everything they stood for." "On Tuesday plain clothes police told us we were 'breaching the Metro politan Traffic Act and would have to 'stop the vigil at 2 p.m.' "Later Superintendent Mr. Elliott told us that he had been contacted by Mr. Dawson of the RSL and told that there had been six complaints about us. "We went to see him, and after he had told us that we were not breach ing any law according to the police, we said that despite Mr. Dawson's six complaints we had already got 1000 signatures supporting our action. "We then wen to see Mr. Dawson. "He told us that the RSL had decid ed at a Conference recently to oppose all opposition to the Vietnam war. "We also learnt later that the RSL had asked the Wollongong City Coun cil to move against us but it was defeated. "We asked Mr. Dawson whether he had a meeting ' of his organization before he had contacted the police. He said he hadn't. Were tired "I said that that was all right, but the women of the world were tired of bringing up children that could only grow 'ripe for the plucking'." "Yes," he said, "but the women of England did a great job during World War II." "Yes," i told him, "I was one of them." Blond, blue-eyed Mrs. Mary Smale was "one of them". She told me how she had experienced her first air-raid during her last year at the Tech. in Newport, Monmouthshire, England. When the all clear _ .,nded, she and ner friends, started u oy-&lt;s a bridge when "the stukas co jat of the lets1 and spray£ "51 with bul- She had then spent, like most of ne women of England, five years in ana out of air-raid shelters. Her schooling was interrupted. Other women on the vigil knew what war was too. Ruth McDougall, Secretary of the corrimal Branch of the UAW, brought p her children through the war while Guinea W&S fighttng in New : J£ls' Gates, another "Pom- caSp v0mi W5eatley Hil1 outside New- anri rli endured the air-raids ana nightmare of World War II. d Come out of shelter in the Sw and they'd be puttine a a factorV site. Every- J mg had been smashed to pieces. ! And we never saw the people who'd been working there again." Mrs. Jenny Williams' husband was in the famous 2/48 of the AIP. The; 2/48, she told me, won four V.C's "but they're all dead". "On Wednesday morning a Korean veteran signed," said Mrs. Smale. "He walked straight up and said to the photographer: 'Will . you take my photo signing this? I want my mates at work to see it.' " Another woman, with tears in her eyes, said: "I'll sign that, I've got a boy on the 'Sydney'." A young man, 28, with four kids, said: "I'll sign that. I was on the Voyager, and I may get caught up in this as well." "Some migrants couldn't speak Eng lish," said Mrs. Mavis Miller, another of the women. So I just said, "Are you for peace or war? They "nearly all said: 'No war, no war.' " A young girl came down to sign with her fiancee on her arm. "He's been called up," she said, "and had his medical. "They told him: Be in Vietnam "You're fit and six months from now you'll be in Vietnam." A well-dressed woman said: "I saw you people on TV. "You're most cour ageous. You're doing God's work for peace on earth." "The community and the RSL were well-warned about our planned vigil," Mrs. Smale said. "We received no official notice from them until late in the week when we got this letter: 'The Wollongong Sub-Branch of the R.S.S.A.I.L.A., as custodians of the Cenotaph, strongly protest to your body in the manner in which mem- bers of your organization are solicit ing signatures within the precincts of the Cenotaph in Crown St., Wol longong. 'This is considered an act of des ecration due to loitering for a purpose other than that for which the Cenotaph is intended.' " On Friday the women marched from the Memorial, wearing their sashes, to Rest Park for a meeting chaired by the UAW president Mrs. Irene Arrowsmith. Speakers included pro minent Trade Union officials and a churchman. Mrs. Smale summed up: "We want to thank the people of Wollongong for their wonderful response. We dispute the claim of the RSL that we were desecrating the War Memorial. We were paying homage to their memory and the debt we owe to them for their chil dren and their childrens' children that . we should live for peace. ' . "I commend the high level of disci pline of the women in the face of provocation." When I left these courageous women : I went to see the Memorial. Was there : a relation of 'mine on it? Or a friend of my family? I didn't bother to search because I read these two inscriptions: First: " 'tis Australia that knows That her children will fight while the waratah grows And the wattle bough blooms on the hill." I can't argue with Henry Lawson on that one, though it can be taken a couple of ways. But the other in scription reads: 'Blow bugles of battle The marches of peace East West North and South." This is the sort of "desecration" I really go for. MRS. RUTH McDOUGALL collects another signature 