 BADLY SUNBURNED AT BONDI - ASKIN ! By Tribune's State Political Roundsman j The- New South Wales Government was badly sun- | burned at 'Bonds last weeicend - I in a by-election ibere, described by Premier Askin as am of the j «.« imDortant for many years, Labor held the seat ©n the issues r of rent and prices. | The liberals were somewhat drought-scorched, too, in the up-country by-election the . same day at Oxley, where Labor won the highest tally of primary votes and the Country j Party regained the seat from the Liberals on preferences. j A SKIN had committed the whole of the membership of the Government and its .poli cies on the outcome of the Bondi by-election. He said "the outcome would affect the government because it now oper- ated on a slender margin", and in the face of opposition from his Ash St. party HQ sent the whole Cabinet out two days running to speak to the wind in the Bondi electorate. The week prior to polling day, the government pulled every trick in the book, from the "horrors" of Labor's handling of the Opera House, to the convenient announcing of a local war hero (Cutler VC) as new State Gov- j ernor. I But the majority of Bondi electors $ cast all this aside and, by the way | they voted, agreed with Labor can- I didate Syd Einfeld that the by-elec- | tion gave them the opportunity to i protest at Askin's policy on rents and | prices. 8 And so the Liberal Party talk of a | "moral victory" at Bondi because of a j reduction in the Labor majority there | sounds very much like bolstering up | Lib. spirits. | I Drought issue i In Oxley, labor won the most prim- i ary votes of any candidate because j of the neglect of the problems in the j area arising from the drought, by l both the Askin and Menzies govern- j ments. j The Country Party badly wanted to regain the seat from the Liberals who had held it since 1959, when Jordan then a member of the Country Party, handed it over to the Liberals on a silver platter. It certainly was no accident that a few days before the by-election, the N.S.W. Country Party issued its sec ond critical statement of the Menzies Liberal government for its lack of help to drought-stricken farmers. They aimed it at Canberra, but the timing f it spelled Oxley, and as a result of the election they now control every electorate from Taree, to the Queensland border. Criticism The Askin Government, who have made a big song and dance out of their small concessions to the public while mainly pushing the interests of city landlords, insurance companies, and big business in general, will only be deluding themselves if they think that both by-election results are not a serious criticism of their legislation on local government, landlord and tenant questions, abolition of juries in some cases, and of their giving the green light for price increases. 