 WA union conference condemns sellouts by State. Fed. Govts. PERTH : A conference of Federal and State unions last week publicly condemned the Commonwealth and West Australian governments for their policies and actions amounting to a give-away of the natural resources of WA and other States to the exploitation of foreign capital. "j "|Hhl conference was called to | discuss employment in the ! north-west. I j The conference expressed the | opinion that "wherever overseas in- j terests are permitted to exploit our | natural resources, the Government | should retain a majority interest in j such undertakings." J Mr. J. Coleman, W.A. Trades and | Labor Council Secretary, said that | the conference was a milestone in I the efforts of W.A. unions to cam- | paign and become an effective | .force for tlie workers in those areas. S ' j Wages depressed | There was no doubt it had been I highly successful, said Mr. Coleman, I who was bitterly attacked by the | Employers' Federation for accusing I employers of undermining awards I and standards in the north-west and I deliberately trying to depress wages. i Federal officials of several unions - agreed that it had been a most united and useful discussion. ® . - I Conference decided to establish I joint trade union organisation in the j north-western area of the State, with I an officer based on a centre there | and responsible to the unions j through the T.L.C. j The A.C.T.U. is to be requested S to lead a deputation to the Federal | Government to state the views of the j .trade union movement against "spe- » cial project" indentured labour. ! I Alienation of land s Conference declared that develop- ment and exploitation of Australia's natural resources should be for the j benefit of the Australian people and I the social and conomic advancement j of the nation, and that in the process j of this development conditions and | standards acceptable to the Australian ! . people and the trade union movement | should apply. j "The Governments nave further jj aggravated the position by allowing I the alienation of certain areas of I the country - I "These are closed areas and not subject to the operation of all Aus tralian laws. "For this the Governments are to be further condemned," it was re solved. Employers' plans to import "spe cial project" indentured labour were designed not only to speed foreign exploitation of our national resources but also to depress wage and working standards and to prevent trade union organisation. Before accepting employment on remote or distant projects, workers were advised to contact, the appro priate union to verify the terms and conditions of employment offered. The ACTTJ was requested to ask all its affiliated unions to issue ja, serious warning to workers on simi lar lines. It was decided that minimum standards and principles should be set and applied to the engagement of iabour, transport to and from remote projects and guaranteed duration of employment;, this matter is to be raised with the ACTU. The T.L.C. is to convene a meeting of unions to draw up a log of claims. 