 Taking us for a ride that hurts Australian export industries had been "taken for a ride" by overseas shippers, a Labor MHR (Mr. C. Jones) told Parliament last week. |__|E said a Department of Trade report not publicly available showed that overseas shipping lines could reduce Australian freight rates by 12.5 per cent. The Bureau of Agricultural Econ omics disclosed that the charter rates for hulk wheat shipped to the United Kingdom have been subject to great variations. On ' January 13, 1964, the charter rate was 100s. sterling per ton, whereas on May 25 and June 3 it was 80s. a ton — a drop of 20 per cent. At that particular time the number of tramp steamers available for shipping Australian wheat was much greater, and so there was much more competition. He said the report, prepared by the secretary of the department, Sir Alan Westerman, was not' available to the public or Members of Parlia ment. Sir Alan was able to produce facts and figures which showed that the overseas Conference Lines, by getting together and working as a team, could reduce freight on Aus tralian goods at least 12.5 per cent. Mr. Jones said discussions have been taking place over a possible increase of 10 per cent, in freight rates. The President of the Australian Exporters' Federation (Mr. R. C. Vine) had said the Federation would fight the proposed 10 per cent, in crease "boots and all." The Australian Meat Board is also fighting a proposed 10 per cent, increase on freights between Aus tralia and the West Coast of the USA, Mr.. Jones said. "We keep on talking about this matter, but doing nothing about it. "The Government should be pre pared to make a clear and positive statement on what it proposes to do about operating an Australian over seas shipping line." - He said Australia must establish its own overseas line to compete with the overseas concerns. The Australian National Line, which operates on the Australian coast, "has shown it is capable of com peting with the existing and long- established shipping lines," to said. 