 "Ka Ha... have a cigar!"! (a seml-faciisaS account ©f a pretty ugly American) 1 Its not that I don't like Americans. I would have to be deaf, dumb and blind to blanket them all with the fast-talking, back-slapping, ha-haing, super salesmen that are now getting rich quick in Australia. So when you read this story about a gentleman I'll call "Ha Ha Korsi- koff," remember it's only him and his business I object to, not the hundred and one other good citizens now coming here from the States. Listen while "Ha Ha Korsikoff" explains the Australian way of life. "The trouble with Arstralia is that it's undersold. You don't sell goods to Arstralians, they buy them. In the States you have five salesmen at least knocking on your door every day of the week. We don't give the 'dumb mooches' a chance to get their breath. And that's what ou guys have got to learn. . . ." The "you guys" are his twenty '£50 a week super salesmen" who are nodding their heads up aud down in time with his wagging cigar. It's a big cigar shaped like a rolled-up umbrella. "Yes, you guys are now in the big money with me. All you've got to do .'s get any 'dumb mooch' in his own house to s' l this cou-ract. Once they knw I tliry can get money them :;.' ms 1 m se'bng the lea to someone c . e they'll sign ' t . . . and that's for sure."' As "Ha Ha" expands, the "white slaves," or salesmen, who have probably not had their breakfast, and haven't got the price of a pie in their pockets, can see a roll of money thick as an elephant's trunk forming in the fog of cigar smoke. " 'Yes, yes," they say; 'yes, yes.' "Salesmen, that's what make the States go round. We product so much and it's so good that we've got to learn all the finer points of competition and keep the sales pressure up all the time. "Without salesmen the States would probably grind to a halt. You guys have got practically a virgin field to work on. Ha, ha. To sell this stuff in America you've got to be a genuius, but here I think you'll be getting your £100 a week without raising a sweat," "Ha Ha" pauses to sip from his coffee cup. "I brought a crate of coffee with me from the States, with the, wife. It's the only kind I can drink." The "white slaves" sit there trans fixed as they hear the distant flutter of five-pound notes like a flock of fantail pigeons in a coop. "They wait again as "Ha Ha" answers two j lones at once, drawling out: "How 1 ng do you have to keep up the payments, you say, Mr. Gander? Well, only until the contract ceases. Yes, that's right." He grins, sucks his cigar, mumbles something like "Earnum was right," and then as saults the "white slaves" with re newed vigour. He pays them no wages, super, holiday, accident pay —they only get their .commission when the contract for "Ha Ha's" product is signed, sealed and de livered and in the hands of the ('.nance company who take any backlash from the "dumb mooch9i." According to "Ha Ha," this saves any embarrassment for the Direc tors (him) of the "firm." "Now you knock on the door and give 'em this story: Good morn ing, Madame. The directors of my firm want you to know that your home has been chosen as the first place in this district to use -our special new wall lining material, 'Plumbani.te.' This entitles you to free and immediate installation and the. chance to ' earn fifty pounds yourself every time you introduce us to a new customer. We only give this offer to specially chosen homes in the district and it does not stand for anybody else but you in your area." "O that's interesting ..." "Yes well here is the contract which you should look at, at your leisure, it ' is only fifty pounds de posit, and the terms cover several years of easy payment. "As well as this we will, frame and hang a copy of your contract specially signed by all the directors of our company." The "white slaves" gaze in amaze ment at the gradually thickening wad of red money in front of their eyes. "Now, you guys, if you follow that routine you cannot miss sales in every house. Go to it, boys." With a snap of his fingers "Ha Ha" sends his men careering round the district, knocking on doors and being rejected by 95 out of 100 people. But . . the five sales made in the week i leans a £1000 worth of time payments are owing to "Ha Ha" I himself. f The stuff costs him about £240; ex- | penseis aie about £100; arid the total cost to the "dump mooch" is £600. $ This goes lip to fifty for every || previous customer who costs "Ha -|| Ha" £50 by winning another cus tomer. ::'A In one ' street in an inner Sydney suburb, he sold four "first in the district" contracts in one week. ; J "Ha Ha" arrived in Australia || with £10,000 worth of his product. || He now sells a £1,000 worth a | week, but does nothing except con- J vince his "white slaves" that they | are going to make a fortune ou | of telling the "dumb mooches" tna | they are going to make a fortune out of selling the idea to someon | else. | . Easy in't it? | And any night of the week, you & will find "Ha Ha" spending liberal y g in Sydney nite clubs slapping people | on the back, and buying Bourbon g| for all and sundry. 11 And how come you got into this ra rort, 1 mean business, Mr. K-rs " V koff? | "Waal, son, when I was 17 j I saw how the people who do m of the work get the least m" T 9 So I've never done a day's w g| since. 9 "I leave the work to the ' 11 mooches" — all I do is sigr- |1 ohemips . . Ha Hai" B "Blind Freddie" 1 II 