 DEATH OF WILLIE GALLAGHER ; k tree friend of the people Willie Gallacher, the famous British Communist leader, has died at the age of 84. |— |E was buried in Paisley, half an hour or so by bus from Glasgow, where he was born on Christmas Day 1881 and where he began , his political life as a Socialist away back in 1906. Willie Gallacher became a great Scottish national —figure, loved throughout the country, not least of all in Paisley. The Labour Provost of Paisley, Thomas Barbour said in his speech in the crematorium chapel: "I don't know if Willie Gallacher even knew how: much the people of this town appreciated and respected him. Today, by turning out in their thousands, they showed their feel ings. I have always loved and respect ed him." In the words of the London. '.'Ob server", "Paisley today gave Willie Gallacher one of the biggest funerals Scotland has ever seen." Mile-long cortege rpViA ofrAMfT lie lliUC lUllg LuH/Ugg, vUvV ouxv/Algy brought traffic in the town to a stand still as a further 40,000 stood in the rain to watch the hearse on its way to the crematorium. Many people had come from nearby villages and towns and a fleet of buses brought hundreds from West Fife, the electorate Willie Gallacher represented iir Parliament from -1935 to 1950. It was the first time in living memory that a funeral procession had been allowed to take a route through the main town centre. . I There was not a single newspaper in Great Britain that did not carry an obituary. Radio and television covered his life and funeral. In the press many Labour M.P.'s, including Emmanuel Shinwell and Sydney Sil verman, paid warm tributes to him. The conservative Jewish press, in cluding the "Jewish Chronicle" pub lished sympathetic obituary notices. The Glasgow "Jewish Times" carried the heading, "Willie Gallacher: Good friend to Jews." "His humanism came out particul arly in his interest in the problems of anti-semitism and in his host of Jewish friends," wrote the Jewish Times. Willie Gallacher was a true inter nationalist and a British patriot who during his years in Parliament expos ed the appeasement policy of the British Government, enlightened the British people on the brutal char acter of Hitlerism and was the only M.P. to oppose the infamous Munich Agreement which led to the second world war. In the post-war period in parlia ment, he stood out as the champion of British independence, against the policy of subservience' to the United States. A friend of Lenin Willie Gallacher had been known throughout the world as long ago as the first world war. He was then the leader of the Clyde shop stewards, and the great Scottish mass move ments of the time. He was among the very first of the working class leaders in Britain to welcome the Russian Socialist revol ution and was a delegate from the shop stewards' movement to the sec ond congress of the Communist In ternational. He became a personal friend of Lenin and played an im portant part in the international com munist movement. During his lifetime Willie Gallacher wrote many articles and pamphlets, and his autobiographical books are not only highly regarded by the work-, ing class movement but also by writers in Scotland who consider them an important contribution to the understanding of the Scottish working class. Characteristically, Scotland's great est living poet, Hugh MacDiarmid, was one who took his turn in the guard of honour. At the crematorium 2 kilted piper played a lament and many thousands stood in the rain outside the crowded chapel to listen to a relay of the speeches made before the coffin drap ed in the heavily embroidered red flag of the British Communist party. The speakers were the "Provost of ; Paisley, John Boyd of the A.E.U., Emrys Hughes M.P. and John Gollan, the General Secretary of the Com munist party. — JUDAH WATEN. 