 After two years " nasho " ... [?] yFTER reading the art icle nasho fiasco I real ise my experience of two years national service with the British Armv is almost exactly the same as described by Roger . Milliss. The only differ . ence is I did the bulk of my time in Cyprus, where I" saw the results of Bri tish colonial rule. I served my apprenticeship as a wood machinist and was then called up for the ordin ance corps. In the two years the only woodwork I did was polishing a wooden barrack- room floor with a blackened boot brush. I spent the first six weeks being taught to per form drill movements and polishing kit. At the end «1X weeks we had a regimental kit lay out in which every item of kit was laid out on each man's bed in re'srimenta. rder. then slng s laid a'ong the length of the barra. k room to make sure that each iter- m each bed was exactly in line. We were issuee with a bai oi soap not for washing but for in spection. Like Roger Millis we were also told we were being trained tr pro tect Britain from communism. During training I fired aboul 20 shots with a 303, and about 40 shot with a Sten gun. On my first leave 1 told my father hat a was'" time the whole thing was. His reply was that 'though I didn't know it the Army was going to make a mt'i, . me When \ve arrived :i Cyprus was made a clerk in one of th&lt; ordinance depot offices. We liver in tents in Cypru.j that had con crete floors so they couldn't polished, but to make up foi thai each tent had a flower garden outside which we tended vvitn 1 vine care once a week. was charged once tor roing on guard mounting pa ir need ol a haircut. I was never r' '3 to se ttle connection between regiment, haircuts and depot security, and still ean"t, but that tl. . Army The warrant officer in chargi of the office in which I did m- desk riding was in complete agree ment wr.h my father over tfn question of the Army making man of me. His story was thai the Army would teach me to stand or my own two feet because 1 carm to press trousers, iron handker chiefs, wash shirts, darn socks, anc sew on buttons In between the snirt washing anc the other man-making jobs, 1 ex perienced the most indescribable boredom that would have to he ex perienced to be believed. This wa,- made worse by the heat and humid ity of a Cypriot summer. Some of the long hours of inactivity were slept away, but when I could sleep no longer I roamed the camp like a caged animal, just waiting foi two years to end. Well the two years did e-io even- tually and we were sent ouck to England for demob. On the way home I was wound ed. While cleaning one of the troopship toilets I got some Jeter, gent powder in a sore on my finger and it festered. It was only a small wound which cleared up after I lanced it with a razor blade. M'y parents laughed when I told them about it, 1 sup pose it was all part of being made a man. Just what a waste of time this two years was, was brought home to me very starkly when, . after a few days of my ar rival :n Australia I found myseti standing on my own two feet with an application form for social ser vice in my hand. I had "graduated from the Brit ish Army of the Queen to the Aus tralian army of unemployed ai.o my knowledge of the manly art ol shirt washing was of no use .tu me at all. Some people might read this let ter with some suspicion. I don't blame them at all, foi looking back I can hardly believe it all happened. But I know it did because 1 have a chip on my shoulder a mile widt which gets, wider every time ttu Kooyong corporal tells us about de fence and the need for conscription. Although I've got a chip on my shoulder I've also got a small blue card in my pocket and I know there isn't an army N.CO. in the world who is as proud of his strip :s as I am of my Communist Party- card. R. Barrett (Rooty Hill, NSW). 