 [?] Playford's Paradise for monopoly firms STATE ELECTION \ CAN CHANGE THIS SITUATION The March 6 State election could see the end of 32 years of uninter rupted Liberal rule in South Aus tral?"". Premier Playford s defeat woyld be a bitter blow indeed for the wealthy famines &id ©ther monopolies that dominate the economy— but it woySd be a great triaamph tor the people as a whole. Playford's policy has been, primarily to encourage and help the giants of monopoly such as BHP. GMH, Stanvac and APM tc develop freely; secondly, to attract smaller industries many of which are essential to the giants as suppliers of ' parts and materials; and thirdly, to assist to some extent rural development, particularly such land schemes -as AMP's 90 Mile desert project and extensive pine planting. The monopoly concerns have done very well at public expense. Through special acts of parliament, the respective Indenture Acts, their rights have been secured for long terms to land and raw materials, railroads, pipelines, roads, port faci lities. electric power lines and at tip-"-- with a guaranteed market The profits ol these monopolies ' are increased further by Govern ment supply oi water, rail transport shipping services and electricity at cut rates The losses on these are made up by champing domestic consumers and smaller businesses at much higher ates CONTRAST; THE WORKERS DUT what about the working people of South Australia? Wages, generally, are lower. This, with its promise of profitable invest- ma Playh ra as usca as e o. the main lur to attract capital t( the Sta a The cost ol living is high — the biggest rise in 1964 for the whole country — /6 pei week. Prices are high and uncontrolled by Playford's phoney Price Control organisatior which usually acts to endorse price increases Overtime Such improvement in the standard ol living as has taken place flows mainly from the working ot over time, from families having more than one breadwinner, or from "side-line", activities or extra pa" time work Families dependent on the -e of one breadwinr>&lt;" without .much overv time or other part-time work are in a very difficult position In the countryside many small pro ducers make only a bare living after Continued on 3 PlayforcTs 'paradise' Continued from Page 1 paying freight, commissions and other charges to market their pro duce. : Workers in S.A., like others throughout the country are carrying on struggles for wage increases, bet ter working conditions and against undemocratic attacks. During last year alone there were many struggles varying from pro tests and stop work meetings to strikes in metal, building, rail, tram and road transport, waterfront pos tal, chemical and other sections of workers — including actions in GMH, Btp et.a, and other monopoly in dustries. South Australian workers are more and more de landing a greater share of the products ot their labour ana will continue to do so. The growing activity and interest among the working people is find? ing a response in the Australian Labor Party, in which there is now, after many years of passivity and near hopelessness, a new spirit de veloping in the belief that Play ford can be defeated. The b'ief Is well based. Des pite the gerrymander, a vigorous united campaign of the anti-Play- ford forces can defeat him. Playford's defeat would oper up many new possibilities fo the ad vance of the working class move ment. ft would be an important advance not only for South Australia but fo the nation. 