 j BRIAN FITZPATRICK ' j An institution j ! in his lifetime i | THE Australian demo- 1 erotic community suf- I fered a heavy loss with I the death in Sydney of I Brian Fitzpatrick, histor- 1 ian, champion of liberty, | rationalist and labor move- ment journalist. He was 59. 2 Brian Fitzpatrick was one of f the few Australians of whom it | could he said that they became j an institution in our national I affairs in their own lifetimes. 8 Born in Warrnambool in No- fi vember, 1905, and educated at I Essendon High School and ! Melbourne University, he very j early established himself as a j man of the left when he became S in 1925 a founding member of | the Melbourne University Labor 1 Club. Sharing this youthful 2 socialist enterprise with him S were such noted Australians as j Ralph Gibson, W. Macmahon I Ball and Lloyd Ross. S in the same year Brian Fitz- 8 patrick became the first editor 1 of the Melbourne University students' newspaper, Farrago. After- graduating MA. he spent j several years in London working j in Fleet Street journalism, and S continued as a journalist fol- 8 lowing his return to Australia j in the early 1930's. j His endeavors to make a ma- I terialist analysis of Australian T history represent perhaps his I most enduring monument, and ! remain the most significant and sustained body of work in this ! field. I The best-known of his books I are: British Imperialism in Aus- I tralia, 1939; The British Empire I in Australia, 1941; A Short His- | tory of the Australian Labor I Movement, 1940; The Australian | People, 1946; The Australian ! Commonwealth, 1956. | - Just coming off the press at j the time of his death were a ! study (jointly with Professor I E. L. Wheelwright) of foreign I investment in Australia, and two j collections of historical docu- I ments designed for study in j Australian schools. j But while his historical writ- j ing is known mainly to scholars, ! his activities as Secretary of the j Council for Civil Liberties— a kind of unpaid ombudsman for the common man oppressed by officialdom— made him known to hundreds of thousands. Specially notable were his work in helping aliens during the war years, and his decades- long activity in writing and speaking against the anti-demo cratic catch-all Commonwealth j Crimes Act. j The various crises in the ! struggle for democracy in Aus- I tralian public affairs, far from j reducing him to silence, actually j roused his fighting spirit to new | heights. This was true of the j referendum campaign of 1951, j the Petrov Affair of 1955-56, and I the campaign against the I amended Crimes Act of 1960. j His voice and pen could like- i wise always be relied upon in j j tne cause oi peace: ne naa an i j unbroken record of advocacy of I S world peace from the period of j I the struggle against rising fas- j j cism in the '30's to the very .1 j latest issue of his Labor News I I Letter, which reached sub- | scribers . on the same day as j I news of his. death with a sting- : j ! ing denunciation of the criminal I Vietnam adventure of the U.S. | i and the Menzies Government. j j The Melbourne Sun, in report- J j ing his death, remarked that j | his friends "included people j | from all walks of life— business j S men, politicians, judges, even j | Communists. J I Keen crific j I Indeed, Communists have . = ! known - Brian Fitzpatrick as a j 8 staunch comrade in arms in j j many a campaign on many an j 8 occasion. They have also known » I him as a keen critic of Com- I I munist Party policies on other j | occasions. But their dealings j !. with .him have always been j j firmly based in mutual respect. | | Much the same, no doubt, j | could be said of his relations j I with the Labor Party. j | Reporting the remarkable j | testimonial dinner given to Brian j I Fitzpatrick in June last year to j mark the 25th anniversaries ot J j his secretaryship of the Council j I for Civil Liberties and of the j 8 publication of his first work, l | British Imperialism in Australia, | j a Guardian Correspondent said. | i "That he should have been the e j occasion of such a gathering as | this dinner, where, as one gues j « put it, 'thirteen years after, tn j shadowy legions of the re£®renj j I dum victory have re-assemble, j | must surely be a source of j deepest gratification to Brian | Fitzpatrick. r . . S It is as a product of tms I democracy, and for his atta - I ment to the ideals of progressive \ people throughout the worl , J 8 that Brian. Fitzpatrick s nam j j will live long among his coun- j j trymen. ... « « I The Tribune joins with a | j his friends and admirers j t expressing sympathy m the s I to his wife and family. 1 | — 