 The fight for freedom in South Africa NJEVER since the days of Hitler when millions of people were tortured and killed in concentration camps and prisons, have so many others been tortured, imprisoned and killed as in South Africa. "117 Days," by Ruth First, is an account of her imprisonment under the South African 90-Day Detention Law But more than that, it . is a damning indictment of the brutality of apartheid and of the South African nationalist government's treatment of all who oppose its policy, whether white, black or colored. Reading such a book as "117 Days" one can begin to grasp the intensity of feeling which has made thousands of people band together to try and put an end to the apartheid policy and repressive legislation of this government, for : they know they risk arrest and imprisonment and worse if caught. Ruth First is va white woman, born and . educated in Johannesburg. She is a graduate, in Social Science, and. was- the editor, of three papers— Guardian, the Clarion and New Age— each «of . which was banned in turn because of their exposure of apartheid laws. When the Ninety-Day "detention" : law came into existence in 1963 tan . ordinance under the Suppression of j Communism Act), she was "de- tained." ; ; ' Torn- away from her family and/ incarcerated in/solitary confinement j in a; cell where there was only an : irop; bed and riot enough . room to j, move around it, Ruth First still ; stood firmly against ' all efforts of - the police and . "security" to make her divulge the names . of others . associated 'with her in the' various organisations arid movements. But even so, she is able to write about her imprisonment -and torture , with human understanding and even ; some humor. : Her description of "the wardresses, - the: names she gave them, show - understanding for their job and their role, even though they said in reply to questions "we are not allowed to - speak to the. prisoners." Only Ruth's repeated demands ; won- from ' the matron and -the ; wardresses an opportunity, .to exer;. ; else in the small prison yard. But worst of all' was the con tinuous interrogations, always with the fear in her mind that action would be taken against her mother and father (her brother was already a political prisoner); . that her chil dren .would be left to fend for themselves. And the outrageous efforts to make her talk included a "security" -man who pretended to be kind, to treat her respectfully, always with the intention of getting- her to make a statement. She needed at times to convince herself that he was no different, to ' all the others, but . she refused always to make any statement, for she knew that 1 the Government would arrest any person she mentioned. Passages interpolated throughout the book tell of torture and death of other political prisoners; heard on the grapevine, whispered to her on occasional visits by her mother. One such passage has extracts, from the diary of . a male "de tainee".. who had by - some: means managed to write it and eyen' more amazingly to smuggle, it out. of the prison. / /. ./.' ///'// ,./: ; The most 'sadistic of all' treatment meted out .to Ruth First was her release at the end of the 90 days' "detention." She was told to pack her -belongings, was taken, to the prison gates; and, having ;; just stepped outside, was. again arrested. The cruelty was made even w.orse by the fact that the day. she was released her mother and her three children had been allowed to see her. Her . mother had whispered to her that "B — -'s talking; Some thing has. gone terribly wrong." ..When her; visitors left, .Ruth . needed . to be alone, for' she was extremely : concerned that' "B". knew so much v about Rivonia, about people who had been , at thev meet ings. But no sooner had her visitors left than an official' said "I've come to tell you: to pack your things, : Mrs. Slovo. I'm releasing you!'? Ruth argued with Tiirii but " was . assured she ,was being released. "Yoii might have told me 20 minutes earlier," Puth said; "I could have ; gone home with my family." When later she confronted the official who had released her, his reply was "i did release you. I : didn't re-arrest you." ; This, book is riot only an account : of experience of a political' prisoner in South Africa, it is. an indictment ' of the VOrwoerd Government's , : white supremacist policy, of apar- ' /. theid and the ; general treatment of : ' ., the Africans and all others who oppose the Government. . At the saime time, because of the . author's , ability . to . write, it is a book that is extremely readable. . illllllllllllllllllllllllliillllllililllllllilllllillllilllllljllllllllllllllll As the struggle of African people in Rhodesia for democracy reaches new heights, it is well to remember that the same struggle continues to advance in South Africa, bastion of white-racist dictatorship. The two books reviewed here not only throw light on this great struggle, but show too that it is not, on the African side, a struggle of color against color. It is a struggle of black Afri cans, hand in hand with their progressive white allies, against . the racist section of a wealthy white ruling class. A HEROIC WOMAN'S 117 DAYS IN PRISON "117 DAYS" by Ruth First, 5/6 plus 8d postage. "NO EASY WALK TO FREEDOM," 21/-. , ; ( Both, books available from New World Booksellers, 425 Pitt Street, Sydney, and all progressive bookshops. iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin . iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii - 