 - . V v Miiwrir«MrVBU«WII«VU1 1 USSR cuts defence budaet From RUPERT LOCKWOOH 1 MOSCOW z Many western commentatofs, including some Australian news papers— have tried to convey that the Soviet Union's 1966 budget sharply increased armaments expenditure. \A/HILE missiles — costliest weapons known to man — must be constantly evolved and replaced to keep Soviet de fences abroast of those powers which threaten its security, amounts allocated to defence represent reduced percentages of the total USSR budget ex penditure. In the 1963 budget £5,560 m. — to take the English sterling equivalent of roubles — or 16.1 per cent of the total budget expenditure was al located for defence. Overall budget outlays increased greatly in 1964 but the defence vote was cut to £5,320 m. sterling or 14.6 per cent of the budget. This cut was made in the hope that other powers would follow the Soviet lead and agree to progressive disarmament. This hope was betrayed by the arm aments lobby particularly of America. However, the Soviet Union reduced defence expenditure again in 1965 to £5,120 m. sterling equivalent or only 12.9 per cent of the budget. West Germany's nuclear threats, American escalation in Vietnam and other threats to world peace have forced the USSR to increase the 1966 defence allocation in money terms to £5,360 m. sterling equivalent. But total budget allocations for economic and social progress have been so vastly expanded that this £5,360 m. repres ents only 12.8 per cent of the budget —a slightly lower percentage than the previous year. Unlike governments of those coun tries with troops in Vietnam, the Soviet Government has enough to spare in its advancing socialist econ omy for higher wages and improved social services. Contrast in budgets The world's two biggest budgets— the American of 106 million dollars, and the Soviet, which, by coincidence, amounts to an equal sum in roubles- provide a telling contrast in defence and social expenditures. Fifty five cents of every American dollar spent will be directly for mil itary purposes and if foreign military aid and scientific and technical ap- propriation are added the figure in creases to 62 cents. Another 11 cents in each budget dollar covers interest on the stupend ous national debt of 317 thousand million dollars, which need not exist except for wars and the arms race. So 73 cents in the budget dollar are related to war, and each of America's 60 million families has to contribute through the budget an average of 1200 dollars for war. In the 1966 Soviet budget which has just been presented, 12.8 kopeks in every rouble, which is valued at slightly more than one dollar, is al located for defence against 12.9 kopeks in the last budget. Forty kopeks in every rouble are spent on social and cultural needs, against 11 cents in every American dollar. 