 Automation— time | is runnina out 1 By J. J. BROWN II Computers are eating | v I into jobs I Mass dismissals of over 2000 workers in the General Motors-Holden plants I throughout Australia has abruptly shattered the hopes of many workers that 1 the period of full employment which has been experienced for the last three |: years, will go on indefinitely. | kA ORE and more workers are asking now "Do you think there will be a big slump?" "Will there be mass unemployment?" Such mass dismissals are easily and clearly seen and understood by the workers. But what they have not seen and do not clearly under stand is the vast technical change which is now taking place through out Australia, which is abolishing tens of thousands of jobs. The most spectacular developments have been in new computers which are being introduced into-Federal and State government departments, banks, insurance companies and large firms. One insurance group admits that if it had not introduced a computer operated by only six girls as punch- card operators, they would have been compelled to employ 260 girls as copy typists. The State Savings Bank in Victoria recently demonstrated its new com puter. In 12 minutes it processed just on 22,000 operations carried out that day by its central and branch offices throughout the Melbourne area. In its spare nine, it xias ueen piugiaximicu to calculate pay rolls arid print the salary cheques for the Victorian Edu cation Department. With its new electronic computer complex at Wynyard Station, the NSW Government Railways now prepares all its accounts for the Wheat Board after each harvest. Previously this took five male clerks and two compto- metrists three months to prepare. The computer prints all the ac counts in 11 minutes. Not only white collar workers GMH dismissals show what faces the "Blue Collar" workers as well. In one department, 43 men on the production line produced 42 commodi ties. On the Monday 14 men were dis missed. Through mechanisation and rationalisation by the following Wed nesday the remaining 29 men were producing 48 items. A test run in the foundry at their Fisherman's Bend plant in Melbourne has shown that with only three men on the production line, engine blocks were bored, machined, etc. ready for fitting. It is known that this giant motor car group hopes to be back at its maximum production of 875 cars per day, despite its 2,000 dismissals. Experiences in the United States demonstrate that unless the Austra lian labor movement is quickly gear ed to meet these new technological developments there can be wide spread suffering abongst the work ers. In the US, employment of young workers is steadily declining. Three years ago there were 780,000 people. under 21 unemployed. Despite a drop I in the assisted unemployed from 1 5k million to 3f million, the number I of young people under 21 who are 1 unemployed has risen to 1,250,000. Of ff these young people, 243,000 have never done a days work in' their' life. I Clearly we must fight against any J; such developments in Australia, with jfj its terrible social consequences. fit If What must we do? P Every trade union should study the particular industry or industries in |;, which it has members employed. I- So far, the Australian Council of | . Trade Unions, which made a good start eight years ago in examining | ; automation developments, has failed to continue these investigations. Most unions therefore are not even prepar- | ing to meet these changed conditions. |- On a national scale the ACTU Auto- |p mation Committee has met only once || j in the last two years. p ; The most complete cooperation be- g; tween the white collar organisations yr and the ACTU is essential to deal with m this new problem. 9 In addition, education assumes even S greater importance to the trade un- m ions, if workers' children are to be M given the opportunity to be fitted jp, to accept and be employed in this p. new technical era. ®|j It is not a problem to be put off ||j to tomorrow. A national conference of || j all trade unions and white collar or- ||i ganisations would he valuable if held p . early in 1966 to start to plan to pro- jg: tect all "blue collar" and "white col- fcv lar" workers' interests. p.j Mass unemployment and great suf- j| fering will be avoided if we act now fc I 