 Two-mile walk to find a Party booth 6v JUNE MILLS I AST week I was optimistic that we'd reach our Fund target of £1500 by June 30. To do this I pointed out that we need a little over £222 monthly. Despite the fact that this week small donations are only about half of what we've been receiving in the past weeks, my optimism is persisting, helped by the story I've received from Pat Elphinston of Sutherland Section of the Communist Party: "On Senate Election polling day" Pat writes, "I met a white-haired man looking for the Communist How to Vote Card. After he'd voted we had a little chat, which revealed he was 87 years old, had formerly been a Communist Party member for 30 years and 15 years ago had sold 100 Trib unes each week in the Sutherland dis trict. "What's more, that day he had walk ed two miles in the hot sun to find a booth manned by CP members, to vote according to the Party ticket. "He told me he had been ill for over a year and hadn't been able to get his Tribune each week. Needless to say he got one that day and ever since I've taken his paper and liter ature to him each week. "Although a pensioner he has frequ ently given me donations for Tribune Fund in the name of "Hunger March ers', because of a march he'd made with a large number of unemployed men from Port Kembla to Sydney during the depression' days of the 30's." This pensioner is not the only one who makes a donation to the Fund from his meagre pension. And if we make sure to ask all Tribune readers for a donation, however small, we will reach that target. By the way, Butch Wharton of New castle sent a 10/- donation for the Mt. Isa workers, which he'd collected from a young couple who read Trib une, and he was disappointed that it was not acknowledged in Tribune. This donation . was sent direct to Queensland Trades and Labor Council, as has been the case with other such donations sent to Tribune. So, Butch, just let your friends know that it. was received and sent straight off to Bris bane. This week we acknowledge dona tions from: Eddy Ave. 12/6, Dom. 2/6, P. O'Dea, Cairns 10/-, Butch Wharton's custom ers 15/-, Butch Wharton 5/-, Wamberal 