 US prepares for space war- i congratulations are I coming in from all over 1 the world to the two Ame- I rican Gemini astronauts on their record-breaking flight, I there is also concern at the 1 military implications of the I space plans announced by the US the same week. The military nature of the experi ments American astronauts will carry out in the space laboratories Presi dent Johnson says the US will start to put into orbit in 1968 has been em phasised by the US press. One writer says that the US plans to put up a "manned military beach head" in space. The New York Times calls the plan "fantastic, terrifying, drastic and dis turbing". Associated with the test-ban treaty of 1963 was a declaration that the j USA and USSR would not put nuclear I weapons in orbit. I Contrary to Declaration I The US plans are contrary to the Declaration of the principles govern ing space exploration submitted to the UN by the USSR in June 1962 and adopted by the General Assembly. The declaration said that the "com mon interests of all mankind" require the "exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes," and la the interests of all mankind." The declaration says that "states shall regard astronauts as envoys of mankind in outer space". . However, Johnson's Mobile Orbit- mg Laboratories are not to be en- «?ys 5 a11 mankind, but of the US war Department. fop116 Wall Street Journal says they .. fje iaunched from. Vandenburg i r f'prce base in. California— the unchmg site for hush-hush spy satel- whose orbits carry them over day countries several times a foleKMOLs "will be run by the air nicfou ther armed services have m. heen asked to suggest missions, 'inotrf sydney Morning Herald's Wash- ttI a corresPondent says thht the Administration has "reversed" on Previus policy of concentrating I peaceful space exploration. er. nson has now, in some obsery of f-hfoiTfo adoPted "the philosophy savl ti, Pentagon military minds" aysh correspondent. tary eadvan1ioPeS i?f winninS any mili- SSSs-iUWlKJf as s — 