 Senator s warning on I abolition of juries f SYDNEY: A pySJlac meeting calBed by fne Lerd Mayer of Sydney, /jderman H. Jensen, Bast Thursday night to protest against the Asksn Governments pBan to abolish juries in motor accident cases, was warned that aboBition of juries in industrial accidents wouBd The warning was given by Senator L. Murphy, QC, who said: "The attack on the jury system was only one form of attack on democratic rights that \yns going on at the moment. I "A significant member of the Askin Government had said he could see no difference between indus trial and motor accidents." I W» v« k\i I vliBC) h63Q ' | of the Compensation | Department of the NSW i Labor Council, in a comment on Senator Murphy's warn ing, said this week: "The trade union movement needs to oe on me aiert against the attack on the jury sys tem. "The Minister, in outlining the proposal, said that they aimed first to abolish the jury system in motor accidents, then review It in twelve months, and if it is successful, apply it to industrial accidents. Mr. Ritchie said: "Last year the Labor Council won £2£ million com pensation for industrial accidents. "The abolition of the jury system in. industrial compensation cases would mean chaos. "This would come about because there would be judges who would grant low ver dints, others reasonable, and others high verdicts. There would be a scramble to get a case before a 'high verdict' judge." "The Labor Council was strongly for the retention of the jury system for all accident cases. "A jury of four men is far more likely to give a balanced judgment and, what's more, know about working conditions from first hand." The Lord Mayor told the meeting that the only ones who would bene fit from the abolition of the jury system would be the insurance com panies, who would enrich themselves. Other speakers at the meeting included the Leader of the State Parliamentary Opposition, Mr. J. B. Renshaw, and Professor C. H. Munro, Professor of Civil Engineering at the University of NSW. On the platform were a former Supreme Cpurt Judge, Mr. Justice Nield, Mr. R. R. Downing, the Labor leader in the NSW Legislative Coun cil, and the President of the Sydney University- Students' Representative Council, Mr. Richard Walsh. Alderman Jensen, at the conclusion of the meeting, challenged supporters of the proposal to abolish juries to accept free use of the Town Hall for a meeting on November 25. If they did not accept, then it would be available for a public debate on "the issue, he said. 