 Asian I 1 " Landing... Reminiscence by RALPH KELLY Australian 20-year-olds have been ordered to register immediately for compulsory military service, including wars of intervention in Asian countries. ' VOUR small troopship enters Pusan Har- bour. Lining the rail, the other Diggers are as ex cited as you. This is Korea — the War — the big adventure. Moving up harbour, the ship berths at a smallish wharf and you can now see the city. It is incredibly ugly, dirty, sprawling, noisy with the con stant movement of heavy trucks. As the gangplank is connected your cobber punches you excitedly: "This is it, mate." You buckle on your gear, sling your rifle and march down to the waiting trucks. You are disappointed to find you are not going up North immediately, but are taken to a holding camp where you will wait for tomorrow's troop train. For security reasons you are not permitted to leave the camp. Late in the afternoon you decide that the wire-mesh fence encircling the camp, and the guard on the gate, shouldn't stop you looking around; and with your mate beside you, you find yourself on the road back to Pusan. A young American jeep-driver gives you a lift and you anxiously probe for information; but like the Yanks in Japan he doesn't com municate much: "Goddam Korea, Goddam war. Goddam draft. God dam .Gooks, Goddam." You leave the jeep at the outskirts of the city proper and continue waiKmg. There are trucks everywhere. The air is charged with their powerful roar, and traffic rules seem non- , existent. Yet the city seems some how depressed. So do you. Further in the city you find a cluster of barrows and tables carry ing food for sale. The food is a small collection of unappetising rice cakes and what you take to be sweets. Flies crawl over all. The woman attendant shows neither interest nor enthusiasm; she knows you won't buy. There are trucks, trucks, and more trucks. YOU are approached by a small band of ragged, bare-foot boys. They are sel ling brass rings — crude things , fashioned from smelted cart ridge cases, some set with pol ished glass. All of the children are grossly underfed and you judge their ages to range between six and twelve; all have sores on their legs, faces and arms. How much for a ring? "You speak," their leader demands.. You take a two shilling voucher from your wallet and hand it to him. He frowns over the strange cipher and the words, "Thoihas de la Rue, London." "Is dollar?"— No, but it's good money. A noisy consultation takes place among the boys and their leader finally returns your note with a shake of his head, "Not dollar." The orphans of war have learned their first lesson: The dollar is almighty. There are many children in the street; all undernourished, all with sores, but you notice a difference among them: There are the child ren with old faces and shrewd eyes —the ring sellers, the shoe shine boys; these will survive— somehow. But the others show in their dull eyes and shuffling gait an utter indifference to survival. You won der about the approaching winter, and the snow. You recognise the building as an Army establishment — a canteen. The large sign across the doorway proclaims: "Our kitchens cater for the world's best fighting-men." You enter. The American mess is staffed by Koreans and you notice the dif ference beween them and the street-dwellers. They are clean, well-fed and uniformed. No-one questions you; your uniform is suf ficient to guarantee you a meal, so you take up a tray and join a queue. Ypu are served hamburger, sauer kraut, potatoes, gravy, bread, butter, fruit, coffee. You both take your trays and sit with a group of American soldiers. 1 "Going up North, buddy?" you ask. "Goddam, we don't know," one of the children splutters. "Goddam Army don' tell you no goddam thing. Goddam lousy war." He glares belligerently and you feel sorry you spoke. "Goddam lousy hamburger." # # # rvUSK finds you back in camp. Your time is grow ing near. With your mate you stroll about the compound, each of you silent. The dying sun softens the moun tains to the west, and you find yourself thinking of Australia. You remember a mopoke which sat in the gum-tree over your head and kept you company on night guard duty. Now, outside the compound, there is a movement and a small voice calls to you. You walk to the fence. A small Korean girl, about eight years, grips the wire mesh in her small brown hands. She is not here to beg — but to sell. Her offer is the vilest utterance you have heard escape from human lips. "Preeze, sojer — for dollar." The small brown hands grip tighter. VOU find Pusan Station a busy one. The giant United Nations troop train shunts busily about the yards. Troops, materials, troops, troops. And children, your ring sellers are back with you and the shoe shine boys, all doing a roaring trade with the Americans who are to entrain. And a number of the listless chil- dren — who don't know why they are here. These Americans, too, are amaz ingly young. More conscripts. Some look lost. You notice a tall, fair lad standing alone. His face is soft and girlish. Among the Korean children a small boy slumps to the ground. The others walk past him. Your mate speaks suddenly: "Here, hold my rifle." And he walks up to a weary M.P. sergeant who seems to be in charge of the platform. "Goddam," you hear his voice raised, "I know how you feel, buddy. But if I pick this kid up, you know what happens, huh? Tomorrow, every goddam Gook kid in Pusan falls down and wants us to take him away someplace. Goddam, they fall down and die every goddam day." Your mate returns. You look again at the fair American conscript. You look at the Australians — who are volunteers. Why? You remember the signs in the streets of Brisbane: Join Korea Force, and help to make Australia strong. And the newspapers; Join Korea Force — The elite Corps of Australia's Army. But the decision was yours. You couldn't join quickly enough. The fair American has found a couple of Hershy Bars in his pocket and the Korean children descend quickly. There is no chance of dis tribution; the chocolate is clawed, broken and devoured amid a squirming of small bodies. These are survival types. You see the fair soldier's mouth droop at the corners. You swear he is going to cry. His lips move soundlessly. Your carriages are shunted in and with the rest of the elite corps, you entrain. There are Americans in your car riage, Australians, a British subal- tern and a few British National J| Servicemen. . || Across the carriage, sitting next f to the young British officer, a young Jf American is trying to act tough. He sizes up the carriage full of men ;>| and spits out of the window. "God- -'J dam' " he says, "War is Hell." Jf Everyone, yourself included, smiles. - The train begins to move and you :|f are off to war. ft Your war will not be comfortable, 'If but it will be clean. You will meet Jf the mysterious Communists like a S ma"n— with a gun in your hands. And you .will be able to forget Jf Pusan — maybe. ' ' The chances are that you will i come back alive. You will bq asked ;;| to re-enlist because the Army is a Jf career with a future: You can help j make Australia strong in Malaya, |i in Indo-China, in Borneo, even In- 1 donesia, maybe. If you come back. || And the people in those coun- Js tries won't be much different fro® the Koreans. They too, are Asiatic; ...Jl they are dark of skin, they have -tiJ| black' Tiair, slanted eyes v . . flDfl || small brown hands. 11 m 