 Who are the ones that don't want work? Why don't you get a job and earn a living!" Last Wednesday it was an nounced that 1 1 00 workers had been dismissed from the motor parts industry isince September. Other pointers to the de clining state of the economy make grimly relevant this article, 'The Men Who Don't Want W ork, by HARRY RO BERTS. I'VE just been through a per iod of , semi-unemployment. When ., I say semi-unemploy ment; I mean I've always had a job. I'm single, therefore I've "never had to , buy anything on hire-pur chase. I've rarely had to borrow from anyone; as a matter of fact I've often lent or given money to others when they got into difficul ties, so, when I was' sacked, I faced unemployment debt-free and with, a couple of weeks' wages in my pocket. , Also my relatives and friends,- 1 . ' who knew me as an honest worker and remembered my. past gener- i osity, were prepared to help me to the fullest extent of their resources which, however, were very limited. '? At first I was not worried about | being out of work, as a /matter \ of fact I was glad. I felt as though I all my worries had been left at the I factory in which I had spent six, \ years. I felt free. It was then that I realised how, I : : much I had been exploited, not I ; ' only physically but also by a more I 1 deeper and subtle type of exploita- : tion of my mental powers. This \ ; 'type of exploitation commences the I day you walk into a job and never | ' really leaves you until the day you I ' walk out, or, in some cases, the day | ' 1 they carry you out. | But I had been temporarily freed I , from this worry. I knew that it | / .would istart again with my next job I but I refused tp think about it i just then. I was enjoying the 1 luxury of hot working for anyone. | It was an unaccustomed pleasure I to put on tidy clothes and walk down the street at nine o'clock 1- on a week day, and not have to a make excuses to anyone. I went 1 to the beach and lay in the sun I and pitied those people at work; 1 in short I pretended I was a i capitalist and did not want work. 1 Sometimes, while on my way to I the beach or during one of my I casual strolls, I passed .by one or i two of that group of people whom | we call "the unemployed." ? ? When you are out of work for ' I a long period you pass through three stages. | The first of these is the newly i . unemployed but optimistic stage, it j lasts as long as the ' money does. The second stage finds you a bit i worried and this spurs you on to greater efforts in your search' for fl an&lt; the search intensifies as tne days and weeks pass. H Finally, if you have not been 1 successful, you try even harder jf i one day you have a look I !? f th® mirrr. Your clothes have 1 ot been dry cleaned for weeks, fl 1 soes have been worn out fl n search and you need a hair- I +h But somehow all of f these H seem unimportant, they pnJ.POut, they seem to be n mpietely overshadowed by all the vn6r prhlems that have arisen. sh. uve now cached the final hopeless unemployment/ H rnP_0,myself was more fortunate, H stat»o passinS through . the first if : and entering the second before ; ' term® however that short . was, uough ,to acquaint- me with some . of the problems and hardships of the unemployed per- son. ' . . One morning I noticed a job ad vertisement in the paper and hur- . riedly washed and .dressed ,:and started on my way to . apply for the position. : It. was necessary for me, to pass through the /city, and, as I passed by., a shop window I happened to glance into a mirror and noticed that I had forgotten to comb my ,hair. Therefore, I had to find water and a mirror to. comb . it properly. I then remembered the wash basins and mirrors at the station; , when I, arrived, others were not only combing their hair, but washing and shaving as well. They were the homeless, the unem ployed to whom even the normally small task of cleanliness was a big problem to be faced every day. No wonder some don't bother to shave for days on end. That experience 'started, -me think ing. Where do they sleep? Where do they wash their clothes? More im portant where and what do they eat? If you walk along any of - the city, streets the chances are that you will see one or . two indivi duals going through garbage cans for scraps of food or reading mat ter. These unfortunate persons have reached the last stage of hope less unemployment; they have been completely stripped of human dig nity and pride. They ignore the glances of scorn arid contempt from "more fortunate". And upon them is heaped the slaa- der ous lie, "they don't want work", spread by "big business" controlled press and repeated by dishonest politicians, who most likely, have not done an honest day's' work in half a lifetime. They are trying to divert attention from the real reasons and causes of unemployment. ? Of all the indignities that arc forced upon the unemployed, the "they don't want work" slander is hardest to bear. Consider yourself in the position where you have been in regular, employment all your life. Sud- / denly, through no fault of your own, you're thrown out of work, and, because of the economic situation, you are unable to secure another job. You have not saved money dur ing your years of labour, but this is not because you have wasted your wages, as a matter of fact you had become quite an expert at making every penny count, but somehow you could never get in . front; actually if you take hire-pur chase debts into account, you were getting further behind — and this was proved beyond a doubt as soon as your wages stopped. Now you have gone through all the stages I have described. You have lost everything— home, furniture, family split up and you yourself thin from lack of proper nourishment and from worry and miles_of walking in search of work. ' Your clothes are threadbare, you haven't had a hot bath in weeks or ; a shave in days and, well, you wouldn't give yourself a job, you look such a wreck. Then some thoughtless alec says to you. "Why don't you get a job and earn your living the same as every one else, the trouble with you is you don't want work." ? . A social system should operate in such a way to ensure that the best interests of the majority are catered for. On the face of it our money system, or capitalist system, is supposed to work that way. Under this system everyone is sup posed to be equal, but who really believes this? Does the carpenter or bricklayer have equal rights with the company director? The trades man who builds the luxury home could not afford to live in it. The wealthy company director who does not have the manual training or skill needed can live, in it. Therefore there is a dividing line. What is it? it cannot be social usefulness otherwise the trades man would have the best home. The dividing line is money Well, then, how does one go about getting some of this money so as to be able to afford some of the better type "equality?" First of all, you must have plenty of it to start off with. You are then in a position to extract more from the class of people that create money value, the productive worker. He is of the class that produces every thing, and yet, receives the least amount and the poorest quality of that which he produces. On the other hand, the company director, the millionaire shareholder and the rest, who produce nothing, get the best and most of every thing. In the past the oppressive classes needed the scaffold,- the whip and chains to maintain this state of affairs, to.day he has a much more subtle method, money. Our social system gives the mino rity, that is the wealthy, the best living at the expense of the majo rity, the workers. The worker does not want mil lions of pounds in the' bank. All he wants is a job of his own choice, one which suits his own particular personality, and he wants to be sure that it is there for him as long as he is willing and able to work at it. In exchange for his labour he wants a home and a decent stan dard of living for himself and his family, and he wants to be secure in the knowledge that his, and his family's needs will be taken care of for the rest of his and their lives. He wants to see all mankind steadily improve its living condi tions and all unnecessary pain and disease wiped from the face -of the earth. To work/ is a natural trait in man. His ability to reason leads him to be continually seeking new ways to improve his living condi tions. But then some of his fellow humans use their mental powers of reasoning in a sinister way. Instead of working to improve the lot of all,, they are working to create money, or profit, for a minority. The result is that one of man's . natural traits, , his /industrious nature, which should . bring him great pleasure, has been transformed into something arduous arid hate ful. However, some people do very well under this system. The wealthy minority are ..particularly pleased with the arrangement. They make enough money from it to live in luxury without having to work, and if you ask them the secret of their "success" they will look you straight in the eye and reply, "hard work". What they mean, of course, is the hard work of others. The "hard work" formula always reminds me of a story a friend told me. He tpld me the history of a very wealthy and respected man. "Now this man was not always so prosperous," he raid, "As a matter of fact, he was born into poverty, and when he was eighteen years old, he borrowed a small sum of money and rented a fruit shop. . He used to arise at four a.m., push a. barrow three miles to the fruit markets, load it with fruit and vegetables, push it back to the shop and sell till eight o'clock at night." "And ' is thft£ how he made his money"? I asked. "Good lord, no," he replied. 4 A distant relative died and left him a fortune." It is a clear fact that there are certain types of men who don't want work but they are not necessarily those individuals seen walking the streets in threadbare clothing. They, after all, are in their down-and-out circumstances because the employer class can no longer make a profit from them. They and the petty criminals, who, it would seem, sometimes work harder at dodging work than they would if they earned their living in the conventional manner, are only products of the money sys tem. Who, then are the men who don't want work? You would include in their num ber those persons born, into idle luxury and who therefore have never experienced the pleasure that comes to those who can stand back and say I helped, in a small, way to build that bridge or that road or that railway train; consequently they look upon manual labour as degrad ing and completely pleasurieiess. In fact, the most active supporters of the profit system are among those who would not have the cour age to go out and work under the arduous and unnatural conditions they impose upon others. They are the same people who have the hide to brand honest but work-worn men as lazy .work dodgers. Well they have been getting away with it too long, that's why I now brand them as the men who don't want work. " The trouble with you is you don't want to work" ; SOME ; of Sydney's unemployed queueing up for their handout of soup. What is their future? How can they obtain a job when they are .deprived of the basic essentials of cleanliness and hygiene? Offer them a job, and some, .hope for the future , .. . then you'll, see whether or not they are one of the "unemployables". 