 i "It s a beauty! I j A recent meeting of the Central Committee of the ! j Communist Party of Australia adopted a. five-point economic | j program as the centre of an immediate national campaign I to raise the living standards of the Australian working j people. I The five demands are: — j I A £22 basic wage as a family living wage, with mar- j I gins adjusted in accordance with the 1947 formula, j I Control of prices. s j A 35-hour week. g j "Equal pay without discrimination of sex or race. I | 9 Abolition of anti-union penal clauses. ' I | g CYDNEY : "I reckon its a ! beauty", said Bill, a i young boilermaker, when ! asked to comment on the f Communist Party economic I program. g "And why wouldn't I! I'm S married, with a 16 weeks' old I son. We are trying to pay off a j home at £20 a month. We need = furniture for the house which !we cannot afford to buy— after paying ' insurance and electricity and what have you, there is I hardly enough left for food out j of my take-home pay of about JE20 a week." Bill is one of the 150 metal ! workers at the Department of Main Roads workshops at Clyde, in Sydney, who are at present S struggling for a £3 a week wage j increase J He, like other married men, S are finding it impossible to live j on a single wage (even a trades- | man's). His wife worked until g 12 months ago. "We are now | eating into our small savings," I he said. I Bob, Bill's mate, is a young ! titter with the Department. He I is married with a three weeks' Sold son and pays £10 a week rent. j He also fully supported the | economic program, j The metal workers' : wage 1 demands were first raised with j the Department last November. I Boilermakers, fitters, sheet- metal workers, electricians and ironworkers who are seeking I the increase say they only want the same y rates as in other 5 semi-governmental departments such as the Maritime Services i Board. j Building workers with the I Main Roads Department, work- j ing alongside these metal g workers, are being paid over £3 , a week more. | The men have had several half-day stoppages and extended S lunch meetings in support of j their demands. The last reply | from the Department's industrial » officer late last month was a I rejection of the demand. j This claim has now been j placed into the hands of the I NSW Labor Council. ) . Alan Morrison, a boilermaker, j is the .chairman of the union j stewards' committee on the job. | He said: "All that metal workers j are asking is the same wage g standards as the building workers " I He explained that boilermakers j were the highest paid of the ? metal workers with a gross i wage of £22/16/- a week, while j the ironworkers are only getting j Alan, who took the job with | the Department as a form of j "security," said that similar jobs » outside were paying up to £29 a | week. I The only so-called "benefit | working for the Department is , an extra week's annual leave. | ' Workers point out that the j Department even begrudges pay- g ing confined space money, dirt I money and other special rates. | With the other workers inter- j viewed, he fully agreed with the , Communist's Party's economic j program— "It's a necessity and j the average worker could hard!' ? do otherwise." j ALAN MORRISON 