 Ulbricht's visit to UAtt is a heavy bSow for Bonn From ALF WATT T| MOSCOW: The visit of Walter Ulbricht, Chairman of State of the Ger man Democratic Republic, to the United Arab Republic, is a major defeat for Bonn foreign policy. TO the dismay of the West- ern powers it is also a fur- ther evidence of. the increas ingly important role . in world affairs being played by Eastern European socialist countries, particularly by East Germany and Poland. Bonn invoked its Halstein doc trine to prevent the visit. This doc trine, a keystone in Bonn foreign policy, says in effect that the Fed eral Republic of Germany will not recognise or establish any relation with the states thfct recognise the GDR. It means that states must recognise the FRG as the one and only Germany, and further the val idity of its claims to "unify" soc ialist East Germany into Imperialist West Germany. The doctrine is also directed against the uncommitted nations, be ing an attempt to reinforce neo- colonialist domination of these spates. It suffered a setback last year when newly independent Z>an- zibar established diplomatic relat ions with the GDR, despite intimid ations from Bonn. The greater defeat suffered on this occasion exposes Bonn's inability to impose the doctrine and is a step towards dismantling barriers in the way of recognition of two Germanys erected by the imperialists as part of the cold war strategy. Chancellor Erhardt made one move after another to compel Nasser to cancel the invitation. He threat ened to discontinue economic aid which means loans at high rate of interest. He sent a special emissary to the King of Jordan with a message asking him to use his influence v/ith Nasser. He even said he would discontinue secret arms deliveries to the extremist govern ment of Israel if the invitation was withdrawn. Nasser publicly repudiated this blackmail and defended UAR indep- endance. Ulbricht received a- warm welcome. In a press statement giving thanks for the welcome he said— We have come as friends to the UAR. All GDR citizens, freed from imperial ist enslavement, follow with sym pathy the heroic struggle of the Eg yptian and other Arab people for their independence and freedom, and their struggle against imperial ist oppression and threats, against colonialism and neo-colonialism. It Is with close interest and sym pathy that we also follow the prog ress of the UAR in building up a new socialist system. We come to your country to further strengthen the relations between our two states and peoples. 