 35-HR WEEK COULD I SAVE G.M.H. JOBS I South Australian auto and metal workers have I raised the demand for a 35-hour week, in reply to mass ! sackings by General Motors-Holdens. In the past two weeks the US-owned car qiant has sacked nearly 2000 workers in Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney without waresisig The secretary of the South Australian branch of the Vehicle Builders' Union, Mr. Hayes, said that I GMH's action "showed the inhuman attitude" by the management towards its workers. IN a leaflet-, the Amalga- mated Engineering Union I in Melbourne has accused I GMH of using last month's I drop in car sales to launch a | three-pronged offe n s i v e I against their employees. IThey say the GMH aim is to fur ther reduce the labor force with per manent sackings, force the remain ing workers to work harder and present a "crisis" situation to off set the Australian Council of Trade Unions' claim for a-£3 a week in crease. A Greek migrant whose only job since landing in Australia 18 months ago has been with GMH at Page- wood (NSW) told Tribune that they were sacked in a very cruel way. "They told us only half an hour before we finished work we were to finish that day, and gave us a piece of paper saying they would take us back if things picked up. "They don't care what happens I to us in between," he said. Last week, Federal officers of the Vehicle Builders' Union asked the Minister for Labor (Mr. McMahon) to arrange for an inquiry into the sudden sackings. Mr. M. McCarney (federal presi dent VBU) said the telegrams have been sent to the Minister and Op position Leader, Mr. Calwell, expres sing serious concern from all sec tions of the membership. The telegrams said the present sackings will have very serious re- percussions in other sections of in dustry as there are a large number of suppliers manufacturing such items as steel, glass, paint, rubber, etc. No pay drop The VBU's South Australian branch announced it will approach GMH to implement a 35-hour week in the industry without any reduc tion in pay. A conference of rank and file metal delegates held in Adelaide last Fri day described the sackings as "heartless" and demanded the com pany implement the 35-hour week. The present overproduction of cars is a result of GMH's frantic drive for production and super pro fits. It is spurred on by fierce com petition between the motor mono polies as the new car registration rate falls. GMH has the reputation among those who work there as a glorified sweat shop. In 1950 a GMH worker produced the equivalent of two cars per year. In 1963 the figure was 8J per year. In the same period profits have increased eight f61d. Since GMH began operating in Australia they have built up a work ing fund of £76 millions. To the U.S. shareholders in Ameri ca, more than £110 millions have been sent. GMH can more than afford to grant a 35-hour week and a £3 in crease in wages. The granting of a . 35-hour week and the slowing down of the pro duction line could put a halt to the sackings which, in the last period,' have amounted to 12 per cent of the production workers. 