 [?] Don't cop this J Springbok racism II j - By "THE CHALLENGER" 1 1 | As Tribune goes to press the first game of the South j li African Springboks' Rugby Union tour is due to take place ! m | in Perth | The Springboks are the all-white team that purports to ill represent South Africa, a country of 16 million (13. million jf| black and 3 million white). DECAUSE of the South African government's racial segrega tion policy (Apartheid) South Africa was barred from the Tokyo Olympics by the Inter national Olympic Committee. At the time of the I.O.C. decision banning Apartheid, the London Statesman said "When can we expect rugby, soccer, cricket and tennis to follow suit?" The national conference of the New Zealand trade union move ment recently gave an important lead by calling on all trade-un ionists in N.Z. to boycott all matches and functions when the Springboks tour there. (Rugby Union is the main football code in NZ). Also the. Auckland Citizens' As sociation for Racial Equality "(C.A.R.E.) have really lashed out at the New Zealand Rugby Uni on's support of apartheid by go ing ahead, oblivious to public in dignation, with the present Springbok tour. Extracts from their brochure say: "The South African Rugby team begins a tour of New Zea land in June of this year at the express invitation of the New Zealand Rugby Union. This des pite the undeniable fact that the Rugby game in South Africa is conducted on a colour-bar basis which is a gross violation erf the international sporting code unan imously reaffirmed by all nations competing in the 1964 Olympics. "This code, which New Zeland supports, asserts that in the field of sport the right of athletes to participate shall not be denied solely on the grounds of colour, race or creed; "For many years, the Rugby Union of South Africa has viol- ated this code, either as willing instrument for the enforcement of apartheid on the Rugby field, or as an organisation under the political domination of an all- white South African- Government. "Either way, they' earn - dis qualification in the international field of sport and solely through their own policy of introducing apartheid on to the playing field ... "New Zealand fully qualifies in I fs terms of the international sport- ill ing code, and so do other major !f| unions in Great Britain, France, IS Australia, Fiji, Japan and the 1 ill Argentine— the sole exception is ) lM South Africa. I ;W "To qualify, the South African j m Rugby Union must keep politics j If and colour prejudice out of the 2 t Rugby game and, until it does, ( || the New Zealand Rugby Union j II has no right to invite South Af- 1 || rican representatives to visit this j J| country." | To all of this we can only add j ;'f| — that goes for us, too! There is I $ still time for Australian sport j and trade union organisations j |1 and members to declare publicly jv|) their opposition to what this | || Springbok team represents, using j -I resolutions, letters (to press and j RU) and any other means. j| jm Rugby League j| From Jim Sharrock ji "Exciting" would be the best 1 1 way to describe the match be- j 1 tween St. George and Balmain at ! || the Sydney Cricket Ground last j II Saturday, with St. George win- jig nirig by 14 to 12. j Parts of the game were dull, ! but also at times, first Saints I would have their fans standing j cheering next it would be Bal- j main. I The main feature of the game I I would be the "qualitative' change in Balmains play. In the past they have played a defen sive game- relying on Barnes' boot to kick goals. This time they scored two tries to equal Saints two tries. Another feature was the im provement in the two English j players Huddard, St. George and j || Bolton, Balmain. With so many I j stars going to "New Zealand others will have to raise theii ij game" to keep the standard oi || League at the high level it is. An unlucky game for Rapei. «|| St. George to be injured on the Jj eve of his going to New Zealand. || Honors in the play would be if equal. Balmain would be .a little j m unlucky, because Barnes left his || real good kicking boot at home, |3 but congratulations to them on m the improvement in their play j 9 