 ABC -TV's "Othello" was not so good [?] CHAKESPEARES great tra- gedy "Othello" is a play- that demands intense passion from the players, particularly Othello. Channel 2's presentation last Wed nesday, adopted for TV by Raymond Westwell (who also played Othello; was bereft of any deep feeling and showed an almost complete lack of understanding of the great tragedy. The gabbled speech was difficult to follow and anyone not knowing the story would find it impossible to follow. Iago, who should have been the epitome of evil was so unconvinc ing as to be almost laughable. The lighting, costuming and especi ally the fight scenes were shocking. Shakespeare is not easy to per form on television, but a worse pro duction than this Melbourne effort is difficult to imagine.. # TPHE "Sammy avis Jnx" show 1 (Channel 2, 7.30 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 6) was excellent entertainment. This talented Negro artist gave an uninterrupted 50 minutes of songs and brilliant impersonations, inter spersed with racy comments (espe cially on integration). His warm goodnight with a plea for brotlierty love and a peaceful world for our children to grow up in was deeply sincere. Do not miss the second pro gramme next Saturday at the same time on Channel 2. # # # ANOTHER programme to look for- " ward to on Channel 2 is the new series of "Steptoe and Son"' which commences On Wednesday, March 17, at 7.30 p.m. The previous series of this exscel- lent British production was one of the highlights of TV entertain ment. # COME of television's best viewing is found in the documentaries. On Thursday nights at 9.30 from Channel 2 "The Nature of Things". Also on Thursday at 9 p.r. is "Poet in Australia". This excellent pro gramme is conducted by John Thompson (himself a poet) in which he interviews Australian poets and discusses their life and work .."Your Life in Their Hands" is also on Channel 2 on Tuesdays at 10.10 p.m. and on the same night is "'Sun and Substance". These interesting programmes will be continued during the coming weeks, but dates and playing times may vary. You are advised to check with your current TV guide. # # "pEYTON PLACE" Mondays ana Wednesdays from Channel 9 is the ultimate in soap operas. This juvenile and emasculated version of the rubbishy novel is an insult to viewer's taste and intelligence. 