 [?] 1 CYDNEY: Tributes to the out- | standing record of the | Indonesian Communists in j struggle for their country's 1 national independence were | paid by the Communist Party | of Australia in a message of. | greeting on the 45th anniver- | sary of the founding of the I Communist Party of Indonesia., | The CPA Central Committee's mes- | sage of "warm fraternal greeting" I said: | "The Communist Party of Indo- I nesia has a glorious history of I struggle for national independence 1 and Socialism. It fought Dutch i imperialism, suffering, persecution and : losses. "It played a leading role in the August 17 revolution, and in the long struggle to consolidate the Republic of Indonesia against attacks by foreign imperialists and domestic reaction. i "It represents the workers and | peasants of Indonesia, leading their I actions for the, carrying out of the Ij | national - democratic revolution, agrarian reform and opposition to imperialism and" neo-colonialism. In these struggles the Communist Party I of Indonesia has grown into a great mass party. "In the present grave situation caused by the ruthless aggression of United States imperialism against the peoples of Vietnam and South-East Asia and by British support for Malaysia, the common stand of our two Parties is most important. | "Together with you, we support the | struggle of the people of North Kali- |! mantan for their independence, and the heroic people of Vietnam who are lighting to free their country from ithe grip- of U.S; imperialism. Ties between Indonesian and Aus tralian Communists have been forged m common actions from the time of the 1945 Indonesian Revolution, in the visits of representatives of the Com munist Party of Australia to Indo nesia for the Vth, Vlth and Vllth v- n.8reses of your Party, and the tralia Comrade Lukman. to Aus- thnAust,ralian Communists, supporting Pri _ aspirations of the Indonesian nvoUnists and People, hope to strpnaf? 6 a11 obstacles so . as to Parnf othe relations between our near! / Peples in the fight for ce, democracy and Socialism." K '4 - A 1$ !' '3k 