 Crocodile Tears at S.A. Labours Electoral Plans ADELAIDE: In attacking the Labor Government's progressive proposals for electoral reform the Leader of the Opposition, Sir Thomas Play ford, described one of the measures as "crook". VET for years the South Aus- tralian people have had to put up with a gerrymander worse than anything in the British Commonwealth — -a state of affairs which gave some voters four times the voting power of others and which had kept the Liberals In office for years with minority support — in crook elections. Now the Government has decided on an increase in the size of the House of Assembly from 39 to 56 — quite logical in the light of the State's growth and as the elector ates are to be . of approximately equal size, moving, closer to the prin ciple of one vote one value. It has decided to give all the elec tors the right to vote for the Legis lative Council instead of the res tricted franchise at present which means in practice that only one-third of the electors vote for the Legislative Council. - And it has decided on measures, to end the deadlock between the Houses which at present can arise .from the Council's power to veto the As sembly's actions. The Government . seeks these changes to prepare the way for the people to eventually abolish the Legislative Council — this preserve of the conservative propertied in terests of the State — and for a single chamber Parliament that has successfully operated for years in Queensland and New Zealand. Independent commission The new measures provide for a permanently constituted commission to adjust boundaries, of a Supreme Court Judge to he chairman of the Commission, with Surveyor General and Assistant Returning officer as other members. Their terms of reference are for a 56 member House of Assembly with seats of approximate voting strength and with 26 of them in the country area. In this way the country with '26 LnaaBanHaaBaMnaaBBiaMi seats out of a total of 56 still has a proportionately greater say than the city based on the numbers of popula tion, because in the metropolitan area there are two-thirds of the State's population. Charges that the Government is neg lecting the country cannot be sus tained. The Opposition has been attempt ing to discredit the Government in this regard including criticism that there is only one rural member in the Cabinet. However in addition to the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Bywaters, the Minister of Education Mr. Loveday represents a country district, the Minister of Works Mr. Hutchens was born and bred in the country and worked in rural industries and at least half a dozen other Labor mem bers have experience in primary pro duction and some are at present en gaged in farming occupation. Premier explains The new measures provide for a permanently constituted, independent commission as the Premier Mr. Walsh said, "so that shifts in popula tion would not place any district either at a disadavantage or an undue advantage electorally, and so that boundaries in South Australia would permanently be aligned on instruc tions to the Commissioners, enshrined in the Constitution and providing for effective democratic government and not a political measure that was the subject of periodic manipulation for unscrupulous sectional ends." It is this measure that is termed "crook" by Playford. "If the redistribution is not in accordance with my friends opposite would like all they have to do is nothing and it doesn't come Into effect. This provision is crook," said Playford. But the fact of tne matter is that as long as the principle of equal electoral boundaries or, in other words, one vote one value is adhered to, it must work in the direction of helping the Labor movement. Only the propertied interests want to restrict democracy. Therefore it will he in the interest of the great majority, including Labor Governments, to have demo cratic Government decided by an in dependent commission. Indeed, even ' if the Legislative Council blocks the present electoral reform proposals which is likely, Labor will continue to have a majority because the gerrymandered elec torates are becoming . safe Labor seats with continued growth of work ing class population. 