 Woolies beat a retreat j SYDNEY: Public protests have forced the gfant retail I I chain-store, Woolworths, to bury its nation-wide "Jungle ! Action" promotion to sell war toys to children. 1 I PROTESTS are known to i have included women s j organisations, a church | leader, a university pro- I fessor and many individ- uafs. I Prominent advertising in daily I newspapers, and displays in ! windows and inside Woolworths stores throughout the country featured big banners and dum- mies of 12 year-old lads in full j jungle war kit. I The banners proclaimed: "Join | Woolies Jungle Action Unit" and 1 "Headquarters, Woolies Jungle I Action Unit". The dummies were clad in jungle greens and camouflaged j US-style helmets. I1 They were equipped with toy sub-machine guns, pistols, machettes, hand grenades, wal- I kie-talkie sets, water bottles, !mess kits — fully prepared for action in the jungles of S.E. Asia. I All of these goods were said to j be' made in Australia, although 9 on some goods the trade-mark i could not be found. | Also on sale, were plastic re- I plicas of US Marines in various j war poses, military jeeps, ducks, | tanks, armoured cars, warships (all mde in Hong Kong) and j other war toys. I In Perth, WA, after members I of the Union of Australian Worn- i en had protested to Woolworths' I State Manager late on Thursday, I the display was pulled down j next day. j In Sydney the Housewives As- 1 sociation, the Reverend Alan j Walker and the Union of Aus- j tralian Women protested vigor- g ously against the display and the j sale of the toys. j Professor F. May, Professor of I Italian at Sydney University, also I protested. j Mrs. Z. Splaylord, assistant g secretary of the Union of Aus- | tralian Women said -that mem- I bers of her organisation were ap- I palled when the read the ad- j vertisements In Sydney's daily ! newspapers. | Earlier this week, the store in- I formed the UAW that it was with- j drawing the display, but would j retain some of the toys for sale. I They said it would take a few ! days for all the displays to come I down, and that if the UAW was | still not satisfied they would see what could be done. I 