 Down below, Riley! A short story by J OCK GRAHAM OME retired coalminers oc cupied a long seat by the old School of Arts. Old Mick was continuing a conversation with the question: "If you didn't like pits, Riley, why'd you work in 'em?" "Fair enough," replied Riley ami ably, turning his blue-scarred face to his questioner: "I reckon a man gets accustomed to his folks : and . the place, and, well, that's where your home is — but I'll tell you why I didn't like pits. "As long as I remember I lived 'with my uncles. Our place was high ' up on a slope overlooking the Hunt- er river. Clear days the river was like a silver ribbon, and tinted purple and gold in the dawns and sunsets. You could see it from far away, winding and turning down and along the flats, disappearing here and there between the ridges and behind clumps of willows. There was good fishing in the creeks, and the place teemed with birds. Blue kingfishers, parrots flashing their bright colours in the trees, reed warblers and wrens, and ground larks singing over the paddocks. "When my mates started work 1 envied them even their grimy pit clothes and their black faces. Their little naked light pit lamps hooked on their leather fronted caps, fascin ated me. They would speak of wheel ing roads, headings, dips, cut- throughs and balances. How a wire rope, attached to an- iron weighted trolley at the bottom of the steep grade, came up the trolley railroad and round a wheel at the top, they , would hook this rope onto . their full skips and push it over the grade, skidding with hob-nailed shoes on the rails or riding on the buffers. 'Hard as bells are, hot as hells are; Boring, blasting, drilling; Dusted lungs and falling stones; Crushing, maiming, killing'. "T started work with my uncles when I was barely thirteen years old. It was a new colliery. They were getting some coal on the west side on day and afternoon shift . Only Stone miners on nightshift. My uncles were driving a tunnel through hard stone to pick up the coal seam on the east side. When I started they were only in about a hundred and , sixty yards from the pit bottom. No .pit bottomer was employed on night- shift. There was a braceman on top with a young assistant pushing skips off the cage and pushing empties en at surface level. "It was raining hard the night . 1 started. We took short-cuts along rail way tracks and over paddocks. The was three miles from the town- .. ship. I was so keyed up that 1 thought little of the rain until I was wet and clammy and cold. When we reached the pit I followed my uncles, into a big shed. There was a fire there, and old clothes strewn around. We waited until our work ing mates on afternoon shift came up the pit. They were late, and they told us why. A cage guide had been damaged just below the mid- mine. They had to climp up the ladders of an auxiliary shaft sunk from the mid-mine main gallery to the bottom gallery. The braceman had gone over to the under-manager's place to see if it would be O.K. foi us to go down that way "Uncle Bob was looking down al me. Big Bill Gray, who had been doing the talking, said, 'Oh, this the boy you were speaking of?' ."Yes," Uncle said, "this, is om boy." "He looks a bit young, Bob." "Riley's a smart kid," said n uncle. ' ... "Big Bill smiled and patted me oi ; . the shoulder. Sure, he said to me; you'll be right, kid just take yourj . timjpid don't be scared. He turned, zggyn At my unclel sayirigr fThe airV getting a bit bad. Dave and me put ufr some more nrattice. It's pretty close to the face, so watch you don't over-charge your shots. There are two shot holes half bored. Better pick up a feW sharp jumpers. Don't bother about dynamite or caps. Plenty of empties in the Flat'. "The two men turned towards the door with a 'Look after yourselves,' and with a nod and a 'So-long, Riley,' for me they were off into the night and the rain. "My uncles told me to wait, and went off to collect .the picks and jumper-drills. I waited by the door. There was a. great hissing an8i snor ing of huge pumps in the darkness, and this, mingling with the gurgling sound of the discharging water, seemed to me like the breathing of dragons I was feeling drowsy and a bit scared. "Alongside the leaden waters of the pit dam rose the dark ugly structure of the pit-top, and high above it the great winding whorls were shrouded in 'storming black clouds. It was a foreboding picture, and I was a very small nipper when my uncles came back with the drills and sang out, with ai wave of their, hands, 'down below, Riiey!' 1 fol lowed up the steep stairs to the pit-top. . ? ; "JT was a small four-man cage with ' a hip roof. The braceman rap . ped three to the winding' driver, got the answering one, and we step ped on. "I . hung onto the hand bar as the braceftian rapped two, and we sank out of the night into darker night The damaged guide was just below us as we stopped at the mid-mine "We got oil, rapped the cage awaj . ind went along the main gallery then turned and went down a bit of a dip to the auxiliary , shaft. Qui . pit .lamps threw only a ; faint light . : .the naked flames- causing the. shad . . ows .to .flicker., c i , viVThe shaft was -boarded in; IbereVs was a wooden door on a latch, with a sign— 'DANGER.' InsMe was the dark mouth of the shaft which was some hundred and eighty feet deep. It was unlined. "There were eight twenty feet plank ladders, each resting on a shoulder or ledge of rock. The planks were bolted to the rock sides, and battens, projecting on each side of the planks, formed the steps or rungs. From the bottom of each lad der to the top of the next, the rock shoulder sloped slightly down and: outwards, and projected some two feet from the side. The distance be tween them being about seven feet. The ladders were perpendicular. " 'Keep a tight grip and take your time,' uncle Bob advised. I never could stand on the edge of a sheer cliff without being dizzy. "7 waited till the others were on the second ladder and followed. When I reached the first ledge, I sat down carefully, holding on to the ladder. Then I let go and started to lift myself along with my back to the side of the shaft. Out of one eye I saw uncle Bob waiting silently on the next ladder. Looking down into the awful gaping maw of the shaft I felt my arms go rubbery and my stomach contract as if some unknown force was drawing me to wards it. I closed my eyes and with all my strength opened them again fixing my eyes on the ledge. At the top of the next ladder I drank some cold water from my water bottle ,> 'You'll be o.k.' said my uncle, 'the : first is always the worst.' "When we reached the bottom 1 was sick, and for years afterwards I had nightmares, slipping, clutch ing vainly for a hold, and falling— >vaking up screaming my head off ' jy£Y uncles gave me a jumper-drib and heavy hammer, and sei me boring - a shot . hole at ..an easy angle. -The- -air was bad and my > head ached .-When. I had been ham ' -. mering ; for:- more than a- thousand blows my hole was in only, about a foot. They tatight me how to make . up the shots ;iby; .cutting the end of; >: the fuse at an angle, clearingcthe cap of sawdust by tapping the open end gently on my thumb nail, and inserting the ruse carefully until the long edge -touched the side at the bottom, clear of the explosive centre, and then, as though further pre cautions were unnecessary, ' nipping the open end of the cap tight onto the fuse with my teeth. "This first shift I made up three shots like this, boring the ends of three sticks of dynamite and push ing in the . caps with the fuses at tached. When the shots were fired my uncles started boring again and I filled and wheeled the skips to the Flat by the pit bottom. "I was pretty tired when uncle Bob said it was about three o'clock and would I nip out and see if the cage was down. If it was down on the left side it would mean the shaft was O.K. now, and we. could go up for tea. "I had got to about 12 yards from the bottom when I saw the cage landing slowly. As I turned, to go back with the good news the whole damn pit seemed to be blowint? im behind me. It was a booming crash ing noise like thunder, and the nlacl shook like an earthquake. Then there was a final great crash. But bv this time I was about 40 yards in eal loping round the turn as if all hell 1 was after me. I tripped on something I and finished the last few yards on my face and elbows, and my uncles passed me— running out. "When I limped back to pit bot tom uncle Bob was crouched on the top of the crumpled wreck of the f cage. I saw the remains of a skip 1 its angle irons and axles. Four feet 1 rails were scattered about, some f had pierced the cage roof, and others 1 were scattered, bent and twisted I some fifteen yards from the cage I . landing. | Uncle Boh, holding his lamp witn i his thumb and fore-finger, the palm I of his hand shading it, had been I looking over the ruins. Suddenly he | stood still, his gaze fixed, then he I' showly backed down. His face, when I he turned it towards us, was pale' if beneath its coating of stone dust, is He kept looking at me while speak- ing to uncle Jim. || "'There's a man down, too.' His ft voice was low and strained. Uncle I Jim never asked who, but just said, m kind of sad and resigned, 'Young H Bin.' , 1 "Uncle Bob, still watching me, I said: 'Take Riley in to where that I brattice roll is and make him com- fj fortable. We're going to be here for I a long time.' ft "What had happened? m "The men working in the shaft M had finished and come up. They got p off at the surface landing. That left p the other cage hanging in the shaft. || The braceman, who had gone off p to put on the tea, denied signalling p the 'all clear,' the winding driver || swore h'd got the signal and lower- m ed the cage to the bottom on the |1 1 iiii Wmaw lira Orti 1 1 /I Fv> iCAt oiuu uu Act ua AJLIUW come up. Left alone, young Bill had | thought the cage still there, and in || the storm and darkness had thought || to send down the skip of rails. It j| was heavy going pushing the loaded || skip up the short rise, and he would || be flat out with his head between j|:: his arms. Well, the main thing is p that there were no safety gates to g; fall into place as on the pit-top, and |V the heavy skip keeled over into the m shaft; jerking him with it. He hadn't M a chance. "I had heard uncle Bob speak. I b. knew they were both looking at me, jfjj but . I . just stood there in a half jf trance, seeing only the twisted heap 1 of iron. I was thinking that in this ruin, with the shaft seepage pouring | down upon it like a flood, was the || smashed body of young Bill, and I Jg knew, as a big hand touched my j|| shoulder to. turn me away, that there g| too, lay the remains of the.pit image || of my school days." m When he stopped speaking, Riley ft looked directly at Mick. Mick was g busy filling his pipe. gj - Is 