 Soviet writers visit Australia are the books of certain Australian writ ers selling in hundreds of thousands among the people of the Soviet Union? Is it "because their characters are "flesh and blood" people with an "active attitude to reality"? That is the view of two Soviet writers now visiting Australia for a fortnight as guests of the Fellowship of Australian Writers reciprocating the visit of Alan Marshall to the USSR a year ago. The Soviet writers are novelist Daniil Granin, and Oksana Kru- gerskaya, who is the translator of many Australian novels and short stories. This is Oksana's second visit to Australia. She was here in 1960 with poet Alexei Surkov, the sec retary of the Union of Soviet Writers. Her husband, a fighter pilot, was killed in action during World War 2.. Daniil Granin, was an electric al engineer before he turned to writing. He endured the siege of Leningrad during 1941-42, and is also a keen sculptor. At a press interview at Sydney Airport last Wednesday, Oksana said the literature of Australian writers like Katharine Susanna Prichard, Henry Lawson, Alan Marshall, Frank Hardy and John Morrison was "close to the heart of the Russian people". They had been translated into many languages of the Soviet republics —such as Uzbekistan and Molda via. Australian children's books like I Nan Chauncey's "The Devil's 1 Hill" were published and sold f out in big editions. f Alan Marshall's book "I Can I Jump Puddles" would be publish- ! ed in a second edition of 150,000 $ copies, she said. | Characters in Australian novels I had even passed into the curren- | cy of everyday speech. | Daniil Granin has written four | novels: one historical novel about 1 the Paris Commune of 1871, one 1 about the youth of modern soci- . | alism in the Soviet Union, and f two which have as their heroes g young scientist-inventors who 1 struggle hard to have their pro- j jects accepted and made a real- f ity. One of these "Those Who | Seek" is on sale (10/-) at New | World Booksellers, 425 Pitt g Street, Sydney and other pro- I gressive book shops. | Daniil Granin's favourite west- I em writers, apart from Austra- $ lian authors, are Kafka, and the I modern American novelists Up- S dyke and Salinger. Salinger's j "Catcher in the Rye" has been j published in a large edition in S the Soviet Union. | He said that there had been ! cases in the past when books | were refused publication, al- g though of literary merit. Refusal ! now, he said, would be because . I the book had little or no literary i merit. j The two writers want to see as j much of Australia as they can in g their short stay, to meet "all our j Australian friends again", and j Daniil Granin wants particularly I to meet young painters, sculp- j tors and writers. ' I "DK- | 