 New calls for world meetings to prohibit nuclear weapons NEW YORK: A new initiative for the calling of a world disarmament conference has been taken by 33 non-aligned nations in a proposal to the United Nations Disarma ment Commission sitting in New York. In New York, the Soviet delegate, Nikolai Federenko, on May 24 called on the UN Disarmament Comm'ssion to take definite decisions on the question of prohibiting nuclear weapons, foreign bases and related matters. At the same time a Sino-Tanzanian Government communique called for the convening of a summit confer ence, to include every country in the world, to discuss the prohibition and thorough destruction of nuclear weapons. The 33 non-aligned Afro-Asian states put their proposals to the UN Disarmament Commission on June 3. They reaffirmed the proposal carried by the Second Conference of Non-Aligned Nations in October, 1964, calling for a world disarma ment conference, with invitations to be issued to all countries. The 33 nations proposed that the UN Disarmament Commission put this proposal to the next session of the UN General Assembly. The non-aligned nations' proposal means bringing non-UN members into the discussion. These include China, the two Germanys, Korea and Vietnam. Speaking before the UN Disarma ment Commission, Soviet delegate Federenko suggested that it take a definite decision on questions such as the banning of nuclear weapons, dismantling military bases on other countries' territories and the calling of a world disarmament conference Neutral backing He pointed out that the idea of a disarmament conference was being supported by a whole number of socialist and neutral nations. "The prohibition of nuclear wea pons should be one of the first steps," said Dr. Federenko. "Most states have supported this measure and the USSR shares Ethiopia's view that ah international agreement on the banning of nuclear weapons will make possible an agreement on other aspects of dis armament." He called for the immediate dis mantling of foreign bases on the territories of other states and he adoption of measures to stop the spread of nuclear weapons — as threatened under the NATO multi lateral force proposal. The US delegate opposed all these propositions on the ground that they would assist the USSR, but not the West. China peace call The China-Tanzanian communique issued after Chinese Premier Chou's visit to Tanzania, said: "Both parties hold that a summit conference of all the countries of the world should be convened to discuss the question of the complete prohibition and thorough destruction of nuclear weapons. "As a first step the nuclear powers and the countries which may soon become nuclear powers should undertake not to use nuclear weapons. "Both parties were firmly con vinced that so iong as the world's peoples persevere in their unremit ting struggle for peace, nuclear weapons can be prohibited and a nuclear war prevented." The Soviet and other socialist governments have strongly sup ported the proposals by the neutral and Chinese Governments for a world summit conference to ban nuclear weapons, stop all testing and d'— troy stockpiles. All such proposals are opposed by the US and other imperialist Governments. The United Nations General Assembly in session i , 