 Bad record j behind Libs.j promises! i SYDNEY: Those who heard or read the j spate of election promises produced by Liberal Party leader R. Askin last week j would recall the Liberals' record in the past on such major issues as working hours and housing. THEY will recall Liberal Party opposition . to the 40-hour week and later to the granting of the 40-hour week to rural workers. Speaking when the 40- hour week for rural workers was debated in the House, Mr. Willis, NSW deputy-leader of the Liberal Party, said: "My colleagues and ' I believe that to impose a uniform and rigid sys tem of hours on rural industry em ployment this bringing to the farm the procedure applicable to the fac tory will destroy the happy relation ship that has long been a part of the way of life of both employer and employee on the land." It is not so long that the . Liberals defeated in the State Upper . House a Labor Government amendment that would have given tenants greater security. Then there is the airlines dispute, in which the Federal Liberal-Country Party Government has even ignored a High Court ruling in its efforts, to extend the Ansett airline monopoly. Even . the NSW Country Party" has been unwilling to go with Askin in supporting this. Now the chairman of the inde pendent East-West. Airlines (Mr. D. M. Shand) in a press statement says: "Mr. Askin's suggestion that if only he were Premier he would settle the Dubbo air dispute in a matter of hours infers that he is prepared in advance to surrender State trans port responsibilities to the Common wealth and allow Ansett ANA to - dominate public air transport in NSW. "This would favor creeping mono poly instead of decentralisation. ' ' Askin says that he iwll carry out his program without increasing taxes. But where is the money to come from otherwise? It is no secret that the Menzies government's forthcoming Federal "5C" win carry heavier taxation. J®. Pay Ir the greatly increased military expenditure, and to help onset the balance of payments prob- nis resulting from excessive re liance on foreign capital. Sir Robert Menzies made it clear wnen speaking to a rally of NSW Liberal Party members that he jnt coughing up any money. Jhe Prime Minister said he be- ® . that . the Australian people nnH r kis Government's defence ana foreign policy but they still had . Pick UP the bill. deputation from the Teachers' linvJi and ottler organisations wSnl Y . education found out the acirorf0!- in's Promises when they St'Afl his Party's attitude to te aid to private schools. Were cynicalIy told that the reaoSS W? d be Suided by the likely In voters to their proposals. the? nno' n's Plicy speech fur- even E6? S® door to state aid' lng of a d ? signs are multiply- Liberal ln the NSW u v5 the Issue. It should also be noted that Labor Premier Renshaw also include ed in his policy speech a form of State aid by means of textbook sub sidies and bursaries to both State and private schools. Labor plan patchy On the whole, Renshaw projected a picture of a Labor program dir ected to meet a number of the peo ple's immediate needs, including hous ing, education and assistance to the aged. He indicated clearly how much each part of his program would cost. But there were serious omissions, especially concerning major trade un ion issues. While noting the NSW Government support for the current ACTU basic wage claim, and promising 5-year cumulative sick leave for all workers under State awards, there was no reference to the vexed question of anti-union penal laws. Abolition of these laws... has been repeatedly demanded by"" the trade union movement and also NSW Labor Party conferences. Renshaw also kept off the issue of monopoly exploitation of NSW; apart from a proposal to enquire into the retail trade practices of chain stores, as part of an open enquiry into shop ping hours. There was no proposition to tax monopoly concerns to provide funds for a governmental program. Communist team The Communist Party Is fielding 13 candidates, presenting a program that aims to meet the real needs of the trade unions and the people generally, with special reference to wage in creases and price control. These candidates are demanding a much higher return, from the Com monwealth in tax reimbursements for NSW, special aid for public education, housing and health requirements, and the taxing of wealthy monopoly in terests to pay for the allocations. 