 ft dfte? s a 81 H From a report by a "New Times" correspondent If yHERE is a hill in Thanlj j| Hoa that is called The 1 Sleeping Woman. The 1 Vietnamese love the mys- I terious reclining figure J its contours suggest. This I manly nation often sees | beauty of every kind in j terms of the beauty of 1 woman. | \ Another hill bears the name i "She Who Waits for Her Hus- I band". That anxious waiting I for the loved one beset by I danger on the battlefield. It lasted many centuries for the women of Thanh Hoa. Once their husbands drove the Chams south and the Chinese feud al north. Only recently they fought off the Japanese and French im perialists. || Now danger threatens again but H II? lonSer do the women stand on II "\e roads peering sadly into the &lt;fi toisty distances. H Today they fight side by side with H their men, often even in place of gj them. Ilt was one such woman I met at a meeting of the Nam Ngan village co-operative. Ngo Thi Tuyen is eigh teen, has a face as delicate and pure as a flower. But her hands are the calloused, scratched hands . of the peasant woman who reaps rice. a flutter of. the eyelids she vS Aether the girls in So- fill were good shots. I con- tv.6' i didn't know for sure hut nought they probably were. scored 29 out of 30. yesterday," she proudly informed me.' . -J?01 very important to Tuyen, thP was one of the defenders of m Rung railway bridge which American pilots tried to destroy early in April. She fired at the F-105 planes from a kneeling position and it may well he that the bullet that pierced the tank of one and blew it up was hers. "When they're hedge-hopping our anti-aircraft guns can't hit them," explained Tuyen. "That's when we volunteers take over. We have 20 girls in our company, and all as good marksmen as the boys." One day, I thought as I looked at her, the poetic Vietnamese would name one of their innumerable hills after her. ? Ninh Binh lies 80 kilometres from Hanoi. South of it, ali daytime travel ling, whether on foot or by car, is out. The schools are closed, the facto ries stand idle, the markets are deserted. Airplanes roar, ack-ack guns pound, bombs explode. Courageous people in faded shirts coolly set their sights on the div ing planes. At night, deafened by the long hours of battle, worn out by a thirsty, stifling, day in the trenches, they wield picks and hammers to clear away the debris and repair the day's damage. Children light tiny lamps and open their dog-eared notebooks. Market women put out their simple wares-bananas, papaya, litchi. Pocket flashlights cut the dark ness here and there, terse orders ring out, strings of cars line up at the crossing. The courage of these people is. boundless. All day long they crouch in trenches with rifles on tne ready, because they are volunteer helpers of the army. At night they make up the work time lost by day. There is no slight est sign of confusion or doubt on their faces.Perhaps that is why the republic's losses of human life have been so relatively low. ? Sitting at the edge of the trench, Tuyen pounded away at a huge green coconut with a stone. The roar of the planes had faded away but the all-clear had not yet been sounded. Despite her rank — she is a senior sergeant — and her cork helmet camouflaged with green leaves, she looked like a pert little bird. As though it were not she who had just stood under a rain of lead. The coconut pierced at last, she drank her fill and then passed the shell to me and I too sipped the cool, sweet milk. Tuyen started to sing in a thin, bell-like voice, but the roar of a jet interrupted her song. We both leapt into the trench and ducked. The jets thundered over our heads. The ack-aqfc guns struck up in chorus again. Large-calibre machine- guns rattled overhead, the windows in the nearby house shook. Then silence fell again. The planes dropped their bombs somewhere to the south-east. At this distance the explosions sounded like wine-corks popping. Still there was no all-clear. Without waiting for it, I went to the post-office to send off my story. 'it was noon hut so quiet and deserted was Vinh that I felt as though some- One had playfully turned on the sun . in the middle of the night when all were' asleep. But no, the city was not asleep. People in cork helmets stood in the shelter of the trees while along the road moved a green thicket. An ack-ack unit was chang ing its position. JFour silvery planes came darting out from behind the trees. A loud speaker on a post gave voice: "Bring them down, airplane hunt ers, fire at the heart of the enemy!" A very young volunteer steadily fired away at the bombers. And- again the ack-ack guns spoke up; One of the planes suddenly' fell silent and seemed to hang suspended y from a thick rope of smoke: The trenches rang with cheers and ap plause. That is how Vinh lives, that city of the revolution, the centre of Nghean province where the first workers' and peasants' councils in Vietnam sprang up back in the 'thirties. Ten times a day U.S. bombers fly over it, to drive people underground, to humiliate them, break their will power, kill them. All in vain. Vinh is fighting hack. We left the town at sunset. We had to get to Thanh Hoa by mor ning, otherwise we could easily be held up another 24 hours. But hard ly had our Volga driven the few kilometres to the ferry than all around was suddently flooded in light. The planes had come back and dropped flares over the crossing. We took shelter in a ditch. In the intervals between the gunshots we . could - hear the bombs whining. Tracer bullets made fiery stitch- . ings across the sky. Explosions thun dered high overhead. An hour later it was all over and we drove on. We drove along the road of war, passing burnt, bullet-riddled lorries and the empty . silvery-white fuel tanks the U.S. pilots dropped from their planes. Our car was stopped by . volun teers. ' "Switch off your lights if they, start firing at you," one of them said to our driver. "Oh, nang you," .our usually im perturbable Thuc "burst out. "By now all the Americans are in Da Nang's whorehouses. The scoundrels are finished for the day." But the very next moment the sky was again lit up by flares. The bombers were seeking their targets. Evidently they missed them, for their ' thunder faded away. Our papers were checked once more and we fol lowed a lorry carrying wounded men on to the ferry. I thought of Dr. Tran Van Quy of the Thanh Hoa hospital, whom I had met the day before. He had told me about an American pilot who had been brought to their hos pital with a leg wound. The pilot kept showing everyone a nylon rag in the corner of which was stamped an American flag and these words in many languages. "Don't kill me. Feed me and send me home." With no right to claim sympathy, he yet looked entreatingly at the Vietnamese and stuck his scrap of nylon in front of their eyes. No one meant to kill him. He was taken to the hospital for treatment. While the Vietnamese fought off his coun trymen he was operated on. His leg was not amputated, it was saved for him. But still he held tight to his rag. ? . Endless wars, invasions, dire pov erty, decades of struggles for free dom have made courage a national trait of the Vietnamese. "We can't be destroyed from the air," Captain Luyen told me, "and it is hard for the Americans to fight us on the ground. They know that. If they come here they will meet with another Dien Bien Phu." 