 50 million teeth I j need filling ... how about yours ?\ ( A non-contributory dental health scheme for j children has been proposed by the Federal Council | of the Miscellaneous Workers' Union which met | : recently in Hobart. j I UNION deputation will j put the scheme up to j the Federal Health Minis- | ter (Mr. Schwartz). j Putting the case for such a j scheme, Council said that at least i one million Australians under 18 I years needed major or .minor j work on their teeth, i Statistics showed that in (Australia's 11 million population about 50 million teeth needed I filling at any one moment more j than four per head, j Out of every 100 people about ! 90 needed treatment. | Of these only 25 to 30 in the j 100 sought help regularly, Coun- I cil said. i At least two million people I need major or minor treatment j of gums. | The MWU Council represents 8 54,000 members throughout Aus- tralia. | Mr. R. Gietzel, Federal Secre- | tary, said the union this year is | celebrating its 50th anniversary. I The union was first formed in I Sydney in 1915 with Mr. J. I Coote, who was then the Trades I Hall caretaker, as the first secre I tary. 1 Mr. Gietzelt said the member- I ship of the union has increased I by 60 per cent over the last six I years. I . The Council has also pledged full support to the Australian I Council of Trade Unions in any ! action initiated on behalf of the 1 Waterside Workers' Federation j "We regard the attack on the ! WWF as a direct attack on every j trade unionist," Council said. "The policy of the WWF for a pension scheme and mechanisa tion fund is a positive trade union issue requiring the support of the Australian trade union movement. "Comparable waterfront work ers in the U.S.A. do enjoy a pen sions scheme granted after nego tiations with shipowners of the U.SA. > Pensions schemes operate also in Japan, United Kingdom and other countries." A resolution condemning the Federal Government's foreign policy "which will undoubtedly cause bitter resentment to Aus- lians in Asia" said "Recourse to military action cannot solve the difficult issues in Vietnam." It called for: .Withdrawal of all foreign, troops (including Australia from the area. A negotiated cease fire by the United Nations. Holding of free elections throughout Vietnam under the auspices of the U.N. Installation of a UN peace keeping force. 