 The "Humanitarian" Americans say . . . I Let's bomb North Vietnam j "back to the Stone Age" 1 1 IS bombing of the Red River dykes near Hanoi, in north Vietnam, would be the equiva lent of dropping an atom -bomb. Yet this is the course being demanded by Us General Curtis LeMay, Republican leader Richard "Nixon and ethers of the extreme wsr-party gathering strength in Washington last -week; Their pressure sharpened the danger of fur' her and more dan gerous spread of the Vietnam war. , Heavy losses in ' the field, total failure to make any progress, and admissions that US propaganda was misleading the people about losses in the war led to a major crisis in Washington. One sign of it was the resignation of presidential adviser McGeorge Bundy, one of the four most powerful men in the White House — the other three being the Pres ident, State Secretary Rusk and Defence Secretary McNamara. Eoosted strongly by a section of the press in the crisis was the demand cf former Air Force chief General Curtis LeMay to "bomb" north Vietnam "back into the Stone Age." This was echoed by the present air force head General John P. McConnell who said the war could be ended "virtually overnight" if the US was not so "humanitarian". Tnese statements were followed by what was claimed to be the "most savage" raids to date on north Vietnam, 140 planes dropping 3000 bombs in 24 hours. Professor Bernard Fall, profes sor of international relations at Howard University, Washington, last week condemned the cam paign for bigger bombings, which, he said, would only increase Viet namese resistance. He said that bombing (of the Red River dykes would mean that "between one and three million people probably will drown in a flash with never a chance to ' reach high ground — and that includes the city of Hanoi". He recalled that nazi war cnminals were Indicted at Nurem berg for having blown up the dykes in Holland — "yet some people here are openly contem plating similar action in Viet nam". "It would be worse even than dropping the atom bomb". Other frantic scherr ?s being propounded involved a US full scale attack on Laos and possibly Cambodia to destroy the mythical "Ho Chi Minh Trail" from north Vietnam. Estimates of the numbers of US troops to be poured into, south Vietnam rose to 350,000 and even to brlf million next yer.r. US Newsweek special writer- Emmet John Hughes comments in ; the current issue: "The moment is sobering, even chilling, for criticisms of US policy in. Vietnam. Almost devastatingly they have , pro\fcn right — not largely but overwhelmingly" Can't win Two captured US sergeants re leased by the south Vietnam Lib eration Front as a gesture to coincide with the huge Novem ber' 27 peace demonstration iu Washington, said they would re turn home to campaign for peace. They said the US could not win. This view was reinforced by admissions by pro-US journalists in the field that the US military leaders in Vietnam were fakitig the casualty figures in Vietnam. In the Svdnev Morning Herald in December veteran correspon dent Denis Warner accused the "Saigon public-relations mills" of "doing a disservice to the allied cause" by providing inaccurate, "sometimes roseate" estimates of the results of clashes with the "Viet Cong. On the same cay Sydney Sun Saigon conrespondJent, under the heading "Why True Story Can't Be Told" said that nobody in Saigon believed the daily reports of American briefing officers in Vietnam. Conviction that the people were not being told the truth was ex pressed at Washington's huge anti-war demonstration on Nov ember 27, where attendance wa' estimated , by the organisers at 40,000. Youth shuns war In Australia, dislike of the war was admitted last week to be the reason for a rush of young men into the Commonwealth Military Forces. In taking action to block what it called "draft dodging" the Government admitted that many CMF recruits were motivated not be military ardor but the opposite — a desire to avoid being con scripted for Vietnam. Australian young men found little to encourage them to sign up for Vietnam in the news, that Australian troops already there have refused to accept "support" in future from American artillery, since they found this "support" more dangerous than enemy action. A public opinion poll taken by the Sydney Daily Mirror last Thursday showed eight out of 10 young people polled as opposing Australia's participation in the war. 