 | Trade Bill "victory for greedy interests" CANBERRA: The Menzies Government's Trade Practices Bill was an enormous victory for the "great, greedy, unscrupulous vested interests of Sydney and Melbourne", the Federal Opposition leader, Mr Calwell, said last week-end over a Melbourne radio station . " "|T was even a bigger victory for their even greedier, more unscrupulous and more de manding masters overseas. "The bill ' would actually weaken Australia's defences against monopo- lies and restrictive trade practices." After a delay of six years the debate on restrictive trade practices finally got tinder way in the House of Rep resentatives last Thursday night. The Deputy Leader of the Opposi tion Mr. Whitlam, when leading the Labor Party in the debate on the bill, ?\ described it as "puny and anaemic". While he did not attempt to block I the legislation, he moved ' a motion calling on the House to note with approval that in response to public pressure the Government had introduc ed this "limited" bill. The motion also deplored the Gov ernment's abandonment of a substan tial part of Sir Garfield Barwick's 1962 proposals on resale price mainten ance, persistent price cutting, mono polisation and mergers. Sir Garfield Barwick's 1962 bill" had dealt with some of the lesser effects of monopoly, while leaving monopoly itself untouched. But even this, .had been too much for the monopoly interests and so most of Barwick's proposals were eliminated-in. the present bill. Concentration Mr. Whitlam said "There was little .competition over a wide range of Aus tralian industry and commence". "Prices are determined not by com petition in the market place but by managements in the Board rooms". "The manufacturing industry in Australia showed a greater degree of monopoly than in most other coun tries. "It had been found in one study that one third of it was highly con centrated, and one half at least fairly concentrated. "Thirty two industries were indenti- fied as highly concentrated. "Fourteen of them being single mon opolies in such fields as basic steel, refined sugar, glass and glass products, newsprint, industrial gases and ex plosives. "The remainder was 'oligopolised', most of them subsidiaries of foreign firms." Mr. Whitlam referred to the state ment by Minister of Trade, Mr. Mc- Ewen, that 700 Australian companies were parties to 1100 agreements which restricted exports. "With 40 per cent of manufacturing industry in foreign hands these restric tions were becoming serious." Mr. R. F. Connor (Labor, NSW) told Parliament "That the Bnrwick proposals had been white-anted by some of the best brains available to monopoly.' "The bill claimed to be comprhen- sive, yet it contained no controls of mergers or takeovers, or any provi sions for the control of the individual as distinct from collective resale price maintenance except in monopolisation. Organisation "The degree of market concentra tion in Australia was unusually high, particularly in comparison with the British, American and Canadian econ omies. "Of about 1250 trade associations in Australia, at least two-thirds had as some part of their function the organ isation of restrictive agreements." "The amendments to the Trade Practices Bill would bring a further weakening of the already weak provi sions relating to monopolies," Profes sor J. E. Richardson, Professor of Law at the National University Can berra, said last week. jjespne me puny ana anaemic character of the present bill only one Liberal backbencher, Mr. E. M. Fox of Victoria has given unqualified sup port so far in the debate on the legis lation. Four other Liberals have given qualified support or have opposed it outright. 