 | The angry rail men I S i SYDNEY : Last week the Communist Party was in- j terviewed by 17 angry men — railway men. i I "THEIR anger was directed I at the NSW Govern- J ment, who have passed | the buck" on their claims | for increment payments, 1 and at Railways Commis- | sioner McCusker who has | rejected them. S Their claim is for 16/6 a week 2 after one year's service; 33/- i after the second year; 49/6 after I the third year. | These men, delegated from g railway workshops throughout = Sydney, interviewed the Labor I Party, the Communist Party g and trade unions, asking that I these organisations back their | request to the NSW Labor j Council for a 4-hour stoppage = in their campaign to win the I payments. 1 Communist j support | The trade unions interviewed j backed their campaign, and g Communist Party Central Com- mittee member Mr. Les Kelton, I who interviewed them, pledged j the unqualified support of the g Party. g He offered them time on the 1 Party's radio program "Voice of | the Country Side" to state their | case. 8 Assistant secretary of the NSW Labor Party, Mr. Mulvi- | hill, and Senator-elect to the I State Government, told the de- g putation he would refer their 1 request to the Deputy Premier I and Minister for Local Gov- ernment and Highways, Mr. | P. D. Hills. g At the interview with the I Communist Party the men said I they existed on subsistence I wages, among the lowest in the State and in Australia. Despite this, and despite mounting demands from the workers for militant action, they stressed that their cam paign had been conducted so as not to embarrass the Labor Government prior to the elec tions. They felt that by this they had kept faith with the Government, but had only received a rebuff in return. Their proposals had- been sub mitted to the Premier, Mr. Ren shaw, on December 16, and he had said that they would he referred to the Commissioners for Railways and Road Trans port. Lost initiative This had taken the initiative from the Premier and the Gov ernment lost out to the anti- working class Liberal-Country party, they said. Last October, railway workers in Victoria, after one of the big gest and most united campaigns for many years, won increases that jumped them from the low est to the highest paid railway workers in Australia. Mr. Renshaw is reported as saying that he- did not intend to follow the views of Mr. Bolte. In fact, the increases were the exact opposite to the views of Victorian Liberal Premier Bolte, but were forced from him by stop-work meetings, demonstrations and other forms of on and off the job activity. The deputation told the Com munist Party that they were speaking for the majority of railway workers when they said that a golden opportunity existed for Premier Renshaw to grant the claims, precisely because he was on the eve of ah election. r This would ensure a vote from | thousands of railway workers g and their wives and a definite S firming in the vote of the trade | union movement for the Labor | Party. Losing patience I The comments of the workers | at the interview with the Com- | munist Party are an indication, | on the one hand, of their long I patience with the Labor Govern- j ment, and on the other, their growing impatience and deter- | mination to win their claims. | One of them, from the Electric Car Shop at Chullora, said— g "The stand of the Labor Party 1 is far from praiseworthy. This j attitude of 'we'll see some one | next week' in a period when it's g politically wise to grant the in- ! creases may have the result that I neither the Labor Party nor the j workers want." Another worker from the g same workshop said: "It's j been hard for us not to take I the bit in our teeth and make g a go of it. The lesson here is g that only industrial action will | get results as it did in 1961." j A worker from the Loco Water t Supply, Chullora — j "The railways in NSW have | never been better off financially. | They are operating at a profit g and yet we are denied what is | rightfully ours. They say they | can't meet our increment pay- | ments, hut they can pay the | Commissioner an increase of 1 £2,000 a year." I Another delegate from Chul- I lora said that from the rolling g shop work was going out to g private contractors who paid | their workers over - award g money far in excess of what g railway workers were paid. | One example cited was the | sending of rail cars to Tul- g lochs where workers were paid I £4 over the award. g One third of railway workers I lived on a subsistence wage of j £15/15/- a week and there was a g turnover in labor of about 1,200 | a year. j This led to a deterioration of g amenities. Garbage tins were s left to overflow with the result- | ant risk of disease, toilets were g dirty, etc. | Not valid j Proving that the cry of "no g money" was not a valid one, a I worker pointed out that the | railways have had two record 8 years — in 1964 they earned over g £101 million and showed an | operating profit for the second g year in succession. 1 The present year showed a j profit of £250,000 after £13A- mil- i lion had been paid in interest j and capital debt. I FOOTNOTE: The NSW Labor I Government's attitude to trans- | port workers' demands for in- g creased wage increments was S crass stupidity, said Mr. W. g Buckley, Communist election g team leader, last week. g In a circular letter to MLA's j who had made representations | to him on behalf rail workers' g union committees, the Minister 1 for Transport, Mr. J. McMahon, | said that the Government will j not be influenced to depart from g its attitude to wage fixing by the 8 "irresponsible actions of the I Liberal Government ..." j He says that the Bolte Gov- g ernment's decision to ignore the I established Arbitration machin- 1 ery to grant the increases was g "ill-considered." | The letter says "it would be 1 quite impractical, and indeed g improper for the Government to g take over during wage negotia- 1 tions ..." I j , I Railway workers discuss their problems with Communist Party representatives. | 5 2 