 Churchill fought the Nazis Though much of his life's work ended in failure. . CIR WINSTON CHURCHILL, who died at his home in London on Sunday, won lasting honor and the gratitude of his own and other democratic peoples for his leadership of Britain in the main period of the anti-fascist war, World War II. It was outstanding in his life because the main task to which he joined his energies, the military defeat of the Nazi forces, was achieved. Most of the other causes espoused by Churchill over his long life proved to be ill-judged, useless or ended in ruin because they ran counter to history. i N World War II, his "great man" capacities succeeded because he was realist enough to form an alliance with the power which he and his class had always hated most in all the world— the Soviet Union and the world communist movement. He was objective enough to admit afterwards that the victory of Brit ain ahd her allies was due more than anything else' to the Soviet Union. It was the "Russian resist ance", he wrote in Volume III of his war memoirs, which "broke the power of the German armies." And it was Germany's defeat which ultimately and inevit ably led to the defeat of her allies, Italy and Japan. Opponent of socialism But for Churchill's role in the war against . Hitler, he would have been known to histoiy mainly as a bitter but unsuccessful opponent of the working class, socialism and the national liberation movement. Although he switched back and forth between Tory, Liberal and Independent, Churchill was consist ent in his hatred of socialism. His political life was at all times de voted above all to the preservation of the power and wealth of British imperialism. In 1910 as Liberal Home Secre tary and in 1926 as the Tory Gov-- ernment's minister charged with breaking the General Strike, he made his mark as an enemy of the British trade union movement. Jn 1918-1920 Churchill, as War , Minister in the Lloyd George Gov ernment, spent £100 . million of the British taxpayers rnioney trying to destroy the newborn Soviet Repub- slic.. He organised 14 foreign armies to' invade what later became the USSR. He said "Bolshevism had to be strangled at birth." :That was the most spectacular of all his failures, not even excluding Galiipoli. Before he died Sir Win ston saw "Bolshevism" established as ! the government over one third of the world and making rapid pro gress in the rest of it. However, with the rise of Hitier- ism, Churchill became the champion of that section of British capital ism which saw in Hitlerism a real menace to British imperialist in terests — so that ap alliance with the USA and even the USSR be came necessary to counter it. Against Hitler In the struggle against Hitler and the Chamberlain- led pro-Hitler ele ments in Britain, Churchill did in deed attain his "finest hour". Following Chamberlain's Munich betrayal, Churchill seems to have appreciated the necessity of the Soviet-German non-aggression pact of 1939. He welcomed the Soviet march into Poland which followed its overthrow by Hitler. In 1940 he ousted Chamberlain and formed a Government pledged to fight Hitler to the last. In 1941, he rejected Hitler's proposals for an ant i- Soviet alliance conveyed by f?ss;TJnstead' when Hitler attacked the USSR, he immediately declared full support for the USSR with whom he later signed a 20-year al liance. Seeing that this was entirely in the nation's interests, the people won the greatest support of his rallied enthusiastically and Churchill won the greatest support of his career. His speeches and writings in this period inspired millions. However, the people of Britain saw that in the late stages of the j war, his underlying anti-Soviet 1 stand emerged in schemes to mount I some major military intervention ' into central and eastern Europe. j They saw his long-standing op. j position to the Indian independence l movement emerge in his statement: "I did not become his Majesty's First Minister to preside over the dissolution of the British Empire." And so, in 1945, he was uncere moniously voted out of office. The voters' judgment was proved right when, in his Fulton (USA) speech of 1946, Churchill launched his last and possibly his most, dan gerous enterprise— the Cold War. Raking up Goebbels' phrase about the "iron curtain", Churchill called for an end to the three-power al liance which had defeated Hiiler and its replacement by an Anglo- American alliance against the USSR and other socialist countries The disastrous results of this )ol- icy — to Britain's world position first and foremost — became rap idly obvious. Socialism has grown stronger; the national liberation movement has swept continents; imperialism can no longer do as it pleases. However, few people today recall the Fulton speech or Churchill's part in the anti-socialist cold war. By remembering him for his part in the anti-fascist fight for free dom, people imply recognition that it is only those leaders who strug gle for the emancipation of man kind, national and international, who can win lasting acclaim. MAGAZINE BACKGROUND 