 Sth. Vietnam is governed from the American Pentagon V "If all armament factories were government-owned and there were no private profiteers from war, war could be buried or put in a museum."— — Mr. G. W. Duthie, Opposition Whip in Federal Parliament. T CANBERRA: A lot a# people make money out of war and this is one of the greatest tragedies of our time, Mr. G. W. Duthie, Labor Tasmania, Opposition Whip, said in the reeent foreign affairs debate in the House of Representatives. "DUT many armament pro fiteers in America are afraid of peace breaking out in Asia. That is a fact." In South Vietnam, said Mr. Duthie, thousands of people had "turned against their so-called government and joined the guerilla bands. "What have they to lose? First they had the French and then they had half a dozen regimes each last ing only overnight. "Of course there is an element of civil war about the conflict in Viet nam. They want rice and get rifles. Rebellion, EBpnaBBBBagmnnnBEMiiimiiHiim bitterness "Here we have the seeds of rebel lion and bitterness. The seeds of civil war, violence and bloodshed are all contained in the shocking leader ship that South Vietnam has had over the past few years and perhaps over the past 20 years. "The leadership has been so bad that, in fact, the US has been gov- . erning South Vietnam from the Pentagon in Washington as a sort of absentee landlord. "The ultimate result of the pre sent policy of the US in South Vietnam is to take the country over entirely. "Is that General Taylor's as yet unspoken hope? Is that the next act which will be forced on the US in its intervention? 3rd world war The result of this, said Mr. Duthie, would be a head-on clash between the US and China which could trig ger off a third world war. "It is a delicate, tightrope situa tion . . . The further the US pene trates into North Vietnam, the great er is the chance of such a,-, final conflict." Sir John Cramer (Liberal, NSW) complained about Mr. Duthie's "tir ade of abuse" against the USA and said his own view was "Thank God for America." Mr. L. R. Johnson, Labor, NSW, said Cramer's "slavish" support for all US attitudes must have embar rassed his colleagues. "Someone said ages ago that our foreign policy is non-existent until the mail arrives from the USA" Mr. Johnson commented. "It is better to be 'negotiated' than annihilated" he added. "Coexistence is a reality in Europe. It is the alternative to the massacre of millions of people in Asia and we on this side of the house offer no apology for the fact that we stand for the attainment of coexistence in Asia in the same way as it has been accomplished in Europe." Horror condoned Government supporters, said Mr. Johnson, claimed that Australian condoned the use of gas, napalm and fragmented steel spray from the bomb called Lazy Dog. "Government supporters anticipate a cowed and cringing China, one quarter of the world, beaten, demor alised and frightened. Apparently the Soviet Union has been completely forgotten in this plan ... "We assume that the antagonist will do what we could never do- capitulate to threats and intimida tion or even temporary reverses. "Even in the Frencn Indo-China war and the battle of Dien Bien Phu this was never achieved. It has never been achieved in the past and is not likely to be achieved in the future." South Vietnam had had eight dif ferent administrations in 16 months, none of them democratically elected. "We claim that we are in South Vietnam by invitation of the Gov ernment. In fact there was an in trusion into a civil war in contraven tion of the Geneva agreements. "Which Government asked us to be there? Which asked us to stay? None of the Governments that have been in power expresses the will of the people. Their instability indicates this'. "The only thing to do is to have recourse to the Geneva agreements and make every possible effort to end the fighting." Test firing a small calibre rocket in the Soviet Union. It is believed that this is one of the types of defence rockets being sent to North Vietnam by the USSR. 