 [?] gl R. iiiwnuu. . Lib pjfa ' raid Italians, not fascists While police in Victoria and New south Wales, claiming to be searching for the al leged "Mafia", were raiding hundreds of homes of Italian families recently, a real military fascist organisation — the Ustasha-— continues to have the protection of Liberal Governments, Federal and State. II STASH A is the political- military organisation set up by Hitler's puppet, Anton Pave- lic, to rule wartime Croatia (now part of Yugoslavia). SS-type raids on Italians ) Daily press reports show that I raids on Italian homes in Syd- I ney, Melbourne, Gri f f i t h J (NSW) and other centres have j been carried out by State pol- I ice, in collaboration with Com- j monwealth political police. j A TRIBUNE correspondent reports that recent raids in Griffith (N.S.W.), when plain-clothes police from Sydney entered the homes of respectable citizens in the dawn hours of a Sunday morning, echoed the activities of Hitler's S.S. Arriving with search warrants sworn in Sydney, police searched the homes of four Italian-born families while the occupants were still in bed, in one home police would not leave the bedroom while a woman dr6ss6d Reasons given to the magistrate who signed the warrants, and the purpose of the raids, was not dis closed. Daily press headlines linked the raids with the supposed activities of tlie notorious Mafia organisa tion; in fact, there was no evidence whatever, linking these families with any organisation except their own church. Each of the families had been ! in Australia at least 15 years dur- | ing which time they had proved | themselves worthy citizens and J ! had thoroughly integrated them- I selves with the life and work of j the community. The correspondent said: | I "That this can happen in Aus- j j tralia is a serious warning that we I must ever be on guard against the ! S enemies of democracy. I "That the police had the law on their side in the form of a warrant j to search, is itself a warning; Hit- | ler's S.S. had the law on their side 1 too, and the people of Italy, saw the I results of that kind of law." | McMahon sits I with Ustashi | rpHE president of the Yugoslav j Settlers' Association, Mr. M. I Jurjevic, told Tribune last week that I the Ustashi, have been organising I secretly on military lines in Austra- Ilia for several years, holding regular military camps and conducting classes on sabotage. I Last year a group of Ustashi sabo- J teurs who were , trained in Australia I and secretly entered Yugoslavia hit I world headlines when they were cap- I tured with dynamite, guns and other | weapons. | The Ustashi not only oppose the I Socialist Government of Yugoslavia | hut the whole concept of Yugoslavia I itself, maintaining that Croatia should I be separated as it was under Hitler. I Mr. Jurjevic said that the general .jl secretary of the Ustasha (Mr. Lovo- krovic) represents the organisation on the Captive Nations Committee which recently called for the for mation of governments in exile and war by the western nations to "liberate the captive nations." Federal Minister for Labor, Mr. W. Continued on Page 12 MR. M. JURJEVIC USTASHI Continued from Page 1 McMahon, was the main speaker at the opening rally of "Captive Nations Week" at the Sydney Troca- dero. Mr. Jurjevic also said that recently , the Immigration ' Department in ; Melbourne made two Yugoslav migrants sign declarations of hostility to the Yugoslav Govern ment before they would grant them travel documents to go overseas. "These two Yugoslavs, N. Jelaca and M. Stojanic, came to me after they ha been forced to sign this state ment drawn up by an official of the Immigration" Department. "I went to the Chief of the Im migration Department, Mr. White, who said he knew nothing about it. I suggested that he bring the files. They couldn't be found for half an hour, but. eventually they turned up. After a heated scene in the Melbourne office the two men managed to get their document back. They tore it up in front of the Department staff." Mr. Jurjevic said that the Australian Government maintained dilplomatic relations with Yugoslavit, yet it ac tively encouraged in Australia hos tility to Yugoslavia. As previously reported in Tribune, other Liberal political leaders who have closely associated with the Ustashi include: W. C. Wentworth, M.H.R., Immigration Minister H. Opperman, and the present N.S.W. State Chief Secretary (Mr: E. Willis), all of whom have spoken as honored guests at gatherings of the Ustashi, in N.S W. and 'Victoria. The Roman Catholic heirarchy in Australia this year formally disolved the Cardinal Stepinac Croatian Catho lic Association, which had been used as a religious front by the Ustashi. 