 Can't compete against the big export companies SMALL BUTCHERS GOING BROKE! Even the humble sausage may soon be a luxury ! I SYDMEY: Skyrocketing prices that have 1 for months denied the average family the I best cats of meat, may soon make even the 8 humble sausage a luxury. gFFECTS of the drought that has ravaged most of the rural areas of NSW, has placed the meat industry in a crisis never experienced before. Current trends are proving correct the forecast of the May issue of the Meat Trades' Journal of Australia, which said: "July and August could be nothing short of disastrous." Many small butchers in Sydney and probably elsewhere are faced with ruin. Some are losing between £20 and £30 a week and 600 butcher I shops are reported to be for sale 9 in the Sydney metropolitan area. Some butchers are already import ing lamb from Tasmania and New Zealand. 'Just broke even!' A butcher in Darlinghurst said he moc «Qtnnflr frnm Wfl fn Pfirt fnr bullock carcasses that had cost him about £20 a few months back. . "Over the last few weeks I have just broke even, but I can't last much longer," he said. Another butcher said, "I don't know by what figure meat consumption has fallen generally, but I know my trade has fallen by a third." He said that meat prices had in creased by at least 25 per cent, in the last three months. Tancred Bros.' Meatworks, near Bourke, up till about six weeks ago employed 200 workers. They were killing over 5,000 sheep and around 100 cattle a week. I There have been heavy retrench- j ments and reports say that they will I soon close down. j Sheep they were earlier buying for | only 5/- a head are now unsuitable for slaughtering because of poor condition. Yet in March, according to figures issued by the Commonwealth Statis tician, cattle slaughterings were a record, not only .for that month, but for any month for any year. The July issue of Meat Trade Digest reported that with three months' figures still to be recorded, total meat production in 1964-65 (up to March 31) was already within striking distance of the total production foi the whole of 1963-64, which was a record year. Middle men The major cause of this record ir I slaughtering was the disposal oi stock from drought-stricken area. Meat from the hoof to the consumer often passes through the possession of several middle-men. Buyers visit small holdings buying stock that the small farmer can no longer afford to keep; for instance, cows that have gone "dry" are often 6old by dairy farmers who can only afford to keep stock that show a return. After the buyer has made his pur- chase a drover is hired to deliver the stock to a bigger agent, who has already contracted to buy them. The buyer sells at a profit. The agent then has them transported to a saleyard, where they are again sold at a profit. From the saleyard they go to the meat buyers, with, the price still going up. After they have been slaughtered in abattoirs, often owned by big meat companies, the smaller butchers get them at a top price. And finally the housewife pays the piper. Many butchers claim that the drought aggravated a growing crisis in the meat industry which was already developing through sacrificing the home market to export trade. Although there, has been a cut-back of about 8 per cent, in meat exports to the US this year, Australia's total for the nine months from January 1964 to March 1965 was 332,527 tons, compared with 369,999 tons for the whole of last year. Meat and by-products exported by Australia to Japan in 1964 was 4,704,000 tons and there have been marked increases since. For the July-December period of 1964 value of veal, beef and mutton to Japan was over £2 million. A considerable increase was expected for 1965. While small farmers go broke through drought, and prices are boosted, big exporters reap super profits. Exports A suburban butcher in Sydney last week said: "I can't see any immediate answer to the problem. What about next year? One of the tragedies, not often mentioned, is that a great num ber of breeding animals are being slaughtered, because it's either sell them or let them die in the paddock. "What about next year? Even if the drought breaks cattle or sheep don't grow like grass. "There is a rumor around the trade that the Government is about to print meat ration cards. , "However, as hopeless as the situa tion is through Government neglect of one of our biggest industries, I would , suggest that all meat be' graded and prices fixed. "Then a pound of lamb chops of the same quality wouldn't vary be tween 4/11 and 7/6. This would give the consumer a fairer go and help us to survive against the meat com- I bipes." SYDNEY'S chain butcher shops buy bulk, thus paying less, as these prices show. 