 j Soviet schools and j I the 7 year plan | ! From ALF WATT j I R | MOSCOW: Some little noticed aspects of the overfulfil- j i ment of the 7 Year Flan were brought to my notice last i j week by G. Dindikov and N. Kisman, chairman and deputy i S chairman of the Budget Department of the Soviet Ministry jj I of Finance. | | Pointing out that expenditure = for social and cultural purposes | in this year's budget exceeded one | third of the total expenditure, they said that this item would be S 13 per - cent greater than last year, whereas the total expendi- I ture would be only seven per cent. | greater! j This is the last year of the 7 ! Year Plan and the budget, in conformity with the law of social. J ism, is marked by its devotion to | the needs of the people. In this respect, whereas the plan provided for kindergartens | and creches to accommodate six I million children this year, in I fact over seven million would I be provided for. This figure did i not include the number provid- S ed for by institutions built by. ) collective farms and maintained I by the farms themselves. I With creches and kindergartens I for 22 " out of every 100 children I instead of 17 as was planned, still | more places were necessary and j further building would take place. | The 7 Year Plan paid little attention to prolonged day classes | and boarding schools, but these had proved so popular that this i year over two million children j would attend the former and one I million the latter. j Prolonged day classes are de- j signed to assist families wherp = both parents work. The children | stay at school after lessons fin- ish, do their homework there, | have their play and rest super- S vised, and get their evening I meal. " » Boarding schools, and all we | have seen are fine institu- i tions, cater for children of large S families, or where one or both ( parents have died or which have j other kinds of difficulties. | A big program of school build- ! ing will be continued to cater for growing school population as well . I as to catch up on the shortage, = a legacy of the war. | The achievements of this pro. j gram are shown by the fact that the majority of Moscow children ! until recently attended two- | shift schools but now three quart- I ers attend one-shift schools; = Proud parents Andrian Nikolayev and Valentina Nikolayeva-Tereshkova, pioneer astro nauts of the Soviet Union, seen here with their seven-months-old daughter Yelena. v 