 Menzies indifferent to fate of farmers CANBERRA: Prime Min ister Menzies' flat rejection of direct financial aid for NSW's drouqht-sfricken areas angered the ALP and shocked his Country Party allies last Thursday. THE Country Party members will have to bear full responsibility before the electors for the Govern ment's attitude — and they didn't "look happy about it. Mr. P. E. Lucock, Country Party, who represents the bone-dry elec- (orate of Lyne in NSW, did not refer directly to Menzies but tell ingly described the plight of farm- ers and the urgent need of relief where he came from. For the Labor Party, Mr. R. Pol lard, Victoria, said the ALP had always considered flood, fire and drought to be national disasters and liad never refused interest-free re lief to farmers. In the 1944 drought the Labor Government had given £980,000 in relief and in 1946-47 it had given £1,500,000 — both gifts on a pound for pound basis with the states. In N.S.W., said Mr. Pollard, most primary producers were up to the limit of their overdrafts. He asked Why the Commonwealth Bank could Hot make money available. "Worst ever" Mr. Lucock said the drought was jne worst, in living record in Aus- lalia. Some places had recorded oieir lowest-ever rainfall since re cords were kept In Dungog 250 farmers had bor rowed £150,000 — £600 each for two t0 buy feed. But only . t0ns of relief fodder had been tio061 Cows n calf wore being aughtered and the cost of re stocking would be enormous. hnHan?red s meatworks at Bourke i:_ olosed down and 200 men been dipri the local stock had thvo" very would take at least uuee years. ov0?eoifroughfc would cost NSW whni u million '"s year. The bp crP would probably £m m iv reight csts were £5 to cost pic011/ f fat lambs would wouiri 1 £20 million milk loss 1 million £6 milUon and butter £1 LoToi T.V1166? in Nsw lost Hb of be pi k ?1Ss to the wool clip would orHfw" ,n- and so on in. prop- "bSLK. — th, Acnn if Lucock-.said that land had 1 Bank of Queens- With nn .„?aned farmers up to £500 interest for the. first year. 