 A new series of Australian short 1 stories [?] |N a profit-hungry society, 1 today's short story writers find themselves severely frus trated by the extremely lim- ited opportunities of getting their work published. For this reason, both authors and the reading public will welcome the inauguration by Angus & Robertson of a new series of Australian short story collections — Summer's Tales, edited by Kylie Tennant. There are fifteen stories in this volume, most of them written for the collection. . All are in realist vein, or perhaps it would be better to say that none is anti-realist. The quality is generally ' good, though some suffer from irritating oddities of style or construction. . . One of the most interesting tales m the book is The Big Wind by Marion Dreyer. .It is a highly imaginative and Vivid depiction of the sort of thing everyone fears — the disturbance of the balance of the natural forces of the earth's atmosphere by a nuclear explosion. It is a terrifying indictment of tne nuclear arms race. Schloo by Vivian Cunningham tens of the insatiable greed of one type of small shopkeeper who, like fn chain stores, does his- best to rob both his customers and his employees. Connie's Kid by Kay Brown is a lively tale about a neglected boy in a country town, treated as a social outcast because his mother is a tough and drunken prostitute. Many of the stories, perhaps most of them, contain elements of social criticism. Another Melba, for in stance, by Patricia Rolfe, tells of the unwillingness of a former opera star to admit to the world that the brief glory of her youth vanished a long time ago, and that she is now forced to live in abject poverty. Its mordant satire is reminiscent of some of the stories of Katherine Mansfield. Disillusionment is the theme of The Cost of Things by Elizabeth Harrower, and Rewards to the Faithful by Nancy Phelan. Both stories expose the pettiness of some middle class values. Generally speaking, the stories in Summer's Tales show the courage of ordinary Australians of all sorts in the face of difficulties, yet a cer tain pessimism rather than opti mism is their keynote. For all that, the volume is a not unworthy addition to the published collections of Australian short stories. (A. & R., 25s.) ; , — Ray Williams. 