 jSPlTCBMU. | Opening doors to \ new action for peace j j Last week a spokesman for the American war command in | J South Vietnam estimated by "all the indicators" that the situa- j tion was "improving." 1 | By Tuesday, the Vietnamese people's liberation fighters | I had come out of the jungle and inflicted at. least two new | crushing defeats on the US intervention troops and their j puppets, one within 30 miles of Saigon. j Little wonder that a great public protest wave is rising | in anger in Australia at the irresponsible decision to pour I Australian lives into this wrong and hopeless war for 1 | imperialist "prestige" and profit in South East Asia. ! i To those who have for years supported the independence 9 struggle of the Vietnamese people and who have consistently I ! warned of the danger and injustice of the American inter- I vention against them, the events of the last week are a j great encouragement. g I Statements from leaders of the Labor Party, the ACTU and g I major church organisations — some of them ringing calls to ! | mass action — have opened the possibility of such public pres- I I sure as can really win a reversal of the anti-Australian foreign | g policy of the Liberal Government. | J ? | j The key issue is the development of protest action, in f 1 some form, by the hundreds of thousands of additional I people who may NOW feel that previous barriers to their | I action have been lowered. s g I _ Letters, telegrams, meetings, resolutions, -deputations, de- g I monstrations — these and many other ways lie open. Action ! j may have to be repeated again and again before there is j | visible result. """"" I g Actions may be united, or parallel and independent. But | g. if together they succeed in reversing the policy of Australian j participation in the war, then this is a great contribution » to the security of Australia, the. freedom of the Vietnamese ( I and other Asian people and the peace of the world. | | That is why we welcome all these forces, without excep- j I tion, who are throwing weight into this fight and thus serving g j well the cause of the Australian people and the Vietnamese j I people too. 4 I | It would be easy to dwell on other issues, the differing j J explanations of th war, different views on how it may be j I settled. For example, we disagree with Mr. Calwell's ami- j I Communist statements last week, his allegations of aggression j iby China and North Vietnam, and especially his continued j support of US "presence" in South-East Asia. g Everything said by the Americans about their criminal I campaign of air raids on North Vietnam has been proved j wrong. If indeed there were big-scale "infiltration" from j North to South, and if the rail and road bridges have been | "taken out" as claimed — then how is it that the people's forces i iare now winning greater new victories against the US armies? j I But differences among the Australian forces for peace are, | under the circumstances, secondary matters. | It is clear that the very movement which Mr. Calwell and | other leaders are calling to action against the Menzies j Governments policy, in the name of Australian security, will 1 have to demand also for the same reason a just and peaceful ! solution in Vietnam. . I And as agreed internationally at Geneva in 1954, that can be achieved only when the imperialist forces are with- j drawn and Vietnamese independence respected. j 