 . '» ?Q-> Upset on a Spanish court By "THE CHALLENGER" Last week saw one of biggest upsets for a very —long time in the tennis world when Spain soundly defeated the United States in the European zone 1 final of the Davis Cup. I "THE United States never 8 won a match, being de feated in the first two singles matches and then the doubles. Without detracting from the creditable performance of the Spanish players, tennis experts and followers of the game in general will none the less arrive at the conclusion that one of the most decisive factors was the clay courts of Barcelona. The Australian player Fred Stolle pointed this out when commenting on the matches. Stoell said that the balls were heavier than usual and the courts much slower and that the U.S. . player, Ralston's chances of rushing the net were not as good as the Spaniards as. they I were used to the conditions. A strong point supporting this, is the fact that . the Spanish doubles pair, Manuel Santana and Luis Arilla have never yet been defeated in a doubles match in Barcelona. Nevertheless many critics will no doubt say that there are I many clay courts elsewhere in Europe and that conditions should therefore be generally familiar to everyone. An explanation of this is that the maintenance of clay courts require considerable time and coste, and although the major ity of the. Spanish people live, in poverty, the ruling clique are well able to afford this, and so 1 maintain very high standard clay courts. However, Spain is now sched uled to meet the winner of the India- Japan, Asian final and just how far the Spanish team will go and under what court condi tions, will in the long run deter mine whether or not there is any real weight to the . clay court theories. Tennis fans and stamp collect- tors alike will be interested in the following item that appeared in the Hungarian News and In formation Service's "New Hun gary\\ The Hungarian Post Office nas issued a series of nine stamps depicting the history of tennis Six of them deal with thf historical development of the game, one portrays W. C. Wing- field, regarded as the founder of the modern game, another Bela 8 Kehrling, famous Hungarain play- | er of the past, and the ninth I Davis Cup. , I Designed by ' Adam Cziglenyi, | each carries a surcharge to builc' | an indoor tennis court in Buda- | pest. I ? I 