 Somaliland— last of \y | - n w a mighty empire By ROGER MILLISS At 8 am, 30 light tanks swing out of the Avenue Alberl-Bernard and rumble across the Place Menelik, their helmeted commanders leaning non chalantly out of the turrets in the best armoured corps tradition. AFTER them come three com- panies of Legionnaires, im maculately dressed in khaki tunics and shorts, with the famous peaked caps, chanting a rousing military song to the accompaniment of a solitary drum tap as they deliberately and somewhat lugubriously slow-march across the square. A vice-admiral is visiting the out post and a show is demanded. Early morning European shoppers watch from their Simcas and Chevrolets and others, already entrenched in the foot path cafes, gaze out imperturbably as they sip their pernod and cafe noir. A few handfuls of Africans react with rather less respect, laughing and chat ting among themselves. This is Djibouti, capital of the rump colony of French Somaliland, last relic in Africa of the once grand French Empire, a nostalgic and not-too-pleas ant throwback to the fast vanishing days when the white man ruled supreme with a host of native ser vants and houseboys at his beck and call. Eighty thousand people inhabit this barren segment of the Red Sea coast, carved out by France during the divi sion of Africa by the great. European powers in the 1880's. Forty thousand of them are concentrated in Djibouti itself. The few thousand Europeans in Dji bouti — mostly French businessmen, officials and gendarmes, in addition to the soldiers— have done their best to make the town a home away from home for themselves. Colonial bungalows Comfortable colonial bungalows and mansions— some of them admittedly a little seedy through time — dominate their quarter, or half, of the city, with wide verandas and, for the more fortunate, air-conditioning against the searing heat The Colony's Governor dispenses the glory of France from a cosy little three-storeyed palace along the waterfront. For the housewife, modern grocery shops offer a full range of imported European food at inflated prices and the two pharmacies rival the best Washington and Soul's in Sydney But there's never an African among the customers, and only those fortunate few who've picked up the odd perk job. can be found in the bistros, with none at all in the exclusive bars and nightclubs like the Cha Cha Cha and tbe Palmerie an Zinc, where you can chew your Johnny Walker or Gordon's Gin or Napoleon Brandy in pseudo- Parisian dark lights and soft music. "No segregation— you only need money," we were told. But the astron omical Djibout.' Franc seems one of the many things the ordinary Somali goes without. The "civilising mission" of the French — for evidence of the workings of which the visitor looks hard but unsuccessfully— has brought him little in the way of material or cultural benefits. Humpies Only just off the Boulevard de Gaulle is the other world of Bender Djejid, the "native town"— row after row of shanties and humpies put to gether from boxes, kerosene tins and hessian, worse than the worst Abori ginal Reserve in Australia. The house hold goats virtually share the one or two rooms of the huts. In the market place nearby, ragged Somalis— a tall, handsome and incredibly supple peo ple—sell dried skins and delicate wood carvings. There is practically no way for the Somalis to improve their living stand ards. After 80 years of French rule there is no industry, arid there are only 4,300 school pupils in the Ter ritory. No attempt has been made at any sort of development. Djibouti's mail wealth comes from bunkering and supplying passing ships— which brings in about £A16, 000, 000 i. year s' 1 the transport of goods by rail to Ethiopia." Two worlds Little cultivation is possible under existing conditions on the arid soil, the grazing of goats and cattle being the principal form of agriculture. In Djibouti itself, those who are not em ployed in the port or shops have nothing. In the French quarter, young sters of eight or ten wander round fc lornly' trying to shine shoes Beg gar with every imaginable type of deformity ply through the cafes lock ing for handouts. One world for the French, and an other for those whose country they have taken. But trouble's in the air: with the independent Somali Republic next door, the people of French Somaliland are joining in the great march of Africa towards freedom. "There are too many infiltrators; you know— Communists," a shipping agent complained to us in the local yacht club while brightly coloured fibreglass speed-boats bobbed up and down at their moorings in the shallow green sea. "But we can deal with them." The French have taken elaborate precautions to "deal" with any out bursts of independence among the Somalis. The most common institu tions in Djibouti seem military camps and gendarme offices. The backbone of the maintenance of power is form ed by the 1,500 troops of the notorious Foreign Legion stationed in the col ony. The Foreign Legion has never exact ly had a reputation for extreme virtue, but the frankness with which the real character of t!he Legionnaires is ac knowledged in Djibouti is amazing. From what we heard they consist of the. flotsam and jetsam of Europe- criminals. on the run, adventurers, and, of course, former SS men. Facil ities provided for them in French Somaliland include an officially organ ised prostitute service known as B.M.C. After the morning parade for the admiral, they gathered in Dji bouti's bars and we got talking to one of them, one of the most unsavoury characters we have ever met "Free" killers This individual — a tough, hard-eyed, blond super-Aryan in his early thirti —told us he' had "escaped" from aasi Germany five years ago, stating dispassionately that he had killed men in the process. He was aral(? return even to West Germany for tear that justice would catch up with n He hated Africans, he said blunuy- they were "dumb"— and he rega us with stories of how he had pun and beaten them. He had the mercenary's spirit: "I'll kill any . I'm told to, as long as I get eno g money and have my freedom According to his own lights, he i ha- his freedom. But 80,000 Somahs —and they want it. And history their side: there are some 35 inaePe ent nations already in Africa ana perialism's days are numbered, bo er or later— most likely very b the historical anachronism of Somaliland will be swept off t v -and it win take more than oi armes, tanks and the hired the Foreign Legion to preven HUMPIES in Bender Djedid, or "native town" as the French administrators call it, in Djibouti, capital of French Somaliland. 