 Refuting claims that North attacked South MOST GUERRILLA ARMS FROM USA I From the moment when, in 1963, the Viet namese guerillas began to deliver big mili tary defeats on the South Vietnam puppet government forces, the Americans charged officially that these were due to aggression or intervention from the north. Now this charge is used as excuse for US air attacks an the North. CO far there has not been , one iota of evidence to support the charge. There is any amount of evidence to show it is absurd. There are. only two' roads leading south from the 17th parallel area with Saigon forces in solid control of both, except for occasional am bushes. In Deep South -The main military activity from the very beginning has been in the deep South; this has been the major scene of the big defeats fdr Saigon. This first liberated area was, in fact, the Ca Mau peninsula, the southernmost tip of Vietnam. This was the area of the big military sweeps made by Diemist forces long before armed resistance was started; the main part of the fighting has gone on there ever since, despite the fact that it lies closest to the greatest concentration of US mili tary power at Saigon./ Arms traffic? All Western press reports agree that a t first the guerillas' arms were of a most primitive type. "So much so that the Diemist gov ernment ordered a special exhibition of "Vietcong" arms in Saigon to show its own superbly equipped troops that they had nothing to fear. All Western press reports also stressed that those "superbly equip- . ped" troops have been, voluntarily or intrnlnnfcirilv > nflrHnff with their I l &lt; VX f f o | - arms to the Front forces at an in- . creasingly rapid tempo.. In a commentary on the Loc Ninh battle, David Halberstam of the New York Times,, in a dispatch dated October 27, 1963, commented: "For two months now the weap ons capture ratio has been running against the Government at an alarm- 1 ing rate, around two to , one. Just today it was announced that in the last week the Vietcong had taken 225 weapons from the Government , - while the Government had captured : 100 from the Vietcong". When I asked Nguyen Huu Tho : (Liberation Front chairman) about Secretary of State Dean Rusk's charges a few days previously con cerning "intervention" from the north, including supply of arms, he replied: "According to recent statistics published by the Pentagon, duripg the last three months of 1963 our armed forces seized an average oi 234 weapons each week. This rate, takjn together with our own arms production, is more than enough to equip Liberation forces. Besides, the Americans have never furnished the slightest real evidence of their charges." The Front forces need weapons for which there is a constant supply of ammunition on the spot. "Our main arsenals are in the US itself; our logistics depend on their trucks, helicopters and parachutes" one ol the Front's military leaders said to me. "They deliver the .most excellent weapons and the munitions which fit them right at our front door, just where we need them." : " Apart from the captured US weap- i ; ons themselves, almost every other 'bit of equipment I came across, " from spot-welding machines to gen- erators and X-ray equipment, bore the US brand. When one looked at a regular sol dier of the Front, the extent of US "gifts" became even more impres sive. Attached to his US webbing belt are: a tiny bottle lamp in which US cartridge cases play a vital role; his US nylon hammock which is standard sleeping equipment, with parachute cords for hitching it to trees; a water bottle with a big US stamped on the cloth container; a cluster of hand grenades made in the Front's own workshops, and fin ally the round bag of rice, a 24- hour ration, wrapped in US para chute nylon. ' His shirt is often made of the same material. His standard arm is the US carbine, but a percentage of his comrades-in-arms will" be carry ing Garands,' tommy guns, 37 mm machine-guns, a variety of bazookas and mortars and in battalion-sized units, a feyv of the highly-appreciated 57 mm recoil-less cannon. Until some concrete evidence is produced of "aid from the north" one can discount the accusations as a cover-up for very embarrassing and otherwise inexplicable defeats. The US command in Saigon has a complete monopoly of planes, helicopters, tanks, artillery (except for such pieces as can be carried on a man's back), . naval power and motor transport. And yet they have been pushed back to the gates df Saigon. Although there has /been no case of a soldier from the North having been found in the south, there have been innumerable cases to the con trary. I U.S. officer lends a hand in bind- 1 v|| ing a guerrilla prisoner whose j JjS S fate is torture and probably il | death.- I M i i m 