 Thousands ' out in protest THREAT TO SPREAD WAR SYDNEY: New United States threats to spread and intensify the Vietnam war and demands for more Australian troops were answered last Monday by the biggest public demonstration yet seen in Sydney against the war. THE demonstration in cluded a massive poster narade bv nearlv 1000 people in Martin Place and through the city's centre in peak hour; followed by an "emergency rally" of 2000 in the City Hall. Themes underlying the many demands raised at both demon strations were: Bring Australian , troops back; and stop the war now! Dr. Allan Lawes, chairman of the Association for International Co operation and Disarmament, which co-ordinated the rally, said: "We demand a Christmas cease-fire in . Vietnam . . . they have not had a peaceful Christmas there for 25 years." "Escalate" Dr. Lawes said the public must meet the threat to escalate the war by "escalating" the peace drive, by mobilising an overwhelming display of public opinion for peace. A suitable time would be the opening of Federal Parliament next year. University lecturer Bruce MacFar- lane warned that, unless protests increased, the US might bomb the T?,fid River dvkes in Vietnam, which could lead to the massacre and star vation of millions. From 5 to 6 p.m. men, women anc children paraded past the Common wealth Government offices in Martir Place carrying posters. The Town Hall rally, which was supported by nine other peace or ganisations, called on the Australian Government to move for an imme diate cease-fire and declare its acceptance of the Geneva agreements of 1954 as a basis for peace nego tiations. Senator J. M. Wheeldon, from Western Australia, said that Aus tralians must learn to live and work constructively with Asians who were their nearest neighbors, and the first step was withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam. He recalled that in 1948 Indonesia had nominated Australia as its repre sentative in negotiations which led to Indonesian independence. "That was the sort of relationship with Asia which we must regain in order to be secure," he said. Mr. Francis James, publisher of i The Anglican, accused Archbishop Gough of showing insufficient respect for the truth in his comments on the Vietnam war. Mrs. Jean Richards said: "I don't wish anyone a happy Christmas, but a mentally disturbing Christmas. We must dedicate ourselves to the way of peace." Other speakers included: Mrs. B. Gale, Professor F. May and Messrs. B. Robinson, R. Carleton and R. Neville. Folksingers Gary Shearston, Shayna Karlin and Paul Marks per formed. 