 WILL MENZIES SLIDE OUT ON THE SLUMP ? Federal Parliamentary Roundsman Wiffi the end of the Federal Parliamentary year, marked by an increasing slump in the Government's foreign policy stocks, there come strong reports from Melbourne that Menzies may resign in February, |""HE building firm carrying oul alterations to Sir Robert's house in Haverbrack Avenue, Malvern, has ' been given in structions that the job must be finished without fail . by ... Feb ruary 1. Directions for moving-out arrange ments issued at the Lodge, Canberra, are understood to reflect a similar deadline. The marked reuictance of most Cabinet Ministers to speak in the tortuous debate on the watered-down Trade Practices Bill is put down to an upsurge of caution in the jockey ing for posts that will become avail able when Menzies goes. - The general view, that Sir Robert's heir is the dull and pedestrian Treas urer Harold Holt doesn't inspire the powerful financial grouping around the Melbourne Herald, who doubt Holt's capacity to hold the coalition together. The ambitious Minister for Labor McMahon is pushing hard hut stumbl ing block is that McEwen won't wear him. McMahon will probably be the next Treasurer. Conscripts The mounting Vietnam war casual ty list, and the prospect of the des patch of conscripts to Vietnam in the early future have sapped the Govern ment's support in the community. So has public and State govern mental criticism of the Federal Gov ernment's distribution (at taxpayers' expense) of a pamphlet on the Viet nam war. following the shock resigna tion of External Affairs officer Greg ory Clark on the same ' issue. As for the Federal Labor Caucus, despite many points of disagreement the year ended on a high note in their unity against the Government's policy on Vietnam and the sending of con scripts overseas. The year will also be remembered for the defeat of the Wool Refer endum, in which that great Castle- reagh St. woolgrower Sir' Frank Packer and other Liberal Party back ers- played such an important part. The result might have been differ ent if the , government and leader of the Country Party Mr. McEwen had played a positive rather than a neutral role. The defeat of the referendum has weakened the authority of the Counlry Party at a time when forces in the Liberal Party are working to elimin ate it. i The year will alsd be noted for the actions of the extreme right wing of I the Liberals in lashing out at Govern ment policy, on Rhodesia and the Trade Practices Bill. ; Their growing boldness is a sign that they will be exerting even more energy to take the government even further to the right when Menzies retires. 