 ||/4 million sheep fsrish in Bourke | THE following extracts arc from a letter I received from a resi- ul 1 1 , of B,,urke ( N.S.W. ). He has L. llerc for 25 years and des- I the Present drought condi- II Qs m the area. pfe says: |Cave never seen Bourke in such ILf w&y- There are men and ILenf unemployed here, though &L, Unds from the State Govern- frTh 6 eased things somewhat. Ki anv unt for hundred of miles tt hnri econ from Bourke is in bout ay- We have received only L inches of rain so far this usuaI1y is the largest BW sw in the world but will Br year itS Wo1 cenre tame .,er drought-breaking llhditinnl be 3 to 4 years before KSta? ,get back to -normal; as Pt in . almost no sheep or cattle JI'Ab Bourke district. RNsiS' to1n,mUBon Sh?ep have "The meatworks have closed down as far -as general killing is con cerned. "They kill about 200 sheep a week only and that is to keep the three shops in Bourke going. "They get all beef from Dubbo meatworks which also supplies the shop here but the beef is riot the best (only in price). - "At the peak 220 were employed in the meatworks and that figure has dwindled to about 45. The wage paid out at the peak was £6500 and now it is £1300. "The 45 will be employed until after all new. machinery is placed and other important work done (work commenced some time ago) then after that nobody knows." The letter finishes off with what I thought was a typical Henry Law- son touch of how life goes on under even very difficult conditions. "I have a good display of roses this year despite the drought but they would he so much better with good natural rain, nothing beats natural rain for growth and to fill out the rose blooms as they should be." This is typical of the spirit of the vast majority of those Australians who work in the countryside and outback of this vast country. It is the fruits of their hard work which have contributed so much to the prosperous post-war years in Australia. Surely they deserve the unstinted consideration and assistance of the government to overcome the hard ships of the present "destructive drought. The letter certainly gives point to the Communist Party's call for drastic Federal aid for drought re lief. Joyce Stevens (Petersham, N.S.W.). 