 u.s. taMeYTs7vjWitself'' SOME RECENT CRITICS Wilfred Burcheft writes: Life itself, outside the cities and concentration camp villages, is the enemy as far as those who direct the US air war are concerned. any life at all or any sign of life, human, animal or vegetable — -in the case ot food crops or orchards — is a target for their bombs, napalm or air-sprayed chemical poi- ; sons. In the Tay Nguyen, I had heard of any number of cases where para chutists had been dropped or troops helicopted in, just to root out a crop of maize or rice as soon as it start ed to show green. Napalm is used against ripenirig crops as a matter of course. A peasant hoetng in the field; a buffalo wallowing in a pool or its calf frisking in the rice stubble, a flash of green from a cultivation patch — all these are primary targets for the American airmen who alone keep the air war going. A veteran guerrilla told of the type of repression by the Saigon regime, around the end of 1960; "The biggest operation was launch ed at the end of January, not only to round up any former resistance members they could lay hands on, but to grab young able-bodied men . for their armed forces. They fled in the thousands to the forests. "Enemy troops then pillaged their homes, stealing all the food and presents laid in for the Lunar New Year. "On this occasion, the enemy had with them the most degenerate of the commando groups who took a delight in gouging out eyes, slitting nostrils, hacking off ears of victims right in the market place, drinking their blood and carrying out in the extremest degree possible their in- - structions to drive black terror into the hearts of the people. "People were unnerved, demoralis ed by all this but underneath they were boiling with pent-up fury. . "There were only two courses:, take to arms and defend ourselves or die like chickens. We could not count on any outside force coming to the rescue. We had to stand up or be wiped out." Two young guerrillas who had car ried out a hand grenade raid against a US air force cinema in Saigon spoke of their own background. No. 1 explained that a 12-year-old sister of his friend had been killed with 15 other children in the straf ing of a school in Cau Xe. He himself had spent five of the preceding nine years in Diem (U.S. puppet government) prisons: "In The New Statesman, March 26, 1965: "Vietnamese villages are being smothered in napalm. Secret gases —allegedly non-lethal— are rained on targets to 'reduce casualties'. "Americans, like Hitler and Mus solini in Spain, are treating the hap less inhabitants of Vietnam as a living laboratory in which to test their new weapons. The last frag ment of America's moral authority in Vietnam has gone whistling through the bomb bays." , ' John Hightower, chief of the As- soci ted Press staff in the US State Department (26/3/65): ".The use of the gas 'touched off a world-wide front of my eyes, I saw my com rades, the finest men that ever lived, tortured to death for no other rea son than that they had been patriots in the struggle for independence," he said. No. 2's home village had been bull dozed out of existence to make way for airfield extensions north of the city. After that he had worked as a coolie on "an American military base. "I will never forgive them for what they did to our women," he said. "I saw things that no human being should see. "As long as they remain on my soil while I live, I shall take my revenge, for my own sister and my own compatriots, our young women violated, comrades tortured and massacred." furore, which brought criticism and denunciation of the US." Evening Bulletin (Providence, Rhode Island), 26/3/65: "There was national revulsion two weeks ago when Alabama police attacked Negro civil rights marchers in Selma with gas and clubs . . . Far more brutal punishment is inflicted on Asian vil- , lagers in Vietnam by US airmen." Washington Post (22/3/65): "The war on the ground in South Viet nam is rapidly being lost ... . In creasingly, by American bombing in South Vietnam and the use of napalm, the Vietnamese people, in the south are being alienated." 