 An American of today and tomorrow SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT. MELBOURNE: Talking with the Rev. James M. Law- son, with his' broad vision of the world and his sane and balanced idea of the relations of the United States with the rest of mankind, one moment arily gets the impression that one is talking to an American of the future. It is with something very close to delight that one suddenly realises that this is no American of tomor row, hut in the truest sense of the , words, an American of today. Mr. Lawson, 36-year-old Methodist clergymen from Memphis, Tennes see, is part of two of the noblest movements in American life today- he is a nationally-known leader of the civil rights movement of his own Negro people; he was also a mem ber of a recent mission to South Vietnam sponsored by the Clergy men's Emergency Committee for. Vietnam. This body grew out of the historic appeal for peace in Vietnam signed by 2700 U.S. clergymen and addressed to President Johnson. No accident In Melbourne last week he told me: "It is no accident that U.S. civil rights workers are prominent among those concerned to bring an end to the war in Vietnam. About half of the 14 of us who went to Saigon took part in the Selma voting right" campaign. "As far as we are concerned, the issues are not to be separated. "There can be no justice and brotherhood without peace, and no peace without justice and bro therhood." After its visit to South Vietnam, where it received the full co-opera tion of U.S. and South Vietnamese official circles — a tribute in itself to the power of the peace movement in the United States — the mission of which Mr. Lawson was a member released a statement calling for. An immediate stop to the bomb ing of North Vietnam. A ceasefire. O Negotiations between North and South Vietnam. A conference under the aus pices of the United Nations be tween interested parties, includ ing China. Mr. Lawson was born in the north ern state of Ohio. But he said: "I had always wanted to go either to Africa or the South of the U.S. to teach." "I had a long wait, though," he added with a smile. "During 1952, my senior year in college, I found myself in jail as a conscientious objector against ser vice in the Korea war. "I was in jail for more than 13 months. "In jail I tried to do something about segregation in jail arrange ments, and as a consequence I was placed in the close custody cell- house. / "There I lived with the so-called professional criminals — men who were serving life sentences, murder ers and others most of whom had spent more time in jail than out in the streets. "I found that these people still cry, still bleed, like other human beings. They are still subject to sin, and still subject to trust and love." Mr. Lawson said: "My experience in that close custody cell-house taught me a great impatience with segregationists who say that the Negro is .sub-human, and with Negroes who say that the white man is either superhuman or sub-human. "All are men, and all should bf oqual," he said. "Thrown out'7 Then in 1956 he was finally able to go abroad. He went to India and taught there for three years. Back at home, he soon found him: self caught up in the great cam paigns of the Negro people for civil rights, the first of which revolved around Little Rock, Arkansas, in the summer and autumn of 1957. He moved from the north to shoulder responsibilities in the church and civil rights movement in the segregationist southern state of Tennessee. "I can't tell you the num ber of restaurants, motels, drug stores and barbers' shops I've been thrown out of," he said. Evidently an organiser of great talent, he was quickly promoted to responsible posts in the movement. Since 1960 he has been Director of Non-Violent Education for the South- em Leadership Christian Conference, the group whose leader and found er is Martin Luther King. He says: "I think the movement has great achievements to its credit. The federal administration is more active on civil rights issues today than it has . been at any time in the past 90 years. "But the movement's greatest battles lie ahead of it, not behind it." In his rush, visit to Australia, Mr. Lawson was interviewed on Four Corners TV, addressed packed pub lic meetings in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide, and also meetings ox wharfies and university students m Melbourne. He said that an American "race superiority" concept was involved both in the Vietnam war and the Negro . civil rights, struggle. He conveyed his overwhelming im pression of the misery and suffer ing caused by the war, the socia complexity of the situation in Sout Vietnam which, he said, can barely be guessed at from Western press reports, and his belief that no mi tary victory is possible for eithe side. As far as we are concerned, Aus tralia could do with a lot American visitors like James M- son. (SEE PAGE 9.) IT'S A GREAT IDEA, LYNDON— SPACE SCIENCE IS REALLY PAYING OFF! 