 Indonesian crisis Growing fears of outside meddling I T7V. DTTDT7DT T WM OFl | rium uuimvi vv/i/ MOSCOW: Grave fears of foreign intervention in Indonesia are heightened by the inability of progressive organisations under at tack to get information to the outside world through the army cen sorship. Additionally, Chinese-inspired divisions in the international labor movement tend to prejudice international solidarity action in defence of the Indonesia trade unions and other democratic forces. ARNING of the dangers created by the Indonesian extremists campaign against ' the trade unions, communists and others, Pravda said: "Needless to say, the campaign that has been launched in Indonesia against tne leit-wing lorces can oe used by the aggressive SEATO and CENTO blocs and adds grist to the mill of the imperialists in Asia. No wonder certain American newspapers fiainkly write that the latest events in .Indonesia open up fresh and con siderable opportunities for the United States, which should not be missed." ! Pravda expressed the Soviet people's anxiety to see honored the Oi tober 6 appeals of President Su karno and the Indonesian Govern ment to normalise the situation and refrain from rash deeds which, says Pravda, "might break up the Indo- ne ian nation and lead to political cfc K)S." Soviet aid Pravda recalls the Soviet Union's consistent aid to Indonesia to con solidate the independence of her national economy and build up her defence forces. The Soviet people, Pravda recalls, "have never been indifferent to the destiny of the Indonesian people, to the destiny of the ' Communist Party of Indonesia which has a long history, in the course of which glorious pages have been entered in the struggle against imperialism, in defence of the vital interests of the working people of Indonesia. ' Arid today, in the crucial days of trial for the Republic, the Soviet Union follows the course of events . in friendly Indonesia with keen attention and concern. The Indo nesian people have' repeatedly shown that they are capable of solving their internal" problems independently, without the interference of outside forces to whom the interests of Indo nesia are alien and who pursue their own selfish interests. "The Soviet people hope that the Indonesian people win soive meir difficulties in " a democratic manner." Brezhnev warns Speaking in Kiev, CPSU Secretary L. N. Brezhnev stressed that im perialism's mounting aggressiveness found expression in unleashing of so-called local conflicts in different areas. "If these -minor conflagrations are not extinguished in time they may flare into universal nuclear missile war. The destinies of entire nations will be endangered," he said. After demanding an end to the American war against Vietnam, Brezhnev added: "The imperialist forces are trying to exploit in their own interests the present situation in Indonesia. In a long and hard-fought struggle against imperialism the Indonesian people won independence and embarked on the path of strengthening their state and developing their national economy. "It is clear that under these con ditions the unity of all progressive national forces in Indonesia takes on a special significance. "This is the reason why all Indo nesia's sincere friends cannot but feel concern over the fact that a campaign against left-wing organisa tions, the Communist Party includ ed, is being built up there. "We are convinced that the unity and cohesion of all sound progressive forces corresponds to the basic interests of the Indonesian people, and we hope that neither internal nor external reaction will be able to destroy this unity and push Indonesia off the road she has chosen — will he able to divert her from the tasks set by the Indonesian revolution." President Sukarno 