 UNION CALLS FOR INQUIRY INTO PRICES BRISBANE: The need for price control, for price reductions in industries where the cst of pro duction is falling and for an open hearing around the conversion of prices to decimal currency were urged at a meeting ot the Queensland State Management Committee of the Building Workers' Industrial Union in Brisbane this week. "|HE BWIU decision came " against a background of a new spate of price rises, even while workers await the State Industrial Commission's deci sion on whether the State basic wage should be adjusted by 6/- (as the unions ask) to com pensate for cost-of-living in creases in the six months to June fast. The employers and the State Gov ernment have opposed the unions' claim for the 6/- adjustment. Even if the Commission agrees to the 6/- rise, this still will not give workers any compensation for all the price rises which have occurred be tween June and now. Price rackets Last week-end, the BWIU's re search officer (Mr, R. H. Brown), who assisted Mr. G. M. Dawson in the presentation o£ the case on the basic wage by unions affiliated to the Queensland Trades and Labor Coun cil, said: "Two documents telling quite a story were received by the BWIU research department one day last week. "One document, Quarterly Esti mates of National Income and Ex penditure, showed that company profits for the year ended June, 1965, were £1314 million, a rise of £101 mil lion on the previous year. "The other document was the offi cial price list issued by the Queens land Shopkeepers' Association. It showed that prices had risen in the last fortnight on more than 30 separate household items. "A check of the new price list against the August 12 Shopkeepers' Journal showed that the price rises (taking one of each of the items) totalled a staggering 9/3. "Among the increases were cake icing (up 7d. per lb), cordials (up 6d), dripping (up 4£d.), canned sal mon (up 7id.), fruit juices (up 4d.), honey (up 2d.) and margarine (up 3d.). "No one escaped. Baby's powder went up 5d., sister's deodorant 6d., mother's sanitary needs 2d., dad's tobacco 3d., and the canarys' food by 34d." Prices hearing In a report to the BWIU State Man agement Committee following last week's Industrial Commission hear ing on matters relating to conversion of awards into decimal currency, Mr. Brown said: "Unlike the open hearing on the conversion of wages, there will be no open hearing or Court argu ment around the conversion of prices. "The price rackets following the Budget increases in taxation, not to mention the scandalous trafficking in what is generally poor-quality meat, are an ominous sign of things to come unless the trade unions and people's organisations generally get busy to have prices held down." 