 Harlem, U.S.A. 1 [?] CEVEN SEAS BOOKS timed the publication of "HAR LEM USA" with foresight, for this collection of essays, stories, poems, pictures and cartoons will contribute to an understanding of the present activities of the American people for freedom and equal ity for the Negroes. It is edited and introduced by John Henrik Clarke, who has also contributed essays, stories and poems. "Harlem has been called, and may well be, the cultural and intellectual capital of the black race in the West ern world. It has also been called other -names less complimentary like: a cancer in the heart of a city ... and, a large scale laboratory experiment in the race problem." There are a number of interesting short stories including three by the well-known Negro writer Langston Hughes, the most satirical being "Dear Dr. Butts". One of John Clarke's poems could have been written about events in the USA today: If you are the noble and brave Who have great harvest to reap Why do you cowardly fling death at night While babies sleep? "A Talk to Harlem Teachers" by James Baldwin is most moving. His two books of essays "Nobody Knows My Name" and "The Fire Next Time" won him fame as a writer. "A Talk to Harlem Teachers" gives some reasons for the inhuman treat ment of Negroes in America. "Every street boy— and I was a street boy, so I know— looking at the society which has produced him, looking at the standards of that society which are not honored by anybody, looking at your churches and the govern ment and the politicians, under- , stands that this structure is operated ; for someone else's benefit—not for | his. And there's no room in it for j him." i But this essay is not confined to,. ? the reasons for the treatment of tne - Negro population. It deals with tn j method of thinking and teaching a about other questions, including tn j need to accept as a fact the existenc j of Socialist countries. J Not all readers will agree with J the reasoning in the essays, ha |j lems and jobs, politics, . J3® I accounts. But they do supp y i good picture of the poverty J| many of the Harlem residents, g The book contains f£® 1 photographs, among the best are J reproductions under the title _ ,|g lem:: Her Artists and Sculptors . W. In recommending this book, I can Jj only say the wish of the putt d M has been fulfilled when they saio m "We hope the thousand ana i M questions being asked in the . M about Americans of African de 1 will be answered, at least in P J in this book ..." "HARLEM USA", pric« 86d !,S. ' 1 available at New World BookseU ers, 425 Pitt Street, Sydney ana . other progressive bookshops. \ -J.M- j 1 ». 