 [?] Las# Friday wight Erie Bu#lerB director of the Australian League of lights, telephoned the Regent of the illegal Smith regime in Rhodesia (Mr. ©uponf) from Melbourne to assy re him of "great popular support and political support" in Australia for his "gov ernment",, -|HIS special international call, grossly misrepresenting the feelings of the Australian peo ple, is part of a developing campaign by rightwing extrem ists in Australia to bolster up the racist Smith regime and sabotage the struggle for African democracy. The call followed last Wednes day's night debate in Canberra when all of the Liberal Party speak ers scarcely hid their support for Smith, even if some disagreed with Ills tactics. Butler, a close associate of Mr. Kil- len, Liberal member for Moreton, told Mr. Dupont (according to the Mel bourne "Age", November 20) that: "The Australian cabinet was split 50 — 50 on the Rhodesian issue. As many as half the Government back benchers were sympathetic to the Rhodesian cause. "There is no doubt that Sir Robert Menzies was engaging in double dip lomatic talk in his announcements of sanctions against Rhodesia." During the debate, Liberal right- winger Sir Wilfred Kent Hughes told Parliament: "Let me not start an examination -of events leading up to the crisis by blaming one side only." He asked "Is there any. real prin ciple or logic in applying sanctions to Rhodesia in its crisis, which I be lieve could and should be resolved by peaceful negotiations and cooper ation, when Britain and ourselves fall over each other to trade with Red China, with whom we are at war?" (Mr. Whitlam, Labor Deputy lead er, said later that Kent-Hughes' speech "would appear to have been a complete "apology for Salisbury rather than for Westminister or Canberra.") The Minister for Territories (Mr. Barnes) said: "Any effects of econ omic sanctions are slight from our point of view" and then pointed to the warning given -by the Prime Minister against clamouring, for im mediate adult suffrage (see also page 5). The Minister for External Affairs (Mr. Hasluck) cast diplomacy to the winds when he said that the Rhode sian unilateral declaration of inde pendence" was in my view the re sult of fear and an attempt to pre serve . . . something that the Euro peans thought precious to them selves." When Dr. Cairns (Labor) pointed out that in Rhodesia 200,000 Euro peans govern and completely domi nate four million Africans, Mr. G. Shaw (Country Party) interjected: "Why should they not?" ? Extreme right winger Mr. J. Killen (Liberal) surprised nobody by say ing: "I hope that no person will -feel his feelings needlessly lacerated when I say to him that I find the utmost difficulty in restraining myself on hearing people speak of treason of the Rhodesian people". Mr. Clyde Cameron (Labor) said: "I have an issue of Time magazine which makes it clear that Cecil Rhodes was nothing more or less than a straight out colonial scound rel." The same magazine in referring to Rhodesia today, said "A new party built on a hard core of cattlemen, tobaccomen, and right wing labor leaders was on the rise, its platform 'white supremacy or death, and its founder was Ian Smith," he said. Further evidence of the pro-Smith campaign came in the Sydney "Sun- Herald" column by "Onlooker" who called for a "cooling off period" to - let the Smith regime "deal with the 'loyalist' elements centring around the stayput Governor, Sir Humphrey Gibbs." 