 HE'LL HAVE TO TELL TEACHER SYDNEY : New South Wales Education Minister Cutler next week will have the unenviable job of explaining to a conference of teachers why his Government has cut back on badly-needed educa- tion projects. AAt\. tuiLLix win open me 1965 annual conference of the NSW Teachers' Federation at the Sydney University on December 20. Mr. Cutler told Parliament last week that the Government had, decided to defer all school buildings scheduled for this year for which contracts had not yet been built. This means a cutback not only ' on the building of new schools, but also on badly overdue alterations to existing schools. But Cutler's attempt to blame the former Labor Government's "over- budgeting" on education for the neces sity of the cutbacks won't hold water. Writing in the current journal of the NSW Teachers' Federation, the president of the Teachers' Federation, Mr. S. Lewis, said: "The charge that the previous State Government had ove-ommitted itself cannot conceal the public needs of education in NSW; in fact the Renshaw Government did little more than provide for the Minimal education requirements." The Minimal educational require ments will apparently not be provided by the Askin Government. Lewis wins bialiat jYDNEY: The President, ior Vice-President of the NSW Teachers' Federation were re-elected by large ma jorities in elections which concluded last week. Mr. Lewis with 7,706 votes defeat ed Messrs Kelly (3,815 votes) and Stanton (3,255 votes) for President. Mr. Whalan .with 8,353 votes de feated Mr. Jeffrey (6,418 votes) for Deputy President.. Miss Mattick with 8,358 votes de feated Mr. Boyle (6,414 votes) for Senior Vice President. The result followed efforts by the Liberal Party to interfere and in- fluence the result's.- These efforts in cluded an attabk on ' the present leadership in the Liberal Party jour nal; arid by; -Liberal right-wing MP , , . &lt; Mr. w. c. Wentworth) in Federal " ' pliamentr' --..v.v i. '''VL&ik '"-S-'ty. 'ft# THIS demonstrator was one of nearly a thousand who marched in Sydney last Monday in protest against the Vietnam war. See story Page 1. 