 Sophia Loren wins best actress award in Moscow From BETTY LOCKWOOD MOSCOW: Famous film stars, directors and technicians rom major film-making countries were on. stage facing 6000 eople at the opening of the 4th International Film Festival in the Kremlin Palace of Congresses. Test actress prise in Moscow's th International Film Fes- ival went to Sophia Loren ("Marriage, Italian Style"), nd the best actor prize to ergei Zakariadze ("Father of a Soldier"). Premier Kosygin hailed the ?stival in messages and a ->eech. Moscow crowds lapped the film stars from lany lands. Australia's documentary " entry Concer.to for Orchestra" was wel1 eceived— in fact, during the after noon it was shown "Concerto for >rchestra" was the only film clap ed. during the screening. The subject of the film was th ydney Symphony Orchestra unde: he baton of Dean Dixon and the : 1 'ersonal lives and hobbies of some >t the orchestra members. 1 The Sydney Town Hall is show.' with the full orchestra rehearsing Dean Dixon preparing himself fo: the concert and players rehearsing in their homes. Superb Australian beaches anr bush are the background of scene: where the orchestra members enjc; heir days off. Most delightful of all were thr scenes of the conductor and orches era entertaining three and four yea: old children with music and intro lucing them to different instn nents. . Hungary, 1956 Among the feature films wortl : mention was France's "Skic bove", a finely acted anti-wa !m. "Twenty Hours" is the first at unapt to put on film an objective cccount of the 1956 Hungarian lprising and because of this it attracted the widest attention and interest. This Hungarian film dealt very frankly with many basic problems of socialism. The German Democratic Republic, having no inhibitions in branding German militarism, provided the Festival with "The Adventures of Werner Holt" which would be a truly great anti-militarist film, but for defects in continuity. 1 Progressive West German film makers deserve special credit- for their "Uncle Tom's Cabin". Although operating in a difficult .political atmosphere they still j managed to make Uncle Tom Iook u more like the civil rights leader g in today's Deep South, than hM Harriet Beecher Stowe's more re- \ signed character. Zoltan Fabri director of "Twenty Hours" and Sergei Bondarcnui ; irector of the Soviet film "War an j eace"- shared the grand prix. pj Parts one and two of "War and | eace" were shown. The tm ; | art will be ready in June, 1 i| A special gold prize was 1 o Italian Director Valerio Zu . Jg or the film "Le Soldatesse . || masterpiece, passionately PP , Jf o the senseless cruelty of wa Jj urying out for human dignity, 10 one unmoved. I Silver prizes went to the Po 1 | ilm "Three Steps on Earth anu | he American film "The 1 injury of the International 1 Critics' Association repre J 8 countries awarded Grana | o "Twenty. Hours" ana | :'wo"- j. Festivall Footnote: This outstanding from! lrew delegates and e11. .. weI4 69 countries and 600 journa | accredited. 1 1 i \ fi 