 Hundreds in city Vietnam protest SYDNEY: Five hundred citizens, including trade unionists, students and members of women's and youth organisations took part on Monday in the city's most impressive protest yet against Australia's Vietnam war involvement. The demonstration was called by the Co-ordinating Committee, Demon etration for Vietnam Peace. It was held at the US consulate in Wynyard Street and later at the Commonwealth Government offices in Martin Place. At 4.30 pm demonstrators carrying peace slogans on placards or calico tunics began circling round the blQdk of buildings in which the US consul ate is located, handing out leaflets to passers-by. - . 50 police At about 5.20 they moved towards the Commonwealth offices, despite the efforts of some 50 police to divert them. Large crowds assembled round the offices and when ordered to' move, some 50 or 60 sat down, while others stood. At this point Mr. W. J. Brown. Sydney District Secretary of the. Communist Party, was arrested and carried bodily to a ; waiting police van in Martin Place. " Later two more were arrested — Mr J. Mundy, organiser > of the Builders' Laborers' union, and Mr. B. Steel. ..Towards 6 pm the demonstrators moved back to Wynyard Square, where Mr. B. Smith, secretary of the' Sydney branch, Seamen's Union, and Mr. W. Buckley, AEU organiser ad dressed an enthusiastic meeting and called for a still bigger participation in the" next protest. Youth was prominent throughout the demonstration, with shouted slog ans like "We don't want War", and songs of peace and freedom such as "We shall overcome" and ' "Bio win' in the Wind". The demonstration was renewed next morning outside the Central Police Court when 20 people picketed the court .with anti-war slogans nd handed out 500 leaflets. Inside, charged with obstruction and asked how he pleaded, Mr. Brown said:- . "We consider the Men- zies Government guilty, not us. We took our stand for peace and we plead not guilty.'? With the others Mr. Brown was remanded till June 11 on £2 bail. Bill Brown later addressed a large meeting of waterside ! workers aboat ' the demonstration. 