 Wharfies plan national protests SYDNEY : Meetings of waterside workers throughout Australia are to be held over the next fortnight to consider the new attack made on the Federation by Mr. Justice Gallagher of the Com monwealth Arbitration Commission. pEDERAL officers of the Wat- erside Workers' Federation, t in calling the meetings, said I they were gravely concerned at jj the remarks made by the Judge. | Judge Gallagher said that waterside j workers who support stoppages of | work on matters of political import- 5 ance should be dismissed from the j industry. j He also said that the Crimes Act j can be used against workers who ? demonstrate on political matters. I This is the third major outburst, j in violation of his judicial authority, 1 made by Mr. Gallagher against Aus- j tralian workers since September last j year. j The latest was made on May 25 i during a compulsory conference I called to discuss industrial pensions | for waterside workers. j During September last year the In- j dustrial Officer of the W.W.F., Mr. j N. Docker, walked out of the Com- j monwealth Arbitration Commission j in protest against Mr. Gallagher ! "abusing Jhis position and using his position on the bench as a forum to attack the Federation and its mem bers." On that occasion he condemned watersiders in Melbourne and Syd ney for their stoppages against South African racialism, calling the wharfies "dupes of political agita tors." This was also when he was dealing with an industrial matter. New outburst His third "outburst" was made last March during the Basic Wage hearing in Sydney when he attacked the Aus tralian workers' right to strike. This sparked off a flood of pro- , tests throughout the labor move- j ment including the Australian Coun- ' cil of Trade Unions and State Labor j Councils, v j In the basic wage decision made ' last year, Mr. Gallagher was also one j of the two judges who voted against j a £1 increase being granted. j Mr. Gallagher's statements last week possibly have much more serious implications for the Austra- | lian workers. j His clamouring for the use of the Crimes Act and dismissal of workers who oppose any reactionary policy of j the Menzies Government is a blatent | attempt to restrict the democratic j rights of the Australian people. j A press statement issued by the j federal officers of the W.W.F. said: j "The Trade Union Movement as a whole must pay close attention to I the implications of those statements j as they cannot hold true only for j waterside workers. ! The Federation has also reported j the matter to the A.C.T.U. with j a copy of the transcript of the com pulsory conference at which the j Judge made his attack. j Last week's meeting of the N.S.W. S Labor Council also decided to examine j the transcript with the view to hav- j ing the A.C.T.U. make an official protest. I The federal officers of the W.W.F. j have also rejected Mr. Gallagher's j offer to deal with their claims j through the Arbitration Commission, j They said the Commission had no j jurisdiction over a claim for a pen- ! sion and mechanisation fund I The stop work meetings of water side workers will also discuss their present claims and what action should be taken to achieve them . 