 for n i|ourl| book " shelf how to make aus tralia safe By W. E. Goiian, 9d &lt;1/2 nosted). fNRIGINALLY priced at 1/6 — now L/ priCed at 9d. For quantities of 5 and over 6d. each. This clear exposition of a basic policy for the- real defence of Australia deserves the widest nossible distribution. Peaceful co-existence and controlled disarmament are discussed in this booklet as real possibilities. A powerful answer toi those who clamour for higher defence expen diture, the stationing of atom bombs in Australia and more ex tensive overseas adventures. the slaves of the COOL MOUNTAINS By Alan Winnington, 7/6 (8/5 posted ) rpHIS book about the impact of the Chinese People's Republic on some of the most backward peoples in that country is at the one and same time a tale of adventure, of anthropology and of the development of a people from antiquity into the life of today. As the author describes the life of the Wa head-hunters and the . Norsu slave-owners on the borders of the Yunnan Province we are given a glimpse of life in a form which will never again be seen. adventures OF A YOUNG MAN By John Reed, 4/- (4/8'post- ed). gEVEN Seas publication in short story form. Almost all these stories were written before 1917. Imbued with the defiance of youth, they also con tain a maturity which expressed itself in a love of life and of people, especially the under- priviledged. John Reed who wrote "Ten Days That Shook, the World" played cricket which is not cricket and so do the characters in his stories. friends and neighbours By Malcolm Salmon. 1 /- (1/5 posted). ORIGINALLY priced at 2/6 this valuable booklet is now reduced to 1/-. For lots of 5 and over 9d. each. . Topical today it provides an intro duction to South East Asia, its history, its development and makes a stirring plea for Austra lian aid to the people of these countries in their struggle against colonialism and its attendant poverty and oppression, ibis is a chance to acquire a use ful book at small cost. Available from — NEW WORLD BOOKSHOP 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 