 Menzies' letter a confession of failure CANBERRA: Prime Minister Sir Robert Men zies' letter to President Johnson was one of the most complete confessions of failure of national policy that the head of any Government had ever written, to another, the Leader of the Opposition, Mr. A. A. Calwell, said in Federal Parliament last week. I— IE was leaJing the debate on the letters exchanged by the Prime Minister and the US President iast month on US measures to restrict the out flow of capital. On February 11, President Johnson called on U.S. business men to re duce foreign investment and return more of their profits to the United States because of the country's bal ance of payment crisis. Menzies then wrote a pleading letter to Johnson asking for Australian ex emption from the reduction of U S. capital export. The letter was a "significant diag nosis of the many avoidable ills now ailing Australia's economy, but they are diagnosed without a pre scription," Mr. Calwell said. b He said that Australia should be free from dependence on overseas investments and from interests that did not share Australia's aims and ambitions.. The Prime Minister had asked the U.S, President, in effect, to help Australia to continue to be even more dependent on overseas cap ital he said. - Other indictments against the Government by Mr. Calwell in the debate- were — . . The . letter could ; produce no long term solution . because it did not face the real problem- The. . Government tried to meet balance or payment problems by permanent disposal of nat- . urai assets to pay for shovt term items. The U.S. President's reply was not very favorable even as a short-term answer to the short-term question asked by Prime Minister Menzies. President"" Johnson was saying that he could see no reason why Australia should receive special dispensation. Day to day 9 Australia was relying on capital inflow not to develop, but to live from year, to year, from month to month, from day to day. The fundamental difference be-. tween the two letters was that the U.S. President recog nised that his responsibility was to the American economy and it was time that the Menzies Government showed itself eq ually pro-Australian. We must act and work for ourselves and stop hoping for : leone else to pull the chest nuts but of the fire. Capital should be welcomed that brought with it the ad vantages of research, know-how and marketing methods that are new to Australia. 9 The Labor. Party did not, as the Government had done, welcome overseas capital urn critically arid believied that there were- dangers associated with foreign capital... No nation could afford to pursue an economic policy flhat required exploitation of key national assets in order to pay its way from year to year. The time would arrive when the outflow of capital in the form of dividends to foreign capitalists would equal or ex ceed the inflow of new foreign investment. Vital sectors of the economy would come under foreign control and reliance on the maintenance of capital inflow would develop. Australian industry and econ. omy would be less determined by decisions made' in Austra lia and more by decisions of companies interests and over seas governments. 9 In 1962-63-64, investment in come payable overseas by com panies in Australia was £97.6 million, £127-8 million, and £133.2 million. New direct investment was £78 million, £126.1 million and £131.7 million. Mr. Calwell said Australia was now a net exporter of capital. "We seem to be reaching the point of -no return," he said. . He said he hoped the treasurer Mr. Holt would go on to London after, he visited Washington be cause the position there is not as good as he thinks it is." Quick profits Mr. . Calwell went on to say that the Government had allowed vast natural resources to be tied up for years and only- released for development on terms dictated by overseas interests. "These interests do not share our national aims and ambitions. Their only interest is to make pro fits on the grand scale and make them quickly," he said. The treasurer Mr. Holt said that Mr. Calwell had made a blatant Party political speech, much of it vague, most .of it groundless and a good deal of it emotional. He said the Opposition was mis representing Government policy On overseas investment. But he also said that restrict ions by the United States and Britain on the flow of capital could cause an international rec ession. And the Minister for housing. Mr. L. H. Bury said that world faced: a downward spiral of inter national trade which could be sim ilar to the events of the 1920's. and 1930's. He said the downward spiral of trade created the kind of situation which exported depressed condit ions from one country to another. He said that actions of the U.S. and Britain could be a danger to the world, not only economically but politically. They could create the kind . of situation which allowed Hitler to come to power he said. . "If the" European - creditor coun tries insist upon . settlement con tinually, in- gold , this will, mean a hardening of ' trade and ; none stands to lose more than Australia," Mr. Bury said. Mr. Bury was executive director of the International Bank of Re construction and development in Washington from 1853 to 1956. 