 Read this > Sir Robert I l| US Big Business has $100 million invested inside South Vietnam I . THE US Government guarantees US private enterprise investments in South Vietnam T against war, currency devaluations, etc., but, of course, it cannot guarantee the lives of !American soldiers who are fighting to maintain that investment. US big business in South Vietnam enjoys a nice profit rate of 2(1-25 per cent. As it works out in figures, an American | soldier is killed for every £50,000 profit made in the country. ! Recent denials by Australian Prime Minister Menzies that the United j | States has. any economic interest in South Vietnam have been exploded ' j by the US journal "Business Week". THE - issue of July 12 de- - &lt; tailed; how much Ameri can companies already are investing in and profiting | from: South Vietnam amidst j the bombs and napalm. i Under the headline: "Business en- lists in South Vietnam", the text begins: "Probably few countries in the world today look less- attractive to investors than war-torn South Vietnam. But a surprising amount of activity is going on- there." The sum of $100 million was in- , vested in the past five years, and "if President Johnson . . . has his way, more and more U.S. companies will participate." The big grab Indeed, they are accelerating the process, "despite the dangerous military escalation of recent weeks . . . Now, Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey, Caltex and Shell Oil Co. are negotiating with the Vietnamese government to set up a jointly-own- ed $19 million refinery. The com panies have distribution operations in Vietnam which they have been -- expanding to meet military needs. Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. is ex pected to participate in the financ ing if the deal goes through." Besides these, Johnson & Johnson, Inc., is doubling the capacity of a textile plant, Parsons & Whittemore of a paper mill. Foremost Dairies has moved in, along with AlliSr Chalmers, International Harvester, . French, West German, Italian and Taiwan Chinese capitalists. Govt, guarantees the investment . . . Business Week lists three reasons for the rush of investments: The US Agency for Internation- al Development (AID) provides the dollars to> pay for imported equip ment (with US workers' tax money, of course). fe The AID guarantees, the US in vestors "against the. risk, of loss, through war, revolution, civil un rest, expropriation, or currency in convertibility." Last, but not least, profits are fast . . . from 20 per cent to 30 per cent a year " Commenting in the San Francisco "People's World", Communist, eco nomist Victor Perlo says: "Thus, UJS. big business is. making extra- high profits on our money, insured at our expense against all conceiv able risks. That's the $3£ billion . 'foreign aid' program in action. "But the AID hasn't found a way to guarantee the Eves of American servicemen sent there. Here is the arithmetic of it, in the cold-blooded Wall Street-Pentagon style: ... but not US lives "On $10(1 million the U.S. com panies make $25 miUion per year. Daring the last year 500 American servicemen have been killed. That makes a yield of $50,000 per life, more than covering the survivor's benefit. "Besides, the profiting companies do not have to pay the benefit, we do. Doubtless, as U.S. involvement becomes more complete the profit yield per life will decline, even as the total profits increase. "When Johnson talks about spend ing a billion dollars 'for develop ment of Southeast Asia, he means spending a billion of taxpayers' money to help finance and guarantee U;S. companies fastening their claws into the bleeding, burning bodies of the Vietnamese people, and their prospective fellow vic tims in neighboring countries. And he asks the Russians to contribute to this fund! "When Johnson says 'we' will not be driven out of Vietnam, he is speaking for Standard Oil and the the Morgans as well as the Penta gon. "Evidently, the biggest U.S. com panies have so much surplus pro fits to invest they no longer have patience to wait until their new prospective colonies are 'pacified'. With the 'foreign aid' gimmick to protect them, they do not have to wait. Face the facts "Americans should face the cruel facts. The bombings and tortures, the burning of villages and destruc tion of peasants' rice stocks— the latest daily boast of military ac complishments in the press reports — the mass murder - of Vietnamese now reaching into the millions— all these atrocities are for the profits of these American companies, and of the munitions companies already getting larger orders with the escal ating, war. "More and more Americans are" protesting this vile,, greedy war. But there are still too many, poisoii- ed by official chauvinism, who- pay attention only to American casualties and the U.S. balance sheet. Perhaps they will see that even from that narrow viewpoint,, the war is a shell game played by millionaire operators, in which many American. famiEes are victims, and for which ' aE American families pay the bills." 