 Govt neglect as- DR0UGHT RUIN, HARDSHIP GROW Statements by Senders of the Communist Party, Labor Party and the Country Party in the past week indicted the Menzies Gov ernment for ignoring disastrous drought effects. Huge losses, including most of the New South Wales wheat crop and millions of cattle and sheep, will aggravate the serious deficit in Australia's over seas trading balance, which will also be hit by a heavy fall in the world price of sugar. While rains in parts of New South Wales will help some farmers, the position basically is unchanged in both NSW and Queensland, and stock losses have increased from cold and wet. In a broadcast 'ast weekend, ALP leader A. A. Calwell said: "In a great crescent stretching from the KimberleyS; across the Northern Territory, through western and southern Queens land, north-western and cen tral NSW, right down East Gippsland in Victoria the blight of drought had settled upon the continent." "Unless direct and individual aid is forthcoming the future of Australian farmers will he a lifetime of debt." A N.S.W. Country Party statement issued under the name of its presi dent (Mr. R. J. Hunt) but inspired by top Federal Country Party politi cians, said 'that "the party was dis mayed, six months after its first re quest to have funds released from the Reserve Bank to the trading banks for . special long term low interest loans to . bona fide drought-affected producers that no action had been taken." The statement called for an early meeting .between the Premiers of Queensland and NSW and the Prima Minister to work out a formula to alleviate the hardships being experi enced both by the State governments | and the rural community. DROUOHT RELIEF PLAN DEEP concern at the hard ship suffered by people in the drought areas was expressec in a resolution adopted by the central committee of the Com munist Party of Australia last weekend in Sydney. "Responsibility for the hardship and losses suffered lies mainly with the Commonwealth Government, which has failed to provide ade quate finance for the large-scale works needed to overcome the ef fects of the long-standing enemy, tirought. "We call for an immediate change | in Federal and State governmental policy, so that needed finance is mads available to provide: Immediate assistance by the Com monwealth Government to primary pro ducers in need, by provision of loan money to be repaid over 30 years, to be interest- free for ithree years and at a low rat of interest thereafter. Free finance grant# or social services in emergency cases. Tho Commonwealth Government to make spec ial grants to the Queensland and NSW Governments for State drought relief. Extension of freight concessions and exemption from road tax by State Gov ernments for the cartage of stock and feed and water supplies to all drought areas and farms affected by the drought. Federal and State governments to co-operate to build up a reserve stock pool of quality sheep and cattle to bo made available to farmers at reasonable prices for restocking following the drought. Federal and State governments to co-operate immediately in implementing major water conservation projects and a national fodder pool. Moratorium on all debts for farm ers hard hit by drought. "The Federal Government, instead of facing up to such works, essential spending £400 million a year in sup port of American and British armed intervention in South-East Asia. In Australia, its policy has been to sup port the interests of wealthy finan cial, machinery and commercial com panies with whom the farmers deal," the resolution said. ALP move NSW Labor Opposition Leader Mr. J. Renshaw last week moved in the State House an urgency motion on the drought, calling on Premier Askin t©' ( seek immediate talks with the Prime Minister and the Queensland Premier to consider: ® Allocation of funds urgently at low interest to rehabilitate primary producers. Special Federal grant and extra State funds through the - Rural Recon struction Board to help reconstruct farms badly affected. Rural Bank advances at conces sion rates for fodder purchases. Grants to provide work foe those unemployed due to drought. 