 Mar® w®iHiEi jobless in Wolloncpong WOLLONGONG: The South Coast Labor Council and Re gional Development Commit tee have joined forces in a campaign against growing un employment, particularly among women and girls in the district. It is estimated that in Greater Wol- longong alone over 6000 women are unemployed. Mr. E. Harvey, the Labor .Council secretary, told Tribune that the South Coast was the low-wage section of the State of NSW where more than half the population was employed by Australia's biggest monopoly— BHP steel. "The emphasis has always been on heavy industry and this limits the amount of jobs for women. "Migrants lured here by false pro mises of full employment and family security find there is no work for their wives and daughters. "No family can live on a single wage today, so when there is no work for the wife or daughters these fami lies pack up and go," Mr. Harvey said. In some cases firms iiad sacked married women and given their jobs to single women. "The demand of the trade union here as elsewhere is for the right of all women to work regardless of mar ital status. We have no objection to women in industry. "Our only objection is to their extra exploitation by the employers, who refuse to pay them equal pay for equal work," Mr. Haryey added. He said that at the AI&S Tin Plate Mill women were paid three quarters of the male rate for the same work as men. "The war years furnished abundant proof of the ability of women to work in heavy industry. "The Federal Government iS a signa- tary to the ILO decision stipulating equal pay for women but it refuses to put it into practice. "If employers were genuine about the need for highly trained workers for automation then there should be apprenticeships in industry for young women as well as young men. "Young women have all the capabil ities necessary to work modern mach ines." he added. Mr. W. McDougall, secretary of the South Coast District Committee of the Communist Party of Australia, said that the "major concern was to make more jobs available for women quick ly." "When a job is advertised in any of the stores in town, young girls queue up for 100 yards or more to apply. "We are greatly concerned about these young people and for the mig rant families who have many added responsibilities in a new country." "This is a big problem that demands not only immediate planning for jobs, but a planned policy for the employ ment of women. "The decision of the BHP for an ex pansion program of £120 million is the background against which the problem of women's employment should he studied," Mr. McDougall said. "Steel processing today has many levels of scientific and technical train ing. To allow only for the training of men and the neglect of women is un scientific thinking and will . aggravate the situation. "The Government should see to it that this expansion program includes the development of women tradesmen with equal rights and pay. "The Department of Technical Edu cation and. the Wollongong University should also provide facilities for the training of young men and women." he' said. Married women who found jobs were often unable to go to work be cause no child minding facilities ex isted. "These must be extended along with a vigorous" housing program, but a recent, statement by the new Liberal .member for Wollongong-Kembla, Mr. Hough, that he 'was not aware of any unemployment' shows the bank ruptcy of his Government on this problem." Mr. McDougall said. 