 i | A light-hearted j | slashing success I 1 |T had to happen — an | . Australian musical j set in Sydney's tradi- tional touffhland Wool- j loomooloo, drawing j on street girls, pimps j and razor gangs of an j earlier period for its j laughs, songs and I dances. | This is New Theatre's ! first production for 1965, S "The Ballad of Angel's j Alley", and it is certain to | be popular and to set a lot | of people whistling and | humming, and appreciat- | ing New Theatre's ever- | widening range of produc- I . tion. | This show is unashamed J romping entertainment with a | salty -Australian flavor (not ! suitable for children) and so | one doesn't look for, or get, a i social or political message I comparable with many New | Theatre productions; but the | ' decision to stage it (right in- 1 the heart of the 'Loo, at that!) | must be commended. s ! ufr I i New Theatre won deserved ac- | claim for first staging Au.stra- |. lia's first musical, "Reedy | River",.- back in 1953. "Angel's = Alley", with its many singable ! songs and a script charged with t the slang and humour of Aus- | tralian cities, also will have a I place in our independent culture | that is growing in struggle ; against the American syndicated 3 flood. j By staging this show, New | Theatre continues to assert it- = self as the theatre with the $ most progressive record and a \ widening- reputation for xip- = holding the interests of Austra- f lian drama and entertainment, | The show will, at the same time, S provide discussion and contro- 9 versy than can aid the theatre's | development. | "Angel's Alley" has a .simple ! story line of a bunch of "ladies I of the house" who. tog'ether | with their' razor-armed gang of I "protectors", have suddenly been left unprotected by the death of the gang leader, Tom Tiddler. L , A rival gang led by a likeable roughneck Bill Fiddler (ifre- pressibly and well played by Norm Slater) moves in to take and makes their lives a misery. The girls, who pine for the "self-respect" they'd had in the old regime, hail the daughter of Tiddler (Shirley Broadway) as their new champion against ex tremes of injustice. After extraordinary and riot ous adventures, a solution is found that appeals to all in volved. - The play does not moralise but it does -find a rich human ity, virtues as we'll as vices, among a sector of people under capitalism usually condemned or ignored. Sunday night's performance had a tempo and a mastery of difficult songs that won pro longed enthusiasm from the audience and was a tribute to . the work of directors Marie and John Armstrong in a testing production. Credit for individual perform ances must go in particular apart from Norm. Slater, to Shirley Broadway, Milton Moore (whose acting has strengthened greatly to match his fine voice), Alan Hardy, Penny Kail end Alec Marchevsky. These and the others of the big cast share the credit for the success of the 15 songs, not ably "Pitt Street on a Saturday Night", "The Millionaire's Song" and "Twas Ever Thus 'or a Woman." The show gains much- from the simple and effective sets and the originality of costumes, thanks to Yvonne Francart, David Fitzhugh and Breiida Gardiner- — A .R. "Ballad of Angels Valley" — New Theatre, St. Peters Lane, . East Sydney, Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights, 8 p.m. 