 "Message" music . SPEAKER at a recent Communist Party area conference made some rather biting attacks on some recording artists, referring to hair styles, clothes and their music in general. Being an all-round music lover I feel this is not good enough. Let us not forget that recording artists are the employees of mono poly and are exploited some times as ruthlessly by their employers as any industrial worker. There is much evidence to support this in stories of performers having to travel long distances to theatres, doing long, arduous shows and then travelling further distances to other shows. The recording industry itself is not an easy business. This is evidenced by the fact that in England only one record in five hundred ever gets in the top sellers lists and in America this proportion is much lower. There is also the point that re cording artists are probably subject to the bites of more parasites than any other worker. These parasites hide behind _ many administrative titles, but it is a case of a rose by any other name. Of course not all pop music is Sood. In my view too many records nave sex as the main theme of their lyncs and I'm afraid, that the Beatles are especially guilty of this. ihe advent of "message music" very welcome and one can only f«V hafc the messages contained m such songs as "God On Our Side" sn/latcr?5 to the listening public that this type of song is not stifled by the monopoly record and radio concerns who are part of the system that message songs condemn. Last week's Time magazine re cords that many radio stations in the USA have banned the playing of a recent message song at the top of the best-seller charts— "Eve of Destruction" by Barry McGuire. ijart of it goes ... The Eastern world it is explodin', Violence flarin', and bullets loadin', You're old enough to kill, but not for votin' ... If the button is pushed, there's no runnin' away. There'll be no one to save, with the world in a grave ... Ah, you don't believe we're on the eve of destruction. There are also many other pop records not actually message songs that do illustrate class consciousness and class relations particularly in America. For instance, there is a record called "Door In The Boon- dooks", apparently Boondooks is an American term meaning a slum area ard this song tells the story of a boy from the Boondooks in love with his boss' daughter. Also some time ago a record called Romeo and Juliet told the story of an unemployed worker needing money to buy his girl friend a present. This record was popular. The ear of a person not politically OAne/»iA11C «T/\1 11 M WUUAU 11UO tu cern the ' messages in this type of song very clearly, but the fact re mains that the messages are there and to. appreciate the value of all types of pop music in the class struggle it is essential not to con demn it out of hand, but to take a close look at it and see what is really behind the throb of the guitars. R. Barrett, (Rooty Hill, Sydney) 