 Communist President reports Asian liberation forces "certain to be victorious" T SYDNEY: The heroic struggles of the South-East Asian peoples ore part of the great movement for national liberation, in depend- „ ence and democracy that swept Asia, Africa and Latin America in the postwar years. kAR R. DIXON, general pre- sident of the Communist Party, said this at the recent meeting of the Central Com mittee. In South-East Asia the struggle had become very sharp and was of great importance to Australia and - the world. Functioning as the policeman of reaction. US imperialism was waging its dirty war in Vietnam, interfering in Laos' internal affairs, violating Cambodia's frontiers. British imperialism was also at work, building up a powerful force in Malaysia to hang on to their colonial possessions and profits. Australia was now intervening in South-East Asia on an increasing scale in support of the aggressive aims of US and British imperialism. This was not for defence— there was no threat to Australia from the peodes to the north— but for the suppression of other peoples and the denial to them of liberties won here more than a century ago. The most crucial struggle was that in Vietnam, to which External Ar- fairs Minister Hasluck had said the ! Malaysia conflict was "a sideshow" | by comparison. | US writer Lippmann had also said j that the USA was engaged in a war ! in Vietnam from which it could not ; win. but from which it could not withdraw because of the issues at stake. US Republican spokesman Cabot- Lodge had said the issue in Vietnam vas world power. Socialism Defeat and withdrawal would ser iously affect US power-prestige and hearten the anti-imperialist forces, j Yet, said Mr. Dixon, "there seems | no reason to doubt that the national liberation forces in South Vietnam > will win and the US imperialists be i forced to withdraw". j By this, the independence of Laos j and Cambodia would be assured and j the position of the British imperial- j ists would become untenable. They j would have to negotiate complete j independence for the Malaysian j Federation peoples and withdraw7 their own forces. ' ! Whether it happened this year or in 10 years time, the liberation forces' victory over imperialism was inevitable. In a longer perspective, said Mr. Dixon, this liberation victory would open the way to socialism. A num ber of South-East Asian countries would "skip" the capitalist stage. CtrMAX OF STRUGGLE NEAR The imperialists fully understood , the implications and depicted the peoples' patriotic struggles as "Com munist" and more speficically Chin- J ese a agression. _ j In fact the sort ot "freedom" the? US claimed to be fighting for in Viet- j nam was shown by the reaction of ' Vietnamese in setting themselves i alight in protest against US con- = trol of their puppet government in j South Vietnam. Recent weeks had seen a powerful movement of students, Buddhists and j workers demonstrating against the : US regime. In these demonstrations j a demand had arisen for the US, j and Ambassador Maxwell Taylor, to get out of Vietnam. CYS's task "In the last 15 months there have been eight changes of Government by military coup. The people were : .never consulted. "Two-thirds ot South Vietnam has oeen liberated and even the capitalist press admit that more than 60 per cent of the people support the na tional liberation movement. "Buddhists, students and other sec tions of the people are coming out against the US. The armed forces are deserting to the national liberation forces. "The forms of struggle are chang ing. The climax against US imper ialism is approaching." The visit of Soviet Premier Kosy- gin to North Vietnom, said Mr. Dix on, showed how seriously the USSR viewed the US Policy of extending the war, a policy full" of danger for South-East Asia and the World. The visit was obviously concerned with strengthening North Vietnam's capacity to deal with the US threat. "This shows that it is the USSR that shoulders the burden of defence of the sociaiist worid. The visit is directed above all at US imperialism and strengthening the Vietnamese peeople's position against it and not, as the capitalist press says, directed asainst the Communist Partv of China" in this situation, Mr. Dixon added, "where the political ana military position of the US is crumbling, the Menzies Government- is taking fur ther steps to involve Australia in the dirty war. More Australian trcops and military supplies are being sent to bolster up the corrupt military dictatorships so much hated by the Vietnamese people. "The vital interests of the Aus tralian people are subordinated to the policies of US imDerialism." On the Communist Party, said Mr. Dixon, fell the main responsibility for clarifying the position and sub mitting a clear-cut alternative policy to the people. This alternative was opposition to the US plan to extend the war "and we call on the Australian working people to condemn it." We oppose Australian participa tion in the dirty war and demand ' that all Australian forces and all ; Australian support- for US policy in j Vietnam be withdrawn. "We stand for a negotiated peace &lt; on the basis of the Geneva Agree ments of 1954 and 1962, providing for | the independence and neutrality of i Vietnam. Laos and Cambodia and i urge ' that the Geneva conference be ; reconvened to discuss the restoration | of peace in South Vietnam and the ; independence ana neutrality of these ; peoples." He said it was most urgent, that the Communist Party and other pro gressive forces should arouse the i people to demand a peaceful settle- : nient in the interests of the South- East Asian and Australian peoples. i Back Indonesia ; Mr. Dixon said Indonesia's struggle i against British imperialist control of | Malaysia was anti-iniperalist and therefore essentially progressive. Indonesia demanded that imper- 1 ialism must go and the peoples of i North Kalimantan (Sarawak and ; Sabahi be granted their independ- ' ence. "Thar is also our nosition." he j said. | However, Mr. Dixon criticised the j "crush Malaysia" slogan, the land ings in Malaya and Indonesia's ; withdrawal from the UN. He be- | lieved that these tactics strengthened | the position of Rahman and the im perialists in Malaysia. "Our differences with the Indones- : ians are on slogans and tactics, said | Mr. Dixon, "but these are secondary ; to the main issue, the struggle | against British neo-colonialism. I 'The growing military intervention ana build-up has the purpose of ) strength enng the grip of the colon- ' lalists and is a threat to Indonesia i and to all the South -East Asia lib- j eration movements, and we are op posed to that." | MR. R. DIXON 