 Chilean Communists' unity call for liberty, independence (From Eric Aarons and Pete Thomas, who repre sented the Communist Party of Australia at the 13th Congress of the Com munist Party of Chile.) CHILE : Thousands packed the Caupolican Theatre, San t i a g o, whose name honors an Indian leader of the early fight against the Spanish conquistadores. A mass of people filled the seats, which rise in stadium-like tiered cir cles to the ceiling; all standing room was jam med, and a crowd was outside too, listening to the amplified speeches and concert. THIS was the scene at the public rally marking the end of the 1 3th Congress of the Communist Party of Chile. Red and gold banners — dozens of them— from Party organisations, and bunches of red and white ribbons waved excitedly by Young Commun ists, colored the scene. On the platform were delegations from over 30 fraternal parties. Their presence at the Congress was a recognition of the international, as well as national, importance of the Congress. On one side of Luis Corvalan. veteran Communist hero and sec -etary-general of the Communis' Party of Chile, sat Andrei Kirilenko of the presidium of the CPSU. Yankees no! On Corvalan's other side wa' Lionel Soto, a member of the Centra Committee of the United Party o. the Socialist Revolution of Cuba For him, as representative of the Cuban party and people, there was a special ovation, including the tumultuous chants of ("Cuba, Cuba uiba: Chile te saluda") and "Cuba S1> Yankees no!" y- to Kirilenko was one -whom e Congress and the rally took close to their hearts. He was the US delegate: Henry Winston, who was jailed in USA as a victim of Mc- Carthyism and who became blind because his jailers refused to let him get medical treatment before it was too late. Henry Winston is a Negro, built on the imposing proportions of a Paul . Robeson. His deep melodious voice and enormous wide smile match his physical stature. And, al most visibly glowing around him, is his immensely vital, hugely confi dent, Communist spirit. "They blinded me in jail, hut they did not make me lose my vision," he told the applauding rally. Others also addressed the rally. Leading figures of the Communist Parties of Italy and of France; lead ers from Latin American countries where, as in Chile, Communists have braved— and, in many of them, still brave— jail, torture and murder. The Party's Congress itself had been held in another city theatre, the Baquedano, over a full week, made up of some hundreds of Chilean delegates, fraternal delega tions and invited visitors. Chile runs down the west of South America, facing Australia, 2600 miles long from north to south, hut only an average of 110 miles wide from west to east. It is a land of runaway inflation. Many of its 8 million people are poor, some of them desperately so, and a considerable number (25% is said to he a conservative estimate) are illiterate. ' Oppression Like other Latin American coun tries, Chile is deep in the shadow of the economic, political and cul tural oppression of the United States, which controls (among other things) the main copper mines. Chile's agriculture is dominated and constricted by the big' latifund- ist estates, many of them run on a feudal basis. The Party— which won legality in 1958, after an 11-year period of il legality — is some tens of thousands strong, with 23 members in the national Parliament (18 Deputies, two of them women, and five Sen ators, one of them a woman). It has a number of municipal Councillors, some Mayors, national, provincial and regional union leaders, and has a firm base among the industriu workers, with strong support also in ;he rural areas. Leading intellectuals and artists iave helped the Party to win a i major .influence in their fields. s Tie Party's policy is to rally the Chilean people against their three enemies: imperialism (meaning par ticularly US imperialism), the mon opolies, and feudalism. This struggle is common to other Latin American peoples also. The situation within which the Chilean Communist Party and peo ple wage their struggle for the nation's independence and progress has some special features. The ruling party in Chile now is the Christian Democratic Party. This is headed by Frei, who was elected as Chilean President last ' year, with reaction strongly back- ' ing him. Tactical shift The Frei policies represent a tac tical shift. In the Chile of the mid- 1960s, the policies of the old die hard Right were too crude to suc ceed. The tide for progressive change has been running too strongly to be dammed. So the imperialist and monopoly forces have set out, in stead, to divert the flow. Therefore, on the eve of the Presi dential elections, Frei produced a platform of reforms, Including a ' program of "Chilenisation." Frei in the election campaign spoke of revolution, but with this went a strong anti-Communist campaign. The election of Frei on all this oasis was acceptable to USA. For all Frei's talk of "Chilenisation" and "revolution," the USA knew that tho Frei policies were unlikely to go beyond sloganising. So there were certainly no US warships and Marines sent to Chile when Frei c' won the Presidential election. | Broadly speaking, the Christian | Democratic Party represents the | national bourgeoisie of Chile. The j Communist Party sees many group ings within the Christian Democratic ! Party and those who have supported it. It sees anti-imperialist groupings, as well as pro-imperialist groupings. It sees progressive groupings, as well as reactionary groupings. Disillusioned Also, the Communist Party recog nises that many have supported the Christian Democratic Party because they believed in the platform of re forms pronounced by Frei. Among these people, disillusionment is be ginning, but that is not yet a rapid process. Of immenso importance in Chile is the common front of the Com munist Party and the Socialist Party — organised as the Popular Action Front (FRAP). The Socialist Party states an adherence to Marxism. It has seven Senators and 15 Deputies. The strength of the relationships between the Communist Party and the Socialist Party was demonstrated during the Communist Party's Con gress, when a delegation from the Socialist Party attended one of the Congress sessions. Senator Aniceto Rodriguez (the Socialist Party's sec retary-general) addressed the Con gress and received an ovation for a speech made in the spirit of unity, especially important in view of reac tionary and rightwing efforts to split the united front. There are differences between the Socialist Party and the Communist Party, but Luis Corvalan (Commun ist Party secretary-general) put the matter in perspective when he said: "There is much to join tile Com munists and Socialists, and our dif ferences with our Socialist friends are not so big. Going to meet "Those who dream of dividing Communists and Socialists can for- , get their dream." Against all that background, Luis Corvalan told the rally that marked the conclusion of the Communist Party Congress: "Throughout the country, our Party has only one line. "We will defend the interests of the people." A section of the crowd of over 250,000 at on election rally of the Communist Party of Chile prior to the lost elections. / LUIS CORVALAN 