 Rumblings over Playford's "low wage" policy ADELAIDE : Decisions by the trade union move ment and workers' meet ings this week in Adelaide will' lead to widespread actions in the campaign or higher wages for em ployees of Broken Hill "My., government, council M employers. A COMBINED meeting of the disputes committee of the SA Trades and Labor Council and - the Whyalla Combined Unions Council has decided to refer the next steps in the campaign (for wage increases in BHP plants at Whyalla) to the disputes committee of the CUC for recommendations. This meeting follows a reply from BHP to the claim for a £5 over-award payment at Whyalla. The Company has refused to recognise either the TLC or the CUC, saying it will meet only in dividual unions. A meeting of the S.A. Trades and Labor Council has rescinded a pre vious decision to accept an offer of service payments from the Play- ford Government. The original decision, affecting members of 25 unions, had met with wide opposition from all sec tions of Government workers as it fell far short of the demand for increases of from 10/- to 50/-. 1 Playford's offer in 3 grades from , 3/6 to 25 / was also far below J that won recently in Victoria. The motion of rescission, after a lively debate, was carried by a two to one majority. A meeting of the unions con- cerned will now be held to de termine further action. In the light of the current State Election campaign the low wage policy of Playford is expected to become an important issue. A well attended meeting at the Islington Railway workshops was addressed by Mr. F. Walsh the leader of the Labor Opposition. It is understood that he offered to accept the principle of service payments and that it would be nothing less than that offered by Playford. Many workers will expect a more definite pledge to grant the mode rate demands of the workers in full. At the same time the proposal to grant 4 weeks leave to all Gov ernment workers will .be wel comed. Members of unions employed in the truck yard at Islington have met and decided to give the Railway Com missioner 14 days to reconsider a refusal to grant a special- allow ance for wcrk done in this sec tion. Combicbs men The men are claiming an extra 21/- per week for the work they are doing. A further meeting will be ' held if there is no satisfactory reply and a decision of what course of ac tion should he followed. Adelaide City Council employees are to join State Government work ers in the campaign for higher wages and extra leave. One of the biggest lunch-hour meetings ever belt7 of the daily- paid employees decided to hold a stop-work meeting to discuss claims for service grants ranging from 10/- to 50/- for one to five years' service and for four weeks' annual leave. A report will be made to the 500 : members of the eight unions involved . / in negotiations with the Council. The action was recommended by the disputes committee of the S.A. : Trades and Labor Council and un animously endorsed by the lunch hour meeting. : Strike nraeves Polio wing a half-day stoppage in January, workers" at the Adelaide Ship Construction Ltd., are to hold a stop-work meeting to consider strike action. After considerable negotiations with the company for a £2/10/- : over-award payment the Trades and Labor Council is to recommend that the men should stay out in protest at the rejection of the claim. - Collections made on the job have enabled "hop stewards to attend meetings of the TLC Disputes Com mittee. The unions have made it clear that they are prepared to discuss the matter further at any time. . However the company refusal to consider the wage claim bus ex hausted the patience of the work ers and has brought about a pro posal to take strike action. M-- -.bers of the AEU and ASE em ployed in the tool-room at Kelvina- tors are on strike for over-award 1 '-nients. ; The 140 workers have been out for a week for a £3 increase and ser vice payments. This has been rejected by Company. 