 Railmen angry at i Government wage offer [?] SYDNEY: Meetings of NSW railway work ers have condemned! the latest wage offer by the Askin Liberal Government and are calling on their unions to oppose such a "pal try amount". Widespread anger and concern is being expressed in some large Sydney rail workshops to newspaper reports that unions have accepted the Government's offer. "j"HIS offer, the third since the unions submitted their wage demands last Decem ber, provides for increases from 10/- for non-tradesmen to 17/6 a week for trades men. It also falls short of wage in creases agreed to by other State Governments. An agreement just concluded gives Government transport workers in Tas mania wage increases from 19/6 to 25/- a week retrospective from July 4. In Victoria service increments range from 13/- to 42/- a week for tradesmen and from 9/- to 30/- a week non- tradesmen depending on length of service. In South Australia increment pay ments are based only on service and range from 10/- -a week in the first year, 17/6 second and 25/- for the thrid year. Queensland railway workers also won marginal increases from 21/3 to 42/6 a week. Government rail and transport work ers in NSW are demanding an incre ment of 16/6 a week after the first year's service, 33/- after two years and 49/6 after three years and that payment be based only on service not skill or classification. Stoppages Already two 24-hour State-wide stop pages have been held in support of these demands. A further 24-hour stoppage planned for last week was put off and fresh negotiations were to be sought. Since then, the Government has not increas ed its latest offer. Transport workers say there is now an urgent need to step up the cam paign and for proper consultation with the workers. / Militants on the Combined Govern ment Transport Unions' Committee have called for 4-hour stoppages with mass meetings. A strange feature, is that those un ion leaders who normally oppose any stoppage have demanded iivtmug snort or sa-nour stoppages in this campaign. Political football Workers, many of whom have a take home pay of less than £16 a week, say they are sick and tired of being used as a "political football." A meeting of the 26 transport un ions and the Labor Council . disputes committee will meet today (Wednes day) to discuss the outcome of further talks held with the Railway and Trans port Commissioners. A mass meeting last week at. Eve- leigh Carriage rail workshops voic ed strong opposition to the wage offer. The men also expressed con cern at reports that unions are to accept the latest offer as a settle ment of the dispute. It is anticipated that delegations from workshops throughout Sydney will attend, as observers, today's meeting, of the unions. An earlier meeting of 500 at Eve- leigh Loco workshops decided to send deputations to the main trade unions asking the leaders to press "for con tinuation of a united struggle. Sydney boilermakers at a special union meeting last week called tor an urgent State-wide conference of NSW Government rail and road transport delegates to consider further action in support of their wage claims. The boilermakers said such a delegates meeting would allow the rank and file tp express opinions : what should be done to bring the campaign to a successful conclu sion Thi$ was among the proposals from i the union submitted to last Thursday's : NSW Labor Council. Other proposals were: That a four hour stoppage be held i at the earliest possible date in the i event of an unsatisfactory outcome to i the new negotiations. That the publicity committee im mediately explain to the public the workers' demands. The boilermakers expressed "ex treme disappointment" at the lack of : publicity given to the campaign. In the event of further stoppages the unions must ensure that any in convenience will be fully explained to the public, the union said. These proposals will be discussed by the unions today (Wednesday). These FORTNIGHTLY pay dockets of NSW railway workers explain why they are demanding decent wage increases. The top docket belongs to a "marker off," the most highly paid boilermaker in the service . . . with a take-home pay just over £19 a week. The second belongs to a boiler makers' helper, a. man with a dependent wife . . . taking home about £14/10/- a week. 