 us Faces Defeat After four months of in tensive US bombardments of North Vietnam, and ter ror-tactics against South Vietnam, including the use of napalm, phosphorus and the landing of tens of thou sands of Marines — the US faces defeat. For the US, the military, as well as the political, situation, has grown in finitely worse than it was last Feb ruary, when President Johnson launched the first air raids on the Democratic Republic of North Viet nam. Anticipating what was to come, the Manchester Guardian's Saigon cor respondent, Clare Hollingworth, wired her paper on May 20 that pro- American South Vietnamese were "poised for escape" to Singapore or France. "For no one believes in an ultim ate American victory" she says frank ly. "The expensive efforts to win the sympathy of the people . . . have completely failed. Indeed the Ameri can has replaced the French as the hated 'imperialist' even with those men who benefit financially from the war." Defeats After the shattering defeats of the last week in May, Denis Warner in the Melbourne Herald is even more frank about the military situation He writes, on June 2: "The five most critical months of the Vietnam war have begun. "There is no hope or even remote chance of victory". The best prospect this expert c . n offer the Americans and their Aus tralian backers is that "by October, when the monsoons clear from the central highlands, we will know whether compromise negotiations may still be possible. The alternative is defeat". Into this situation, where victory is impossible and compromise the best to be hoped for— the Menzies Govern ment has thrown the Australian First Battalion. The reasons it gives for doing this are (quite unintentionally perhaps) refuted by Warner in the same article. In its Note to the Soviet Govern ment, replying to the Soviet protest against the committal of Australian troops, the Menzies Government blames the "North Vietnam author ities" for the challenge to the puppet government in South Vietnam. Mekong forces Warner's article makes it quite clear that in his opinion the main forces of the liberation fighters in central and north South Vietnam come, not from North Vietnam, but from the Mekong Delta in the far south! Warner complains that the Ameri can generals in Saigon thought the Mekong Delta, in the far south of South Vietnam, would be the decisive battleground and sent their main forces there. This was countered by the "Viet- cong" who "infested" the Delta "Then, while leaving it infested" ex plains Warner, "they drafted thous ands of guerillas into regular units and moved them back into the mountains and forests of central Viet nam". This is the area where they have just been inflicting defeats on the US- Saigon forces. Warner claims that the North Viet namese have been contributing to this build-up but says that this has been done merely "to supplement the bat talion move from the Delta". No wonder the US aerial f rightful ness against the DRV has failed! The "Vietcong" victors in recent battles have come not from the north but from within South Vietnam itself! Quite early in the campaign the US warned of its futility. On April 1 the Australian's Wash ington correspondent said: "The dilemma facing the AtVaiinistration is that ' the bombing of North Viet nam has not been successful". On April 21 its correspondent again said: "Nobody in the US Government claims that the raids on the North have had, or are likely to have, a major impact". The Manchester Guardian Weekly noted on April I that none of the purposes adduced by US spokesmen to justify the raids had been achieved — "Hanoi has not been intimidated . . . the Vietcong has not called off its war effort". On May 17 US Newsweek magazine quoted the military commander in South Vietnam as dismissing the northern strikes as "not really effec tive". Warner's article, already quoted, says that despite the "apparently ef fective" US bombing round Da Nang, defeat for the US is "more than a possibility." People's support The reason for the total frustration of the US military effort both in south and north Vietnam is, of course, that the National Liberation front have the support of the people in the South. This is not altered, and won't be altered, by the fact that the last Men zies Government Note again repeats the ancient lie that "aggression . . . emanates from Hanoi through its con- trol and direction of the Viet Cong in South Vietnam". In 1954 (April 6) . Senator (later President) Kennedy said the patriot guerillas in Vietnam had the support of the people. On November 24, 1964 the con servative London Times said: "One of the fallacies of the past five years in Vietnam has been the assumption that the guerillas in the South were a creation of the North and not a genuine revolt against misgovern- ment." On April 16 last the London New Statesman editor wrote: "To pretend, as Johnson does (and now Menzies also) that the Vietcong and the North Vietnam Government are indistingu ishable, is nonsense." The Manchester Guardian's Wash ington correspondent . Richard Scott condemns (on May 20) the "unaccept able line that there is no genuine popular revolt or civil war in South Vietnam and that the US has every right to support one side in this war while denying Hanoi the right to sup port the other side." Even more significant was the ad mission by Patrick Gordon Walker in the Scotsman of May 31. After a tour of Asia as envoy of the British Labor Government, of which he was formerly foreign min ister, Mr. Walker writes that the South Vietnam National Liberation Front is like the World War II Resistance movements and cannot for ever be kept out of a share in the Saigon Government. "The Viet Cong consists of Com munists and non-Communists whose long term aims are not identical" he adds, saying also that there could be neither victory nor defeat in the Viet nam war. The World War II resistance move ments proved in the long run in vincible. It will be the same with the South Vietnamese patriots. As the London Daily Worker says: "Mr. Walker and the Government should stop supporting the equivalent of Germany's wartime invading armies and support the Vietnam equivalent of the Resistance". That's what Australians must, in creasingly demand of the Menzies Government. A day's "catch" by US "advisers" in the Mekong Delta 