 Canberra deputation calls for Viet, peace CANBERRA : Over 100 people from three States went by plane, car and bus to Canberra last Wednesday to submit to Government leaders and representatives of the Governments of the Geneva powers proposals for an end to the war in South Vietnam. 1"HE deputation which repre sented approximately 200,- 000 people from all walks of life, was organised by the peace movement. On arrival they were divided into delegations, one of which was ie ceived by the Leader of the Oppo- sition (Mr. A. A. Calwell). Others interviewed many members of the House of Representatives and six foreign Embassy Ambassadors or their spokesmen. But Prime Minister Sir Robert Menzies had his secretary inform a delegation that he was too busy to see them. (A report back meeting outside Parliament House decided to inform Prime Minister Menzies that it was considered that he had acted con temptuously in refusing to see a deputation and this showed his lack of responsibility as Prime Minister.! Each delegation handed this sub mission to all' those thev interviewed: "We have come to Canberra to appeal to the representatives of the Governments of -the Geneva powers and our own Prime Minister and Leader of the Opposition to respond to the proposals of the United Na tions Secretary-General U. Thant, calling for an immediate conference of all interested parties to negotiate a settlement of the Vietnam con flict. "We also wish to stress not only the futility, but the grave danger that any further attempts to force a military solution of this issue may at any moment precipitate a con flict of unpredictable dimensions.' May we also request your assur. ance that these representations will be promptly forwarded to your Gov ernment? The foreign Consuls, their repre- sentatives or the High Commission ers interviewed were Canada, Soviet Union, America, France, India and Britain. Mr. Calwell met a delegation oi five trade union officials led by the " i N.S.W. President of the Building Workers' Industrial Union, Mr, P. O'Sullivan. They presented him with the reso lution of the NSW Labor Council on Vietnam which calls on the Menzies Government to support cessation of hostilities and an end to foreign intervention in South Vietnam. Mr. Calwell gave them an assur ance that in the foreign affairs de bate he would condemn the militarist approach of the Menzies Government to the Vietnam crisis and its lack of support for a negotiated settle- i ment. It was estimated that nearly 100 people went to the US Embassy. Officials eventually agreed to see seven, and Mr. P. Clancy, NSW Sec retary of the Building Workers' Un ion, led a deputation consisting of representatives of waterside workers, miners, boilermakers, seamen and ships painters and dockers. US actions Mr. Shot, for the Embassy, was informed of the decision of the peace movement and trade union move, ment on Vietnam. Viewpoints were presented in a forceful way by the delegation, with one of the spokesmen declaring that his organisation resented the US considering it had the right to act as policeman of the world and the right to send its troops into other people's countries. He declared that the US should withdraw its troops immediately. Deep concern was expressed at the US bombing of North Vietnam and the grave risk that this could start a third world war. The Rev. Frank Hartley led a big deputation to the Soviet Embassy and they were all admitted. They, were informed that the Sov iet Government was in complete ''' unanimity with their views and would continue to do all that was possible to end the war in Vietnam. The French Embassy official said that his Government would lend its efforts to any negotiations that would lead to a peaceful settlement of the war. The British Consulate spokesrimn said that his Government stood for peaceful negotiation and rot force The delegation which went to the Indian High Commissioner's office was informed that India had already called for a conference c nd the with drawal of troops from South Viet nam. At the Canadian consulate after a long discussion the delegation was given extracts from a speech made in New York by the Prime Minister of Canada, Mr. Pearson. In the speech he says that the v aim of the international community must be to secure conditions in South East Asia in which under , interna- national control and rup?rvislon . . the States in that area can wo rk jut their own affairs and conduct their own policies without interference from any neighbour or outside power. 