 DEMAND GROWS FOR I PRICE CONTROL SYDNEY: The New South Wales Liberal Govern- I ment is under heavy fire over its policy of giving manu- j facturers the green light to go ahead with price in creases. | AST Thursday night the NSW Labor Council declared i war on the Government's high I price policy. &lt;See page 1) j The Leader of the Labor Qpposi- j tion in the NSW State Parliament, \ Mr. J. Renshaw, last week announced j I that they would fight out the Bondi \ 8 by election on the question of the j I Government's price policy. i j | Many times last week, Premier j 1 Askin refused to take steps to con- 1 trol prices, or restore quarterly ; | 1 adjustments to the basic wage. j J H This was in spite of an admission J j from Chief Secretary Willis that; 1 between March and June of this; ji year alone the cost of living had ! j i risen by 14/- a week. ' j If e | List of new j price rises j Mr. Renshaw read out in Parlia-i j ment a new wholesale price list of' | essential groceries which from this ; j week would rise from four to 30 per cent. j He said: "Thousands of family men, j some of them working in this House, j have said that in the past three or I four months the average amount they must spend to feed their families I has increased by £3 a week." ; A recent grocery wholesalers' list I includes increases in: floor polish,' j by 2/6 a dozen (20-oz. tin); pot j cleaners, 6d. to 1/3 doz.; apricot jam, | 1/2 doz.; one brand of margarine, J 5d, lb.; and powdered milk, 1/2 doz. | There have been increases in toilet; I soaps, detergents, peanut butter,: j toilet paper, frozen fish, tooth paste, I cheese, canned meats, tomato sauce, J pet foods, breakfast foods and | cleaners. I I Yet Chief Secretary Willis aston-, f ished Parliament when he refused to ; 1 allow grocery prices to be subject ' I to consultation with the Prices Com- 1 j I missioner. He claimed that com- ! petition was so fierce in the grocery j I I !fa&lt;e this was one field which j there is "no need to control." | Shopkeepers j speak out i g Already the Communist Party, the j NSW Parliamentary Labor Party, j i&any trade unions, women's organisa- ; j tions and small shopkeepers are ! ! actively demanding price control. | I Several small Sydney shopkeepers | old Tribune that the same big j usiness concerns flint. wprA fAip8nv I public to pay higher prices yore also attacking shopkeepers' hving standards. wamed t>at special care had Tn. , e taken to prevent additional in %ery arising from the change over 0 decimal currency. w6 PrPrietr said last week that October 1, ice creams were £t .b.y. ld- and 2d- a bck. Ice ks retailing at 3d. were up to 4d. duJn decimal currency was intro- Drnfit re rs would have their Profit margin cut back. Drofiftbey w.ere to regain the same incrpflcJnfi?'gin they would have to ase the retail price. PeUetfo 1x1 the familiar four Si we re 5 Were 011 way out' Pack of in r®placed by a new less -peUets for 6d- or 5c.— i.e, ! Margins tnmg a?,d no "icrease in the direct rift f shopkeepers, but a se in Price to the public. 