 [?] The banning of | colored sportsmen 0N the arrival of the I South African j Springbok R u g b y | Union team in Perth | last week, the manager I of the team, Mr. Kobus j Louw, said that during j the tour sport would ! be placed above poli- ! tics. ! (He was alluding to the South | African government's racialist | policy). ! "We will do our best to play I in a spirit that maintains the best j interests of Rugby," said Mr. j Louw. I The "best interests" of Rugby j that Mr. Louw speaks of are ap- . ) parently the interests of the j South African government which | has introduced politics into sport I by banning colored people; from i participating and representing their own country. It is gratifying to know that this out of sight, out of mind attitude of the South Africans is being met with a rebuff by the . Australian Labor movement, and , youth, which by their actions last week reaffirmed their stand against racialism. In Sydney the N.S.W. Labor Council has reaffirmed its oppo sition to South African racial discrimination — politically, soci ally, industrially and in "sport. In Melbourne last week, mem bers of the Student Action Com mittee demonstrated at the ar rival of the Springboks and met them with shouts of "Seig Heil." The Australian sporting public can support this stand against " racialism by boycotting the Ruby Union games against the Springboks. »> $ )I: Rugby League by Jim Sharrock pHE "Match of the Day" at the Sydney Cricket Ground last Saturday in which Souths beat , the premiership leaders St. George 14-4 was played in an at mosphere of excitement. That players and fans alike al lowed their excitement to get the better of their feelings and to "box on" a little is part and parcel of football . Generally, five minutes after these little affairs all is forgot ten. At the beginning of the season, I wrote in Tribune, when discus- sing the prospects of the various teams that St. George's weak ness appeared to be their lack of first class reserves. On Saturday this forecast prov ed to be correct, as Saints did not look good at any stage of the game. Maybe we have come to expect too much of this team, but I cannot remember when Saints failed to cross their opponents' line. On this occasion they did not even look like crossing Souths' line. Souths also had stars .away in New Zealand and is also beset with injuries but they were able to bring up reserves who rose to the occasion. With the continuation of the long dry season and the grounds hard and fast, teams like Souths will be well suited by these conditions. My tip is that St. George even with their best teams, will be hard pressed to run out winners if the grounds remain hard and fast . . . If we get wet and soft grounds, then that will be an other story. : - # # I THE RAW OF i THE CROWD ! I'll tell you of a battle that took I place the other day j Between old Sonny Liston and ' Muhammed Ali Clay I Clay said "I am the greatest, with j strength and skill and speed ' I'll whip old Sonny Liston — but I Sonny disagreed. j The customers had settled down | Cat fifty quid a head) j Like Romans in the Colosseum when lions were being fed For very soon the bell would ! ring, the gloves would start to I thud J There'd be a dozen knockdowns - and bucketsful of blood. 1 # # . # The boxers left their corners, the battle to commence They started prancing round the ring, the crowd was growing tense Then Liston hit the canvas and there came a roar of "cheats!" - As- the crowd - rose- up in anger from their hundred dollar | seats. Oh it wouldn't dent a creampuff, ! that punch that Liston copped, j Yet he staggered, rolled his eyes j and groaned, clutched his head, ! then dropped. j And I couldn't help hut wonder j -7- if Olivier were- here Would he relish their perform I ance — would his lone voice j raise a cheer? j Then I started in to thinking of I the fighters I have met I Who finished broke and punch- I drunk after all their blood and I sweat. . - | As I headed for the exit, did a j voice within me say, "Good on you Mr. Liston, good oh you Mr. Clay"?. Clem Parkinson. $ &lt;' # From an "anti-cricket" writer: ' The appalling wrangling, grizzl ing, back-biting and whinging which follows every test cricket series is just_another reason why - this game is losing support in the few countries where it is played and is gaining no advoc- j ates in countries where it is not. s In no other game are the rules I so hard to interpret and umpires' ( decisions so constantly attacked. j In tennis and other games an j umpire often has trouble decid- j ing exactly where a ball has gone. j In giving an lbw decision at | cricket he has to form an opinion J about where the ball would have 1 gone if not impeded by the bats- j man! No batsman will ever ad- I mit he was out, or bowler that j the. appeal was unjustified. j This is. a game which can be I played for days without a result J being achieved, when nearly lialf j the players can be off the field \ for half the -time and in which g the luck of the toss, the weather | and the pitch play a ludicrous- j ly disproportionate part. I It was appropriate when a j bored English aristocracy was j looking for a time-killing diver = sion. Now it must yield place to f games that give, the greatest j amount of body-building exercise in the smallest space and time. | And this applies especially to j boys at school. Out with cricket; s in with tennis, volleyball, baseball J softball and basketball! I "ANTI-CRICKET" WRITER (What have cricket followers to ! say on that?) J 