 Pensioners «UiwiiLamu»taMm.iu»j«Li»ulrm | IJWilTBhmga protest Pensioners at three . rallies in Cess- nock, Lake Macquarie and New castle recently called on the Menzies Government to halt its interference in the countries in South East Asia and to provide a social security system in Australia in accordance with the, United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Opening the 200-odd Newcastle rally the Lord Mayor (Aid F. J. jpurauej saia tne luea ujl peiisaun- ers organising and taking up their demands was worth while. The Sec retary of the Newcastle Trades Hall Council (Mr. A. Dowling) gave the main report. In Cessnock the Mayor, (Aid. R'. Brown) chaired the rally of about 300 citizens and pensioners. Speak ers included A. W. James, M.H.R., G. Neilly, M.L.A. The Cessnock rally carried the following resolution: "This mass rally calls on the Com monwealth Government to honor its obligations to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights as contained in Articles 22 and 23. 22 Everyone, as a member of soci ety, has the right to social security and is entitled to real- isation, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the or ganisation and resources of each State of the economic, social and cultural rights in dispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality. 25 (a) Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, in: eluding food, clothing, housing ' and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unem ployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circum stances beyond his control. As a step in this direction the Commonwealth should, in the next ession of Parliament— © Provide a base pension rate ' of not less than half the Com monwealth male basic wage. d Repeal the 1955 Amendments to the National Health Act. > Amend the Aged Persons Homes Act to enable the State and local government to parti cipate in the provisions of the Act. to build homes for all classes of pensioners. \s the United Nations Charter akes it illegal for international .isputes to be settled by armed orce by one or two countries alone md as further commitments in this -nanner can throw the whole world nto a nuclear war from which very 3w will survive, this rally asks the immonwealth Government.— 9 To take steps to have all in ternational disputes settled by negotiations in accordance with the United Nations Charter, his resolution was also carried animously at the Belmont, and :wcastle rallies with slight medi ations. M. P. Copley, Newcastle (NSW). 