 | "Big Red" comes to town j IT is a real pleasure to find I a book in which every I character comes alive as you I read, where those deserving | of sympathy win it, where | descriptions of the towns j and countryside give you a I mental picture. I "Big Red" by Leslie Haylen fs j such a book. | Red Danvers is a 17-year-old P boy, living on a farm in a town j called Cooee Cooee. He is nick- | named Big Red, for everyone in ! the area has a nickname. I The farm where he was born I and grows up is dominated by I his grandmother, whose love is I the farm. Tied to an invalid chair, she sits on the verandah | seeing everything that happens, I knowing all that goes on. j Paddy, Red's father, is over- j fond of drink. The boy often j carries him home from the local j pub, where he has gone to escape j the domination of his mother, ! that terrible old Biddy. | Red's mother, Kate, is a quiet, j lovable woman who wants to see ! her son given a chance to learn I to broaden his experience. | Near the farm lives an Abori- | gine who is scorned by the j majority of townsfolk. As the ! story develops Red and others learn to know the true worth of Johnny and defend him when he is attacked. I The author writes with deep ! feeling about the struggling far- I mers, showing the difference | between their approach to life 1 and that of the rich squatters I and bankers. a . - Set in the period before the | Second World War, when depres- jj sion drove many city workers | into the country to try and make 6 a living, the struggles of the 2 shearers for better rates of pay I bring Big Red into contact with | the labor movement— the Aus- | tralian Workers' Union and the | Labor Party, which both interests I and influences him. | When a former university lec- g turer comes to live in the town 6 Red Is given the opportunity he | has longed for. Always an avid reader, he is helped to under stand more about books, about the things he would have learned had he been able to go to high school and university. "Big Red" is a lusty story of life in an Australian town before World War 2. It is a story which will help young readers to under stand conditions of the period and bring back to older readers I experiences they had or knew | about. I The book is the first of a trilogy i and of it the author says: | "It Is something of my own f life on a farm, sometimes a dis- 1 tant prospect of a land observed I and always the struggle of the i poor farmer to break his bonds | to the boss, the banker and the j 'big dry' in the years prior to | World War 2." I Published by the Australasian 1 Book Society, "Big Red" is selling I for 25/-, and is worth every penny. | Available at New World Book- I sellers, 425 Pitt Street, Sydney, 8 and all progressive bookshops. 2 Don't miss it; it is highly recom- .1 mended for holiday reading or as ,| a Christmas present. — J.M. B The author of "Big Red", Leslie Haylen, ex-MHR, speaking at the launching of his book in Sydney recently. 