 SA transport workers fight for equal pay ADELAIDE: Bus and tram workers at a slopwork meeting recently declared that if conductresses are employed they must receive equal pay. The Municipal Tramway Trust is attempting to introduce women into the industry on three-quarters of the male rate. The men say they have no objection to the employment of women as long as they receive the same pay as men. Conductresses in Melbourne and Syd ney receive equal pay. Background to the dispute is the shortage of labcur in the industry. This is brought about because of the poor wages and conditions. The Trust has refused to increase wages and attract men to the industry. The position has reached a stage when men are having their days off cancelled regularly and frequently. The Secretary of the Tramway Em ployees' Association (Mr. Yuill) said that "if an increase in margins was granted by the Trust, it is unlikely that there would have been any loss of manpower". He said that the employment of women at the suggested rate (three- quarters of male rate) would bring a breakdown in the wages in the industry. "That is not in accordance with the ideals of the trade union moiAmcnt," Mr. Yuill said. The Playford Liberal Government could use its influence on the M.T.T. to . increase wages, improve conditions and provide equal pay in the case of women working. Instead the Government pretends that its hands are tied. The Government supports the actions of the M.T.T. which threatens the whole industry. Recently the Playford Government refused a request for equal pay by a deputation of professional women or ganised by the Equal Pay Council. The Government used the excuse that it was a Federal matter. Again the Government is dodging the issue by refusing to urge the pay ment of equal pay for women bus workers which is already established in the eastern The State Executive of the Union of Australian Women con gratulated tram and bus workers on their stand for equal pay. The UAW expressed its congrau- lations and support in a letter to the Tramway Employees' Union. 