 [?] WA Association I moves to lift ban I 9 on women swimmers By THE CHALLENGER \ PERTH : The major ity of delegates at the annual meeting of the WA Amateur Swim ming Associati on held in Perth on May 3 agreed to a resolution rejecting the ban im posed (for unrepealed reasons) on four Aus tralian women Olym pic swimmers — Dawn Fraser, Linda McGill, Nan Duncan and Mar- lene Dayman. Many speakers took ex ception to the fact that although the swimmers had been given the right to answer the charges in writing, .;they had not been able to " appear or chal lenge the person laying the charges. Also one swim mer was overseas at the time that the charges were made against her— a fact .of which the ASU were aware. The meeting also passed a re solution . recommending that the A.S.U. rescind the rule which prevents Australian swimmers (and other competitors) from taking part in the opening cere monies of Olympic and Common wealth Games if they are compet ing within three days of the opening. The lift-the-ban-on-the .swim mers resolution was moved by West Perth . delegate Les Hearle and seconded by Collie delegate Bill Latter. The chief speaker in support was David Dickson, captain of the Tokio Games Swimming team (present as an association member and not a club dele gate which ruled out his mov ing any motions). Other ground for his disagree ment with the handling of . the matter by the A.S.U. was that a trial did not appear to be valid unless those charged ap peared in person to answer the charges. It was also wrong to have published the penalties imposed without also publishing the charges. Dickson stressed that he was _not making these points so as to keep the controversy dragging on, but in an effort to ensure that Australian swimming was not brought into disrepute at home and overseas again. It was at his suggestion that the motion urging a lifting of the opening ceremony ban was out on before the meeting. f # i RUGBY LEAGUE j By RON MACKERRAS. j "i PECULATION is now increas- | ing as to who will make j 'he representative teams, com- j mencing with the annual City versus Country games on May j- &lt;>. iTYunating the .20 players chosen in June to rep- j resent Australia on a tour of ! New Zealand. | It is to he hoped that selec- I tors will choose players in their best positions, and in the less | important fixtures choose young I players because of their poten- | tial. S The teams should be sprink- | led with experienced players of j the Gasnier, Raper, Lisle and ' Walsh type. I With these opinions in mind, I would like. to see the follow- j ing teams chosen for City's 1 First and Second. ! No. 1: Langlands, Irvine, 1 Gasnier, Lisle, Ross, Diett, and I Smith (halves), Rapier, Day, I Morgan, Quinn, Walsh, and "j O'Neil. Reserves: Maddison, f Stanton, McCarthy and Porter. | No. 2: Johns, .Yakich, Cubis, j Keyes, Cleary, McGuinness and I Cox (halves), Coote, Cody, Wil- j son, Ryan, Warner and Veivers. j Reserves: Moore, McDougal, j Hambly and Piper.. i Many readers will, find fault j with the exclusion of such pro- = mising players as Greaves, Hal I Brown, Hanria, ' Toohey, Gud- ( geon and Walkaden. j Johnny King and Saddler of j Easts are under a cloud with ! injuries.-,. - f They . are class; players and j will force their claims later. j Possibly they could be given j a run in City Seconds. j The . omission . of ' the two j ; Thornetts is ; well answerable. .Ken, although playing well, I is outclassed- by the younger | Langlands . arid Johns in attack, defence - and goal, kicking. Dick Thornett has not. recap- I tured - the form . that took him ; to England, and . does not warrant j I inclusion in either team. J ; Another Kanjgaroo is Rush- worth, who - on present form could not displace, any chosen players or reserves. It is not expected that Coun try will offer serious opposition to either City teams; most of j their players come from a New- j castle competition already weak- j ened by City purchases. j Unless new . talent is found by | Country selectors only, three = players could be considered by J State , selectors, Home and Giles of Newcastle and Harrison of j Gilgandra. ' i j My early choice for this sea- I son's ' semi-finalists -in their j order is Saints,' Norths, Balmain and Canterbury. . j Newtown is the team most I likely to cause upsets, because j of the sustained form of full- j . back Graham and the unlikeli- j hood of losing many players on | Queensland tours. | - . j T AM in warm agreement with j the many complaints and j suggestions heard at the Syd- j ney Cricket Ground recently I about the drill display by the j American Air Force Special > i Honor Guard and their Air I Force Band. | J Military bands and" displays | j are riot in . accord with the il mood of the -ne .11 fan a a. gar- II 