 [?] By W. J. Bi:own, Secretary, NSW Bureau, Communist j; Party" of Australia; ;;"'M6r&ah:'ldO'-Aew members have been gained for the Communist Party in New South Wales alone in the first quarter of 1965. THIS first progress result in the special Party Building Year campaign Shows that, al ready some results are ahead of progress targets. This, result, should, stir new en thusiasm to build still better in the second quarter of '65. Sydney's effort of over 60 new members by April was good, but the outstanding NSW effort has: been turned in by Newcastle District.. - Their target for the year is 40 new members. But they have already gained 22 new members and an en thusiastic spirit : of "New members can be won" is abroad in the Dis trict. Better branch life Darryl Dawson, Newcastle Dis trict executive member, told me last week that side by side with the drive for new members a major drive is on to make branch activity more vital, more closely connected with activity on . the various jobs and localities and to make the whole spirit of Party work one of open, public activity. This is the style of work and spirit that can build towards a real mass Party of the Australian people/ de- veloping the fight for . peace and opposition to -monopoly, and really advancing the labor movement's aim of socialism. It is notable that the new mem bers include many young people and also a number of former mem bers who are rejoining. "Many of those rejoining gave their reasons as the need to be active in the Communist Party of Australia as the only political party organising .action against -brutal American at- "tacks on Vietnam- and offering a policy of peace and socialism as "man's future, rather than insecurity and nuclear war. . The NSW results to "hand are par ticularly hearjtening. because they I are based on Teports from only three I Districts -r- Sydney (68), Newcastle | (22) and South Coast (11). We un- ) derstand that in addition one centre on the . Far North Coast has two new members, but reports are await- S ed from all other 'centres. t . The 100 new members were gained | in the first quarter despite the fact i that the first new members were | not registered till near the end of | January. Considering the national | target for 1965 was set at 500, 100 in t the first three months in NSW alone | is more than good going. £ Now- the task is to make a still i: better showing by the end of June. ! 