 "Persistence is the key" says woman teacher The hey to winning eq&saS pay musf be "persistence", said Miss Doris Osborne, headmistress of a Girls" High School and for many Years a campaigner for eqsaal pay for women. DERSISTENT campaign i n g, both by the Teachers' Federation on its own and in co-operation with all other interested people — the Labor Council Equal Pay Committee, the Public Service Associa tion and women's organisa tions, won equal pay for the teachers. "Wb1 didr.'t let up rrom 1949 to 1958 when the present legislation was in troduced in N.S.W. This was recog nised as a first step, and by no means the complete answer, and those groups of women not covered by it should be actively campaign ing for equal pay," Mrs. Osborne said. "Anyone who has been able to prove equal work has it, except that certain groups are excluded auto matically. Barmaids in Western Aus tralia get it, here they don't, cooks get it in clubs. Strong feeling "I feel quite strongly that the people who are excluded by the ex clusion clause in the N.S.W. legis lation will only get that clause re moved by campaigning themselves for its removal. Nurses and clerks have to do it for themselves, in close cooperation with other unions, the Labor Council Equal Pay Com mittee and women's organisations," she said. "It should not cost the unions such heavy legal expenses as they are up for to get the legislation im plemented. Hospital employees, for instance, in a test case involving 45' cooks in metropolitan hospitals, were faced with £1000 legal expenses to get Government legislation ap plied to Government employees! They were helped with the expenses by other unions, they won the case and equal pay for hospital cooks was later extended to country hos pitals," Mrs. Osborne added. "In Tasmania a bill was brought down that had no exclusion clause, but was defeated v by two votes in . the Upper House. Twelve months later another bill, with no mention of 'female' jobs, was sent by the / Upper House to a Select Commit tee. "A report was brought down to say that they believed in equal pay for equal work, but did not think this should be applied to work done usually by females. "It is now up to the people to make - the Government implement equal pay, as the report stated that further legislation is not needed in Tasmania to achieve this," she con tinued. "In N.S.W. equa? pay is absolutely complete in the teaching services, with the possible exception of the technical teachers of needlework and school of fashion, where cer tain women teachers have an -age in crement rate that doesn't apply to the men. They apparently assume that all men in the trade schools have come in from foreman status in industry,'.' she added. Miss Osborne said that Australia was one of the countries that spon sored International Cooperation Year. And the Year was to include special requests to member states that they ratify Conventions. But Australia has done nothing to ratify Convention 100 on Equal Pay. Pressing for this ratification from the Federal Government, persistent campaigning and cooperation of all interested organisations and a big effort by women suffering under the Exclusion Clause are advocated by Miss Osborne. year, until wages stand at (f) £21.4.0; (m) £24.0.0. For people who have the life and death of patients in their hands, Sister McCallum feels that these wages are pitifully low. She has just completed her midwifery training at a big public hospital. Now that she has the extra quali fication she will be entitled to 10/- a week extra— if she works in a public hospital. Some private hospitals don't pay the extra. This means that a double-certi ficate nurse can earn a maximum of only £21.14.0. a year— still less than the male maximum of £24, although she has the months of extra train ing in obstetrics. Today many married women are nurses, and time rosters are often drawn up to favour the marrieji nurses— particularly those who havte children to care for. However, mar riage during training is often frown ed upon, but some hospital hoards are lenient. ' Sister McCallum pointed out that every calling in the hospital except nursing has a job demarcation. Nurses can be called upon to do almost any sort of job when the other workers go home — for example, scrubbing floors, putting up cur tains, checking bundy cards, mind ing the switchboard, and so on. At the same time the arrival of a new baby and the expert care of critically ill patients might well be" her lot during any period of duty. '! Petticoat revolution" rpHE "Sun" of 30/1/65 reported that a "Petticoat revolution" is tak ing place in Western Australia's tim ber industry. In recent months wom en have been engaged in mills and yards for light routine work on which hoys were formerly engaged. Mill manager Mr. Wally Evans, of Manjimup, a main south-west tim ber producing centre, said a newly appointed team of women, including two grandmothers, had revolution ised fruit box production in his mill. Production has risen by 30 bunnies a day. 