 The Bank interest I boost— and what it means yRIBUNE'S timely warning (January 20) of a new severe credit squeeze has been con firmed. In a shock move, the Reserve Bank has advanced the bank over draft rate to 7i per cent— the high est since the great depression of the 'thirties. Australia's deep involvement in the expanding war plans of Anglo-Amer ican imperialism is the main cause of this latest credit squeeze. A secondary cause is the unres tricted freedom extended by the Menzies Government to foreign monopolies exploiting Australia. Workers, who generally speaking, are not privileged with a bank over draft, will nevertheless be hard hit . by the credit squeeze. In the first place, employment opportunities, will be further cur- tailed by the slowing down of capi tal investment. It will be recalled that the credit squeeze of 1960 created widespread unemployment in many industries. In the second place, hire-purchase interest rates are sure to rise, as '' in the interest rate on new home ' -iildir0 loans. In the third place; the Govern ment will be obliged to raise the in terest .rate for new Commonwealth loans. Ultimate . effects of this dearer money will be to increase the cost of public and semi-public works. Local Councils and semi-govern ment bodies like the Water and Sewerage Board will be saddled with heavier financial burdens and are sur- to seek relief by further increasing already unbearably high rates for service. There is also an ultimate prospect of increased electricity charges and fares on public transport. Interest charges on the National Debt will rise and the Menzies Gov ernment is almost certain to try and pass this on by more taxation increases in the coming Budget. Governor of the Reserve Bank, Dr. Coombes, in outlining the rea sons for the Credit squeeze, re ferred to the increased defence commitments of the Menzies Gov ernment and to recent overseas developments. This last reference was to the pressure applied by the Johnson Administration to United States investors to restrict their actual in vestment of U.S. money in de veloped countries and to remit back to the U.S.A. a higher pro portion of their overseas earn ings. This will have a two-way effect in worsening Australia's balance of payments problem:— Firstly, by slowing down the in- . flow of new capital and secondly by increasing the outflow of over seas dividend payments. America's own serious balance of payments problem is caused by the huge cost of maintaining bases and armed forces in foreign ter ritories. The dirty war in Vietnam alone is costing American taxpayers up wards of two million dollars a day. Part of this burden is now being indirectly transferred to Australian taxpayers, to add to the direct burden so willingly accepted by the Menzies Government. Australia's . balance of payment problems are also being worsened by the tendency of some foreign . companies to finance their opera tions from fixed interest loans, raised in Australia and not from abroad. British Petroleum switched a £10 million loan from London to Aus tralia following the rise in the British bank rate last November. In this sort of arrangement, "foreign capital" interests dp not invest a penny in Australia, but continue to take a substantial part of the profits resulting from the company operation in Australia. Another big contributor to Aus tralia's balance of payments prob lem is the overseas shipping mono poly. This monopoly, by its freight piracy, mulcts the Australian eco nomy of £360 million annually - £140 million of it being clear pro fit. American controlled Mt. Isa Mines, by its lock-out of workers, 3 also worsening Australia's bal ance of payments problems. Income is lost through cessation of copper exports, while outflow is increased by the need to pay more for copper imports. Workers should respond to the credit squeeze by intensifying the wages struggle, stepping up the campaign for a negotiated peace in Vietnam, for a national overseas shipping line and nationalisation of Mt. Isa Mines and other foreign monopolies. MAGAZINE BACKGROUND "aB"8gB 