 BUILDING WORKERS : T jg V Demand grows for long service leave CYDNEY: Building unions in New South Wales are plan ning to step up their campaign to win long service leave for about 45,000 building workers. A recent meeting of the Building Trades Group of unions called for a vigorous extension of the campaign following the rejection by the Master Builders' Association of the unions' proposals for such a scheme. The unions' campaign includes the holding of:— Short stopwork meetings in the inner-city area to organise a pro test rally in the Sydney Town Hall. 9 Combined meetings of building workers in such places as Parra- matta, Sutherland and Liverpool. Meetings of building workers in Newcastle, Wollongong, Pt. Kembla and other main country cities. Publicity will also be sought through the radio, television and press. The N.S.W. Labor Council has en dorsed the campaign failing a satis factory further discussion with the Master Builders. At an earlier conference between the unions and M.B.A. on March 2, the employers' representatives said they agreed in principle to the in troduction of long service leave to building . workers. President of the M.B.A. (Mr. A. Gall) told the conference that 'the M.B.A. supported the principle and were prepared to confer with the unions and other employers' organi: sations to seek a mutually acceptable scheme for presentation to the State Government. The employers' attitude during that discussion stood in direct contrast with the attitude of Mr. Maloney, the former Minister for Labor. Mr. Maloney had on numerous occasions told the unions that such a scheme was "too difficult" to . or ganise, even , though the unions had submitted what they believed to be a workable scheme. The building unions say they are not claiming special rights for build ing workers, but are asking that they be granted the same rights as other workers. Employees in fixed industries are entitled by law to receive long ser- vice leave after 15 years, with pro rata payment under certain conditions after five years and ten years respec tively. By the very nature of their indus try, most building workers are denied the opportunity of obtaining suffi cient continuous employment with the one employer to win the right to long service leave. The building unions say that work ers should not be debarred, because of the nature of their industry, from conditions of employment enjoyed by workers in fixed industries. The main proposals in the scheme put forward, by the unions are: 9 The establishment of a building workers' long service bureau. That employers pay a sum of money equal to sixpence in the pound of wages paid, or such sum as may be decided by the autho rity set up to administer the scheme, to this central bureau. All building workers on hourly hire be registered with the bureau and be credited with the time worked in the industry. That building workers be en titled to receive the same amount of leave as provided in the Act to other workers in permanent industries. 