 for n l t|our II book " shelf the fallow years . — by Jurij Brezan, 7/- (7/1 1 posted ) A BOUT a people tucked away in | the south-eastern part of Ger many. After a term in prison because of a belief in human rights and liberty Felix Hanusch seeks substitutes for these beliefs. Finally he also found the courage of his convictions, and was able to say to an S.S. Officer (once a school 'f-innHl" "When neonle like mvself . . people, who are no heroes, and no Communists, go over to | the other side, your kind is as 1 good as dead." | BE A MAN, BARANKIN — by V. Medvedev, 4/- (5/2 1 posted) Barankin and Malinin were" two | lazy boys. According to their class- 1 mates they were an utter disgrace. They had received bad marks be- 1 fore, but this was the end. A meeting was held and as a result the boys did some serious thinking —really being a human being was the limit. As a result the author turns them into sparrows and the i fun begins. If you have read and! enjoyed Huckleberry Finn you will be highly delighted with this book. MAGGIE — A GIRL OF THE STRETS and other Stories — 6/- (6/1 1 posted). Edited by K. 'H. Wiraberger. The unbelievable squalor of back streets in American cities and its inevitable consequences; the spirit and adventure of the frontier (Davey Crockett no less); and the intelligence, dignity and integrity of the Indian people; all these are part of this collection. THE TALE OF THE GREY WOLF — by Yevgeny Permyak, 4/3 (5/2 posted) The author wrote this book in an attempt to have the spokesmen of I two worlds have a frank talk at j ordinary-man level. The plot de- j velops around two brothers who I had not met for forty years.. One! was an American farmer and the j other a Soviet collective farmer. Contact is made and real under standing develops between people of different idealogies and the basic points of difference which are not well understood are clarified. # MAN'S ROAD TO PRO GRESS 5/6 (6/5 posted) A handbook which sets out the fundamentals of political know ledge in a series of lectures. Among: the questions answered are: The Laws of social development; What determines the policies of Socialist, and Capitalist countries? How the economy is prepared for the tran sition to Communism and finally Communism as the future reality for all mankind. Trom: NEW WORLD BOOKSHOP 425 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. And all progressive bookshops. 