 Japs urged to help develop New Guinea The lid was lifted slightly last week at the Goroka (New Guinea) seminar conducted hy the Council of New Guinea Affairs, to reveal sinister new moves to allow imperial Japanese interests to edge into New Guinea. FORMER principal of the School of Pacific Admini stration (Mr. E. D. Rowley) is reported as urging that Japan ese technicians be brought into New Guinea to instruct the New Guineans. In the same paper, Mr. R. W. C. Anderson, who is given the title of executive director-general of the Aus tralia-Japan Business Co-operation Committee, is quoted as saying that proposals for joint Australian- Japan ese development of New Guinea will be put forward at a meeting of the above organisation to be held in Tokyo in May. The connection between the two statements is obvious and should be considered in context with Japanese capital expansion in New Guinea. In 1961 a timber lease of 140,000 acres at Cape Hoskins (New Britain) was granted to an Australian com pany, Thompson & Wright Ltd. The April issue of the Pacific month ly reports that a joint Australian Japanese venture, New Guinea Timber Development Co. of Rabaul has now taken a 55 per cent interest in Thomp son & Wright. N.G. Development is a subsidiary of Southern Trade & Industry Co. Ltd. of Tokyo, which in turn is a subsidiary of the big Japanese Nitto Line. A new fishing company with a capital of £250,000 has been formed, 45 per cent of which will be Japanese and the vessels will carry Japanese crews. They will operate in the Gulf of Papua. Japanese economic penetration of New Guinea and Oceania generally is a long time policy, stemming from long before World War 2. Now the Japanese millionaires are proceeding to do what they were pre vented from doing by thousands of .Australian and allied servicemen who risked or sacrificed their lives over 20 years ago. As in the war period the Japanese imperialists have been able to recruit treacherous elements in Australia to assist their penetration and again, as in 1940, some of the treacherous ele ments are to be found in the Govern ment itself and are prepared to barter the sovereignty of Australia and New Guinea to assist them to maintain their dominance. Interests of Australia and New Guinea can best be preserved by end ing private exploitation of New Guinea resources and the Government itself nationalise the existing monopolies and use the profits to establish and develop New Guinean enterprise. 