 [?] Now is the time to I assess the Tests I By "The Challenger" j j\|OW that the praise I for Gary Sobers and i his team and the criti- j cism of Bob Simpson | and side have died away, it should be j time to assess Austra- ! lia's chances Til the remaining games of i the cricket series. j Gary Sobers and his side ! have already been com- I pared to Don Bradman's team that toured England | in 1948, while Simpson j and his team, if they listen | to the current criticisms of | themselves, are no doubt j thinking of packing their ! trunks and leaving George- ! town by the quietest way I possible. With the exception of the first 1 innings in which the West Indies j got a lead of just over 200 runs, 2 the second innings scores show- I ed a more even degree of ahil- | ity between the two teams. Iln the bowling, the 5 for 29 by Lance Gibbs of the West Indies is reasonably well matched by Hawke's 4 for 43 and Philpot's 1 4 for 49; in the batting the West Indies' highest individual score I of Sobers' 42 beats the Austra- 9 lians' highest score of Cowper's | 30 by only 12. | Also, in the first innings, it | should he remembered that the | West Indies literally collapsed in the batting after being 2 for I 201 with the rest of the team I making 154, Had the opening bats for the | West Indies suffered the same I run of "outs" as apparently all I other players of the third Test, £ then quite possibly the results j could have been very close. | Sports fans know from ex- | perience that sportsmen on an | average seem to always perform | better in their home territory; S it seems to give them the extra I "moral edge". | From a study of the individual : | batting scores, the fall of the S wickets and the particular pat- | tern of the game, it is reason- | able to say that although inci- | dents, which by themselves may | have seemed insignificant, to- | gether they brought about the I collapse of the Australian ' I eleven. | Things like that extra home | town "moral edge", of the West | Indies; the ' unfortunate running ! out of Bill Lawry; the fact' that | Gerry Gomez, who had filled in; as umpire, was one Of the West | Indies selectors aiid the co- I incidental run of outs suffered | by the players in - general, were probably the main causes for ! the failure of Simpson and his | team and not any overwhelming. | superiority of the West Indies. j Rugby League j Frorp Jim Sharrock I The match of the day at the j Sydney Cricket Ground (Sat- | urday, April 24) between | Manly-Warringah and North- I era Suburbs was a Fred Grif- I fiths day. Griffiths, captain-coach full, back for Norths, scored 17 0f Norths 23 points (a try and seven goals). Not only for this must we give Griffiths praise but for his leadership, in . bringing intp Norths that team spirit so neces- sary for the making of a first- class team. I thought that Norths had the edge on Manly from the very beginning but Manly was able, other than Griffiths' goal kicking, to keep a hold on Norths until about the middle of the second half. When Norths got on top, then they were able to give Manly the works. Manly played well in patches and at times had the fans on their toes hut were unable to sustain the efforts. Their inability to score a try showed their failure to pene trate and then finish off their attack. Frank Stanton, Manly five- eighth, made some very nice break throughs and played some very nice football, but individual play generally can come to nothing without the team work. Norths 23, Manly 2. Fans will be looking forward all this Week to the clash be tween Norths and St. George next weekend. If any team has developed to the stage where it can challenge the Saints it is Norths. I would not care to predict the outcome of this match, though many of my friends in the Saints camp believe they have it in the bag. Let us say at this stage that chances are equal, and that is saying a lot for the improve ments in Norths. Sydney Olympics The announcement by Mr. - Berge Phillips of the Australian . Swimming Union, of a proposal to hold the 1972 Olympic Games in Sydney should be welcomed by every Australian. The decision follows his return from a. meeting this month in Lausanne, Switzerland, of 26 amateur international sports federations. Mr. Phillips said that a deci sion at the meeting that visas must be issued to all athletes competing in' the games had eliminated members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisa tion . from holding them, as these countries refuse to issue visas to East Germany. This left Australia as one o£ the . few- suitable venues for hold ing the games. The experience of the Mel bourne, Rome and Tokyo Olym pic Games have shown that, al though the Games incur quite an expense, they leave a very worth while sporting development m the community, that may other wise be neglected. Mr. Phillips said: "Sydney for its size, has fewer sporting faci lities than any other major ci y in the world." Many people would see staging of the Olympics m y ney as a welcome commitm by the Government to supph facilities necessary. 