 [?] dt the door "yHE Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem got off | to a rip roaring start at Syd- I ney Stadium last Saturday 1 nijht. I They bounded onto the apron like | a team of tag wrestlers. | they set about their songs, |®15s,n yarns, war-crys and laugh- J the same gusto. | C1ancy Brothers' singing was I ln » vigorous, and aggressive. lLJL?maP Behan's song from the Ifhrp f Tbe ld Triangle", they lvorld eV01y un'ust gao1 in the IBfendan, they said, was one of hewr.vSfvf st1rong chai"acters from woikmg class section of Dublin. Bjni m the slum tenements they bout aiJfc- most Of what life was bejr life USU&lly realists a11 sh&lt;!n ln ch|M« in tl» „ W be heard any j the alleys and lanes of Dub- rweiia wauia" th 4 kni&lt;= ,adlPnition of "Don't And the , ? babt,y's heads." - ciy Bookie" "Shellacky Shel- t snails aft'g/ rain. nations0' and rd— ,shapes' deno- and xehgious convictions L3 had the audience clapping, stamp ing and laughing aloud. For humour "Mr. Moses Ri-Tooral- I-Ay" would take the cake. It was aboijt a- Jewish shopkeeper who had a notice in Hebrew outside his shop. An enterprising young British policeman said it was a Gaelic sign, and therefore forbidden. by law. The policeman was taken to court, proved wrong and demoted to "garbage collector." A delightful moment was the re citation of parts of "Finnegan's Wake" before the singing of Finne gan's Wake." It was a bit of a spoof of that immortal novel, with which the song bears more comparison. Here's one of the jokes they told: "Now," said Tommy, "there was a Protectant' boy courting a nice Catholic girl. _ And later on they were married after the Protestant was baptized. After a few weeks he went back to his priest -and said: "Father, I know I've been baptized hut I still feel like a Protestant." And the priest said: "Alright my son there's one sure way to iix that — keep repeating to yourself, I'm a Catholic, not a Protestant, I'm a Catholic, not a Protestant. "And the young man went away mumbling to himself: I'm a Catho lic not a Protestant, I'm a Catholic not a Protesttant. "One Friday night a few weeks later, the priest went into his house and he smelt the familiar aroma of ' frying steak — - a strange thing in a Catholic house on a Friday night. "He went into the kitchen and there was the young convert stoop ing over a large steak, scooping the gravy over its crisping body and saying: "You're a trout, not a steak, you're a trout, not a steak!" » The team touched on many themes of Irish life and history. Tommy Makem singing "Johnny I Hardly Knew You" and "The Cob bler's .Song", and Pat Clancy singing "Jug of Punch" were the highlights. Personally I'd like to hear them do a history of Ireland In song, so that the real picture could, be painted clearly for everybody, and no-one of sound heart could dis agree with these advocates for the best m people. — -D.K. 