 PRICES RALLY AT TOWN HALL BREAD MAY BE DEARER SYDNEY: If has been announced in Syd ney that the new season's wheat price will go up by 7d a bushel. Millers and bakery monopolies are then expected to press for an immediate further Increase in bread, break fast cereals and other wheat products. Merchants were widely reported to be hoarding wheat in readiness for the increase. THbl price of bread was in- | ' creased only recently, al- \ though neither wheat nor freights been increased. : The New South Wales Parliament- ary Labor Leader (Mr. Renshaw) last week condemned the "S®?! State Government for its part in the j II recent Increase. . , j The increase had been for a whole j loat while the half-loaf remained the j | same price. . . .. j I Then the Government raised the ! 1 price of the half loaf, openly admit- | I tin that if they had not done so peo- j II pie would buy two half loaves, thus &lt; || dodging the price increase, he said. I I Rally demands j Govt, action j I JUIR. RENSHAW was speaking at a j I public meeting at the Sydney ! | Town Hall last Thursday night, % which called for trade union and public action to force the NSW Gov- I ernment to peg prices. I The meeting was organised by the | NSW Labor Council in response to . public concern over soaring prices. I The meeting also called on the Gov- fi ernment to institute public inquiries | into food prices, with the aim of p; reducing them. gg: It called for public activity for a H national price reduction and control p scheme and called on the Labor Coun- m cil to lead a deputation to the Gov- |t ernment to press these demands, jg Petitions of thousands of signa- |i® tures demanding price control were given to Mr. Renshaw who will present them in Parliament. "The major protest at this meeting was that whereas the price of labor can be determined by a decision of the Court, the price of commodities I that you buy should also be determin- i ed by a Court or tribunal," Mr. Ren- ) shaw told the meeting. | "There is wage control but no price j control." P Increasing prices not only eroded ||j the purchasing power of wages, but || made paupers out of people on lower pi and fixed incomes. III mo?1"' J' Kenny, secretary of the g| NSW Labor Council speaking at the Jg meeting said: m . ,'May I cali on you to try and in- jg| lcate in the minds of everybody Hi In T0ri-Ous situation that is develop- % s vitally necessary that lunch II shop >?leetings held every work- Sf .Kenny said that the campaign 9 th» Pre contrI should bring together 9 e ole trade union movement and 9 L. people outside the trade union I myeinent interested. H toa. L111'1111111 basic wage needed ?/ il £a week' he added. II the r, ,ny branded as "iniquitious"- 1| june '' rise in the basic wage last I Hidden price II But-P" Ciancy. NSW secretary of the II and a Yrkers' Industrial Union PI NSW t the executive of the llutioHe?11' seconded the 3 hiadelii in the recent past have 1 People , M,ar that the problems of the 1 Action n/i-u be solved only by the I "The Aru-f p?Ple themselves. , f able 6/. ratin Court gave a miser- aSaihe tirym Waek hicrease and at the II Said that prices would not ce taken into account in future wage ;ases and in doing so told manufac turers, 'put prices up as high as you ike.' " There were 214 public companies n NSW and 179 of them had announc- ;d increased profits, Mr. Clancy said. 