 Unions' "contempt" for Whitlam attack IDENING nati onaJ trade union concern and anger over the con- i sistent public campaign by the Federal Labor Deputy Leader (Mr. E. i G. Whitlam) against basic principles of trade j union unity found clear expression in Newcastle 1 last week. Mr. Whiflam this week re peated, in collaboration, with | the Sydney Morning Herald i and its associated TV station ' ( ATN TY -his; earlier Newcastle statements t.o> the effect that : ALP' union officials who "col- j lahorated" with members of. other , parties in.: united activity in; the: interests, of their union were- "men without honor or courage," only in terested in job-holding. Last Thursday, the. Newcastle Trades Hall Council unanimously endorsed: a President-al Recommen dation by the. President (Mr. R. , Miller) who is an ALP member. Mr. Miller recalled it was. some years ago that the procedure had last been used, also on an occasion of an attack on trade union act- ivities. made by "elements outsiae the labor movement together with misguided- people inside the ALP." Mr. Miller recalled that the Pres- 5 dent on that occasion! had reaffir med the basic trade union principle of accepting "all workers, making no discrimination as regards, age, sex, nationality, religion: or politic al affiliations,'1 both as regards membership and leadership." To allow the undermining of that principle, and to permit organisat ion of unions according to religious or political beliefs as in some other countries would destroy the Aus tralian trade union movement and its. strength to combat employer attacks and defend unionists' con ditions. Mr. Miller reaffirmed the earlier statement: "I say here and now that the trade unions will, never desert these principles." Today, he said, the challenge was again being made by Mr. Whitlam, who, had been quoted by the press as saying in his Newcastle lecture on June 22: "Trade unions should not be allowed affiliation with the ALP if they were not pre pared to respond to party discip- uine , . ." The THC Presidential Recommen dation went, on: "This is a statement, that I, as an individual would wholeheartedly oppose and would also like to- oppose it on behalf of my Union, which, like many other Unions, has mem bers that have joined the A.L.P., the Communist Party, the D.L.P., and unfortunately the recent- elec tions seem to point that many are members of the Liberal Party or sympathisers ... "This is apparently what Mr. Whitlam has suggested: that once a Union is affiliated, all members of. that union must obey the decis ions that can be arrived at by either an extreme right or leftwing-led political organisation. "This Council, as always, refrains from adopting one-sided or part isan views; it is concerned with ob- jective realities and asserts the fact that the trade union movement gave birth to the A.L.P. as a par liamentary party, of the. working class arid that the majority of workers, to this. day,, give the Party its support, . despite the fact that Labor Governments have often failed to live up to the fullest ex pectations of the working people. Men-iiEiferference "The overwhelming number of the trade unions are affiliated to the A.LJP. Some are affiliated to the D.L.P., "The main mass basis of the A.LJP. is the trade union movement, to whom the A.L.P. should owe sup port, if not allegiance, "The reported stand oi Mr, Cal- well supporting the proposition that no political party £s entitled to interfere in the affairs of trade j unions, conforms to trade union policy and to A.L.F. policy, and should be supported— on the other hand, A.L.P. unionists must enjoy equal civil liberties to other mem bers. . "The Newcastle A.L.P. Federal El ectorate Council recently expressed I the' view: that there should be, a | free and independent trade union I movement opposed to Mr. Whit I lam's proposals for the disaffiliat I ion of trade unions which elected I members other than A.L.P. mem I bers, I "The industrial groups, of san I tamaria attempted to control the unions and through them the A.LP, The new attack, supported by the. '.'Sydney Morning Hera.a, aims at. the Parliamentarians con- ; trolling the unions and, if n«es- ; sary,. disaffiliating unions that ian , to conform to 100% A.L.P. "Sucn a proposal strikes i essential basis: of the trade ' movement — renders unions cat",, not- instruments the aims and needs of their _ bers, but reliance on mem ' Parliament— a view tliat - «,« rpnriered untenable, , out of date and ineffective. | Need united action j "The appalling dEciEi0 "l Arbitration Court in reje the previous judgment to aaj Basic. Wage to price rises and j bracing the wage reducSing thej the: employers in prejudging > marginal wage demands trade union movement, call QV mediate action by the whole | Movement, us to- f "This vital question befor .fj day is proof tha-t it cal". ai0nej; to the parliamentary wmB , to deal with. . whined ac- "What is needed is com mem. | tion of the trade umons worj.ers'U bers of parliament, around J demands. 1 Continued on Pa9e | WltiflcsBii attack Continued from Page 2 "The trade unions must rely on their own unity and strength whilst, enlisting the support of the A.L.P., which can best assist the workers to the extent that the trade union movement is able to exert the maximum influence on «s government and activity."' "The main need Is to enhance the collaboration between union members — to ensure the maximum unity of action, irrespective ofcol- Pltcal persuasion or religious herence of the membership whilst upholding the democratic "ghts of all within the unions, in- c uding the right to their own pol- itical or religious views." "Any attacks on the traditional and fundamental character of the; -trade union movement or any dis tortion that minimise the relation ship to the A.L.P. can only be in the interests of Labor's enemies,, and will be resisted by the full might of the trade union move ment." " "Suggestions that A.L.P. union leaders who hold the confidence of their members are lacking in honor, courage or moral firmness because of their adherence to es tablished trade union principles and policy will intimidate none and be treated with the contempt it deserves." 