 Thou shalt not get caught! INTERNATIONAL diplom acy, as practised by the Christian West, has its own special language, its own ethics and morals. If there is not very much of love thy neigh bor" or "thou shalt not kill", or "beating the swords into ploughshares", there is still the Eleventh Commandment. This says; categorically: Thou shalt . not get caught. It is good advice, and the mark of successful dip- plomacy. British expertise in such diplomacy, in the days when Britannia ruled the waves, led to the exasperation yet grudging admiration expressed in the phrase "Perfidious Albion." Alas, Britannia no longer rules the waves, the sun has set, etc. . . . in the American Century, leadership in the West has passed into new hands, more powerful than ever Britain's were. But not so expert. For American diplomacy lacks . grace, subtlety and finesse. In other words, they're always getting caught out. The U2 flight In 1959, President Eisenhower reacted to the Soviet Union's shooting down of the U-2, on the eve of the Summit, by a sincere, cross-my-heart denial that such a thing ever could, or ever would, happen. He stuck to his story for 24 hours, too. Mr. Lee Kuan Yew recently . alleged a US attempt to bribe Singapore. The State Department made a hurt denial. How could, he say such a thing? Unfortunately, the spokesman forgot— or. never knew —that the shrewd Mr. Lee had obtained a signed confession. LB J, with all the moral fer-or and piety of which he is capable, kept swearing by the Holy Bible, the US dollar and all his other sacred household gods that all the USA wanted was peace in Vietnam, that it has been frustrated because the Communists showed ho sign of wanting to talk. News leaked out that Hanoi had proposed talks in August last year— just when escalation was being prepared. No worry at all to the State De partment — another flat denial, naturally soon followed by admis sion it was - true. Then there , are nuclear weapons for West Germany. Solemn dis cussions, fervent denials of any desire to "proliferate," protesta tions of good faith. Then — admis sion that West German weapons had been tipped with nuclear warheads for eight years or so. The Americans are our "great and powerful friends." (We know this because Sir Robert has told us often enough.) Why not help them out — after all, we haven't done enough to help them in Vietnam yet, as Senator Fulbright has testified/ It would be a great help to our friend if we seconded Mr. Paul Hasluck and Senator Gorton- to the US State Department. They will never admit the USA has done anything wrong— even when the . .State Department admits it.. Mr. Hasluck is the ideal diplomat- he can use more words to say .nothing than any other member of Cabinet (and that's saying a lot) What ; a wonderful spokes man for' the State Department Consider its other advantages, too. We wouldn't have to listen to Mr. Hasluck, and— lucky country— we " would probably get Sir Robert back as Minister for External Affairs for six months or so while he looks around for a suitably pliant addition to his line of Foreign Ministers — Sir Percy, Little Lord Richard, Sir Garfield, .Paul Meernaa Caldwalla. 