 [?] | First teach-in | I in tech. college f K B /a | j Five hundred students jammed into Turner Hall, | || Sydney Technical College, last Thursday night for p I a 4 hour teach-in on the Vietnam war — the first f I held in a technical college. j ft ! | T was organised by a I joint staff student com mittee and chaired by the college principal, Mr. W. R. Crisp. Ten speakers spoke from the H platform including two represen- H tatives of the students, while i| 0Ver 50 students asked questions || or made short statements from Ji the floor. 9 Mr. V. Dorsen, who spoke as a 9 student representative, said: "I I I want to give my opinion as a young man liable to fight for his country." ' "Australian troops are at war in Vietnam and are being killed. They are there only' because the U.S. wants them there, but should we be there? "We now have a shortage of manpower but still we have sent our troops overseas. I would feel a lot sarer if our troops were back here. "The war in Vietnam is a civil war, no borders have been 1 crossed. I "All we can get out of it is a heap of dead bodies, and even young people who have told me they support the Australian Gov ernment's position don't want to i g0> "If Australia were really threatened we wouldn't be hav ing a symposium. i "There were no symposiums I when Australia was threatened by the Japanese." He concluded by saying that i the whole situation was sicken- ( ing," and you and I are being 1 asked to give our lives for it." One young questioner began: "I a speak as an irate conscript." | He then asked Mr. T. Hughes, | Liberal MHR for Parkes, whe- ' ther young conscripts would be | sent to Vietnam. || 1 j Mr. Hughes: "I hope you won't (L be so irate when you have had 1 a go." 1 Student: "To kill somebody." B The speakers list included Mr. B T. p. Huehes. MHR.. Dr. .T V 1 Cairns, MHR, Miss W. Whiddon, 1 Mr. v. Dorsen, Bishop J. S. I Myes, Mr. J. H. Cameron, Asso- 1 Clate Professor E. L. Wheelwright M ard Dr. D. McLean. m l 1) v. DORSEN Two speakers from the floor A section of the crowd at the Sydney Technical College ! 