 Women's peace talks on Vietnam JYDNEY: Committees are being formed in all States to organise publicity for the reports three Australian women will bring back from their peace mission to Ja karta, Indonesia. In Jakarta they have been confer ring with women from north and south Vietnam who previously talked with ten members of the US Women Strike for Peace Movement. A statement appealing for finan cial and other support for the cam paign to publicise the Australian women's mission has been issued by the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament. It states that to make the missio possible "many difficult problem of communications and travel bai riers imposed by the governments involved in -"this barbarous unde clared war against the people o Vietnam'" had to be overcome. "From here on, literally thous ands of Australians from Perth tc Cairns will have a part to play ir. helping to communicate to tht nation the story of these discussion; now taking place in Jakarta," say. the ICD statement. "Committees are now beini formed in all States to organist press, radio and TV interviews OUblta mppf.incrc 1 WW— ilUUi vaiji jroup discusions and so on." The press statement asks peopl l N.S.W. to contact Mrs. Joa ranklin at the ICD office. 17 Parkf treet, Sydney. The Australian women who hav ->ne to Jakarta, are Mrs. Phylli atona, ICD vice-president; . Mrs Jdna Hutchesson, secretary of tht >outh Australian committee for tht CD and Mrs. Rita Jamieson, Vic arian municipal councillor ant national Executive member of th -nion of Australian Women. The women from north Vietnai ow conferring with the Australia /omen include a doctor, a teachei v lawyer, a former teacher anc v representative of the Vietnam /omen's Union. The women from south Vietnan /ere elected by branches of the Vomen's Union of Liberation — me from the Union of Patriotic- Teachers, one from the Students 'or Liberation and one from the Jnion as a whole. They conferred in Jakarta from July 13 to 18 with ten women of the U.S. Women Strike for Peace . Movement. 4 