 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman PnEPUTY Leader of the Oppo sition, Mr. Whitlam, told Amalgamated Engineers that socialism was more relevant to day than it ever was. Talking of the need for public control, he said many large inter national cartels were more power ful than individual Governments and that the Australian Government by itself could not take effective ac tion in many fields. Oil for example! The Australian Seamen's Union together with R. W. Miller didn't do a bad job against the international oil monopolies, by forcing them to man their tankers under Australian wages and conditions! ! This was achieved by fighting not only the oil companies, but also the Menzies Government. And now that small country Sy ria has gone and nationalised their oil industry which included two of the big US oil giants!! ? Wal Buckley, Amalgamated En gineering Union organiser, tells of a toolmaker at the British Motor Cor. poration's plant at Zetland in Syd ney who clocked on one minute late the other Saturday. He was docked for the minute, which says . Wal, makes him the highest paid toolmaker in Australia! At- this rate, a 40-hour week is worth £300. ? Mt. Isa Mines have been spreading the illusion, through the press, that large numbers of miners have re turned to work — 400 odd! Wives of miners and a boiler- maker from Mt. Isa now in Sydney, say this is a deliberate fabrication. The figures given includes, 200 apprentices plus clerical staff and mining foremen. Only about 50 miners have re turned, they said. ? Yes ... it was all very embar. rassing. There were many red faces and blistered hands around Sydney's building jobs and on the waterfront last Monday after the Tribune Pic nic. While building workers and whar- fies crowed long and aloud their respective merits and invincibility in the picnic's tug-of-war a dedicated little band of Eureka Youth Leag uers had quietly but determinedly set up a training camp to improve their chances of winning the coveted can of beer. Needless to say, they won, defeat ing 3 other teams in the process. Printed and published by D b Young, 168 Day Street, Sydney at 21 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. 