 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman RETAILERS have been making a song and dance about the "evils" of one- armed bandits — moral de- generation ana ail that. These "wicked machines" are the reason for the decline in buying, they say. It would be more to the point to blame employers for not pay ing enough wages, and if they were really fair dinkum those making such a loud noise could also pay out on the Arbitration Commission for its last paltry 5/- to 6/- wage increase. ? pRANK ' BOLLINS (Sheet Metal Workers' Union organiser) gives some examples of two arm banditry. A gas stove, factory price £162/3/6 retails for £249/10/0. An 11 cubic foot fridge, factory price. £94/19/6, retails for £187/19/0. Th'e factory prices in these two examples included the substantial profit margin for the manufacturers. No wonder retailers are prepared to give you 20, 30 or 50 quid for an old what have you as a trade in! ? A SYDNEY wharfie said he bought a TV "set from H. G. Palmers on the "never never". The shop price was £160. After paying off £300 he still owed money and due to circumstances fell behind In his payments. He was sent a "bung" and when he fronted Palmers was told: "It's people like you who sent the company broke!" ? AT this time of the year o lot of press publicity is given to office and factory parties, but little or nothing is said about another activity of some employers during this period — THE SACK. One example the other week was the sacking of 100 gilds from Sol omon's clothing factory at Rozelle, Sydney. fHE ads are always good for a dose of nausea. Who kept the flavor in but took calories out?, this Is hard says the Coca Cola Company. This same company tried to take away a modest 11/6 a week over-award payment to their workers and got a strike in Syd ney and Newcastle. A new TV ad we could rr' - mend: Who tried to take the small flavour out of their employees wages? — the Coca Cola Company did! Its easy to reduce calories, but not wages — but the Coca Cola Company tried! ? TfEW in the industrial movement will disagree that its been another bust, year. Most have already taken the opportunity to knock over a few well earned noggins. Another, big year is coming up — so keep sober! Best "wishes for the season. ' Be seeing you early in the New Year. 