 U.S.A. BOOSTS UP I WAR PERIL j Mounting evidence that large numbers of 1 1 puppet troops of the South Vietnam (Saigon) j ! regime are giving up the fight is being used I ! "by the United States Government to excuse « ma'mr new military invasion of Vietnam. I | j Decisions being made now in Washington mark a grave j new fuming point in the Vietnam war, involving Australia; j The United States Government has dragged the world jl within sight of total war, which could quickly become nuclear j I war. H This week's reports included: "The crumbling of the Saigon army . . . 1 fi the corrosion and corruption of the government in Saigon itself" (Walter j I Lippmaii, Sydney Morning Herald, July 2G); "the desertion rate is high, t jfl with men vanishing in the height of battle" (Martin and Sanders, US Mews and World Report, Sun, July 27). \ ItH "is P'cure crumhng of the 550,000-sfrong Saigon t 'B conscript army, because it has nothing to fight for, discredits l 1 the Menzies Government's policy of sending Australian troops lH to "defend freedom". JS Writing of the complete US failure to crush the Vietna- mese independence struggle by bombings and other major m means, Lippmann goes on: M "It lias brought us no nearer to negotiation and during the operation 11 of the policy the South Vietnamese army has so lost its capacity and will In to fight that the war is now becoming an American war against the H Vielcong." Iwwwim Wiitvaa BARRIERS C YDNKY: A hold new Australian public act for peace was the departure on Saturday of three active women peace workers for Jakarta, Indonesia, to talk with women delegates of North Vietnam and the South Vietnam National Liberation Front. The women are Mrs. Phyllis Latona, vice-president of the Association for International Co-operation and Dis- . arament; Mrs. Edna Hutchesson, sec- j retary of the South Australian Com- | mittee of the ICD; and Mrs. Rita I Jamieson, national executive, Union I of Australian Women and a Labor | municipal councillor from Victoria. | Announcing the mission, the ICD secretary, Mr. G. Anderson, said the 1 mission aimed to show that uncon ditional discussions were quite pos sible between parties able to show bona fide evidence of their respect for the principles of the 1954 Geneva Agreement. WHARFIES marched through Syd ney streets last Thursday and Friday to demonstrate protests at different offices. Above: Outside Daily Telegraph (see story). Below: Outside overseas shipowners' offices. 