 New Guard "hero" spills the beans Reviewed by W. A. WOOD \A/HO is it that threatens democracy in Australia? ' Is it the trade union movement, the Communist Party and the mili- tant alp warkers._md otnciais as top Liberal Party leaders claim, in the course of advocating a "White Paper on Communism"? Or is it the Ustashi, the DLP and ' National Civic Council? Is it the Liberal Right-wing — WentwOrth, Jess, Kent Hughes, Killen and their supporters who never miss a chance to threaten the Labor movement? A notorious Australian Fascist has helped answer this question by writing his o\J5g "White Paper" —with himself as subject and hero. It shows beyond any question, with names and dates supplied, which sections of the community were (not so long ago) prepared to take power by force and no doubt are prepared to do the same to day. The book, "The Rallying Point, —My Story of the New Guard"— by Eric Campbell, published by Melbourne University press (35/-) appears at a significant time. The biggest business circles are alarmed at the trend of politics in Australia— the rallying of demo cratic forces, to support the cause of peace and social progress. Now comes "Kampbell's Kampf" to show vthem just how the coali tion of monopoly chieftains, army brasshats, top police officers and anti-labor politicians has in fact operated in Australia to build a secret apparatqp to frustrate the people's will by armed violence. Readers of this book can judge for themselves- how far Campbell- conformed to -the pattern of Hit ler, Mussolini and others as a strutting figurehead, a "saviour of the nation", used by the ruling class to replace parliamentary rule with open terrorism. Certainly he and his guardsmen were ignorant men and -proud of it. "The real community of interest was the hatred and fear of Com munism" writes Campbell. "Not that many of us, knew anything about it as an ideology and the philosophy of Karl Marx was liter ally a sealed book". Their objective, says Campbell, was "to foil any attempt, constitu tional or unconstitutional, by the Government, to foist socialisation on the people"— those very people who had just voted the ALP, with its socialisation program, into of fice in NSW. "Had Communism been intro duced into NSW either by Act of Parliament or otherwise, we would have crushed it, if necessary, by force". He had all "Communists" (among whom, as he shows, the Guard included members of ALP socialisation units) listed and was ready to "arrest" them at any time. He was . prepared to seize army depots, lock up the police, paralyse essential services by means of guardsmen employed in them. As a beginning the guardsmen, as he now boasts, set out to dis rupt Communist and other pro gressive meetings and assaulted speakers while police looked on. But perhaps the "Law and Order" forces of society, like Lib eral Party President Sir Philip McBride, who say that even strikes are illegal, frowned on all this? Campbell says that the Secret founding meeting of the Guard was attended by an executive of Eagle Star Insurance, by the son of tycoon Sir Arthur Rickard, by a well-known insurance broker and by a Macarthur-Onslow. Before long, Campbell, was sum moned to a meeting with Goldfinch, (later Sir Phillip) general manager of Colonial Sugar Refining and Gil lespie (later Sir Robert) big flour- miller, Colonels Somerville (Royal Agricultural Society) and Bertram (Royal Sydney Golf Club) and two serving officers of the Australian Staff Corps. Chairman of this meet ing was the Chairman of the Bank of NSW, who said the bank would put a "limit" of £12,000 on "ex penses", "The chairman" says Campbell "told us that his committee viewed the future exactly as we did". Later this committee seems to have dumped Campbell to set up a rival organisation Campbell calls the Old Guard. However, from this meeting on wards all doors were open to Camp bell. He booked town halls and church halls at will. He broadcast freely over 2CH. Eastern Command (as it now is) asked him to morning tea and he told Colonel Heritage all about his plan to seize arms and ammunition. They parted on good terms. Even more cordial were his rela tions with Inspector (later Chief Police Commissioner) W. J. Mackay, pledged to uphold the law. "Wullie" and "Eric" became "quite good friends" though Campbell complains, de Groot was sat down too hard on the concrete by the police arai- the Bridge "opening" affair. - Brigadier General Lldyd MLA was the main military man in the Guard. For legal talent it could call on Bonney, Markell and Maxwell KCs (they later became judges, sentenc ing people for breaking the law). Captain Patrick, the shipping tycoon, George Davis of Davis gelatine and Samuel Biber (furs) are among those claimed as friends and sup porters. Most interesting is Campbell's re port of his close association with, and assistance to, the Nationalists and United Australia Party chief tains whose successors, the Liberals, now want a White Paper to expose "subversion"— by other people. Campbell says that Viscount Bruce tried to organise a secret force of ex-AIF men to deal with expected waterside demonstrations in 1925. Campbell says that one of his con sultants in the New Guard was one of Prime Minister Bruce's ministers, C.L.A. Abbott. Later Horsfield, sec retary of the UAP in Sydney got his co-operation in stacking Premier Lyons' Sydney Town Hall meeting with New Guardsmen so as to en sure a favourable reception. Campbell spent a friendly evening with Stevens, later UAP premier of NSW. The Guard helped the UAP win the 1932 elections; 17 success ful UAP candidates had signed sec ret pledges to back New Guard policies. Rejoicing over the defeat of Lab or, the fascist was joined at the radio by some young men from Melbourne. One of them was W. Kent Hughes, now Liberal MHR, who wants a White Paper on Com munist threats to law and order. With the end of the depression, the Guard's monopolist paymasters let it "go on reserve". When the workers united to com bat it, the guard's "heroes" quickly fled from the streets. Workers' un ity always beats fascism. So it was in 1931-33. So it will always be in the future. 