 How Vince pipped Frank for "Leader" By Insider SYDNEY: This is the real I story behind the surprise announcement that Queens land's DLP Senator V. Gair beat Senator F. McManus at the post and thus assumed the mantle (and perks) of office of Leader of this tiny splinter group in the Senate. I McManus, already a Senator in 1961-63, was regarded as a "cert" for the job. The surprise decision wasn't made by the DLP Federal body, according to the Federal Secretary (Mr. J. p. Kane) who stoutly maintained last week that the selection of Parlia mentary Leader had been made by 1 Senators Gair and McManus alone I ("Australian", June 26). J None of this 36 faceless men stuff! The meeting was confined to par liamentary members. Of course it wasn't a large meeting, just old Frank and old Vince to gether, but they reckoned that was a quorum. Vince is an old smoothie from way back, so he moved in quickly with a procedural motion, according to our information. A prestige job 1 Vince insisted that the meeting be properly constituted. A chairman was I required and Vince proposed Frank. 1 Frank was flattered. Just for a moment he had thought that Vince might want the' leader ship. After all, there are many as pects of the leadership that must be considered. There is prestige and Frank comes from Victoria which always has more prestige than Queensland. There is tradition. Frank is an "or iginal" DLPer while Vince was in that phoney Q.L.P. before he came right out and joined up with the D.L.P. There is no fundamental difference between Frank and Vince, of course, Frank just knows that he sounds bet ter. Dosen't the Sydney "Herald" say he's the DLP's "most brilliant" lead er. There are other considerations in leadership like salary, car and office but neither Frank nor Vince were thinking of this. They are opponents of materialism. So Frank seconded Vince's motion and for want of an alternative, Frank was elected unanimously. Wild ap plause. This proved they were united. No splits like in the ALP. So Frank took the chair and call ed for nominations for THE LEAD ER. Vince nominated Vince. Frank was surprised but he thought that this might just be real democ racy in action. Vince was just doing this for the form of the thing. Vince would nominate Prank next. Vince didn't. Point of order This was going too far. Frank nom inated Frank. Point of order, said Vince. The chairman controls the meeting and participates only with a casting vfrte. To make sure Vince then moved the nominations be closed, the question be put, the vote taken, a division be held and that any rul ing of the chairman be disagreed with. Vince won the leadership by an absolute majority of one, which was unanimous. The press is speculating that Frank was dumped because NSW support ers don't trust Victorians, but, as Secretary Kane says, this must be de nied. Frank was dumped through too much trust of Queensland! - v 