 | | TRIBUNE | I ALP and DLP ) Labor Senaror Kennedy's statement ot last Friday, j openly defyiry Australian Labor Party policy by calling for a "unity" conference with the Democratic Labor Party, | is far more tan just the business of those two parties. I Senator Kennelly, a veteran ALP rightwinger and back- | stage organiser, did not speak casually or as an individual.- | His own cryptic comment on Saturday ("various things are I going to happen'') merely confirmed an important fact: I his move is a carefully designed part of a major conspiracy | to shift the ALP firmly to the extreme right. | Since the 1963 Federal election it has been very obvious j that, an integrated campaign to "dump Calwell" as part of | a rightist move was gathering weight. | MHjor daily newspapers have peddled the theme now j aired by Kennelly: that the ALP, to retrieve political power j must, reunite w:th the, DLP. j Other figures in the- consiracy include top leaders of \ Australian Workers' Union. The recent frontal attack j on the Federal ALP by AWU Federal Secretary T. Dougherty | fitted neatly into the pattern of preparation for the present S all-out bid to change the ALP leadership. I But the most consistent factor week by week in news- 0 papers and on TV has been the voice of B. A. Santamaria, 1 boss of the National Civic Council and the real brain behind I the DLP from its inception. ; His bold appearance in the present controversy is imme- I diate support of Kennelly is the clearest evidence that this | is a carefully planned conspiracy. j What are its aims? Are they, as Kennelly says to j heal the split" in Australian Labor? Far from it. Santa- | maria, the real strategist, makes things clearer1 in his | well-publicised weekend xstatement. | Essentially, Santamaria has two demands for the re- I sbap|n9 of the ALP and the trade unions: .support of a j militarist foreign policy of reliance on stepping up aggres- j sive acts of war against Asian neighbors; and elimination c ot all militant or progressive policies, activity and leaders | from all trade union and other organisations of the workers. S ..True' Santamaria, Senator McManus, Dougherty the' millionaire press and the rest of the line-up all talk in j terms of dealing with the Communists", who are supposed j be running ALP foreign policy, the Mt. Isa men's j_ struggle and lord knows what else. I L l But 'S a b''nd. as has been proved many times j befPfe' the frade unions, the ALP and even "non- c political organisations. Their real attack is against any kind of policy that interferes with the profit-making of J Australian big capital, at home and abroad j Take the present foreign policy of the ALP. Basically ! u !U5er S ?.,cy .suPPorts military alliance with the j United States, it is criticised by the Communist -Party, and I by many others who see US imperialism as the chief threat j to peace in .South-East Asia and the world I I Ba s|"atements recently by Mr. Calwell on behalf of j the ALP leadership have warned aqainst the drift towards I war, and called for new Australian initiatives towards J negotiated, peaceful solutions to SE Asian disputes. | Such views, while not going far enough/signify a policy j line distinct from the "force only" hard line of the US and j Menzie.s Governments and of Santamaria and Co. I That is what makes the ALP today "dangerous" to the | r-&lt;" -r forces. I The extreme riahtist aims of the Santamarias and Ken- I rellvs. expressing the will of the wealthy ruling class, I co'-IH if ci iccessful, only shackle the labor movement; the j ma-oritv/ of h->e Australian peopleto "tame-cat" acoent- j ance of policies of war, death and destruction, and the. j sunoression of all opposition and criticism in the death- | sornre spirit of the amended Crimes Act. j But today thousands of the working people are unit- | in in active struogle for their economic needs, against J 'oral and foreign monopolies. j Today, US acts of aggression in North Vietnam have won f-M and ooen support ONLY from the puppet Khanh | no mnt in Saioon and the Menzies Government. | T,-o wav forward for the labor movement is not to the | rf-'' -.,» to to u-m'v and action aoair»st monoooly j World demands in supnort of peace and respect of | jndr>»r.rlnrS are more stronHv echoed in Aus- j tr= Ma -u=>n PVPr hefore. Australian workinn pennle thro — h j- the r r»o!iMral and industrial organisations will plav the | m»'o n=rt in winniog an indoprtr(Pnf- A 'rtralian torsion j pp'i"" for porre and international frinrlship. I Tl-iat is whv thv are phhnpH to Hofoat once ana in the j efforts of fhp extreme rHhtirt conspirators. c - 