 WORLD TU SPLIT KAR. GEORGE MEANY, AFL- CIO president, has lifted the lid off a long-standing division in the top leadership of the International Confede- ration ot Free I rade Unions ( ICFTU) . Mr. Meany, a Vice-President of the ICFTU, made a blistering critic ism of its leadership and its act ivities. He told a news conference on March 6 that the ICFTU "....is not at this moment a very effect ive organisation. It dosen't seem to have the impact on Africa .... and very frankly, it's turned ini a real bureaucracy — even to the fairies." He went on to threaten the with drawal of the AFL-CIO, stating that it provided most of the ICFTU finance. He foreshadowed the pos sible creation of another internat ional trade union body. ICFTU officials bitterly resented the Mcany attacks. They interpreted the reference to "fairies" as reflecting on their mor als, and demanded a retraction. Mr. Meany subsequently explained that he as not using the term fairies as meaning homosexuals but as used in Irish legend. The Americans resent the grow ing exchanges between ICFTU affil iates and trade unions in socialist countries, and moves for united act ion between the ICTFU and the WFTU unions. Australian unions are interested in the developments because the atru is aiiiuatca to the icitij and the ACTU is also criticised by Mr. Meany. Further developments arc expec ted at the ICTFU Congress in July, „ at which the ACTU will be repres ented. Meany told his press conference: " A very good union in Australia Is blocked because the Australian Congress of Tiwde Unions won't let them in there. They're indep endent." Meany considers that this union (the Australian Workers' Union) should be affiliated with the ICFTU on equal terms with the AlCTU. It is certain that the policies and practices of the AWU leaders are much more acceptable to Menmy and the AFL-CIO than are those of the ACTU. On more than one occasion ACTU President Monk has replied to atta/dks on the ACTU by Meany and other AFL-CIO leaders, and criticised their efforts to interfere in the Australian trade union movement. The widening division in the ICFTU leadership raises before the Australian trade anion movement the importance of working for unit, ed ac'ion between WFTU and ICFTU, repairing the 1949 split masterminded by the U.S. State Department. 