 The stories that Sydney could tell "I'll bet you I can find two bullet holes in the roof bf Central Railway Station", Jack the carpenter, told me at smoko. "You're on," i said. That Friday night Aye, . wandered into the glass pavilion,' that dated hack to Queen Victoria' indigestion. "There they are, told you," said Jack, "Where, where?", "tbok, under the 'Imbibe Bombo' si£ri." "Yes, well, here's the ten holes I owe you, but how the hell did they get there?" "Ah, that's a long story, I'll,, tell you some, other time, and forget the bet." "No, come on, we'll slip into the bar here, and you can take all the time you like." The bar was pretty empty except for an old man in a dirty overcoat sipping a glass of black wine, a man waving his hands about and talking to the barmaid, and a dog mumbling to himself in the corner under the dart-board. And Jack began: . "During the war Central Railway was the headquarters of the military police, the provos. And the leader of the provos was a man named Tom Lurid, who was a professional wrestler from the states. "When he arrived in Sydney he said, 'I'm going to put the fear of Christ into the Australian digger'. "He would watch the soldiers out of that glass ceiling up there and come down on the prowl, chipping one here and one there, and if you answered back, he was likely to march you upstairs and give you a hammering. "The soldiers gradually began to . come here in bigger numbers, j "One night a young soldier was standing there a bit . drunk.' And 'the Fear' chipped him. "The soldier told him he knew what he could, do. The Wrestler grab bed his arm and twisted it behind his back till it broke with a loud crack. The soldier was yelling out 'Digger, Digger' and green uniforms were running from all. directions. "The first one who got there charged at the 'Fear of Christ' and got a hold of ohe of his arms. The wrestler flapped 'him around like the loose sleeve of a coat; "At the same time he unbuttoned his holster and drew his pistol. He poked it at another soldier who pushed it up into the air. . "Two bullets were fired (and Jack pointed through the door towards the two holes under the sign.) "The call now went up 'string the bludger, up' and a swarm of green uniforms overpowered the wrestler dragging him down, boots were flail ing like a dozen men digging place- kick holes at once. "A rope was produced. 'String the bludger up' the call went up again.- And they began to carry him to wards a beam, where Ohe soldier was already up on another's shoul der, looping the oily rope, round a dusty rafter tattoed on top with rat tracks. , . . "Just as they were lifting him up ,to put 'his slippery neck into the stiff noose, the civilian police on horse back charged the crowd and broke right through. They charged down the soldiers who had to drop 'the Fear' and get out of it. "That's a fantastic story, Jack, who would believe it?" "You don't have to believe it, but those two bullet holes there, you tell me how else they could have got there? And, by the way, I didn't do the hangman's knot in the boy jscouts for nothing." How many other, stories could the men of Sydney tell? — D.K. 