 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman A MEETING of 20 unions cov- ering railway and Govern ment transport workers decided yesterday (Tuesday) in Syd- ney tnat tney want a Tavorapie answer from the Askin Govern ment on wage claims by May 31. The Labor Council is to call a further meeting , of the unions on June 2 to consider the answer from the Government . . . if any! There can be little doubt as to the feelings of railways workers on this issue, particularly after being stalled for five months by the former Labor Government. Now is the time for Askin to put into practice his "sympathy" with the workers' claims. ?. A worker on the job asked his mate: "What is a cubic foot?" "I'm not sure, but I tjhink you can get compo for it," his mate said. . ?_ . Now there is some kite flying to have milk increased by Id. a pint throughout NSW. This increase will pay for the increased profits of the feed mer chants, who have, increased, the price of fodder due to a shortage of grass because of the drought. If Milk Board chairman Ferguson wants an inquiry into prices because of drought conditions he should turn his attention to the feed merchants. Rex Rickard (secretary of the Milk and Ice Carters' Union) suggests another way to prevent the increase. The Board's agent companies (the biggest being Dairy Farmers and &lt; Fresh Food and ICe, the latter now owned by Peters) get about 1/3 a gallon to process the milk. In Victoria the agent companies there get about 8£d. a gallon, and as Rex says: "They must be making a decent profit." umuA tcrc«r A IIC tt£CIib III XNOVY UUUiU afford 'to give the farmers another 6d. a gallon and at the same time reduce the price of milk to the pub lic/' Rex said. ? Sydney members of the Iron workers' Association have disowned the decision of their National Con ference supporting the Menzies Gov ernment's policy in Vietnam. Following the decision of New castle State Dockyard ironworkers rejecting the Conference decision, members in Sydney issued a leaflet supporting the Labor Council protest rally last Sunday. The leaflet sharply- posed the con trasting positions of the ALP Federal Caucus and the ACTU as against that of the Ironworkers' National Con- : ference. 