 Latin America revolts ! I'l against Yank invasion 1 O of Dominican Republic | I From Rupert Lockwood, in Moscow. J? MOSCOW: As Santo Domingo, capital of the Dominican Republic, becomes the largest stra tegic hamlet in the new imperial prison of na tions, the whole of Latin America is aflame with anti - American demon strations, including armed attacks on American pre mises. ' "Why are Americans putting barbed wire around our city?" tearfully asked one Santo Domingan of American news men. "To protect Amer i c a n lives" ("Huma-nite" points out that not one single American civilian has been scratched.) ' The Soviet Union last week re peated at the United Nations Se- curity .Council its demand that the United States troops he withdrawn from the Dominican Republic. US Marines, seeking to occupy the whole island, have thrown barbed wire barricades around the capital. Here the invaders hold the richer districts, the Constitu tionalists hold the business and densely populated suburbs. Every Dominican passing through the barbed wire is insultingly searched by foreign troops. The new Johnson doctrine "of permanent aggression" has caused more lasting upset within the in ter-American system than the 1961 Cuba invasion. The States giving OAS endorse ment (against the votes of Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Uraguay, with Venezuela - abstaining) were not backed by their people. Even Venezuela's abstention has provoked an upheaval. Thousands stcrmed the streets of Caracas. Sub-marine guns sprayed the of fices of Standard Oil, the US Em bassy was fired upon and now has an armored car guard, and an American tyre factory has also found the need for armored cars. Sears-Roebuck, Pan - American I Airlines and the American cable of- I fices have been stoned. | The universities, trade unions I and politicians in Venezuela, have acted. ' )| Like Venezuela, Chile has exper- | ienced arrests , and injuries when the US Embassy was attacked. 1 in the Argentine there is a 1 revolt within the ruling party 1 against OAS support. :i| Further, reports of inter-Ameri- can actions comes from El Sal- $| vador, Mexico, Costa Rica, Bolivia,' Colombia and Brazil.. New York Times correspondent James Reston warns Johnson that he will need more Marines than J he has at his command. 3 A heavy blow was delivered to | America when the constitutionally elected authority — the National J| Congress of the Republic — elected I Francisco Caamano the Provisional |J President pending national elec- ill tions, thus ernphasising Washington :| support to the illegal junta. i| Leading American papers re- j|| luctantly recognise the staunchness 111 of tire patriot fighters in San la Domingo. I 