 I Need for action, ! i ' i I say City workers ! I j By JIM STEVENS j j Down Pitt Street, in Sydney, we went to sample j j random workers' views about last week's Arbitra- j | tion Court decision on the basic wage claims. j I "TURNING in from crowd- j ed footpaths to the site l of the Water Board build- i nig, Sydney's biggest at ! present, we found John ! and his mate. Anoelo, two | carpenters" who had just j knocked off for lunch. f John sa\d: "Judges used to be I a bit fair, but now their deci- I sions are getting worse for the ! workers. It's just become a !joke!" He didn't know much about ' the background of the unions' claims but said: "Every time our i wages go up a little bit, prices j go up twice as much." ! Angelo agreed with his mate J and said the demand for a £22 | basic wage was a necessity with ! today's prices. -Both are married with one child. | "The unions must take a | -stand," they said. I They reckon j it sf inks | Three asphalt layers were sit- I ting in a corner of the project I .'.just finishing their lunch. I ' The leading hand was busy fill- f.ing in time sheets. | .- , His two mates, George and j.Tom thought the court's de- 1 cision stank. "They threw out the employers g che time before, and now they | turn around and adopt them " f said George. | "The man who works hardest | gets nothing compared with sala- j ries of the judges." I "And what about the poor old j aged pensioners," he said. | Tom said: "No worker wants to | go on strike, but the only chance $ we have of getting anything is by | direct action." George agreed, j Small boss j confirms it j Five other men were getting | ready to start work. | Four moved away when asked S to comment on wages. ) "I'm the boss," said the one who | remained, "these fellars are em- j ployed by me." S The five are iengaged in a sub- | contract job on the project. j The small boss (himself a | toiler) said he paid the men . more than £5 a week over the award. This gives them a wage of about; £23/10/- a week. "I don't know how anyone can f live, on the basic wage. A man . j . needs at least £22 a week to get j by on," he said. ! FOOTNOTE: A £22 basic wage j , as a minimum family living wage, and government price control arc ! the key points of the better-living standards campaign of the Com- munist Party of Australia. I ! Women in the Sydney suburb of Bankstown demonstrate against war in Vietnam. 