 ' NEW MOVE ON I TRADE UNION By a Special Correspondent | W A recently reported proposal attributed to the I Victorian Executive of the Australian Labor Party I does a great service to the labor movement because I it sets out to deal in a principled way with the I relation between trade unions and the ALP. | rcan be seen from the report (from the. "Australian", 18/5/65) that it rises above such side issues as "unity tickets", favorite bogey of rightwing disrupters: and the daily press: — "The Victorian executive has pro posed a motion which, if adopted by the Victorian and the Federal con- | ferences this year, will annul all cur- | rent Federal A.L.P. rules on union | elections and substitute non-interfer- | ence principles. | "The proposal would give A.L.P. ,un- || ionists the same civil liberties en- | joyed by fellow ; unionists of other j political parties. | : "The new policy would provide; that: 1 : "It would, be a. fundamental nrin- I ciple of the A.L.P; that the- party | should in no way interfere in union | affairs. I "The only criterion union members | should consider when electing officials | would be the capacity to advance | their organisation and its member- | ship industrially-. j "Unionists who are also A.L.P. mem- | bers would have an unqualified right | to associate with other members of | their union for bona-fide industrial | purposes; This would include election | to trade-union office, but not associ- I ation for political purposes opposed I to A.L.P. policy. "A.L.P. union members would be barred' from involving the party in the industrial affairs of their organisation. "The A.L.P"s name would not be used: for the furtherance of any indus- I trial purpose, and no unit of the party | would be able to endorse candidates for union office." Background Before 1900 militant trade unionists had learned the need to break out of the confines of solely industrial action to political Party action. Thus »was born the A.L.P.— an offspring of labor's industrial or trade union form of organisation. To this day, unions remain the bul wark of the Labor Party. They are the only bodies; who affiliate, en masse, their whole membership to the Labor Party. Any person may become a member in the locality branch hut it is the unions which provide the mass base of the Labor Party. The history of the Labor Party is punctuated by the struggle of domin ant forces in the parliamentary group against the basic aims and aspirations of the trade union base. 1 After World War II, the Santamaria "Industrial Groups" represented out side forces seeking to subvert the trade unions and through them the A.L.P. The A.L.P. was used to interfere in trade union circles to ensure orienta tion of the unions behind Santamaria. Thus A.L.P. cover was extended to outside subversive elements to exer cise foreign influence upon the trade union movement. I These efforts brought to the fore the whole question of the relationship of the trade unions to the ALP. Consciousness - of the necessity to restore the fundamental situation of the labor movement and in particular the relationship of the A.LJP. and the affiliated trade unions is clearly re flected in the Victorian proposal. Tasmania It is further shown by the repudia tion of the Tasmanian Conference of the move (initiated by Labor Senate Leader McKenna.) to approve interfer ence in the trade unions by some sort of A.L.P. endorsement of- candidates in. union, elections. Instead the conference upheld the rights of trade unions to the fullest control of their own affairs and re jected A.L.P. interference as contrary to fundamental labor principles. 