 Folksingers and miners find a wealth of new material in Mount Isa DENIS KEVANS interviews DON HENDERSON , who recently toured Mt. Isa with GEOFF WILLS. BON HENDERSON — whose songs "Hooker Rex", "It's On", "Basic Wage Dream", "Ting-a- ling" and many others have made him the most popular modern Australian folk song writer — spent 4£ days m IVlt. isa recently. With him was Geoff Wills, a Brisbane folk- singer. They went to see the locked - out town at first-hand and collect songs and material from the miners. In Brisbane they collected £20 for the solidarity fund singing in a Brisbane Park. Don told us there was a lot of. singing in the international Isa, . much of it based at the popular Irish Club. The miners' theme song was "We Shall Overcome". During their stay of four days they sang to the Disputes Com mittee of the Committee for Mem bership Control, the Women's Auxiliary, the Trades and Labour Council Forum, the Irish Club, a couple of parties and a Sunday afternoon concert. Hie audience of 350 heard Pat Mackie reciting poems in support of the miners from all over Aus- tralia, including one from "Iron- bark". The compere, introducing a Mt. Isa woman singer, said: "Yesterday she was in a place where six of 'em (police) came in, and she was calm and courageous, and today she's going to sing here and she tells me she's nervous." Don formed a strong impression of Isa as a Company town. He said the Company even sup plied the electricity to the Town Council. When the. issue of filtering the town's water supply came before the Shire Council, it was scotched on the. pretext of costs.' The president of the Shire Coun cil is also a personnel officer in the mine. "It's here you get the danger of costs or profits affecting the health of the people," Don said. A lot of store-keepers had sup ported the locked-out miners. One gave £1,200 to the strike fund. Others dropped their, ads on radio stations attacking the miners. One of the dangerous jobs in the mines is that of the "grizzly". He is the man who. lias to dis lodge big rocks, up to eighty tons, in a drive after a blast. The drive is eight feet square and, after the blast, the "grizzly" has to climb over the top of rocks to dis lodge them with bar, jackpick or charge. Another miner said that the six- hour shifts in the deepest drives were only classified as such when the nipper fainted after stepping out of the cage with the morning tea. This six hour shift was called the 33% loading shift because they were being paid for the eight hours but working six. Don said that the Moral Re armament movement took a stage play to the Isa, "We Are To morrow". One song said something like: "It's a great copper mine but really will be great When all the strikers are back In side the gate". Reception was mixed, Don said. 