 BELIEF | ; I N MAN'S! DIGNITY | | The speech, slightly i I abridged, given by Mr. R. j I Dixon, president of the ! I Communist Party of Aus- I j tralia in unvenling the | ! mural by Melbourne artist j I Noel Counihan at the j I Party's HQ at Day Street, s I Sydney, on July 13. j TODAY is the 4th anniver sary of the death of Jim Healy. Twelve months ago we dedicated this hall to his j memory. It is fitting, therefore, that the first public viewing of Mr. Counihan's mural should take place on this an niversary. Last year, on the artist's own initia tive, a large working cartoon, con taining his initial ideas was displayed at our 20th National Congress. It aroused considerable discussion in the Party. A new concept About this time the artist developed an entirely new concept for the mural and the creative and powerful work of art we will see here tonight is the realisation of this concept. The artist worked for three months to complete the huge painting. Mr. Counihan painted many prepar- ' atory studies for the mural. One of them, a Mother and Child study, was exhibited earlier this year in Mel bourne at the Georges' Invitation Prize Exhibition organised under the auspices of the Australian Division of the International Association of Art Critics. It was described by Alan McCulloch, Melbourne Herald Art Critic, as a "monumental realist painting" and "the impact picture of the show." Along with another of his recent paintings this large study was . pur chased for the Mertz Collection of Contemporary Australian painting which is to tour the United States and to find a permanent home there. The Australian Communist Party adheres to the view that diversity of forms of artistic expression is neces sary for the enrichment of culture However, every form of art must establish its own case and win for itself its own audience, and must be free to do so. This cannot be decided by adminis trative act, nor inhibited to suit nar row or doctrinaire interpretations of Marxism, and we are resolved to avoid earlier mistakes in this regard Noel Counihan is a Realist painter. He feels that life, humanity and its progress can be most deeply, feeling ly and lastingly portrayed in one of Realism's diverse forms. The human condition is central to Realism and Counihan's Realism is based on a belief in Man's essential dignity and beauty and his ceaseless, age-old striving for a more enlightened way of life. It is in this spirit that Mr, Counihan painted the mural. Security and freedom In commissioning this painting the Communist Party was guided by the principles of security for the artist as well as freedom. We believe socialism should provide, and will provide, both, to a degree far beyond that possible in our pre sent society: It is our view that governments have a responsibility to assist the develop ment of art by providing resources which will enable artists to devote their talents to creative work In the Fine Arts, as in Theatre, Literature, Television and other media, ' Australian governments have a sorry record in this respect. This is a situation we woi change now and for the future FOOTNOTE: The mural is no open "for public inspection a 168 Day St., Sydney. If the hall is not open when you call please inquire at the first floor counter. 