 To celebrate Mary Gilmore centenary SYDNEY: Accepting the gift of a centenary edition of Mary Gilmore's literary work, Aid. H. Jensen said ne nopea rne ceieorarion or the centenary would "usher in a new era of creative work" for Australian writers. |— JE said there had been a lack of appreciation in every era of Australian history of those who had made significant con tributions to Australian cul ture. Alderman Jensen quoted a tribute by Roman Catholic Cardinal Gilroy, who said "the name of Dame Mary Gilmore should be held in veneration throughout Australia," because of her desire to help her fellow man and "her ideal of social justice." Alderman Jensen compared the Canadian Government's Literary Fund of £225,000 p. a. with the Australian £30,000, The Art Gallery of NSW had donated William Dobell's portrait of Dame Mary free for the cover design of the book. Forty-five trade unions had donated finance to the Mary Gilmore Cen tenary. Secretary of the Australasian Book Society of Sydney, who published the book, Mr. L. Greenfield, said it "Was a tribute volume to Dame Mary on the 100th anniversary of her birth on August 16, 1865. A public gathering to celebrate the centenary will be held at the Troca- dero, Sydney, on August 16, 1965, from 6.30 to 10.30 p.m. Guest speakers include Archbishop Eris O'Brien, Miss Nancy Keesing and the Hon. A. A. Calwell, MHR. Professor G. A. Wilkes will present the £500 Mary, Gilmore Award for a novel. Mr. Greenfield said the Municipal Councils of Mosman, Fairfield, Suther land, Leichhardt, Parramatta and Marrickville were supporting the Centenary. Mr. G. F. Manuel, treasurer of the Centenary Committee, said: "Dame Mary made an outstanding contribu tion to the Australian labour move ment and the trade unions. She had edited the Woman's. Page of 'The Australian Worker' from 1906-1921." He said "she could have sold her " pen to the people opposed to her point of view." but stayed "faithful to the common people." "If the idea of a permanent memorial for Dame Mary is put to the labor movement of this country and put properly, they will respond because they have not forgotten her." he said. NOTE: The Mary Gilmore Cen tenary Committee can be located at 96 Phillip Street Sydney. Tele- ibhone ;28-7852r - > > V Sydney's Lord Mayor (Aid. H. Jensen) and Mrs. B. Ovenden, secretary of the Mary Gilmore Centenary Committee, with a tribute volume of selections of Mary Gilmore's works. .' 