 i i ! British sterling j I i I /hr» Smith j gRn 1SH investments in Rho desia, estimated in value at anything from £40 million' to £400 million, are believed to be part at least or the motive for violent . British Tory sup port of the Smith regime and the Menzies Government's -lukewarm policy on sanctions. Some of the biggest monopolies have interests there and for years have been making profits out of the low-paid African labor kept in sub jection by Smith's variety of apart heid. These include Shell Oil, Unilevers, Dunlop Rubber, Rio Tinto Zmc, Im perial Chemical Industries, Stewart and Lloyds (who have holdings in Rhodesian iron and steel), Tate and Lyle (sugar), British and American Tobacco and Imperial Tobacco Co., Gallaher (currently plugging "Gal- laher Superfine" cigarettes on Aus tralian TV.) Others are the British South Af rica Co. (with five subsidiaries in mining and agriculture), the Anglo- American corporation, with invest ments in gold and chrome, Turner and Newell (asbestos), Rhodesian Selection Trust, Climax Co., Associ ated Portland Cement, the British Motor Corporation, Richard Costain, Fisons, Pearl Assurance, John Brown & Co. Fords, Rover Gar Co., Cerebos Salt and Food Co. and J. Lyons and Co, Some of these operate directly, others through subsidiaries. The Australian Financial Review of October 15 last said that Aus tralia exported £1 million worth of wheat to, and imported about £1 9 millions worth of goods, mainly tobacco, from Rhodesia in the last financial year. It says the difficulty in fixing the precise amount of British invest ment (which it estimates at any thing from £40 millions to £200 mil lions) is that some of it is held through. South African subsidiaries (of which the Rhodesian concerns are themselves subsidiaries). The Rhodesian external debt is £70 million, but some of this may be in the hands of individual Rhodesians. .There is no doubt who owns the Dunlop tyre factory at Bulawayo, the British Motor Corporation assembly .plant at Umtali and the British- American Tobacco cigarette factory m Salisbury. But, says the Financial Review, other matters are more complicated. The Ford assembly plant is a sub sidiary of Ford of Canada. I.C.I, is represented through its joint ven ture with De Eeers in. African Ex plosives and Chemicals. John Brown has a half share in Rhodesia Alloys. Stewart and Lloyds are one of many international share holders in the Rhodesia Iron and Steel corporation. Tate and Lyle, which completely monopolises the British sugar mar ket,. has a stake of over £1 million in Rhodesia Sugar Refineries and a plantation. Imperial Tobacco has £4 million invested in the tobacco in dustry. Gallaher has just put half a million pounds into a new thresh ing floor. The multifarious British concern of "Lonrho" (a compound or "Lon don" and "Rhodesia") is interested in motor assembly, breweries, and gold mining. It built the pipeline from Mozambique to the new refin ery at Umtali which is owned by a consortium including Shell and British Petroleum. Very few of these concerns are "straight British subsidiaries" says the Financial Review. But they are strongly resisting the threat of British Government orders to them to cease operations, which might lead the Smith government to take them over. 