 We must challenge the narrow horizons of our W oolworthian society AA-ORR'S WEST, well-known 'W Australian novelist, said in his address on "Environ ment and Ideology in Austra- lian Literature , at Sydney s North Side Literary Festival recently, that he had now Withdrawn from the public debate on Vietnam. However, many people may wonder whether the honesty and emotion with which Mr. West recently engaged in the debate will permit him to remain silent for long in the face of the continued crimes and horror of the American intervention in Vietnam. During his address on the North Side he said that in the Vietnam debate "people, even intelligent and educated people, were using catch words, cliches, shibboleths of identification of whose true nature they were ignorant. "There is much talk of left wing, right wing, communist, catholic, conservative, hero, scum, hut if you were to ask one out of twenty what a communist is, they would not be able to tell you." Mr. West referred, to "a vast ignorance in a supposedly literate country. "And the consequence is that people embroiled in circumstances over which they have no control and of which they have little knowledge are swayed primarily by fear, by fear of the unknown,, in to an alignment with one side or another, with one myth or another with one attitude or another, no matter how ill-defined it may be." This "singular breakdown of thought" in Australia also affec ted the Australian writer who ought to be "a mirror of himself, his environment and the society in which he lives." "Current Australian writing," Mr. West believed, "tends to be a reflection ofan idle society, a self-contented Society, whose links with its European past are grad ually being fract'- :d, and which is developing no interpretative or exploratory links with other great communities of people in the world, with whom and of whom it will have to treat." Mr. West then described how English literature had grown out of strong links with European literature, and had, during the time of Imperial expansion, ex plored most of the world. The writers were "men who even though they lived en-islanded were nofc intellectual islands. The corpus of their work contains stretches of the imagination right out to far Cathay." "Unless," he said,, "there are those among us who will make adventures into the new world, and share their experiences with us. we will be left an island people, self-contented, ignorant and un armed against vast historical for ces over which we have no control. "Great artists were those who saw and showed the 'v'-ole one moment, who displayed to man not his isolation but his whole in volvement in all other men." "It js the nature of the artist to mobilize men against the beast," Mr. West said, quoting from the Greek author Katzanzakis. The artist's effort of "affirmat ion of the fundamental truths about man and man's identity and man's nature and man's experience, inevitably, whether he likes it or not, thrusts him into this affirm ation, gives him per se this place in human society." Mr West then referred to the acutely-narrow critical approach to Australian writers. He said if the local artist moves outside a certain small frame of reference he is "deemed to be ideologically identified with the left". And if he says a "communist is made of flesh, and blood as an- other man, he is deemed subcon sciously to be seditious." ! This "subconscious aggression" against the unfamiliar and the unknown, Mr. West claimed, was a taint and a blight on Australian writing today. "The artist," he said, "must respond to the enlarged horizon, to the challenge. He then may help you to experience a personal adventure you may never under take. Withe- the challenge you are stjll trapped and imprisoned in a Woolworthian civilization whose horizon is a piece of stain less steel in the form of a pop-up toaster." MORRIS WEST— "The artist must respond to the enlarged horizon, to -the challenge". 