 HOW AND WHY DID Mr. CANNON WIN THIS JOB? By JIM COOPER 1 Papuan delegates at a recent conference of the Co-operatives Federation made pointed reference to interference by "big business". "THE editorial of the main Port Moresby newspaper, South Pacific Post (owned by the Melbourne Herald) commented scornfully on May 19: "This was the accusation that 'big business' was forcing the Adminis tration to close co-operatives. Such thinking can only he described as 'kanaka' logic." "Yet another division of the De partment of Trade and Industry is revealed to be in trouble. As with Customs the work of the Co-oper atives is going down hill because they are losing staff fast and nothing is being done at the top to stem the tide . . ." A previous edition of the Post re ported that Mr. G. D. Cannon had resigned as the Director of Trade and Industry to join W. R. Carpen-1 ters Ltd. in a senior executive pos ition at Port Moresby. Cannon had : been responsible, among other things., for co-operatives. The Administration bowing to the pressure of "big business" has al ways resisted the expansion of co-, ; operatives, even to the point of. threatening to deport those Austra lians who assisted the Papuans in their first venture. While it is true that public opin ion forced the Administration to es tablish a registry of Co-operatives it has always been a poor relation. The importance of co-operatives to the 'New Guinea peopde is underlined by the incessant clamour of the elec ted representatives of the people in the House, demanding the posting of trained co-operative personnel to all areas. The answer of officials is that the personnel are not available. The New Guinean leaders see the co-operative as a medium which is required to effect the change from the old economy to the new commer cial economy. The latest figures show that the overall capital of the co-operatives is less than £750,000 and the turnover about £ I 1/4 million. This compares unfavorably with the private com panies on the Territory register with over £108 million capital and foreign companies operating in New Guinea , whose capital total £700 million and the gross national product of £164 million. 