 [?] with Noel Counihan The Realist Group 1965 Exhibition "T"HE Realist Group. Exhibi tion opened by Dr. J. F. Cairns at the Victorian Art ists Society Galleries, East Melbourne, on August 8, was the most comprehensive real ist show, yet to be held in, Melbourne, or anywhere in Australia for that matter. It included an important group of interstate artists, was expertly displayed and impressed with its overafl professional character. 33 painters and sculptors took part. It was too large and complex a show to be analysed in detail here but a few observations may help to illustrate its nature and newer qualities. First and immediate impression, was one of advance on previous years. The level was more even. There was a feeling of greater bouyancy and richer colour, the weaker exhibits were better than those of last year and were car ried by the generally higher stand ard of craftsmanship. There was a refreshing note of excitement in the works of inter esting and talented newcomers like Diana Mogensen, Margaret Mezaks, Tony Irving, ' Nathan Faraman- athan of Ceylon, and in the graphic work of Kevin Lincoln. These new participants are all young. The exhibition provided splen did evidence of the continued vital ity of Australian realism and hum anism. Landscape and figure painting were about equally proportioned. Although the exhibition as a whole provided an expression of a posi tive, realistic response to life and nature it was notable for the var iety of artistic personalities re vealed and the breadth of its vision. It was thoroughly contempor- ary in spirit and outlook, with im. portant reference to the primary issues of our times, the problems of war and peace, but without any trace of "sick" art, of gimmickry or sensation-mongerlng. The Melbourne Herald art critic Alan McCulloch drew attention to this when he wrote: "One of the reasons behind this rallying to realist standards might well be reaction against the kind of con temporary art typified by the cur- rent "New Generation, 1965" show at the Musqjgn of Modern Art." ) He said that talent in the latter f exhibition was wasted on imitat- I ing European and American fash- ions which are already obsolete, I wasted on efforts to shock. | The Age acting critic, Margaret Garlick, described the Realist show as an "important" exhibition fos tering "a much more flexible idea of realist painting than usual." Very strong work by the older professionals William Frater, James Cant of Adelaide, John Perceval and Sam Fullbrook, all represented by pictures of quality and integrity and the beautiful drawings of James Wigley gave distinction to the exhibition. Within the broader realism of the Show as a whole the social realist trend was well represented and extended into the impressive sculpture of George Luke of Bris bane, Ailsa O'Connor and Kent Scarlett of Melbourne. Sydney artists The, Sydney artists Herbert Mc- j Clintock and Hyman Slade appear ed to advantage with characteristic pictures, McClintock with a vigor J ous industrial landscape and a quiet I but warm study of a roadworker 1 and Slade with a Stripteaser and I an Enchanted Tailor, the latter with overtones of Jewish folk tra dition. Allan Baker of Perth continued to attract attention with two strong statements on racial themes, the rejection of the Aborigine, and Peter Miller had his biggest suc cess in recent years with . the im aginative Suspects, a . Protff; . against the slaughter of innocent civilians in Vietnam. His concern With the tragedy of the war in Vietnam was sharea directly by Maurice Carter m an effective silk screen print, wmie an interesting experiment in operative painting, Conflict, J Nathan Paramanathan and anotne ? newcomer to the group, Ra; y ents, was a further protest a8 the violence saturated atmosph of our times. Probably the biggest indivi advance over previous work bited was provided by Bemh Rust's glowing panel of stud teenagers, free from an earli ance on heavy blacks, and scapists Armfield, Nichol, man, Thomas Weiss and OawgJ in each case more than mai their familiar standards. The exhibition demonstrated the sustained vigour and gowrng nificance and influence rent Australian scene. Public interest proved I greater than .. U1nll5&lt; 3rSrly, sales E catalogues sold out ear y, | were good, attendances 1 right to the last day. I 