 Pope's peace call: A setback for the Santamaria group DOPE PAUL's visit to the United Nations General Assembly last week, his strong call for world peace and his clear implication that China should be able to sit in the UN are believed to reflect the majority view of Catholics in Australia as elsewhere. They will create new difficulties for the minority "war group" in nhitwh m Afieffolio nf wbinh WW viimva iit v Mr. B. A. Santamaria, head of the National Civic Council, is the most vocal spokesman, aided by Senators Gair and McMenus in Parliament. This group opposes any form of relations with People's China, calls for increased armament, including atomic weapons, and supports the Menzies Government's policy of making war against any vigorous independence movement in Asia. Pope Paul's message to the UN followed a number of clear state ments by the Church on world peace. The Pope, quoting the late John F. Kennedy, said at the UN: "Man kind must put an end to war, or war will put an end to mankind." He continued: "We feel we are making our own the voice of the dead and of the living— of the dead, who fell in the terrible wars of the past— of the living who survived those wars, bearing in their hearts $ condemnation of those who would try to -renew wars — and also of those who rise up fresh and con fident, the youth of the present generation, who legitimately dream of a better human race." He said the United Nations gives "sanction to the great principle that the relations between peoples should be regulated!, by reason, by justice, by law, by negotiation— not by force, nor by violence, not by war, not by fear or by defeat." In what was generally construed as an obvious reference to China he asked the Assembly to "bring back among you those who have separated themselves, and study the right method of uniting to your pact of brotherhood, in honor and loyalty, those who do not yet share in it. "Let the arms fall from your hands," he said. He referred espe cially to "offensive arms . . . espe cially those terrible arms which modern science has given you, "They produce victims and ruins, nourish had feelings, create night mares, distrust and sombre resolu tions—they demand enormous ex penditure—they obstruct projects of union and useful collaboration— they falsify the psychology of peoples," he said. At the Ecumenical Council after the Pope's return, general support for his speech was reported. Car dinal Ottaviani, Secretary of the Vatican Holy Office, said there was "a need to ban war absolutely." Cardinal Martin, of Rouen, France, said: "The distinction between of fensive and defensive war is in a practical sense useless today." Cardinal Martin said the world was sitting on a volcano which could erupt at any time and the very idea of war must be banned. However, opposition on some issues was reported from other delegates, some of whom— like the Santamaria minority in Australia- support the use of nuclear weapons. 