 AMERICAN GRIP TIGHTENS ON 1 AUST. MINERALS By E. W. CAMPBELL The fact that Mt. Isa Mines Ltd., which locked' out thousands of copper mine workers just before Christmas rather than pay wage increases, is domin» i ated by a multi-million American company is nol exceptional, but typical, in Australia's mineral indus' try. \'i AAIM assets are shown at £52 million, its 1962-63 net profit was given as £5 mi-li- lion (third biggest in Austra lia) — but where do the divi dends go? Fifty-four per cent of the shares are owned by the American Mining and Smelting Company of' New York, so it took a cool Eli million in dividends that year. Another 6 per cent of shares are owned elsewhere in the USA; 11 per cent are in Britain and oly 29 per cent in Australia, including share- hoid'ngs by the rank r " New South Wales Electrolytic zinc, the AMP Society and others. Turning away from Mt. Isa, we ' find that 80' per. cent of the: Aus tralia s vital oil. resources are1 al ready in American; hands. Australia's bauxite (aluminium ore) deposits, have also been hand ed over to exploitation by American, British and French monopolists; Iron ore is- the latest national heritage to join' the giveaway list. In a deal concluded' in- Tokyo on the eve of last year a foreign- owned mining company contracted to sell £270 million of Western Aus tralian iron ore to Japan. Monopoly . The company, Hammersley Iron , Ore, is owned 60 per cent by. COn- 'Zinc Riotinto, with headquarters In , London and 40 per cent by the Kaiser Steel' Co. of the United States. Conzinc Riotinto- is. an inbenra- tional monopoly with interests in ! many countries, including Spain, , Canada and South Africa. Baron Guy de Rothschold,, a mem ber of the family of internatioall bankers, sits on the London Board of Conzinc Riotinto together with the expatriate member of the Col lins House dynasty Lord' Baillieui Wide interests Conzinc Riotinto's Australian in terests include silver-lead mines at Broken Hill, smelters at Pt. Fine, South Australia and Cockle Creek, New South Wales, Mary Kathleen Uranium (51 per cent) brickmaktng in Melbourne and collieries in' New South Wales. Conzinc Riotinto also partners Kaiser Steel in ownership of Com- alco, a major force in the ma- . minium industry in Australia. Deal m west Hammersley Iron Ore made ;a deal with the West Australian Govern ment in 1963 which gave it "control over huge ore depostis in the Stated north-west, estimated to total 493) million tons. The "development" which the com pany will carry out in return ffbr this rich gift consists merely building rail ar.d port facilities ;th rip out the ore and export it th . Japan, or sell it at equally liigfe profit elsewhere. Wr" cut cry Some of it will return in: the forth of Japanese manufactures to com pete with Australian-made goods, setting up a cry by local employers that we must cut wages in or-dta- to survive. Strong pressure should' be put 'oh the Commonwealth and State gov ernments to- halt this sell-oufr t ft national resources before it ie late. Australia's rich mineral resource should he developed by the Cotfi- monwealth and; State governments in accordance with- a national plaft, vnt given o'er to- plunder tgp fr>r«i£rn monopolies afi is now. tfcti case.- 