 The people own the air national television congress in sydney important con tributions were made by speakers and dele gates to the National TV Congress held in Sydney on March 20 and 21. Mainly because two-thirds of Australian TV is owned by a few private monopolies, in cluding the main - newspaper owners, the proceedings of the Congress have been sup pressed by almost all daily papers. Tribune will therefore publish some of the major contributions to the Congress. The 320 delegates who attended, represented 141 organisations with a membership of 543,000 and many affiliated bodies. There was a large Trade Union delegation. Many differing viewpoints and proposals were expressed, some of them in clear contradiction to views expressed on this page. The Congress was convened to discuss the Vincent Senate Report which revealed the alarming state of television in Australia. Mr R.J.Thomson, M.A. Dip. Ed., (Department of Psychology, Uni versity of Sydney) presented material on the harmful effects of television and childrens' prog rammes. He said that it did not require "immense psychological or educ ational subtlety of mind" to ap- preciate why the Vincent Report wanted to stimulate the production of Australian programmes for Aust ralian children. Children's needs were being neg lected because they were lumped, like everyone else, into the one category commercial TV operators recognised— commercial profit. "The commercial operator," Mr. Thomson said; "stays in business by selling part of his air- time to advertising agents acting on behalf of sponsors, whose aim is quite simply to sell their goods." This meant that the commercial operator followed a "strategy of ' programme selection" which would get. for him: — a maximum of audience ap peal and arousal (and there fore a high rating) — a maximum reinforcement in the audience of the types of. behavior, attitudes and values which conform to the norms of the affluent society (which means a maximum reinforce ment of support for the ..STATUS QUO in this society). "However," Mr. Thomson said, "the goal of audience-arousai con tradicts the second goal of audience norm-conformity." . This conflict was resolved by stereotyping plots, and themes and. training audiences to accept "pre-digested" excitement. Mr Thomson said that "in order to do this successfully it is neces sary to make use of the individual's social affiliations and beliefs, to ex ploit them in fact in order to chain him more irretrievably to them, while at the same time ap pearing to preach a doctrine of ex treme individualism, as in the typ ical crime thriller." . "Properly considered, such a strategy amounts to a form of ex- ploitation of the community by persuasive rather than coercive means. "Obviously too, it can also pave the way for the acceptance of sub sequent coercive measures against "out-groups'. "Once subjects have thoroughly assimilated the message 'Buy Brit ish', they can be set to work, through slanted news presentation, learning the related 'Back Malaysia' thenoe to 'Support Conscription', and so on. "In this way one can arrive fin ally at a population of subjects of unimpeachable moral imbecility," he said. Mr. Thomson gave examples of the work of Mr. David Martin of the University of Melbourne, and Dr. W. J. Campbell of Sydney Univ ersity's Education Department to support this theory. He said that if psychology has made any distinctive contribution to social science, it has been the unambiguous demonstration that Man is very far from being a rat ional animal." "In particular" he continued, "it has been shown by some exper- imental studies conducted at Yale University that subjects tend to re tain the eon tent, of a. nersuasive argument better than they remem ber the reliability of its source." He said that this point was worth remembering when . considering smear campaigns in the commercial press against such Congresses as the TV Congress. It ought to be apparent to every- one that the smears against the Congress were being carried out by those same commercial interests who saw themselves threatened by it. But the Yale studies showed that the propagandist, provided he pays "careful lip-service to in-group norms." does not need to worry too much about logical argument. Mr. Thomson said that the Vin cent Report had made clear the need for a new approach to child rens' programmes to arrest these serious tendencies appeasing the behavior and social attitudes of children. "I am quite sure that is the point of view which motivated the late Senator Vincent and led him to in spire his fellow Committee members with the same fervent ideal." he continued. "Also, that is the point of view which has bought most of us here this Congress to pay a memorial tribute in precisely the most creat ive and most positive terms that this fine man, whose vision ex tended far beyond party politics, would have wished for. 