 ! PRESSURE TO RIGHT ABORIGINE WAGES I DARWIN: On January 10 the executive of the North Australian Workers' Union made clear its demand that unless Aborigine workers are paid award wages, a general stoppage | in the Northern Territory could be expected. | KJEWSPAPER reports from I Darwin say that the threat I to call a general stoppage | throughout the Territory has I been backed by many trade I unions. I Following the threatened strike I action, the secretary of the NAWU, 1 Mr. p. Carroll, was invited at the I Federal,, Government's expense to I discuss this wage issue in Canberra. 1 i\/fAfier talks wh the union last I Monday, the secretary of the De- ! Partment of Territories is reported I saying that "the Federal Govern- | ment is examining action it can take 1 in &lt;!!ifure that Aborigines working I «i jobs normally covered by indus- trial awards throughout Australia are paid award wages." Talks Lave also oeen arranged be tween the union and representatives of the pastoralists' associations in Sydney. In this industry the biggest em ployer of Aborigines, the award spe cifically discriminates against Abo rigines in wages and conditions. Following the recent executive meeting of the NAWU, Mr. Carroll was reported as saying that there is evidence of Aborigines being used as builders' labourers on £10 a week when the award wage was £20. Over 1500 were employed at 'in- der-award wages on cattle stations. Hundreds were doing laboring, driv ing and even mechanical work at under award wages on missions ana settlements. ."It is becoming clear that the use of cheap Aborigine labour could be come a threat to award conditions generally", Mr. Carroll said. "We want wage justice for the Aborigine people, but we intend to make sure they are not used to break down award wages and con ditions," he said. The NAWU recently appointed Mr. S. Cook as a full time union organ iser in the Territory. This is the first time . that an -Aborigine has held a fail time union position. It is expected that Mr. Cook's appointment will greatly strengthen the union's work among Aborigines. 