 [?] Defence of freedom' in Vietnam | am sure that call readers of the Daily Mirror (Feb. 9) and some ©flier papers were soeked by the picture from South Vietnam with the caption "LIVING MINE DETECTOR". "LI IS hands tied to his waist, ' an injured Vietcong prison er is forced by his South Viet namese captors" (who are un der American officers) "to wade through a stream in the Mekong Delta as a precaution against booby traps and mines. The man died of wounds. As if that were not bad enough, there is a strong suggestion that the "wounds" may have been from subse quent tortures. On the same page, "Aussie Colonel honoured" told of an Australian colonel mentioned in dispatches by the US commander in South Vietnam. I Also, "50 more Negroes arrested" (in I the USA) reported "Club wielding \ police hauled 50 Negro demonstrators, I including one of Dr. Martin Luther King's aides, off to goal today". | How can President Johnson and the Mcnzics Government describe all this ! as the "defence of freedom". I feel very uneasy at the thought i that more could be done at the present ! time, when our twenty-year-olds are being called up very possibly to take part in this kind of horror, for which Yank "instructors" and, of course, some Australians must be held responsible. I am old and crocked-up, but in the event of leaflets being printed pointing out the rottenness of the whole business in South Vietnam, J will undertake to distribute them slowly but surely over the whole area W. McClusky (Belmore). Believe the expert 1" WAS very pleased to see, Mr. Editor, from a critical letter in your columns that there were some rather gay, lusty types who did not cherish the most respectful view of the moral values disporting themselves in St. Peters Lane. It was in consequence — or in sequel to — a lifetime spent in just such activities that I find myself now stuck up on a pedestal outside the -Sydney Public Library for the edifi cation of young and old. 1 was so intrigued by the critical letter that one night, evading Portia's censorious eye, I managed to duck off down to tli c New Theatre to see the show, summoning Bardolph, Nym and Pistol from Hell on .the way. Ue must say that in ourj:ollecti\&lt; Yn V' l'1C 'J0S anc Sirls n Angels Alley were rather weak and anaemh alongside those we knew in Eastchea |'i the old days. Compared to tin e\el of conversation we were used tt 111 le hoar's Head tavern, Angeb Alley was like Cathedral Square ii Sydney. n \\e were much more rude to th- 'j ies — and they gave as bad a llcy got. A- typical adjuration to m&lt; 3> Miss D. Tear-Sheet: "Thou whore so,i little tidy Bartholomeew boar-pig u 'en wilt thou leave fighting a'day ' foining a'nights and begin u patch up thine old body for heaven? hut we want to say, sir, that oi whole it was a great night, wel worth the ten bobs, we thieved fror ""alert revellers on oui way up W: "am Street. We wish the best to lhose-gall.ini- 1 ids, boys and hearts-of-gold and hopi we shall see many more such shows by them. — J. Falstaff (Kt.), Sydney. PS. Hamlet says what about giving him a break next time the NT puts on a Shakespearean play? He saw Othello last year and was a bit jealous over the excellent write-ups. Tolais' land alienated 1V|R. E. C. HENDERSON, Director for Agriculture, Stock and Fisher ies, addressing the House of Assembly on September 9, 1964, stated that 30,000 acres of potential tea land had been acquired in the Western High lands and that several substantial en terprises have already taken up land and - commenced development. Alienation of the people's land any where is questionable, but in the Western Highlands with its extremely dense population it is nothing short of criminal. But this is the pattern and an ex amination of the recent Land Ordin ances show that its continuation is intended.. They have invented a new . term — Ownerless Land — and the survey which is now being pressed forward will map all lands and list the ownerless lands. It is obvious that this category will include all lands not now under cul tivation. As in most areas the present cultivated area is for subsistence only, alienation of ownerless Jand will pre vent forever the development of the indigenous people as an economic unit. The Communist Programme is op posed to any alienation of the people's land and proposes that a collective title covering the tribal lands be issued to the tribes; that the Registry of Co-operatives staff be rapidly in creased to develop , Agricultural Co operatives in all areas as soon as pos sible; that the Agricultural Extension Services staff be increased to the posi tion where they will be able to demonstrate modern commercial agri culture to all the people. In this way New Guinea's greatest potential, its people, will soon become a great economic unit soundly based on its own agriculture. Jim Cooper (Sydney). Angels' Alley /ONDOLENC- . to my old frieii-. and colleague Edmund Allison on leaving his sense of humor (il any) at Home when he went to see 'Ballad of Angels' Alley". He should take a memory trair. ng course, a dose of liver salt.-, .lis sense of humour with him, an-.; another look at the "Ballad", whe: le v. "11 .btless enjoy it a- muci is nearly all the other progressive linded people who have seen it. Seriously, it's a bit tough to ac use New Theatre of asking audi mces to "enjoy (and condone) th mtics of pimps, bashers, slasher md potential murderers", and thei :late them for representing those ame pimps, et:., as crude, vulgai tough, vicious and anti-wqrkiiv lass. No wonder Eddie preferred to ake pot-shots at the show from ehind his desk, rather than exer- ise his democratic right as an Honorary Life Member of the The. atre to seek endorsement of his views at a ...oporly constituted General Meeting. To compare "Ballad of Angels' Alley" with American gangster films and syndicated "thrillers" and "comic strips" is as ridiculous as to accuse a G. & S. company 'of incitement to piracy on the high seas when they produce "The Pir ates of Penzance." It should be perfectly obvious- to everyone in full . possession f his faculties that any resemblance of the hilariously improbable and in effectual "pimps" and "slashers" and lovably funny "bitches" of this play to real criminals and pros titute is purely coincidental and nintentional. In short, the play is not in tended as- commentary on the role of the criminal and the pros titute in bourgeois society at all, and its "lilure to echo B":cht's and Gorky's penetrating analyses of this problem is therefore quiir ir ilevant. As for "detective fiction", there is nary a "lemon in the play; nor does Eddie seriously imagine that :A Underhill hop his Keystone style cop would rival Sherlock Holmes, or even Mickey Spillane" Did it not occur to Eddie that, :n showing thesT slap.stick caricatures of gangsters and prostitutes gaily indulging in mergers and take overs, singing the praises of private enterprise ("the privater the bet ter"), and staunchly supporting the forces of "law and order" when u suits their purpose, the author j- neither asking any one to "con done" these activities nor trying v 'arouse sympathy" for their per petrators, but rather satisicalh drawing attention to certain para) lels between the mental attitude of unsuccessful criminals and pro 'tution and of successful pita ists? ' id Theatre Fan' (Sydney P.S.— Eddie doesn't apprecia; his luck. The night I saw the show tne devastatingly glamorous blonde who plays the part of Maria Tid dler never stripped down to less than frilly ankle-length drawers and a bodice that Queen Victoria herself might have worn in her youth This is hardly the picture con jured up by Eddie's complaint that she was "half undressed"; or has he become a disciple of Mm Spooner with his neck-to.kna bathing costumes?— O.T.F. and more . . . A FTER reading lha opposing views about "Ballad of Angels" A1-. ley" I was at last a'ie to see it on Saturday and it surpassed my xpectations. I am surprised and saddened thai hat Mr. Allison (Tribune, 27/1/65) who presumably thinks of himself as progressive, should consider the :-azor fight scene as degrading. The play does vividly portray the iegradation of the women aftei the triumph of Bill Fiddler. He wins by abandoning the rules am informing and at the beginning o the third act the women are showi anslaved and ill-treated. Maria Tiddler in this magnih .ent fight scene liberates th- women in the only way possible by giving Bill Fiddler a dose of hi- own medicine. But she does not exploit the men in her turn, she magnanlm den-- " anly equal shares. Bill Fiddler's attitude to women is still all too prevalent in Austra lia and, of course, men also usually have the economic power. As long as this is so I shall say "Hurrah for Maria Tiddler". This question of equality oetween sexes is overlooked in "Reedy River", otherwise a delightful play. The solution posed there is the truly bourgeois one of both giv- ir up the struggle and "sett-line down" to raise a family. So much for social content. I must also applaud the author of "Angels' Alley" for the prison scene (Act 2, Scene 2). This is the funniest bit of theatre I have seen for a very long time. The music is good throughout in the old music hall tradition and the cast acted the whole thing with verve and -'ash, after a slightly dragging start. I feel that the first -song could have been -mly half as long with good effect. By the way, I took my teenage daughter and two small sons and have not noticed any moral dam age. None of the words used would be unk'- own to most Sydney chool children and I am certain that many TV programs are much .ess wholesome and often have a reactionary social content into -hi bargain! ! Ann Gregory (Birchgrove, NSW). . Reproduction of a section of a photograph published by Austra- ilian daily newspapers last week. 