 WWF accepts an 'all-in' conference / SYDNEY: The Federal Council of the Waterside Workers" Feder ation last week in Sydney backed the Australian Council of Trade Union's call for an "all-in" conference to find acceptable solutions to waterfront problems. "EAILURE to recognise the necessity to find accept able solutions would expose the Government and the em ployers as having no real in terest in industrial peace on the waterfront," the Federa tion said. Council said the new legislation the Federal Government rushed through Parliament "is aimed at the basic principles of unionism and heralds attacks on the whole Trade Union Movement." A declaration from the Federatoin: Urges workers to apply for registration as waterside workers by submitting their application to the Stevedoring Authority through the appropriate Branch of the WWF. Said the union will not tolerate a denial of natural justice to mem bers in disciplinary procedures. Said any attempt to de.register the union will he resisted to the limit of its capacity and the organised Trade Union Movement. Said the union's efforts to achieve its just claims will not be surrendered. "All people who believe in justice and those whose basic interests are opposed to the profiteering at Australia's expense by the overseas shipowners are called on to sup port the WWF and the ACTU to defeat the legislation." Telegrams and letters of support from unions, Labor Councils, jobs and factories throughout Australia are flooding the Federation. The Queensland Trade Union Con gress last week declared "that the Trades and Labor Council of Queens land will not recognise any bogus union formed as a result of this legislation and calls on all unions and workers to reject any attempts to use them to form such scab or ganisations." The Miscellaneous Workers' Union, whose members work as watchmen, have distributed a leaf let answering what it calls "the great wharf lie" contained in an article appearing in the Sunday Telegraph. The union refutes as "smears" and "deliberate distortion" this article called "the great wharf robbery." In Melbourne, more than 30 unions have published a broadsheet in the support of the WWF. The ACTU will- meet again this Thursday and Friday in Melbourne to discuss opposition to the legisla tion. Last Monday the Federal Govern ment said it will insist that the WWF accept the loss of its power to recruit labor as a condition to an all-in party waterfront conference. An earlier bid by the ACTU for such a conference before the legis lation was passed was refused. Mr. H. Souter (ACTU secretary) has been reported as being critical of the WWF's call for waterside workers to apply for registration through the Federation. "This announcement had been made without ACTU sanction," he said. Mr. C. Fitzgibbon (general secre tary, WWF) said the Federal Coun cil's resolution was an indication of the Federation's viewpoint. "We are entilted to give that indication as an autonomous union and we do not need the sanction of the ACTU or any other body in giving it. "What we would need ACTU sanction for would be the taking of any industrial action, because of the fact that our dispute is in their hands," he said. 