 SINGAPORE: US trapped in its own web of lies THE US Administration has made another staggering admission of having spied on another nation — and then told lies about it! The position is being reached where the whole world has to recog nise that the sworn declarations of the highest U.S. administration officials are absolutely worthless. The latest episode featured a categorical denial by the U.S. Am bassador to Mayaysia, Mr. James Bell, that the U.S. -had been caught spying in Singapore five years ago and had then offered payment for the release of a captured Central Intelligence agent. Within 24 hours the State Depart ment Press officer, Mr. Robert McClosky, was admitting that this denial was wrong and the facts, as alleged by Singapore premier Lee Kwan Yew, basically were right. The first such similar incident was in May, 1960, when the U.S.S.R. shot down a Central Intelligence Agency U2 spy-plane piloted by Gary Powers which was flying over Russia. The Eisenhower Administration at first claimed that the; U2 was a weather-observation plane which had accidentally strayed off course. -However, when, the AGmmstration found that Powers had been cap tured alive — instead of blowing himself up as directed — and the plane also had been captured suffi ciently intact to make concealment of its true mission impossible, Pre sident Eisenhower had to admit everything. Nearly a year later, in April, 1981, the Central Intelligence Agency or ganised an invasion of Cuba with the secret help of the U.S. Chiefs of Staff organisation. President Kennedy declared at the time that he knew nothing about it. The U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Adlai Stevenson, declared to the Security Council that the planes which had bombed Cuba in the early stages of the invasion were Cuban and flown by emigres. Soon afterwards President Ken nedy said he took full responsibilty for the planning and carrying out the abortive invasion. It was also admitted that " the raiding planes were American and flown by American pilots, despite what Stevenson had said. The CIA's ' spying operation in Singapore seems to have occurred ' about the same time as its Cuba invasion was being planned. State Secretary Rusk wrote his letter of apology to Lee promising there would be no recurrence of the spying on April 15, 1961— two days before the Bay -of Pigs ing. Rusk promised "disciplinary ac tion" against the CIA — when the Administration was actually encour- aging it in a still more criminal enterprise — against Cuba. In trying to get out -from under the Singapore charge the Johnson administration followed the same deceptive technique that had been used by its predecessors in the other two cases. The charge was blindly denied— until it was found that Lee Kwan - Yew— apparently -unknown to the State Department— had . kept a full record of the case and was able to produce proofs! That made further deception im possible. Mr. Bell, like Mr. Steven son earlier, was made to look a fool while the State Department owned up to the truth— having no alternative. 