 Soviet1 move I Celebrates 20th. YE Day with new peace initiative In celebs-eating the victory over Nazi Ger many — 20 years ago on May 8— the Soviet people will he thinking mainly of the struggle to preserve peaeeB says a Moscow message. IMPORTANT in this connec tion is the Soviet success in having reconvened the 114- nation UN Disarmament Com mission. This is an attempt to get over the deadlock produced on the 18- nation committee at its Geneva meet ings by the refusal of the western imperialist powers to make any seri ous move towards disarmament. The western powers want to keep discussions still within the 18- nation committee despite its lack of progress. The Manchester Guardian explains that the sterile debates on this committee "are a safety valve and in a sense a disarmament mea sure." And so, as Moscow New Times comments, there arc some In the west who want "debate" but not concrete measures to reduce or re strict arms. US UN delegate Adlai Stevenson has already announced in advance that he does not expect any pro gress from the 114-nation commis sion. Specific proposals the USSR will put forward, already widely accept ed, include reduction in military budgets, closure of military bases on foreign territory, a nuclear weapons ban, creation of atom-free zones and measures to prevent sur prise attack. On this anniversary also it is right to remember that the Soviet victory also meant victory for the states Hitler had enslaved — Hungary, Ru mania, Yugoslavia, Poland, Bulgaria, Albania and Czechoslovakia. At the celebration of Hungary's 20th liberation anniversary last month full tribute was paid to the Soviet forces' indispensable role. Today's threais Today American imperialist ag gression in Indo-China and moves to give- West German revanchists nu clear weapons access confront the world with a great peril. This being so, celebrations of the anniversary have to feature the strength of the socialist camp's de fences, which so vitally contribute to prevention of another war. But even stronger will be the ap peal to all peoples and governments to rally in defence of peace. In a cable from Moscow, Tribune correspondent A. Watt says: — Twenty years ago the Battle for Berlin was fought. With four mil lion soldiers -engaged, it was the . biggest and most costly battle in military history. It ended in final defeat for Hitler and victory over fascism in the European sector of the Second World War, which was the most vital and decisive sector. The historic meeting of the Allied armies on the Elbe River followed. Victory in the Pacific theatre was then only a matter of time and was achieved a few months later. Preparations are being made here for a great celebration oi Soviet people on May 9, the anniversary of the surrender of the Hitlerite armies. The western press is already try ing to belittle the Soviet's decisive role in the defeat of Hitlerism and make exaggerated claims for the ex. j tent pf western aid. Historian Professor Terekhin luvs replied with Hgures proving thai Lend Lease Aid accounted for only : 4 per cent of material resources ex pended in the Soviet war effort. Most tangible help was in the form of motor vehicles, he said, and yet even in 1945 over two thirds of army vehicles were made in the Sooviei Union. . Soviet industry produced, in the I year ended June, 1944, 120,000 artil lery, pieces, 100,000 mortars, 40,000 planes, 30,000 tanks. The Hitlerite invasion cost the Soviet Union dearly. On its terri tory, towns and villages with a popu lation of 25 million and factories em ploying 4,000,000 workers were de stroyed. Twenty million lives were lost. Seven-one million livestock either killed or taken to Germany. Socialism won Titanic efforts were needed to re store the country after this appal ling devastation and, with the period of the cold war and atomic blackmail opening immediately, to prepare the Soviet defences for a new period in history. Success in this prodigous task is clear for all to see. Nothing other than a Socialist system under the leadership of the C.P.S.U. could have enabled the people to rebuild the country, win powerful world posi tion and begin the construction of communism. General warns Veteran Marshal Koniev, who commanded the Soviet troops mat met the Americans on Elbe River 20 years ago, said that it was a momentous event that will not be forgotten for many generations. "Victory over fascism aroused great hopes for a complete and just peace on earth. Who of the soldiers who met on Elbe and assured eaoa other of their friendship could have thought that 20 years later there would still be no peace treaty with Germany and that the American air force would be murdering peaceful civilians in Vietnam? Those who are preparing new thermonuclear war should remember that peace is protected by the arm ed forces of the Soviet Union, which are capable of sobering up any ag gressor should he dare to attack the Socialist countries," he said. At the recent International Convention of the Longshore men's Union in Vancouver, on the west coast of Canada, the 400 delegates and visitors rose in sustained ovation to US Sen ator Ernest Gruening, of Alaska, one of the guest speakers. The 78-year-old Senator read to the delegates the contents of an advertisement which ap peared in the New York Times, signed by 2500 ministers, priests and rabbis, which was entitled: "In the Name of God, stop it \" » This picture shows Senator Gruening (right) and delegate Jim Boles, of Vancouver, hold ing the advertisement, which was also run in the Vancouver Times by the Canadian Peace Congress. 