 LATIN AMERICA Uniting to defeat the common enemy I Eric Aarons, together with Pete Thomas, recently returned from Latin I America, where they represented -the Communist Party of Australia at the Congress of the Chilean Communist Party. Tribune reprints below in an abridged form a lecture given in Sydney by Eric Aarons last Thursday evening. CYDNEY: "Of Latin America, : one could speak of the de serts of Peru and Northern Chile, or of the mighty Ama zon River, or. of the snow-cov ered peaks of the Andes. But one should speak especially of the vast social change rising in J different tides throughout the 1 whole area. jj This change is to do away with the situation whereby 60 per cent of the population live on the land " as peasants or agricultural lab orers . . . where most countries of Latin America are dependent on one or 'wo commodities which they must export at low prices ... where more than one-third of the population cannot read or write and the poverty must be seen to be believed . . . where the latifun- dists, monopolists and military combine with the U.S. imperialists to install dictatorships to perpet uate this state of affairs and j maintain U.S. domination. | This is the Latin American rev olution for independence, democracy i and national development, a revol- ution, basically similar to those of Africa and Asia. "Co-ordinated activity" What course will the revolution take? There are no clear answers, but perhaps some guide lines. II have mentioned some features common to one degree or another in the whole area, but despite these similarities in each country there are vast differences, and one cannot speak of a "hemispheric revolution" ! proceeding according to a precon ceived plan as some dogmatists conceive it. No Communist Party in any of the Latin American countries has j such a view, but recognise that there is very clearly the need for co-ordinated activity between the forces making for change in each country. The Cubans are particularly em- i ftnnflP AY» vtnrt/1 4rr 11V\ \JLX Ulic LiCCU \J Ulilfj AAA face of the common enemy - imper ialism, and particularly emphatic on the right and duty of the peoples . to determine their own forms of. struggle. Santo Domingo As in Canto Domingo " -> inter- "ention of the United States has made more difficult the task of those trying to bring about social change. As many Latin Americans stay, "the price of revolution has gone up" since the Cuban revolution. Nevertheless the tactics of the United States reveals their -itical position. Kennedy was regarded as a more skilful politician thari Johnson. The former formulated the so- called "alliance for progress" which was intended to be a deal with the middle class of some of the countries at the expense of the big landowners. But- this policy has been virtually abandoned now. "Why? In Santo Domingo the fighting was over whether Bosch was to be president. He is not a communist, nor a socialist. But ever since Cuba the US has had the living daylights frightened out of them. There had been changes before but they had been able to handle them; however it did not turn out that way in Cuba; since then the US has been frightened of any change anywhere. It is impossible for anyone to keep things in Latin America as they have been for any great length of time. Cuba It is in the light of this that the revolution in Cuba must bo judged. Taken concretely because of their impact on further develop ment the revolutions in Russia, China and Cuba are- the most im portant. The Cuban revolution went through a number of stages of development. During the first stage a number of reforms were brought about — land reform, education of the people and various things of that kind in line with the ideas of Castro. But then the United States tried to stand over him. One thing that no-one should do is try to stand over Castro. Having failed in that way, they tried ,to use their stranglehold on the Cuban economy to '-ring the Cubans to heel. When the United States launched the Bay of Pigs invasion, it was defeated in less than three days. This was followed by a blockade in 1962 which was also defeated. About the building of the Com munist Party in Cuba. As it dev eloped the Cuban revolution was composed of a coalition of the three forces — the Castro movement, the movement of 'students and the Popular Socialist Party. Shortly after the revolution when faced with so many problems they felt the need to consolidate the forces and set- out to integrate the revolutionary organisations. They have mass meetings in factories and workplaces to get the people themselves to nominate those worthy of belonging to the new party. Recently they established-, their Central Committee and re-named the party the nunist Parv of Cuba. They aim to have the first Congress in about a year from now. Chile The situation in Chile is, fo course, different. The Communist Party of Chile is the biggest in Latin America, outside of the Cuban Party. The open session of their Congress was held in Parliament House itself. There are 23 communists in Parlia ment. The number of people on the land is as great as the number of industrial workers and artisans. One in every eight of the working pop ulation is a domestic servant. At one stage during the campaign for election of President, it looked as though the forces of the Pop ular Action Front (a coalition of Communist and Socialist Parties) might win. Reaction took fright and threw its whole weight behind Frei, the Christian Social Democratic can didate. Although the Popular Action Front candidate got 40 per cent of the votes, Frei was elected. What attitude should the Com munists and revolutionaries take to this new Government? Their estimate is that this Gov ernment cannot carry out its prom ises although it may make some changes on the surface. Basically the Chiistian Democrats represent the national bourgeoisie of Chile and they are a contradictory lot composed of many sections who should not all be pushed into the camp of reaction. The attitude of the Communist Party of Chile is one of opposition, but not blind opposition, to the Government. The socialists have adopted a different view and they want to oppose all and everything. This policy has resulted from the com ing together of the sectarian left- wing of the Socialists, and of the rightwing who want to find a rea son to break the united front with the Communists. However, the general secretary of the Socialist Party spoke at the Communist Party Congress. While outlining the differences, he said if Chile was to progress, the most important thing was the preservat ion of the Popular Action Front. This view is fully shared by the Communist Party which is confid ent that the united front will win new successes. 