 Equal opportunitie essential for womei By Mrs. Noreen Hewett, on behalf of the Communist Party's Women's. Committee YDNEY: One could agree with Federal Minister for Labor, Mr. McMahon, when he criticised the employers' "Victorian attitude" towards the employment of women in Australian industry. Yet, th' Government which Mr. McMahon represents shares this attitude. The Commonwealth public service denies equal opportunities, promo tion rights and equal pay to women. Some Departments refuse to em ploy married women. The .Government itself refuses to ratify ILO Convention 100 providing for equal pay for equal work; In weeping "crocodile tears" over the absence of women in many in dustries and trades, Mr. McMahon is really highlighting employers' concern over labor shortages. These shortages, however, are directly due to their own greed and lack of foresight. Today conscription of 20-year-olds makes the position more acute. Among suggestions Mr. McMahon made to a conference of garment manufacturers in Canberra recently were that apprenticeships should be opened to women — for instance in the metal and electrical industries; shorter working hours should be made available to attract married women. He commented that many more married women worked in the U.S. and Britain that in Australia. If Mr. McMahon wanted it, con sultation with the trade union move ment could easily produce a pro gram which would attract women to industry and open up new opp tunities for them. , The A.C.T.U. Congress discussi could be a significant starting pi) from which to work out such ap gram. Thousands of married women Australia must work to meet t high cost of living, education a housing. Many thousands more would to work if helped to do so. - Provide equal pay, pre-school a after-school child care and otl facilities to help working motne and there would be few problem Equal opportunities should c courage the entry of women into work force on the basis that waj conditions and skills are ProtA and advanced for the whole union movement. . Through Tribune the- Commuj Party Women's Committee mw your views on: . What training should oe quired for women entering , gineering, metal trades and el industries? . , What revision of school technical college nn6 necessary to give tunity of trade training. H What rules should be mtr J to provide more Comm® eJ| scholarships and cadetships H, in such faculities as engineering.| How can Unions encourag I program of equal working tunities and pay for w"Lions safeguarding existing conditions their industries? . What provisions should w | for working mothers— e.g. M hours of work; '.etensl tenS- & nurseries and. kinderga vision of after school ca a time off for shopping) Bj leave.- 