 fFhe National Plan of the Labor Govt. [?] r by john1 i gollan i General Secretary of the j Communist Party of Great J Britain J "jT isn't a plan to tell us what to do, and when, and how." Thus George Brown in the child's guide to the long-awaited and much- boosted National Plan of the Labor Government. Well, what kind of a plan is it? The answer is that it isn't a national plan at all. This is how it was put together. Industries were asked to make estimates of their output and needs for labour in 1970 on the assumption that the total national output would rise by 25 per cent, in the five years between 1964 and 1970, There isn't the slightest guarantee, ' ot course, that this aim can be realised An economic plan based on an assumption is not worth much. Why 25 per cent, and not 50 per cent.? The figure implies an annual average growth rate of 3.8 per cent. This has never _ been achieved in Britain over the last 15 years. The latest Callaghan cuts have pro bably knocked the 3 per cent, growth rate this year for a burton. . Even if it was reached, it would be, as the Plan admits, a "relatively modest rate, compared with that achieved by many other industrial countries." Where is the great vision of the technological revolution with which Harold Wilson held the last Labor Party Conference spellbound? The height of ambition is to raise Britain's growth rate ,to a level less than that of her main capitalist competitors, let alone .that of the Socialist countries. In the last five years the annual average growth rate in the Soviet Union was 9.2 per cent. In these five years the actual growth in the Soviet economy was 52.6 per cent. . In the next five years it will be roughly the same compared with the assumption, not the certainty, of Wilson's 25 per cent, growth for Britain. Why is this? It is not because Britain is technologically backward compared with the USSR. . It is because of the difference between the real Socialist planning and George Brown's White Paper — the difference between Socialism and capitalism, even when that captalism is supervised by a Labor Government. Tentative With capitalist ownership abol ished, with' all the factories, land, scientific and mineral resources socially owned, with the private " profit rpotive replaced by social use, the Soviet economic plan is real nr»t an acciimnfinn It is the planned utilisation and application of resources for social need.- Wilson cannot plan in this way. Not a single social or class change is proposed in this "Plan." It is tenative and uncertain. The investment figures (the key to the plan) are targets, not decisions. It is to be run on the basis ol the market economy— in other - words,- the ups and downs ol capitalism. The big private monopolists are to take the actual decisions Rationalisation is to be the order . of the day, with the Government assisting in still greater industrial mergers nationalism is not men tioned. Economic Development Council - will nominally supervise the indus tries. George Brown's Department of Economic Affairs will be repre sented by industrial advisers, mer recruited from private business. Outstanding in the Plan is the refusal to remedy the real reasons for Britain's economic crisis. The military burden of £2,000 million a year (at 1964 prices) is to be maintained through to 1970. And only, a fool would expect it to remain at that if present policies continue. There are to be only token cuts in the heavy military expenditure abroad. Private investment over seas is to go on, although it is expected that foreign investment in Britain will exceed this. Then it is calmly assumed that exports will increase by 5£- per cent, per year to solve the pay ments crisis. What this means, of course, is cut-throat . export competition be tween British Big Business and its rivals. The keynote of the whole Plan is the incomes policy and an assault on established trade union standards. Wage increases are to be pegged at 3 to 3£ per cent. The Orders in Council are being prepared now to make wage-peg ging compulsory and, in effect, to abolish collective bargaining. War is to be declared on ''over manning" and "restrictive prac tices." There will be large-scale transfer of workers from the "de clining" to the expanding industries. Working hours are to remain as at present for the next five years— this at a time when Britain's work ers are working longer hours than their European counterparts and the 35-hour week is bung discussed everywhere. Pensions There appears to be no provision for increases in family allowances, pensions or any other national insurance benefits. The point is made that although -work is proceeding on a new pen sions scheme, it will not have any significant effect on the expenditure up to 1970. By 1969-70 education expenditure is to increase by an annual rate of £464 million, of which £224 million will be for schools (27 per cent.). Shortly after the Labor Govern ment took office it published a report which calculated that £1,300 million would have to be spent to bring existing schools up to date. Almost all the increased expendi- ture will be required to provide buildings and teachers for the growth of one million in the number of schoolchildren between 1967 and 1972; and for higher education needs. The plan aims to reach a target of 500,000 houses a year by 1970. There are three million unfit houses, and the number increases every year. Its estimates for increased popu lation, the shortage in London, the Midlands and other centres, losses " due to roads, schools and private' development, amount to another 1,600,000 houses in the next five years. Even if the 1970 target is reached there will still be between 2,500,000 and three million families in Britain , either overcrowded or living in unfit houses George Brown's document is neither Socialist nor a Plan. HAROLD WILSON JOHN GOLLAN 