 ——————— MYTH OF "RED THREAT" IN I VIET., DOMINICA! An article by Walter Lippmann in Newsweek j of May 24 powerfully debunks the Communist J bogey as the "justification" for US policy in Viet- j nam and Dominica, | IN his article headed The AILPurpose Myth, Lipp- rrian says, in part: . "Since the ' "end of the world war, some 20 years ago, every President has had the difficult and distasteful task of drum ming up Congressional and popu lar support for inherently un popular foreign policies. "All the post-war Presidents have taken it for granted that they had to create the majority which they needed and that, while some of the Congressmen and some of the people might respond to argument, the others had to be scared into joining up. "Early in the day, when the big measures were first proposed ' by the Truman Administration, I the art of scaring up a majority i was tested and perfected. j "The essential formula was j that unless Congress enacted the . bill, the Communists would do j this or that terrible thing. With- j out the Marshall Plan, Western ! Europe would be Bolshevised; ! without NATO, the Red Army | would march to the Atlantic j Ocean. i Invoke j ' Red threat' ! "Each spring there was the | same arduous business of per- j suading and cajoling a- reluctant ! Congress to vote money for I foreigners. This annual tugging j and pulling always had a happy j ending. . . . I . "As a result it has become part | of the established procedure of ! American foreign policy to in- ! voke the threat of Communist i takeover whenever American j opinion is divided. "Plainly we are following a j line of foreign policy along which | we could, if we take the Presi- j dent's words literally and seri- ' ously, become engaged in an endless series of interventions. | "For Vietnam is not the only place in Eastern Asia where I trouble can break out, nor is the Dominican Republic the only one in Latin America. I Moreover there is the continent | of Africa. ... | Police I the world "Our official doctrine is that we must he prepared to police the world against aggression j because there is no other power ! which can police the world. "Before we say that too many I times too loudly let us do a little ! calculating. How many Viet- nams and Dominican Republics I can the Marines police at one I and the same time? J "Yet there is nothing to assure I us that the disorder which broke I out in Santo Domingo will not break out elsewhere in this I hemisphere. Nor is there any- | thing to assure us that the troubles in Vietnam will not | spread to the rest of Indo-China I and to Korea and to Burma. . . . | "Our officials try to protect ! us from this global nightmare by ! saying that we shall not have to I police disorder everywhere be- cause in fact all the revolutionary | disorders are controlled, sup- j ported arid directed from Red ! China, with assistance from | the Soviet Union. I "Purge minds 1 of myths" j "This is a piece of mythology, j The essential fact about these | disorders is that they are at ) bottom indigenous to the coun- j tries where the social order is I broken down, not essentially j conspiracies engineered by the ? centres of Communist power. J "The use. of the official myth J serves, however, to reassure our j own people that Mr. Johnson is z not going to take part in an j . rinending series of wars. j "Our people are supposed to j believe that if we do win the j war in Vietnam (which is not j easy to do), Asia will be safe I and we shall have seen the dawn i of an era of world peace. For j the masterminds of revolution | will have been taught their | lesson. — j "One of the great American j fallacies is that every war we I have to fight is a war to end I all war, and the key that will j unlock the door to a' lasting j peace. | "In order to make ourselves j believe this, we have to convince j ourselves that the enemy, who- | ever he happens to be at the I moment, is the mastermind of a universal conspiracy. Once the mastermind has been knocked out, all the had things will dis appear. . I "If we are to have a sound ana workable foreign policy, we shall I have to purge our minds of the j myths that we live by in war- time. "The universal conspiracy re mains a part of the furniture o our thinking, but the mastermin behind the universal conspiracy j changes as our adversary I changes. 1 "The Germans and the Japa- | nese who were the mastermind in 1941 are now our allies, ana our wartime ally, the Sovie Union, became the mastermina and remained so until Chin supplanted it. Surely it is time i to grow up." j 