 Hot. . . dry. . , it's the danger season againi AUSTRALIANS AND RUSSIANS SHOULD CONFER ON BUSHFIRES ! From RUPERT LOCKOOD in Moscow A seaplane skimmed the river surface, scoop-filled | it floats with water, climbed, then released what looked I like a rain deluge. . . Parachutists dropped like at army into fir-tree branches, and grounded themselves by nylon ropes. Helicopters lowered pump pipes and sucked up water, or landed men and gear into forests. K Giant tractors with 'dozer blades and deep-trenching ploughs spurted water from their tanks as they toppled trees I and dug ditches in the path of fires. . / | "J"HESE were real-life shots I of Soviet fire-fighting in 1 Archangel zone fir and pine 9 forests; this new color film I had no mock-ups and no hired actors. I Perhaps "because I hailed from I the land of the world's most disas- 1 trous bushfires, I was the first 1 foreigner invited to see the pre- | release screening of the film on 1 Soviet fire fighting. I The film showed the application 9 of modern machines and science to I preservation of trees — the health | and wealth, pride and beauty of 3 any land. i As a victim of the 1957 Suther- I land Shire bushfires and a reporter I on the murderous Gippsland (Vic.) I bushfires of February, 1939, in 1 which round 70 men, women and I children died horribly, I watched | this Soviet documentary with more I than ordinary interest. I Afterwards I talked to the men I who direct the modern, mechanised bushfire brigades of the USSR- chief forest-fire expert Nogovitsin, the State Timber Committee's forest administration chief Rubtsov and the State Timber Committee's inter national department head Gridin. The Soviet experts wanted to Know about Australian bushfire prevention, although Soviet forestry men are not uninformed on this subject. However, the film convinced me that in this field Australians had more to learn than to teach, although the USSR still shares with Australia the experience of forest "res that turn villages, farmsteads and forests to ash, kill livestock and create erosion. 9 __They have, too, the same causes I "Tempers' fires, carelessly thrown I garettes and matches, burning-off I r . Pasture improvement, steam- | ngme sparks, lightning and so on. But , there is a vital difference: no person has been burned to death in a Soviet bushfire in the last 15 years, due to helicopter evacuation, sometimes of whole villages! : ? The first fire prevention step, as in Australia, is by education— in schools, by radio, TV, press and posters. Then there are the cus tomary laws against fire-lighting, and violators are held materially responsible. Fire-break and spotting services are very highly developed, with extensive patrolling, by horses, bicycles, motor-cycles, trucks, planes and helicopters. Last season— May till August's end — no less than 600 Yak-12 and AN-2 planes and Mi-1 and Mi4 helicopters were on constant patrol over 1,500 million acres of forestland. Electric lifts take cycle, horse or vehicle patrolmen to the tops of high towers, to send observation reports by radio to control head quarters. Under headquarters' control of fire-fighting units, small fires are put out before they become big; bigger fires are mapped in shape, speed and direction; wind and air data, obstacles . and the forest character are checked. Thus tactical decisions can be made, whether to attack frontally or from the flanks, whether coun ter-fires, emergency breaks, water, chemicals and machines are re quired. . Fires near water— and in this country most fires are not far from lakes, rivers or reservoirs— bring the float-fitted AN-2 into the air, first to land firefighters and gear, including mobile pumps with long hoses, then to take off again, and repeatedly scoop up water and release a shower on the .fringes of the fire that greatly aids the manual beaters. Accurate and detailed fire map ping allows paratroopers to spill from helicopters and planes with least risk at points where they can do most good. They are radio- equipped and can he evacuated by helicopter if in danger. Soviet helicopters can now carry the 10-ton special tank-like tractor to fires, with its 'dozer and trench ing blades and water tanks that can be filled by pump and hose. The tractor quickly cuts firebreaks, removing growth and leaving a wide ditch behind. The same 'copter can whirl away to water, let down a pipe, draw in water, fly back and empty it into a storage tank to replenish the packs of manual fighters, or it can shower it straight on the fire. Chemicals play an ever-increasing role in Soviet fire control. They are sprayed on forest fires from Antonov agricultural planes (AN-2) and helicopters. One knapsack with water-cheml- j cals puts out four to five times as ! much fire as with water only. : It is hoped soon to . have chemi cals that wil put out fires com- | pletely from planes, without having j to drop paratroops. : The film also showed dynamite j teams, dropped by 'copter, laying j a long line of dynamite charges j that churn up the earth and create : a firebreak. ! Firebreaks are kept clear of over- j growth by use of herbicide chemi- j cals. j Mopping-up is essential in the j tactical campaign. To deal with \ burning stumps, logs, roots and j debris that smoulder qn (a strong j wind would start a new fire), Soviet ! mopping-up squads work for days I with a long-nosed, pointed' spray j that pierces deep into the ground, . . and injects a mixture of water and I chemicals to kill root and peat | fires. ' j Specialised fire equipment is for j sale abroad— a better buy for Aus- j tralia than British toys, US bomb ers or Coca-Cola essence. The : equipment includes helicopters, ! AN-2 aircraft, light pumps, portable by air or road, with long hoses and high pressure; underground spray ers, chemicals and so on. Information Is free; technical exchange is welcomed. The Soviet fire-fighting film . will soon, be avail- . ; , able .from Sovexport. Film,, Moscow... MAGAZINE PEOPLE .I. mini iiuiiiiiyiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiimiMtwimn'ii This AN-2M chemical-sprayer can be used to douse fires or to spray fertilisers, pesticides I and herbicides on farm fields. It needs only a short runway, and can be operated from I fields and clearings. I 