 Levy on unions f J BBBMHaanaoHaanaBunnHB 1 s| A.C.T.U. ASSIST ABORIGINES M WAGE CAMPAKI SYDNEY : The Australian Council of Trade tyJ ons' Congress held recently in Sydney called for y| ending of wage discrimination against AborigiJi workers. I AL.L unions are to be levied to assist the North Aus tralian Workers' Union in its case before the Arbitration Commission for equal wages I in the Cattle Industry Award INT). Mr. P. Carrol (secretary, NAWU) ! told delegates that the law in the Territory provides for a wage of £2/8/3 a week to an Aborigine pas- toral worker. A drover, he said, working 18 hours a day, seven days a week, gets £11/8/3. Most station owners have about 60 Aborigines living on the station of which only about 10 are employed. Those employed keep the rest of the tribe, and the owner is able to have a cheap labor pool, Mr. Carrol said. A resolution moved by Mr. A. Macdonald (secretary of the Queens land Trades and Labor Council) declared that the Trade Union Move ment will not tolerate discrimination based on race and color. To end wage discrimination Con gress decided:— That the ACTU and Labor Councils demand the repeal lof all legislation permitting wage discrim- ination. 'That unions take immediate steps to have removed from any Federal or State Awards clauses excluding Aborigines. That the award wage be the minimum wage to be paid to any . adult Aborigine or Torres Strait Islander. That all laws applying to annual leave, long service leave, sick leave, compensation, .etc., . shall equally ap ply to Aborigines. It was also decided that all Abori gines shall have complete equality in housing, medical, community and : social services, with competent welfare officers to assist them to raise their social and domestic levels. : That Social Service benefits toe, paid to Aborigines in ftfll and not through an employer. s "Congress called on the Federal: Government to introduce legislation, similar to the Rehabilitation arid Ex-Servicemen's Act following the 1939-45, war. That a minimum of £10 million be set aside to finance the Act to provide special assistance to the Aboriginal people in respect to 1 housing, employment, education, ; apprenticeship, trades and other training, tribal and reservation land rights and other .special needs. Commonwealth and State Govern ments are called on to accept full responsibility, for the education of Aboriginal children to ensure they are taught by trained teachers under conditions which enable them to i proceed to secondary and terifl levels. fl Other proposals include:- n That the Federal and stM Governments award at least H ' secondary, technical and UniverH scholarships, with liberal living all , ances.- || That thousands of AborigS girls and boys be given apprenm ships with adequate living allcwaS? provided. m That the Commonwealth if State Housing scheme be apil j without discrimination as to locfg or standard of house. 18 That the words "other than f Aboriginal race" be deleted fi Chapter 1, part 5, section 51 of Constitution. That all trade unions as: : Aboriginal workers to join and ti part in unions, including the leac i ship of unions. Mr. Macdonald congratulated : actions of University students their "freedom rides." "'In some pai's of Australia rac ism is as bad as in colonial countr 1 "Millions of pounds of super pro : have been made by people exploit ; the Aborigines. if | ' ""Some of these exploiters livegjj .London and wouldn't know whgj Queensland was." B Mr. Macdonald said that ii fl Government can spend so much B war it can afford the £10 mill! we ask: B 