 [?] HEALTH THREA11 SEEN IF MILK PRICE RISES j Bn a dramatic challenge to the Askin Gov- ernment's public Milk Inquiry last week, a | speaker from a women's organisation said ! that the nation's average milk consumption, j already well below minimum health require- j ments, would fall again if the milk price rises. I The challenge came as the trade union movement was j developing its campaign for wage increases and price control, 1 including a Sydney Town Hall public rally on prices this Thurs- ! day night (November 25). | KAISS ENID HAMPSON, I NSW secretary of the Union j of Australian Women, opposing I any milk price increase that | would result in dearer milk to j the consumer, told the Inquiry; j "The average consumption of j milk per head in Australia is at g present 28 gallons a year. If you S take the barest minimum require- \ ments, as laid down by the NSW j Department of Public Health, it « should be 321 gallons." I She said a survey by the UAW j among 108 families showed that g consumption would fall further if 9 the price of milk was to rise. i "More than Id" The Inquiry is being held before j Milk Board members Mr. J. A. j Ferguson (Chairman), Mr. F. J. ! Sedgwick (producers' representative) I and Mr. A. Noble (consumers' repre- j sentative). "j State political circles recognise J that following the completion of the j Inquiry, and the submission of tis g report to the Minister of Agriculture ! (Mr. Chaffey), the price of milk will j rise by Id. a pint. j A penny rise would bring the price g to 1/1, but, said Miss Hampson, . this f would work out at more than 1/1 | with the changeover to decimal cur- j rency. I She said: "The average wage and j salary earner has recently been | faced with steep rises in the cost g of living. I "On November 8 we took a com- S parison of prices based on a limited g food budget. This showed an ! increase of £1/6/4 a week above | what it cost in February, 1964. | Farmer's needs I I "We are strongly in favor of the g dairy farmer receiving a real living j wage adequate for his needs and | the needs of his family. - ' g "However, we do not believe that I a price rise to consumers is the ) real answer to the small producers' i immediate problems, caused by the drought, or for his future security. I "Only a well-considered Common- J wealth and State Government drought relief plan can assist to revitalise ! this and other rural industries." j The UAW also called on the Milk j Board to exercise its powers under i the Milk Act to collect, manufacture, j Continued on Page 12 | — | MILH PRICE j Continued from Page 1 ! distribute and sell milk and milk ! products. | Miss Hampson said this could | eliminate profit making in the vital j handling of milk, with a better -return ! to the farmer and cheaper milk to j the consumer. ' : j Profits now being made included; ! Consolidated Milk Industries Ltd;,' I 1964, £392,102; Dairy Farmers' Co- . j operative, 1964, £138,158. s She proposed xas a first step that j the Milk Board take over from the I two biggest metropolitan milk agen- | cies— Dairy Farmers' Go-operative and i NSW Fresh "Food and Ice. J Other UAW proposals:— j A review of the quota system S for all farmers who operate on a I quota from 10 to 40 gallons per day, j to ensure they receive a living wage. 2 The Board to discuss with the ' S NSW Government the extension of I free milk .to secondary ' school pupils, j free milk to expectant mothers, and g concessions to all pensioners, de- | serted wives and other needy cases, j I 