 SHOP COMMITTEES: An "integral part" of the Trade Union Movement By Tribune's Industrial Roundsman £YDNEY: If shop com mittees are not an "in tegral part" of the trade union movement . then neither is the Australian Council of Trade Unions or Labor Councils or fed erations of unions! That is the comment of ex perienced Sydney shop com mittee workers to Tribune last week. V— "It's alright for employers to unite but not workers 1, "these r members of the Australian Paper Mills combined anions' commit tee said. They were replying to the Metal Trades Employers' Association secretary, Mr. R. Fry, who had urged members of the association to refuse to recognise shop com mittees. Mr. Fry had said these commit tees "are not an integral part of the trade union organisation and inderf, run contrary to the tradi tional trade union organisation in Australia, based on separate unions representing their particular craft and calling." "FROM EXPERIENCE" "According to this argument, the ACTU and Labor Councils should not exist," the workers said. "We know from our own experi- enc that, when all the workers from the 14 unions in the mill are united, we can best carry out trade union policy," said Stewart Murice, the chairman of the Combined Maintenance Unions and convenor of Amalgamated Engineering Union ste- /ards. The shop committee at the paper mill is 15 years old and represents about 900 workers from 14 unions. Of these 14 unions, the nine covering 300 maintenance workers also meet as a separate committee. Ernie Leonard (secretary of the maintenance committee and the Ironworkers' delegate) said the committee members are elected by the rank and file. "The committee has the respect and full support of the blokes on the job," he said Stewart said: "We don't work outside of the trade union move ment, we are part of it. If any action is to be taken all unions are notified." Ernie said: "The ACTU recom- mended that we accept the first proposals in our last agreement with the company. "The committee and the workers said it wasn't good enough. "In this struggle we Were . able to win three extra days' pay when taking our annual leave." " "MORE TROUBLE" He also pointed out' that the committee is able to iron out any demarcation problems between the 14 unions. "Without the committee there would be more trouble on the job," he said. Workers at the mill receive over- award payments ranging from £4/10/- for a tradesman to £3/18 /- for an ironworker due mainly to their job organisation. The N.S.W. Labor Council asked the committee to organise a con cert in the area during Trade Union Youth Week. This concert drew about 300 local people and raised about £50 for Aboriginal scholarships. Bert Cahill (Australasian Society of Engineers' delegate) said the committee also raised £100 for the" Spastic Centre when their buses were damaged by vandals. The committee has its own sick relief fund, he said. This week a new canteen to pro vide hot meals for shift workers will begin operation. The delegates said this was achieved by a job struggle. The three workers were, inter viewed before the start of a com bined mass meeting of Paper Mills' maintenance workers and a sub contracting firm. , The contractor, doing plant extensions, was paying, his workers about 25/- a week less than the Mill's workers. Their combined efforts won this increase. There is no doubt why employers' representatives don't ; like trade unionists to be active on the job. Mr. Fry had said the recent ACTU Congress "would have no truck with shop committees," but in fact the Congress did not even discuss the subject. The ACTU Charter for Shop Committees .stands ..as .official; policy. These committees play an important part in the life of the trade union movement and will continue to do so while ever unionists on the job are prepared to give up their time and energy without any personal financial gain. Such workers are the life blood of the trade union movement, as union officials well know. From left: Stewart Maurice, Ernie Leonard and Bert Cahill outside the Paper Mills. 