 v MciagSes teiks off tC9mmuwlsmf bat- GUERRILLA SID£ HAS INDEPENDENT, UNITED DEMOCRATIC GOVT. The South Vietnam National Liberation Front (NFL) even early in 1964 claimed to control two-thirds of the territory and over half the population of South Vietnam . (Sydney Scorning Herald cor respondent Denis Warner, 15/3/65, stated that of six million people in the southernmost 15 provinces, no more than a million were "on side" with the Saigon regime.) THE Liberation Front is a government in everything but name, with committees for military affairs, external affairs, public health, culture, information and education, post and tele-communications, economic affairs and others, functioning as ministries. The Committee of External Affairs already has its "ambassadors" aboard — in Cairo, Havana, Algiers, Djakarta, Berlin and Prague. Most of the bureaux also have representatives of Liberation Press, the official newsagency, who act as press attaches. The question of transforming, the Front's Central Committee into a provisional government is obviously only a question of time. It was under 6tudy while I was at Front Chairman Nguyen Huu Tho's headquarters. "It exists already in embryo form" he said. "We have our own administrative organs. "We are starting to work on cer tain economic problems, improving 1 the technical level of agriculture, opening up virgin lands. Everything is on an absolutely democratic basis. "Where conditions permit, and it is almost a general rule today, the villagers elect their own self-manage ment committees. The methods of ensuring public security and putting the economic and cultural life on a sounder basis are improving daily. "A big question for us now is to organise life in the liberated zones as it should be — we are starting to have a plan for this: "Well over one-third of the arable land in the whole country has been affected by our land reform meas ures — distribution of the common lands' and those of absentee land lords who have turned traitor, rent reduction and other measures. "We have started to build schools, especially in the Mekong Delta area, also clinics and hospitals. We lack material mean9, but this reconstruc tion work is also starting to take on a clear profile. "Over the greater part of the country, in fact, there is a stable admimstration m the hands of the South Vietnam people, with social and economic reconstruction already under way ..." Terms for peace "As far as the front is concerned," Tho said "we are prepared to nego tiate with all parties, groups, sects, patriots, without considering their political tendencies or past activities, if we can bring about a peaceful solution based on national indepen dence, democracy and neutrality. "But we consider that the internal affairs of South Vietnam should be settled by the South Vietnamese themselves without any foreign inter ference. "The basis of any eventual agree ment must be the withdrawal of all American troops with all their arms and equipment. "The Front is not opposed to an international conference to help find a solution, but the role of the foreign powers taking part should be limited to submitting proposals and record ing any agreement reached between the South Vietnamese parties con cerned, and guaranteeing the execu tion of such agreements." He explained that under the Alliance for Unity of Action which - was being developed the Front was prepared to work with all groups, including those who were hostile to various parts of the program.- "We do not claim the exclusive right either to win the war or form the Government afterwards," he said. "We are prepared to forget the past and even the present . . . He revealed that as military victor ies piled up and the prestige of the Front grew, many in the Saigon administration felt the way the wind was blowing and began to make adjustments accordingly. Feelers at "quite a high level" were constantly being put out for contact with the Front. The Front ran courses to educate civil servants, ostensibly to staff public administration in their own zones. "But officials now serving the Saigon administration find ways and means of attending these courses secretly. They have an eye on the future." I asked about the ideas of Presi dent de Gaulle for neutralising South-East Asia, including South Vietnam." Nguyen Huu Tho pointed out that the Front had already approved the suggestion of the Cambodian Chief of State, Prince Norodom Sihanouk, "for the formation of a neutral zone to include Cambodia, Laos and South Vietnam." "The recent views expressed by President de Gaulle," he continued, "seem realistic to us. The NFL wel comes them . . President Ho Chi Minh, whom I subsequently saw in Hanoi, also re marked that President de Gaulle's views "were worthy of serious at tention" and that the best solution was that proposed by the Liberation Front, namely that "the South Viet namese question must be settled by the people of South Vietnam on. the basis of independence, democracy, peace and neutrality. And as a first condition the US imperialists must withdraw all their troops and arms , from South Vietnam and respect the Geneva Agreements." 