 S A Government lakes steps to abellsh the .Legislative Council Battle for democracy ADELAIDE: An important battle around demo cracy is looming up in South Australian politics. "THE Labor Government has int-oduced legislation to increase tne size or tne nouse of ; Assembly from 39 to 56 seats, to give, effect to a more" eauitablie system pf votind; to establish one roll for both the House of Assembly" and the Legislative Council as. a ster towards the abol ition of the Council. The Liberal Party has declared its intention of ooposing these progres sive reforms, by making use of its undemocratteally elected minority' in the Upper House among other things. Yet, . as P-remiejr Walsh correctly stated, the policies contained in Labor's bill have been "overwhelm ingly endorsed by the people of S.A. in two successive elections." In order to bring about these democratic measures and defeat Liberal reaction, the Government will have to rely upon the popular movement which brought it to power —the united labour movement and the broader sections of the. demo cratic people. The Communist Party has declared that it will work to unite the labor movement and win the widest sup port for. the Government's measures. However, C.P.A. spokesmen pointed out that the struggle for electoral reform would not end with the carrying out of the Government's programme Proportional representation in which members of Parliament are elected according to the 'actual pro portion of votes received' should be considered as a further stage in ex tending democracy. The Labor Party's proposal allows for a 15% margin above and below an established quota. This means more closely-settled districts would have more than U,000 votes ' and country districts more than 8,000. .. iri particular .areas the. margin- could be more than 15% below, the quota. v ; New Assembly districts wotild be defined by an Electoral Commission acting : in . accordance with the bill's stipulations, and with the publica tion Of the Commission's report by the Governor in ' Uie Government Gazette; the hew boundaries would come into effect. ' The redistribution for the Upper House would be: based upon the House of Assembly redistribution. While the. Upper House remains, however, with a hostile majority to the Government provision is made to overcome deadlocks as in the British Parliament. This, means that if the Assembly insists on a bill in two successive sessions with a space of 12 months between each passing, then the bill may be present i to the Governor and become law without passing through the Legislative Council. The "electoral reform bill" will be debated after parliament sits on July 27. 