 Two out, two to go ! IT is not because of a threat to democracy, independence or anything like it that British imperialism and the Menzies Government want Australian troops to carry on fighting in Borneo and help it hold Singa pore. What the imperialists are really worried about is that the local peo ple want control of the £400 million worth of tin, rubber, bauxite, oil and other resources- from which the City of London, in particular, draws a huge annual tribute. None of these resources would be lost to Britain or the world if the workers of the area took them over. The goods would still be for sale. But the profits would go to im : prove the conditions of the mine, , plantation, wharf and factory work ers and there would be fewer mil lionaires in Britain. Malaya That was what agitated the- mil lionaires when it became plain dur ing and after the second world wai that all Asians were very soon going to be independent, including Malay ans, Bornese and the people of Sin gapore. Malaya is the world's largest tin- producing country, with iron ore and bauxite and some gold. Rubber exports in 1962 were worth £150 millions and exported palm oil, the second most important crop, was worth £7 million. Tin exports brought in £74 millions and iron ore £20 million. British northern Borneo exports brought ih £99 millions, including £50 to £60 millions from the Brunei and Sarawak oilfields. Beside the naval base at Singapore, this island has the world's fifth largest port, with oii refineries, cement mills, a shipyard and many consumer goods industries. To keep a grip on all this was thought to be worth a special effort, and London looked for allies first and foremost among the feudal sul tans of the Malay aristocracy that had ruled Malaya for them in the past 100 years. Revolution Tunku (Prince) Abdul Rahman, and his United Malay Nationalist Or ganisation had been imperialism's main instrument in crushing the national revolt that began in 1948. "Malaysia" was chiefly conceived of as a means whereby the British- Malayan military-police apparatus could be rivetted on Singapore and the Borneo territories (Sarawak, Brunei, and Sabah) as well. Nobody was keener about this, at the time, than Singapore premier Lee Kuan Yew. Having been elected, on a militant program calling for complete independence, Lee was finding himself rapidly deserted by other members of his People's Action Party as he deserted the Party pro gram With no other support than thai of the r Malayan feudalists and the wealthy Chinese merchants who were sillied to them, the British forced through the creation of "Mal aysia" in 1963. The result was what imperialism wanted. Malaya's economy today is just as much under foreign-colonial ist domination as it was 100 years ago. Sixty per cent of the mines and two-thirds of the rubber plantations are operated by foreign firms, chief ly British. About 70 per cent of the export and 75 per cent of the im port trade are in British hands. Yet Malaysia is formally "independent". Chinese majority Because they knew that this w. s the objective of creating Malaysia the peoples concerned have protest ed with words and deeds ever since the move was announced. Brunei rose in revolt at the end of 1962 and had to be left out Now Singapore has gone. Sarawak and Sabah, the only two territories left with Malaya in Mal aysia have shown clearly what they felt. The "Times" in London said on August 10: "The Federation arose in the first place as a means of linking Singapore to Malaya. From that grew the idea of adding the Borneo ter ritories as a counter to Singapore's Chinese population." The "Sydney Morning Herald" made the same point on August 11: "A union of Singapore and Malaya always seemed too obvious solution and North Borneo was added only to make it more palatable to the Malays". When Lee Kuan Yew was in Aus tralia last March he told the Sydney "Telegraph" (on March 21) that Rahman had brought the Bornese into Malaysia "because he. thought they were all Malays like him. He made a stupid, naive mistake. No wonder there's trouble in Sabah and Sarawak." All this makes it. clear that the Cobbold Commission of Enquiry and the United Nations enquiry in Sar awak and Sabah were simply pieces of window-dressing to cover up something that had been arranged from above. It was not wanted by the people at all. 