 cpusa fights mccarran NEW YORK: The McCar ron Act, under which the IK - Communist Party will be triS on March 16, has be J a i | scribed by Supreme Court jus- tices as /'unconstitutional" and "a monstrosity". But "the Johnson Administral ion persists -in using it for the purposes of harassment. The Act, passed during the Korean war hysteria in 1950, requires (in brief) the Communist Party (and other bodies desginated by the Ad- ministration) to register itself as an agent of a foreign power. This the Party refuses to do. In June 1961 the Supreme Court upheld the registration provisions of the Act by 5 votes to 4. In December 1962 the Party was convicted by the District Court in Washington of having failed to regis ter and was fined 60,000 dollars/ ' In December 1963 the Court' of Appeals reversed this conviction, while allowing the Government the opportunity to reopen the case. On June 8, 1964 the Supreme Court upheld the decision of the Appeals Court. But on December 14 the Govern' ment decided on a new trial of the Communist Party. Most informed observers say this is for the purpose of harassment. Meanwhile the Government has also attacked others under the act, Gus Hall and the late Benjamin Davis were indicted in a separate action in 1962 for refusing, as al leged officers of the party, to regis ter it. Thirty seven others were ordered to register and -are challenging the order. Two trade unions and a number of other progressive organ isations were also ordered to regis ter as "Communist fronts" or "Com munist-infiltrated" and are contest ing the orders. Meanwhile the people's opposition has been growing. A number of lead- ing US newspapers and citizens have protested against the Act and resistance has been growing on a widening scale. Many protests have .been addressed to the Government from abroad. It is noted that the new attack on the Communist Party coincides with acts of brutality by local police on civil rights fighters in Alabama . and with bombing raids on North Vietnam. Refusing to register, the Commun ist Party, defends not only its own legal existence but also the tradition al American right to dissent em bodied in the US constitution and Bill of Rights. — 