 [?] [?] yRADE union leaders of North Vietnam recently told two Aus tralian trade union officials that they hoped it might be possible to send a Vietnamese delegation to Australia to explain to the people the facts about Vietnam. At the same time they recognised there might be difficulties. "What can be done depends on the Australian situation. It is up to the Australian people ,to determine what to do and when to move," they said. These statements were made In reply to a question from the Aus tralians. The Australian officials, who have just made their report on their fact-finding mission to North Vietnam, sponsored by the Com mittee for Peace in Vietnam, are:— ALEC MACDONALD,, Secretary, Trades and Labor Council, and member of the ACTXJ In terstate Executive. REX H. RICKARD, General Sec retary, Milk and Ice Carters' Union of N.S.W. and President of the Committee for Peace in Vietnam. While in North Vietnam In Nov ember-December, 1964, they attend ed an international conference for solidarity with the Vietnam people and against the United States war of intervention there. After the conference, they had a special question and answer session with a group of senior North Viet namese trade union leaders. QUESTION : "How much direction d o e s North Vietnam give to the National Liberation Front in South Vietnam ; and how much arms and i aid ? ANSWER: The US has al ways made a hue and cry that the war in South Vietnam is directed from the North. To the people of Vietnam, North and South, it is considered the pro blems of Vietnam are the problems of the Vietnamese people. Vietnam is one, one language and one com mon tradition. The struggle in South Vietnam is waged by the South Vietnamese people. It is the NLP which directs the political line in South Vietnam. The US says that we have sent troops and weapons to South Viet nam, however, they have had to admit that all weapons in South Vietnam are US made. For example the attack and destruction of Bien Hoa airport was made with arms made in USA. We do have workshops in South Vietnam to produce weapons. These workshops were established during our war against the French imperi alists and colonialists. QUESTION: "The US is thinking of bombing North Vietnam as a way of getting the Chinese entry ir.to the war, thus justifying escalation to nuclear strikes at China; if the US begins heavy bombing of North Vietnam, what will North Vietnam and China do. ANSWER: "The leader of the Chinese delegation answered this question in his addresses to the Conference when he stated in part — 'Vietnam is a neighbour of China' — he warned that an attack on North Vietnam is an attack on China." "During the period of the Confer ence, - US President Johnson said that the US would continue to ... attack North Vietnam. . The reply to such threats is seen in the slogan, of the people of North Vietnam, we will work with a hammer in one hand and a gun in the other." QUESTION: "How many desert ers from South Vietnam's army have joined the Vietcong?" ANSWER: "Firstly, we would like to say that 'Viet Cong' is a term used-bv the- US and the press — it means Vietnamese Communist. We strongly object to this be cause by using this term the people of the western world would think that the Patriotic People of South Vietnam are all members of the Vietnamese Communist Party, which is completely untrue. Every day people are joining the People's Liberation Army which mainly consists of peasants and workers. As soon as the people un derstand the political line of the NLF they are very quick to join the NLF this is what the US fear most. If they do not conscript they do not have enough troops, if they continue conscription they will be supplying the NLF with more troops and arms." QUESTION; "How many Viet cong sympathisers remain in the Vietnam army?" ANSWER: "There are still some; however there are only a small number of people who are not politically conscious." QUESTION: "What steps, if any, have the NLF taken to negotiate a peace with the US?" ANSWER: "There is no pos sibility of peace with the US as long as it is increasing aggression. The only manner in which peace can be restored is the complete im plementation of the four main points arising from the Conference resolution. QUESTION; "Does North Viet nam wish to join the United Nations?" ANSWER: "The United Nations is. a body directed by the US, al though there are some, good socialist countries and. other coun tries which have achieved national independence associated with .the United Nations. The US is trying to use the -United Nations to in-, vade North Vietnam — we will fight against these maneouvres. Sending fact finding missions to. South Vietnam last year was just a rort. - QUESTION: "Is food rationed? Is Nor-h Vietnam self-sufficient foodwise?" ANSWER: "When the French and the US withdrew south of the 17th parallel in 1951 they thought that the people of North Vietnam would starve because our largest granaries were in South Vietnam. However, North Vietnam is now self-supporting in food which is controlled by the State. There - is some rationing of rice for logical distribution— e.g. a manual worker needs more rice than an office worker, hence the control on distribution. This has been given effect to, because we do export some rice. As we develop our fertiliser indus tries control on distribution will be eliminatpd. QUESTION: "What supplies might we send to assist the civilian population of North Vietnam? What suppSies would aid the NLF?" "What material aid could our Committee supply that would help North Vietnam? the NLF? Be speci fic." ANSWER: "We request— a) Joint moral support; b) Condemnation of US aggressive schemes against South Vietnam and the DRV; c) Material aid would be appreciated and due attention should be given to this. Many countries send medi cal aid in the form of medicines (antibiotic, antimalarial, surgical instruments and dressings. QUESTION;- "Is there still any French investment in North Viet nam; In South Vietnam; how much of what nature?" ' ANSWER: "Absolutely none in North. There was foreign invest ment in South Vietnam after re storation of peace in North Viet nam. . All property of the French was confiscated in North Vietnam, with the exception of hospitals and cultural institutes, however, the French now have nothing in North : Vietnam. Further, there is no foreign in vestment, in North Vietnam. We do receive aid from socialist countries that assists us to carry out a policy of self-reliance. There is foreign investment in South Vietnam — the biggest being the French; US investment is growing. There is also Japanese and West German investment, in Soutb Vietnam." 