 I Sydney anti-Vietnam war demonstration j I MAGISTRATE DISMISSES 2 CHARGES AGAINST WOMAN i sydney: A magistrate last Thursday dismissed the major two of three charges against a young j woman who was among the 51 people arrested in a \ demonstration on October 22 against the Vietnam j war I |N court was Kathleen Grim- p shaw, typist, of Balmain. | Mrs. Grimshaw, who was one of I four holding a long calico banner dur- J ing the demonstration, was charged | with obstruction, assaulting a police | I officer and resisting arrest. j | In dismissing the charges of assault I and resisting arrest the magistrate : I said he did not think it possible for someone to "scratch and hick" a police officer while being held by the shoulders from behind, as had been indicated in police evidence. Police disunity There was also conflict in the evid ence revealed by superintendent Mac- Donald, in charge of operations, and Constable Castles., arresting officer, under close cross examination by de fence barrister Mr. M. Piles Q.C. Mrs. Grimshaw claimed that the axau, w'mi huu aaga wjuaj once, not four times as he claimed. The magistrate thought that the superintendent's claim that he had warned Mrs. Grimshaw he would ar rest her was in conflict with his order f to Constable Castles and another un- 1 known Constable to effect the arrest. I Mr. Pile asked the superintendent I whether he thought the other three People holding the banner were not | equally placing a banner to the in- I convenience of a person." | Mr. Pile: "What explanation can you i i&ve for not arresting the others?" ! Sup. MacDonald: "She offered great obstruction." Pile: "If you couldn't walk among the crowd how could she be obstruction? You could not pos sibly move whether she had a banner there or not -. . ." Sup. MacDonald: "I couldn't move without treading on them and I : ouidn't even tread on them with the banner." Superintendent MacDonald describ- 1 J ,Mts: Grimshaw's alleged punch as f punch from the shoulder ' with her right hand/' i a k?table CastIes said it was more 1 Wow with a bent arm. cons? _ tmrne of the other arresting a Cactw . was not in Constable ti caiiftl5- Ic and he could not be s 1 ,n Science. sh5rt„Grlm?haw claimed that while was being fingerprinted at the Police Station she asked Constable Castles what she was being charged with. He said for assaulting a police officer. She alleged that the following con versation then took place: "What was I supposed to have done?" "Nothing. I was instructed 'by the Superintendent to say that you did." Mrs. Grimshaw said she had been dragged to the waggon and thrown in. Mr. File asksd the Constable: "Would it be true to say that you and the other unnamed officer threw her bodily into the van from the ground?" "No, I attempted to help her into the waggon and the people inside were trying to throw her back out/' Mrs. Grimshaw was fined £5 tor "ob structing the free -passage of a per son." 