 TRIBUNE | Sydney conference echoed in France Last week's important decision by the Soutb I Pacific trade union conference in Sydney to campaign further against the French atomic tests in the Pacific is given still greater significance by events in France. ! The French presidential poll on December 5 showed a dramatic swing against De Gaulle and in favor of Left- backed candidate Mitterand who opposes further French nuclear tests and would sign the Moscow test-ban treaty ; if elected. Public opinion polls last Monday suggested that Mitter- ; and could go close to winning in the second ballot to be ; held next Sunday, December 19. Yet only a month ago not one "well-informed com mentator" of the capitalist daily press gave any of De Gaulle's opponents the remotest chance. ? ' Whoever wins, public opinion in France is obviously rising against De Gaulle's insistence on carrying on the nuclear arms race. In Paris, commenting on the broader aspects of the vote in the first ballot, the editor of the Gommunist Party's daily Humanite pointed out that in 1958 De Gaulle won 80 per cent of the vote9. The good result of the first ballot was the first fruit of the Democratic Alliance (representing communists, I socialists and other progressives) which "opened before the people of France the first glimpse of a genuine and new republic". The secretary-general of the General Confederation of Labor, Benoit Frachon, said the working people's massive vote for the Left forces' candidate in the first ballot showed their profound desire for unity for the sake of effective struggle against the monopolies. The progressive French forces will hail the decision of last week's trade union conference in Sydney to take further action against De Gaulle's nuclear tests. The French alliance of the Left will find in it encourage ment in their fight against De Gaulle'and his anti-disarma ment policies. The conference decided to urge Pacific unionists not to handle equipment for the coming French tests and to con sider any other appropriate steps to block the tests (see Page 10). Although delegates were critical of some aspects of the organisation of the conference by ACTU leaders, there will be general support for the decisions reached. And the French electors' vote, as it applied to this issue, was just one of many indications that the viewpoint expressed by the conference is winning more and more support all over the world. Section of a Paris suburban rally against the De Gaulle - policy of nuclear armament. 