 N.S.W. Labor Council call I "DEMONSTRATE AT WAGE HEARING!" r SYDNEY : The NSW Labor Council has called for unions and job dele gates to attend the basic wage hearings when the Commission commences its sittings in Sydney on March 23. the Labor Council's call, I made last Thursday, fol lows the open opposition by the Federal Government to the relatively small claims the unions are seeking. The Australian Council of Trade Unions is seeking an increase in th federal basic wage from 9/- to 13/-, depending on the State. This claim will only compensate the workers for the eroding of their wages through price increases, since the Commission granted the £1 last year. The amount claimed in New South Wales is 10/-. Employers again are pressing their plan for a "total wage" which was rejected by ' the Commission last year. Wage stoppages The growing disparity between wages and profits is today directly reflected by an increase through out Australia of wage demands to independent employers. These de mands, average from 30/- to £2 a week. The Meta! Trades employers are now seeking a plan to cut down industrial stoppages many of which a -e centred around these wago demands. Any illusion among some people in the labor movement that the small basic wage claim would be easily obtained should now have been dispelled by the strong com bined opposition by the Federal Government and employers. The Federal Government has sub mitted to the Commission that the claim is "fraught with great danger to the economy." Mr. Kerr, Q.C. (representing the Government) said: "By no means could a rise of 10/- in the basic wage be regarded as a small wage increase " This intervention by the Federal Government has also further ex posed the Government's so-called role "neutrality" in basic . wage cases. In asking the Labor Council to call for unionists to attend the hear- ings in Sydney, the Building Work ers' Industrial Union said: "Our past experience has been that this is an effective way of de monstrating support." Labor Council secretary Mr. J. Kenny said that the unions cannot just leave thir matter to A.C/T.U. advocate, Mr R. Hawke. "We don't want anarchy, but we must make it clear that unless we get a just decision there will be a - hostile demonstration," Mr. Kenny said. 