 j was there watching and waiting Ma 1 THIS year marks the 50th j anniversary of the disastrous | Gallipoli campaign. DENIS 1 KEVANS, in the second of i the series, describes the j Landing. | ANDINGS on the Gallipoli Peninsula were not con fined to the ANZAC corps. In fact, our role was a small part of the overall plan of putting a quarter of a million troops ashore, taking the Pen insula and thereby dominating, the Dardanelles Straits. The British, French; Irish, Scot tish, Senegalese, Algerians, Souaves, Goumiers and Foreign Legionnaires landed as the main force on several coded beaches at the tip of the Peninsula. The Dublin and Munster Fusiliers pouring out of the River Clyde at V beach were almost annihilated. A pilot reported that from the air the sea around was red. Some landings were more success ful, others re-embarked. The Scottish Borderers at "Y" Beach sang: "Y" Beach the Scottish Border ers cried, While panting up the deep hill side "Y" Beach! To call this thing a beach is stiff It's nothing but a bloody cliff Why Beach?' The Turks were ready for these landings because the British naval bombardment apart from throwing a little dirt into their gtrn pits had given them good warning of the coming landing. The High Command's attitude to "Johnny" Turk was that he was a definite inferior, didn't like "the cold steel" and that he would "mu tilate the wounded." The Anzacs, with some Maories, Indians, Ghurkas, were to land on the side of the Peninsula, dash across it and almost cut it in half. The British were to strike inland and take a mountain top— all on the first day. Officers later, said that the ob jectives would have been impossible even in peace time. But they landed the Anzacs a mile below their plan and, with only a company of Turks opposing them, they had to - "dash" up a cliff, iilllllllllllllllll 1 through ravines and gullies, and 1 scrub. I There was no workable plan and B less water. 1 When the Second Brigade came 5 ashore they went forward to "Plat- 1 eau 400" and received the full force i of the shrapnel howitzers hidden I under pine logs. I "The infantry was thus struggl- ing against a weapon which was I out of their range. A deep catch- | ing of the breath, a cry after each I shower of shrapnel, told where its I pellets had gone home. The stream I of wounded was incessant. The rest could only hold on, hoping- though without believing — that the torture would soon end." (Dr. Bean, Official Historian). The navy with a thousand guns could not shift these howitzers. "The ships' guns upon which Churchill had counted with such . complete assurance were so use less in such a situation that they had almost ceased, to fire." (Bean). These Anzac wounded were just part of the . evidence already piling up in France of the outmoded methods of army command, the rigid dogmas of frontal attacks and trench warfare, that were still in doctrinated into the officers of the British High Command. War-Correspondent Ashmead-Bart- lett says "tactics were employed bas ed on the old Aldershot school of the pre-South Africa days." He criticizes the planning of the campaign: "No other first class power ex cept Great Britain would ever have rushed bald-headed at the Dardanelles and Gallipoli without months of reflection and silent pre paration by a highly trained gen eral staff composed of the best brains of the army." The High Command seemed indif ferent to the fate of their soldiers, and any soldiers to whom they had a pre-disposed indifference would, of course, have suffered more. Australians seem to be in this category. Moreover the subsequent history of the war in France, the developed hatred Australians had for the military caste, coupled with the national tradition of working-class militancy, makes one think that a few scores were settled on the battle field. It seems that some of the generals weren't sure who the enemy was. "Lord Kitchener was certainly nervous lest the clearing of howit zers from mountain valleys might prove a difficult undertaking. Yet the light-heartedness with which the documents speak of clearing guns out of Gallipoli valleys or taking the fort in reverse seems in the light of after events, al most madness." (Bean) . Army and Navy co-operation did not exist. During shelling one day — "One of the ships having knocked a hole in one side of a building on shore, spent the next quarter of an hour trying to match it with a hole in the other side." (Bartlett). It is always in the military caste that the most implacable conserva tism can be found. Dr. Bean and Dr. Butler (Medical History) make it clear that medical preparations for the campaign were disastrously inadequate. A War Office note of early April encourages "the practicability of providing two hospital ships for Aus tralia as contemplated in our com munication of 20 March is now very remote." Some of the transports having landed their cargoes of troops, horses, mules and stores were to be made "ready for the reception of wounded as soon as the troops landed." The Director of Medical Services and his deputies had arrived at Lem- nos Island Hospital only five days before the landing. In case of re-embarkation the Manual of Combined Operations re assured "wounded men, if they can not be embarked during daylight and without interfering with the re-em barkation of other troops and mater ial, must be left on shore, and the best arrangement possible made by the military commander for their care." After their baptism by shrapnel and a "possible fiasco" (Birdwood) the fifty per cent casualties of the second brigade were thronging the beach so that "it was with difficulty in the darkness one could pick one's way between the stretchers covering the whole width of the beach at one time for 100 yards or so." (Butler). Australian stretcher bearers slaved day and night. The wounded took it calmly, others "wandered like tir ed children, turning to curse thi bursting shells as a dog does it tormentor" (Bean). The wounded were packed into tows and lighters which now went IIIIIIH||||||||||||||||||j|||||||||||||Plllll||||||||||||||||||||||!IIINIIW from ship to ship trying to dispose of them. The "Clan Macgillivray" and "Gas con", full of wounded, had left for Lemnos or Alexandria. In recalling that horror, Bean says: "Beside the Seang Choon one barge lay from 6 till 11.30, open to the chilling rain, in a choppy sea, bumping into the ship's side, but ted by the launch next to it. There were men in it with arms smash ed to pulp, men broken in every part of their bodies. The bumping of the barge was punctuated with curses, moaning, the sighs of men praying to die." Not till a wounded officer sent a note on board saying he would demand an enquiry was anything done. "Once on board the transport, casualties received such attention as was possible in the face of al most total unpreparcdness. The services of the ship's crew were purely voluntary. Serious and slight cases were stowed together. Mattresses and straw palliasses were got out, and blankets left be hind by the troops." (Butler). (The "Hindoo" packed with enough medical equipment for two hospitals lay off Helles for four days after the landing without being called to help.) Conditions and care in Australian base hospitals were good, and few died on the way to them. On May 19, 1915 the Turks launch ed their biggest counter attack. They lumbered across the open scrubby ridges in thick masses sing ing out "Alia," "Alia." The Anzacs shot them in thousands at point blank range. Australian marksmen sat on the breastwork of their trenches in full view and picked them off. As the Turks began to withdraw, iiliilllllllllllllllll leaving 10,000 dead and wounded, Australians called to them "Good on you Jacko" "Play you again next Saturday." The gaping wounds left by the close range firing proved incorrect the idea that the Turks had previous ly used "explosive" bullets. After the terrible punishment inflicted upon the brave but futile assaults all bit terness faded between the troops. War put them both in the same position. The crisis of command continued to mount as disaster upon disaster attended their tactics on the Pen insula. Hunter-Weston was sacked, Bridges shot by a sniper. After months of attack and coun ter attack the Turks still command ed the whole scene from the tip of Cape Helles to Anafarta Ridge over looking Suvla Bay. After Krithia, Lone Pine, the Neck and the dust, flies and dysentery the Australians had had a gut-full. On September 1, Bartlett wrote to the British Prime Minister, Asquith: "The army is in fact In a deplor able condition. Its morale as a fighting force has suffered greatly and the officers and men are thoroughly dispirited. "Except for the fact that the traditions of discipline still holds the force together, you would imagine that the units were in open state of mutiny against head quarters. "If possible have the Colonial troops taken off the Peninsula all together because they are miser ably depressed since the last fail ure and, with their active minds, and the positions they occupy in civil life, a dreary winter in the trenches will have a deplorable ef fect on what is left of this once magnificent body of men, the fin est any Empire has ever pro duced." NEXT WEEK: The battle of the Neck. "We are fighting to defend the I White Australia policy where alone 3 it can be defended— that is, on the I battlefields of Europe." W. M. 1 Hughes. I1IIIIM Reported statement of wounded man from Gallipoli, (Sydney Mail): "If the boys who are holding back," said one of the maimed, "only knew the fine life that sol diering is, despite all the danger and hardships that have to be faced, they would not hesitate a moment. There is a great fascin ation about the life, and I would gladly go back if I were fit." l.'illllllllllllillllllllllllllitllllllllllllUUIIIIllllilllllllllllllUUUIIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllUIIUIIHIIIIIIIIII1 "We stand or fall with the Em pire. Tear Australia from the pro tective folds of the Union Jack." W. M. Hughesl ililllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllM llllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllN "Is Australia to present the spec tacle pf a rotten branch dropping off the hitherto noble tree of the Empire." W. M. Hughes. lllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllH "We can all do more than we have done And be not a wit the, worse, It never was loving that emptied the heart Or giving that emptied the purse." (For the street collectors for the War effort. 