 Monopolies plunder I the stricken farmers IT\Afhle they battle to ! cgye their stock, their homes, and their future . . . The hanks, the meat, finance, stock monopolies, the Band sharks and speculators . . . are there! by HENRY McCarthy ' who recently toured some of the drought-stricken areas for Tribune. And as the weakened sheep stand in the bare paddocks, down come the crows . . . and Jhey go for the eyes. And the sheep stand there, blinded . . . they doh't see the screaming eagles swoop down, untii .... And then the wild pigs ... all rhey leave are the bones. The farmer stands in his paddocks . . . among the bones. But he can see . . .the bank manager, the stock feed merchants the buyers' ring in the stockyards and the big meat companies backing their trailers into the yards . . . loading the sheep (1/- each) to be taken to the city and sold as prime lamb at exorbitant prices. 1 gYDNEY : While the 1 drought, one of the j worst in Australia's his tory, ravages and lays I waste millions of acres of i farm and pastoral land, I finance, meat, stock and | other monopolies are wax 1 ing fat on the misery and | heartbreak of farmers and their families. From the NSW coast to the i far west, with the exception of I i far too few irrigated spots, the \ | countryside is a huge barren Jk dust- bow I. I I Cattle, sheep and even dairy herds, ! almost too weak to stand, muzzle in J the soaks and dry creek beds for I water. 4 Any grass that's left crumples m the hand like burnt straw. Gaunt, starving sheep with their heads smothered in blood stand hlepless, unable to see— the crows y have picked their eyes out. Thousands of stock have been sold at the bedrock prices offering by the meat trading interests and as many | thousand more have been des troyed. g About a 1000 mile trip, last week II through drought stricken farming ll and pastoral areas in N.S.W. showed II that drought is harvest time for || hanks, big land owners, meat H marketing interests, feed merchants, II oil companies, transport and other i | monopolies. ; I At Bulwarra Plats on the Hunter River, in the once lush Hunter Valley we talked to a farmer and his wife who said it was costing them £40 a week to feed 80 cattle. Peed merchants,, grasping the des peration of farmers with both hands, have struck-a bonanza. Some farmers are spending £250 a week on concentrate to feed their stock. The market price of lucerne chaff is £55 a ton. Last year it was £16 to £18 a ton. Hay is £50 a ton. Last year it was about £15. Wheaten chaff and oaten chaff is £35 to £38 a ton. During the same period last year it was from £20 to £22 a ton. These facts show why the State Government's subsidy on transport of hay to some areas does not elimi nate the farmer's burden. A farmer in the Werris Creek area told us— "when I go to bed at night I sometimes hope that I won't wake up in the morning, because I have to load my rifle and shoot another couple of cattle. The Hunter Valley farmer said that last year he had just about enough to retire on after a life time of l;ard work, hut he decided to work another year. The result — disaster! Feed had cost him, so far, £2000 more than the worth of his cattle and if he continued to hand feed them he would he completely broke — "the wife and I will be back where we started 40 years ago and we're too old to start again. So I suppose it will be the pension," he said. As we talked he stripped, the cobs from a crop of corn he had bought from the farmer on whose property we had met him. He still had to haul it 20 miles home. It was a tragic contrast and a stark vindication for water conser vation, that from where we stood we could see the green foliage of acres and acres of potatoes irriga ted by the Glenbawn Dam. Elsewhere water drawn from the earth by pumps was turning salty and killing the crops. "Enormous" profit on stock feed ' In the Dennan district, we met a soldier settler, Don McCleary and his wife and little daughter. He said that stock feed merchants always made big profits, but now they were enormous. He explained that they base prices on "forward costs" that is, grain in stock today was sold at the price level prevailing when the sales were made. "Bad times for us are good times for them, banks and stockbrokers," he said and I wouldn't have liked to be one of these gentry stand I ing where I was, when he said it. j "If the drought breaks tomorrow we will still he forced to buy feed ! for months to come," he added, "and j farmers who are buying feed now at \ BBanBHBBonaBaannBnBDOD artifically high prices should be granted at least two years to pay their feed bills after the drought." On his 1200 acres he had stocked 2000 sheep and 180 cattle. He had sold one-third of the stock and had spent so far over £500 on feed. He was now lopping leaves of hardy trees in the scrub to keep them aliye. If the drought continued much longer,, he and other soldier settlers in the area would have no money and no stock, he said. Did he have any answers to the problems? He certainly did and bankers, brokers, feed merchants, and other sharks wern't any part of them. Some of them were — a national fodder commission with farmers „ playing a big part in its function. Water conservation with all water resources investigated and distribu ted in the greatest national interest. Saying that this drought was world-wide lie said he would like to see the United Nations set up an international organisation to study and fight drought and its effects. "This would lead to international co-operation and nothing but good could come from it," he said. The pyre for dead sheep After we had passed through the arid waste that the Upper Hunter Valley is now, we saw far off on the side of a hill, a woman herding a flock of sheep. I climbed the hill an met Mrs. Comino and her son Jim. He was up a tree lopping branches that were still green and she was spreading it for the starving sheep to feed on. Jim climbed out of the tree and pointed across the hill to where he said, "we have our own grave yard." Every morning they dragged the dead sheep over there and burned them. The smoke was still rising from the funeral pyre that morning. As we drove along the dusty un sealed back roads, surely some of the worst in Australia, there were miles and miles of bare thirsty pad docks, as bare grass, and stock as a kitchen table. Many of the smaller holdings and farms were completely deserted. We wore told that in some cases desperate farmers had turned the- stock out and walked off their pro perties leaving behind their only home and a lifetime of toil — all for nothing. The banks then moved in and took the lot. They can afford to wait till the drought ends to re-sell, and at a profit. N In some of the smaller towns stores are going broke. They can't stick to their customers any longer. But there will he still plenty of goods for those with money to pay. The chain stores are moving in. Never before has there been such heavy road transport of stock in search of feed and water. Night and day these big transports roll alon.f the highways with feed i from the cities. , The rich graziers and farmers 1 8 use- the big transport companies. j Those who , can't will use their , own smaller trucks. Either way petrol consumption 1 must he enormous and the oil mono- ! polies reap bigger profits from the I wreckage. We saw thousands of acres of land tilled and sown with wheat seed. 1 But there is no wheat sprouting and ' if there is no rain there won't be. What will happen to our huge wheat sales to China? Will it be Australia that imports wheat? i How many sheep will we shear j this year? What will happen to our wool cheque? I When we have eaten the last of the starving stock, will we he able to eat the money that the big meat companies are making out of the drought? Six children so far have died : in N.S.W. from gastro enteritis. Government medical officers -re investigating the possibility of a | link with the disease and polluted I water. | Bush workers lobless Thousands of bush workers are 1 jobless, even now many cf them are trampling the back roads in search of work that isn't there. I The terrible economic consequ- | ences of this drought have yet to be B felt. j If tomorrow, there was life-giv- I ing rain over a wide area, winter g frosts in most parts of the State, would kill immediately the sprout ing grass. This has already happened in areas where rain has fallen. If the rain was heavy, dusty pad docks would turn into quagmires and weakened animals would be ; bogged down to die. This tragedy cannot be written ; off as an "Act of God." The blame lies squarely with monopoly interests and Govern- : ments, both Labor and Conservative, not only for the present drought, : but for their neglect of water con- servation over the years. There have been only scattered minor rainfalls in N.S.W. in the last ! 12 months. The result is a drastic | shortage of water. But what about the preceeding years? In moot cases we have had relatively high rainfall. Where is the water now? Australia is one of the most arid continents on earth and our Governments and their learned planners and advisors allow the water to run into the sea. For a real water conservation plan there is no money. It would cost too much money, many millions they ; say.. Measure the cost , of a national water conservation scheme, against the collossal loss of the present drought and those that have in the : past, laid waste to the land! Should such a scheme come be fore the useless waste of millions ! on wars of intervention in other , people's countries like the present dirty mess Menzies has Australia in itt Vietnam. Given the opportunity to decide : t'ne Australian people would surely j answer "YES". Jim Comino lops the branches from trees to feed starving sheep 