 [?] [?] The opening day of the 20th session of the United; Nations General Assembly saw the admission to membership of. three new states — Gambia, the Maldive Islands and! Singa;- ! pc:e — bringing the total to 1 17'. iLcmmenting on this the New York Worker says: "There is something; bizarre as well as. comic in the situ- _ aticn which makes for the solemn induction into the world assembly of the Maldives, this miniature place and! nation, ; this. British- r aval base oh a sparsely populated; cluster of rocky abutments which rise out of the Indian Ocean; while; the mighty People's. Republic of China, with a population of some 700 millions, is barred from membership." In his opening speech, to the Assembly, Secretary-Gen eral U/ Thant pointed to the absurdity of the situation andi demanded that 'the obstacles to China's presence be re moved. The clamor against China's admission being raised1 by the SUSA, with the Menzies, Government, as ever, dutiful sup port, does not diminish or remove the force of the Secretary General's argument. This fact is. reflected, in the general estimation that a large proportion of the Assembly, probably larger than ever before, will this year vote to have China in. Among those, backing, her will be states and. governments, firmly opposed to some of China's, policies, including India. The USSR is also strongly backing, China's- admission, as it has always done from the very first. In no way will this commit the USSR or anybody else taking the. same stand to support of various, policies followed1 by the Chinese government,, such as their attitude to the India-Pakistan war,, or to the future of the UN itself., 1 In these; matters, and some others, Chinese policies may 1 be. wrong. In. our opinion, they are wrong; I But every rule of jiustice and commonsense protests against the non- representation.' of 700 million people 'in the world body just as it condemns, the Menzies Government's puerile refusal to "recognise" China. Equally inadmissible is the pretence that a bunch of US- backed "gangsters" ('as described by the Soviet d'elegate in the UN) in Formosa really represents the great Chinese people. Especially sickening is the claim; that China, is "aggressive" — when put forward in the UN by a US administration that is ravaging; Vietnam' with fire, explosive and poison gas; that hs girdled the. world with its military bases, its. roving fleets and squadrons of warplanes: and; fills the air with its threats of escalated war against all opposition'. The world1 wants a new stage of UN development reflect ing the will of all. the people of. the world. The first step may well be a; clean break from: the cant and hypocrisy reflected in the exclusion of the world's most populous power. 