 'Book shows folly of war' — says Air Marshal NEW war with the most modern weapons would be lunacy of the highest degree," said Air Marshal Sir George Jones CEAAF. ret.) in Sydne jpQi EY-idav night. Sir George. Australia's Chief of Aii Staff in World War II and now a company director, was in Sydney specially to launch the latest book published by the Australasian Book Society- "They Hosed Them Out by John Beede The Dook is a realistic and reveaj ing account ol the author's expen enees as an air gunner on prolong-'" operational duty in the bombing wa- from Britain against the Nazis. Sir Gec-ee said he nad read th : book with great, interest and founc it a vivid and correct description 01 aircrew war service, bringing out th. loyalty of crew members toward each other and their skipper. "It is also proof (if proof is necessary) of the stupid, bruta foolishness of war," he said. "Pew people realise what war win modern weapons would mean and 1 cannot subscribe to the view tha' these weapons are a deterrent against starting a major war. If weapons are piled up, soonei or later they will he used." Sir George said he did not knov inv "royal road" to the preventipi f war. People ol the different nations eaJly want to be friendly with each ither, but often they get into the lands ot unscrupulous leaders who are concerned only about some group interests— even in Australb he said. Sir George said he regretted th; the book included some dirty langi age, although this conformed wit ' reality, but he considered the boo a valuable adjunct to war history. The author, John Beede, said wrii ing the book had been a long strug gle and he welcomed suggestion; from the audience that, in the large amoimt of material that had to be discarded in editing the manuscripi for publication, there could be new literary starting points. He said ht would welcome criticisms and sug gestions from any readers, whethei ex-service or not. During audience discussion, the Society was congratulated for its decision to include this book in its 1965 publication list. 