 W.A. CLASH HARMS LABOR MOVEMENT PERTH: Western Australian State Opposition Leader Hawke's pre-election statement supporting talks with the Democratic Labor Party has provoked a serious clash within the Australian Labor Party here 0NC. February 22, the ALP I State Executive uncondi tionally rejected Senator Ken- nelly's proposals, criticised Hawke and asked him to appear before it to explain his state ment. The resolution carried (see Tribune last week) de cided to refer the matter to the Federal Executive, but not until Hawke had made his explana- ' tion. On March 8, Hawke addressed the State Executive at length at the con clusion of which the meeting moved on to the next business. Following this Chamberlain an nounced that the Feb. 22 resolution would be forwarded to the Federal executive. The next day, Hawke attacked Chamberlain in the press for ". . . continuing publicly the campaign of disruption and treachery which he had been carrying on against me within the ALP in recent weeks." The daily press has gone to extreme lengths to fan disruption by exaggerated reports and inter views with anonymous A.L.P. mem bers, even stating that the outcome must lead to the removal of either Hawke or Chamberlain. NCC-DLP secretary Martyr is also interfering with a series of disrup tive and untruthful statements. In the "Daily News" on March 11 he said, "It's about time this hap pened. The Parliamentarians are elected by the will of the people. Why should they be dictated to by Chamberlain?" This conveniently ignores the fact that the leading body of the ALP in W.A. has made these decisions — a body elected by the rank and file of the party in trade unions and ALP branches. As for "the will of the people" Martyr should accept the verdict of the voters on polling day who re jected Hawke's stand and drastically cut the DLP vote. It is also worth noting that when Hawke originally gave his support to Kennelly, Martyr stated that some of the conditions for such a confer ence would be the removal of Cal- vell, Chamberlain AND HAWKE. Martyr also alleged on T.V. last week that well known Communist W. Latter is an executive member of the Miscellaneous Workers' Union which forwarded the resolution adop ted by the ALP state executive. Latter is NOT a member of the union's executive. The real issues Because it is clear that a majority in the labor movement in W.A. firmly opposes any ALP-DLP merger, the enemies of the labor movement are trying to sow confusion by pre- senting the struggle as some sort of clash between individuals and per sonalities. At this time, when the Liberal Government has been returned with an increased majority and there is a widespread attack on trade unions and shop stewards by the Employers' Federation it is vital that the labour movement unite around progressive policies. The election of a Labor government in South Australia demonstrates that this is the way to victory for the A.L.P. In Western Australia there ' is clearly no need and no advantage in a "deal" with the extreme right wing policies of the D.L.P., which is ob viously a shrinking force. Whatever Mr. Hawke's motives, he is doing the labor movement, for which he has worked so long, a grave disservice by his actions. 