 ritaf NSW "Government of the little people" j' IT WAS ONLY! AN ILLUSION I AFTER ALL ! SYDNEY : Six months in office in New South j Wales has badly tarnished the Askin Liberal- j Country Party Government's self-imposed image of j a t government of the little people". j |N this brief period Askin has attacked the people's jury system, their protection under the Landlord and Tenant Act, as well as their local govern ment rights. How very quickly did Labor and industry Minister Willis, make it clear to big business that no ob stacles would be placed in the way of price increases, and then refused to meet protest deputations of wom en and trade unionists when prices naturally went up. It's now expected that there will be an early increase of at least a penny in the price of bread. This will be followed by similar increase tor even 2d.) for a pint of milk. As a backhanded Christmas present, the day before Parliament adjourned Education Minister (Cutler) announc ed deferments for badly needed educa tion projects. The Askin Government, as soon as ) they were in office, took a number | of steps to curry public favor. These S steps included the abolition of the I harsh tow-away parking system and j the abolition of the mid-town Market | St. bus section. I At the same time the Government j showed by the priority they gave to j legislation that they were governing ! in the interests of big business. j The inspiration for legislation to I abolish juries in accident cases were J the large insurance companies. I Sir Frank Packer, the press baron j and other big city business interests ! are behind moves to grab the Sydney j City Council, despite the results of the &lt; recent elections. j Their whittling away of tenants' J rights at the request of the landlords j led to the downfall of their well planned move to capture the Bondi j seat, made vacant for that purpose | by A. Landa. ; Late last week the Government was forced by the Opposition in the Legis lative Council, to accept twenty five amendments to the Law Reform bill and four amendments to the Govern ment's amended Landlord and Ten ant Bill. The most important of these is the retention of the jury system for ac cident cases and the obligation of a landlord to provide alternative accom modation to an evicted tenant. Previously the Opposition rejected a Bill which sought to abolish propor tional voting, as well as the election of Mayors by popular vote in local government elections. - There can be no doubt that the former Labor Government handed the N.S.W. Government to the Liberals on a silver platter, by their right wing polfcies. One couldn't have closely watched Labor in Opposition during the last six months without being aware that the influence of the right wing on | the Parliamentary Labor Party has j been somewhat restricted and that j the Opposition has made valuable ef- j forts towards protecting the people's | interests. j This could be seen not only by their j successful struggle to block all legis- ! lation that was clearly against the | people's interests, but in the way j they took the fight to the Askin Gov- ! ernment, on the questions of prices, I drought, tenant protection, and com- j pany scandals. ! What is needed in 1966 to defeat ! renewed attacks on the people's rights | and living standards is the bridging j of the gap between the public protest ! movement outside Parliament House I and the Labor opposition inside. j 