 "It's our quarrel" says Vietnam j "We are being j used by the US" | "HE Vietnamese feel they are being used by the Americans, and, with few exceptions, hesitate to shed blood on behalr 01 the Ub, writes the Manchester Guardian correspondent in Saigon, Clare Holling- worth, in a recent frankly- worded article. The article coincides with serious losses being suffered by the puppet US troops at the hands of the patriots in South Vietnam. It's not our war, they say, and the disputes between North and South Vietnam are Asian quarrels which can only be settled by Asians them selves without war. On the eve of Maxwell Tay lor's (thrice-postponed) Wash ington mission for expansion of the war, the Soviet armed forces paper Red Star has issued a sharp warning to Washington. Reporting this from Moscow, Rupert Lockwood adds: Referring- to "concrete assistance" now going to the Democratic Republic of Vietnam Red Star says: "If neces sary, this aid will be increased. "There is complete identity of view between the U.S.S.R. and the D.R.V. as regards measures to repulse im perialist intervention." "It i£ high time for the rampant aggressors to understand that their crimes will not remain unpunished. "The Soviet Union firmly stands on positions of peace, but is ready for any turn of events. "Let those who want to revive the bankrupt 'positions of strength' policy make no mistake about that." Lockwood's cable coincides with communiques stating that the U.S. raids on the D.R.V. are getting nearer and nearer Hanoi. At the same time the desperation of the U.S. position is reflected in admissions of new, catastrophic defeats being suffered by U.S. puppet troops in the South, with whole bat talions being surrounded and cut to pieces. Yet another in the unending series of Government crises in Saigon led to the postponement of U.S. Ambas- j sador Maxwell Taylor's departure j for a scheduled meeting of war- planners in Washington. j In Britain, the Manchester Guar- dian has called on President Johnson to "acknowledge that the National Liberation Front (representing the ! Viietcong) must be one of the main i parties in any negotiation." This, it says, is "the one path to j peace that might be effective." ! Australian action j In Australia a further call for ac- j tion to halt the war came from Dr. j J. F. Cairns, M.H.R. addressing an j enthusiastic meeting of 300 people packing the King's Ballroom in Ade- j laide last Sunday. | He appealed for the widest mass j action of the Australian people to j defeat the Menzies Government's ! policy on Vietnam and ensure that i Australia lived in peace and friend- j ship with the newly-emerging forces : in Asia. j A series of marches and demonstra- \ tions opposing the Federal Govern- j ment's policy on Vietnam will shortly j take place in Launceston, Tasmania, \ organised by a sub-committee of the I Trades Hall Council. j At the Sydney peace Forum (see j page 1) the Save Our Sons orgapisa- j tion . took up 1100 signatures to an | anti-conscription petition addressed to j Menzies which they planned to pre- j sent, to him before he left for his ! overseas tour. j 