 USA CHAMPIONS A CORRUPT, HATED REGIME IN SAIGON j Australian Prime Minister Menzies, in his recent reply to 13 | Australian bishops v/ho sought a new policy on Vietnam , claimed i that the US-Australian forces were defending "freedom and self- ! (government" there . What are the facts? ! T"HE Geneva Agreements of J I 1954 specified that there | were to be nationwide general j elections in 1956 to elect a i nnw aovernment for the whole 1 country. I The elections were to be pre- 1 pared through a Consultative Con- | ference in July, 1955. 1 Instead the U.S.A., set up the | dictatorship of Ngo Dinh Diem I ' in South Vietnam. 1 Selections from Burchett's book 3 reveal both the ruthless policy of | oppression of the people, and also i the unashamed manipulation .of 1 political po-'cr in Saigon by the I U.S.A., so that there have now 3 been 10 "governments" without one vote ever being cast by anyone in J South Vietnam. j Shot down - AN ' " 1 One incident which is known all 1 over Vietnam - North and. South I _ took place in My Tho province I in mid-1960. - 1 Thousands of women marched on 4 the provincial capital to protest | against a specially savage ' mop- I ping up" operation in which half a 1 dozen villages had been burned. \ when they arrived at what is \ known as the "Bird's Cross Roads i the demonstrators were met by a solid bloc of Diemist troops,, rifles | at the ready. tl A young, expectant mother who was carrying the first banner was I shot and fell dead with the cry, | "Compatriots, advance." I A second girl grabbed the banner | and was also shot dead; then a third — all of them under zu 1 years. 1 The marching women halted only I long enough to pick up the bodies P which they carried at the head of gj the procession, p A fourth girl had seized the ban- 1 ner, and the troops, stupified by fl such courage and determination Jl and already swamped by the march- 1 ing, furious crowd, gave away. I Hamlets II The General Secretary of the |i National Liberation Front, Huynh li Tan Phat, formerly a well-known Is Saigon architect, describes how the ||i Diem regime set up 282 "strategic li hamlets" in Gia' Dinh province II (arrund Saigon) to form a belt la of human armor around the city f| and to eliminate any they cor.-'d- J ered as "Viet Cong". Hi "As this area is - so close to the M capital and the seat of their mili- tary-police power, they could con- III centrate very big forces and did li succeed in setting up the hamiets ||i "Put after the November, 1963, III coup against Diem, the people rose ||j and destroyed many of them. Ill "Next day I was clambering dowr 111 a moat and then over some earth IS em ramparts of the "stragetic ham 111 let" of Tan Thanh , Tay, in Hoc ||| Mon district some six to sever H miles from the Saigon outskirts- fM "Houses were hovels, huddled to M get-her with no trees or greenery— 1| B0 typical of Vietnamese village: tffl south or north of the 17th paralle iff -tt gardens or fish ponds. If 'A skinny old man, with a fram&lt; if a.n Auschwitz victim, said II no life at all. Just whei I we should be going to the fields in the cool of the evening, we have to come back. "We have to be inside the gates half an hour before sunset or we'll be beaten up. "No trees for shade, they cut eveything down; just cleared the bamboo away with bulldozers. "No chance of raising pigs or ch: - kens, with houses on top of each other like this; not even a fish pond. "They suck our blood dry with taxes and they invent new ones all the time. Taxes for every thing. "On top of that, the troops from the post come . and say: 'Give me that chicken. 'Give me this, give me that. "If you refuse they say you are 'Viet Cong' and beat you up, then drag you off to the district jail. Your family will be lucky to hear from you again once that happens." The unbroken series of defeats for the U.S.-Saigon troops that fol lowed their defeat by guerrillas at Ap Bac at the beginning of 1963, spelled the doom of the Diemist regime the following November. For over 12 months the U.S. press had more and more openly criticis ed Diem's ineptitude in handling the war, his resistance to U.S. strategy and tactics. The Pentagon (War Department) wanted Diem disciplined, but not out and dead. The State Department demanded the coup, however and it was Am bassador' Cabot Lodge's role to be at his new post in time to arrange it. The militarry junta which fol lowed Diem's overthrow suffered reverses. v Continued on Page 4 CORRUPT REGIME Continued from Page 3 Preparations for a new coup went ahead. General Nguyen Khanh was pre pared to accept what the junta was still resisting, a pilot plan in which U.S. officers would take over com plete operational and administra tive control in 28 districts. Khanh was to be the new mili tary chief, ready to accept without reserve U.S. direction of the war at all levels. So, while Harkins was con veniently "out of town", the coup was made, no one firing a shot in defence of the junta. (This was in February, 1964). The junta generals who replaced Diem were all jailed within three months. (Since this . as written by Bur- chett, Khanh too has gone the way of his predecessors -— into exile, luckiy for him, not to his death). Civilian governments have rota ted everi faster than military lead ers. Experts count eight or nine dis tinct governments since the anti- Diem coup in November, 1963). 