 NEW GUINEA WORKERS ON THE MOVE by JIM COOPER STRIKE actions in New Guinea in the past fort night add to the evidence that NG workers are no longer prepared to accept the wages and conditions imposed by colonial em ployers. Probably t3ie most success ful strike action there before this year was the wharf strike in Rabaul in 1963 which re sulted in considerably in creased wages and condi tions. Strikes .by the Police Force in Rabaul and Port Moresby -in July of last year, brought the amelioration of conditions — improved housing, better food and some other improve ments. Wage cuts Workers' organisation showed its value when the Territories Depart ment decreed a reduction in the wages of the New Guinean members of the Public Service which came into effect early in September, 1964. Teacher trainees at Ward's Strip . then - marched the seven miles to Konedobu to lodge their complaint with the Public Service Commis sioner against this savage 40 per cent cut. This demonstration and the seeth ing unrest in the Public Service compelled tne Administration to make yet another wages scale in the service.- The discontent arising from this cut continues to be reflected in the many meetings ana organisational changes taking place in the Territory. Latest strikes The strike movement reached new heights after August 2, when 70 New Guinean workers employed by builder D. C. Watkins refused to start . work unless they were paid annual leave and an annual incre ment on their wages. They returned to work on the promise that an application for an award to cover semi-skilled workers would be made. ' On September 27, 100 Government transport drivers stopped work. They complained against low pay, poor and insufficient food, poor toilet facilities and long waits for overtime payments. The men returned to work on the understanding that their grievances would be heard by -the Public Ser vice Arbitrator this month, when the Public Service Association's application for higher salaries is to be. heard. The following Monday 300 New Guinean employees of Burns Philp (N.G.) Ltd. and about 90 workers at the South Pacific Brewery stopped work. : Th,e Burn;s . Philp strike started when 100 waterside workers stopped work seeking higher pay, better accommodation and improved work ing conditions. When other emplovees heard of this in the firm's depart ment store in Port Moresby and their supermarket at Boroka, a Port Moresby suburb, they stopped work and marched to the wharves to join the strikers. They returned to work when Mr. Oala Rarua, president of Port Moresby Workers' Association, secured Burns Philp's agreement to negotiate. The S.P. Brewery strike occurred at the same time and Mr. Rarua went direct from the wharves to the Brewery at Badili. Work was resumed on the basis that negotia tions will proceed. The brewery workers' complaint is similar to that of Burns Philp workers. Both groups receive wages between £3 and £6 a week, although most earn £3 5/- per week. In 1963-64 there were 120 workers other than plantation workers involved in disputes and they lost 183 man days. The 1965 disputes (over a period of two months) involved approxi mately 660 workers with a loss of over 470 man days. This rapid in crease in the tempo indicates the growing awareness of the New Guinea people. 