 A Note i On I Censorship "The more you talk about something the less likely you are to do it. . is; an old adage Which is jot always true. However, in the modern con troversy about censorship espec ially in thee grand battles of the four, letter words, it may have some truth in it. If , Sydney's sum total daily of four 1 etter words, jokes, yarns, curses, in twenty languages was totalled we would have enough material to fill the Encyslopaedia Brittanica . . if that is still being published. This four letter word controv ersy is child's play . compared with the proscription, censorship, omis sion t.nd ignorance of, consciously and unconsciously, of not tens but hundreds of powerful social writers in the world today and in the past. If anyone ad the time to make a list of revolutionary writers of the past four hundred years and searched the libraries for copies of t-eir works . . th> y might be amazed at the empty spaces on the index cards. For example last year was the 150th anniversary of the birth of Taras SHESV CHENKO , the great est Ukrainian writer and poet. He was a peasant's son and grew to be a literary giant. Anniversies were held in Ukraine, Canada, England and all — nr the world. But If memory serves correctly, not' a line of Shevchenko's work could be found at that time In our main Sydney public library. Another example Jose Marti, Cuba's greatest writer who was one of the leaders of the 1898 rev olution. Jose Marti wrote over seventy books, novels, plays, songs, poems, criticism, polemic, but, you'd be hard put to find two books of his in Sydney, though you might find twice as many books trying to explain him away. This censorship is robbing the Australian people of the richest heritage of world literature . . the heritage of fighting, social and revolutionary literature of all countries. Today South' America is seething with popular movements of peas antry, industrial workers, and the advanced South American human. 1st and revolutionary intelligentsia in all countries. Below Is a, list of some of the writers and some of their works. MEXICO: Agustin YANEZ, Car los FUENTES (The Death ol Artemio Cruz). PANAMA: Carlos CHANGMAR- IN (Songs of Panama, Life in the Dark). VENEZUELA: Carlos Augusto LEON, Miguel Otero SILVA (Death of Honorlo). PUERTO RICO: Jose Enamor- ado CUESTA. CHILE: Luis Enrique DELANO (Olga), Pablo NERUDA — an exception. PERU: Jose Maria ARGUED AS, Gustavo VALCARCEL. URAGUAY: Alfredo GRAVINA. SALVADOR: Liliam JIMENEZ. ARGENTINA: Alfredo VARELA. HAITI: Rene DESPESTRE (if jail), Jacques Stephen ALEXIS (Woodland Musicians, Good Gen era! Sun, last heard of in jail). - BRAZIL: Alfredo Dias GOME# (in jail), Getr CAMPOS (poetj Jorge AMADO Shepherds of the night) , Ijmilio Carrera GUERRA -- (poet). ' ' '"v " ' . 