 Govt, cold to TV committee CYDNEY : The Menzies Govl ernment last week coldly listened to proposals from a delegation of the Australian National I elevision Committee set up after the National TV Congress in March. The delegation of six committee members who went to Canberra on Thursday included Morris West,' Pro fessor Alan Stout, and Mr. E. St, John Q.C. The delegation asked the . Post Master General (Mr. Hulme) why nothing was being done about the Vincent Report's recommendations on improving television in Australia. Interviewed afterwards Morris- West said they had had a "most unsympathetic hearing" from Mr. . Hulme. Mr. D. Broadfoot, the Committee's Secretary, issued a statement saying that:— "The primary aim of the Australian National Television Committee is to have the Vincent Report debated in the Commonwealth Parliament. "Produced as the result of enquiries made by a Senate select committee the Vincent Report was formally pre sented to the Senate in October 1S63. "Since that time no attempt has been made to debate the many recom mendations made by the report." Recalling the representative and critical discussion of TV programs during the TV Congress, the statement said: — "We have discussed with the Post Master General many of the points raised by the National Congress and ask him to: "1. Use his influence to have the Vincent Report debated in parli ament. "2. Recommend to the Broadcast ing Control Board that a perma nent channel of communication be established between the Board and this Committee." Speaking in Parliament on April 27 Mr. Whitlam, deputy leader of the Australian Labour Party, said: "One of the unfortunate features ol the ownership by newspapers of television stations in this country is that one can never read anything about the control and manipulation of television by newspaper proprietors. "There has been a scandalous silence in the Press on the Senate Commit tee's report on television. "At least in Britain, where the Pilkington Committee made some unfavourable remarks about television what that Committee had to say was reported in the newspapers, even if the' newspapers then proceeded to abuse and, in fact, misrepresent the Pilkington Committee. "In this country the report of the Senate Committee on television has been banned from the newspapers." \ 