 . . . and an angry conference in Vic! MELBOURNE: A special conference of the Victorian Teachers' Union last Satur day passed unanimously a resolution condemning the Teachers' Tribunal "for its failure to give salary justice to the teachers of Victoria." The conference followed a week after a stopwork meeting of 2500 teachers in Melbourne, called by the Victorian Secondary Teachers' Association, covering most high school teachers. "Conference asserts that unsatisfac tory salaries have contributed to the crisis in education in that present salaries failed to attract qualified re cruits and failed to prevent resigna tions." The conference had been called to discuss the refusal of the Teachers' Tribunal to pass on the H per cent margins increase to teachers. This refusal followed rejection of the major points in two salary claims this year. In one determination the tribunal granted insulting increases amounting to only fourpence a week to large numbers of teachers. Speakers at the Conference des cribed the frustration of teachers resulting from serious staff short ages in high schools. A high school teacher told the con ference about a Matriculation class which has been without an English teacher since before the second term holidays. The same teacher stated that four- fifths of classes in Junior Forms in high schools are taught by unqualified teachers. Many delegates were deeply disap pointed at the defeat by a narrow margin of a resolution designed to give more autonomy to branches of the union. Members of the important High Schools and Technical branches of the union claim that more, auton omy of action is necessary to meet many issues which arise. It is claimed that extensive use was made of proxy delegates to defeat the move, which is opposed by con servative elements. In a transparent attempt to head off deep feelings of anger and indig nation among teachers, the tribunal announced just prior to the confer ence that it was now prepared to re hear the one and half per cent mar gins claim. But the causes of the current un rest among teachers are far deeper than the dissatisfaction with salary claims. Pent up frustrations over serious deficiencies in the education system are finding expression, despite gov ernment claims that there is no crisis in education. 