 ( . , Writers' support C | j for TV Congress j "THE national TV Con- i gress to be held next i morith is not a narrow J trade union activity but a I national one, said Mr. | John Gray, of Actors' | Equity, speaking at a pub- I lie meeting in Sydney | iast Thursday. I The meeting was sponsored by ; the Fellowship of Australian I Writers to develop support for J the TV Congress. I It was chaired by Mr. Walter | Stone (FAW President) and guest | speakers were Messrs. John Gray I and Leonard Teale, both well- | known TV personalities. I Mr. Gray said that as far as j actors' employment was concern- I ed the Congress is the most im- I portant thing to have happened J since the formation of Equity, | but stressed that its importance J was far wider than the union. | Mr. Gray described how the S Australian national character was j being changed by "the most im- I portant form of mass commun- | ication in the world— TV." j He stated that fact that "the I Australian Broadcasting Control | Board has not censured Channel I 9 (the most blatant offender) in S anyway even though the station | has not presented one minute of | Australian productions since its i inception — thereby obtaining its I license under false pretences." 1 "This Congress is our last hope I of changing the status quo of 1 Australian television," he said. S Well-known actor, singer and I reciter of Australian poems and ; songs, Mr. Leonard Teale took i up the question: "It is my opinion that anyone I in the creative field, be he actor I or writer or research chemist is j grossly undervalued in this coun- | try at a National organization | level from Mr. Menzies down. j "Mr. Menzies is the fountain- | head of a peculiar attitude, found I in Australia, towards creative j people. He refers to them as 'that ! kind of person'." I Mr. Teale said: "If talent ex- j ists in Australia it must be negat- j ed so that it may be bought at I the lowest cost — it is, not regard- ' ed as something of worth to be j developed." s He pointed oUt that Australian l TV productions would remain of j inferior quality to those from j overseas as long as Australian at- j titudes and budgets remained j grossly inadequate. j "That we have the technical j ability and talent necessary for j top-class production was clearly f demonstrated by the high "qual- j ity" of our TV advertising," he I said. f He compared the budget for a j TV 60 second commercial (Coca- I Cola) — £3,500— with that of a | Melbourne 60 minute production j "Homicide" — £2,000. j Mr. Teale protested against the j violence and brutality of many ! overseas films. j The meeting unanimously de- j clared firm support for the Con- j gress. | The Fellowship of Australian ! Writers will elect four delegates j to Congress at its next meeting. I — P.D. j 