 THEFOREST By William J. Pomeroy, 7/6 (8/5 posted). PERSONAL history of the Huk Guerilla struggle in the Philli- pines. With the author we nrr.t the guerillas who look l"-e ordinary peasants — except for their seemingly careless hold , upon guns of every description — in the classical tradition of guerilla warfare. This is however, more than the story of the guerillas, it is also a story of great personal love and of great personal courage. The writer, an American and his wife Celia, a Filipino, spent ten years in gaol only to be released in 1963 after world-wide protest. ? AVENGERS (Reminiscences of Sov'et Mem bers of the Resistance Move ment),? (8/11 posted). LONG the Champs Elysees in Paris in 1944, a Soviet Partisan column marched with the French patriots. All of them had escaped from concentration and forced labour camps. Their exploits in the Resistance movement across occupied Europe are both fasci nating and spine prickling. ? THE WITCH'S SON By Rosemarie Schuder, 7/6 (8/5 posted). gET in the early 17th century this historical novel arouses curiosity. The intrigues set in train by the Inquisition held, back scientific discovery and the consequent passing on of knowledge. To be a man of learning was to be a man of high courage. Such was the case with Johannes Kepler, a German mathematician, who was faced with the question of defending his own mother against the charge of witchcraft at the cost of his scientific dis coveries. A profoundly moving story of a man's struggle for truth. ? DISCOVERING THE SOVIET UNION By N. Mikhailov, 17/6 (20/1 posted ) . NOTED writer and . geographer Mikailov takes the reader on a tour which covers the length and breadth of the U.S.S.R.— from the icy arctic wastes to the burn ing sands of Central Asia— from the Bering Sea to the Baltic. In the course of the tour we get a vivid picture of Soviet economic and cultural progress, vast mineral wealth, fauna and flora and the life of the many nationalities who make up the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. ? EINSTEIN By B. Kuznetsov, 9/6 (11/2 posted). pUBLISHED in the. Soviet Union. A biography with a difference as it reviews in the light of present day knowledge the life, ideas and work of one of the greatest scient ists who has ever lived. The author writes of the philosophical views, public ideas, moral prin ciples, creative psychology, and human charm of Albert Einstein, the man, the scientist and the philosopher. Available from NEW WORLD BOOKSHOP 425 Pitt Street, Sydney. 