 of authors in JUDAH WATEN gives some impressions of two recent international writers' conferences. URITERS are speaking out more and more, refusing to remain silent in face of the grave world situation so men acing to mankind. This is one of my strongest im pressions after meeting writers in many countries and attending two important international writers' congresses, the Weimar gathering in Mav and in July the 33rd Internation al Congress of PEN in Bled, Yugo slavia where I was a member of the Australian delegation. World famous writers at ooth jr herings emphasised the responsi bility of the writer to "speak out onenly in protest on every occasion when human beings are threatened by arbitrary power," in the words of Lewis Mumford. At Blea Arthur Miller, the play wright and newly elected President of international PEN, dealt with the enhanced role of the writer in the epoch of mass communications. He pointed to the striking effect in the USA of Robert Lowell's criticism of the Johnson administration's policy in Vietnam. It was at the beginning of June that Robert Lowell, widely believed to be one of the major poets writing In English today, a Pulitzer prize winner and a "Boston Brahmin," declined an invitation to attend a White House Arts Festival, lest his appearance there should be taken to indicate support to President John son's foreign policy. He wrote to the President of his "dismay and distrust" over the Ad ministration's foreign policy. "We are in danger," he said, "of imperceptibly becoming an explosive and suddenly chauvinis tic nation, and we may even be. drifting on our way to the last nuclear ruin." He concluded: "Every serious artist knows that he cannot enjoy public celebration without making subtle public com mitments." He was supported by the signa tures of 20 leading American writers, including Robert Penn Warren, Mary McCarthy and Phillip Roth. In addition, a former librarian of Congress, the poet Archibald Macleish, denounced the bombing of North Vietnam and the occupa tion of Santo Domingo as a' revival of "the old, bad days of gunboat diplomacy." In England the famous Catholic author Grahame Greene wrote in the "Daily Telegraph" of July 7: "The Government of South Viet nam can claim de facto to represent a few principal towns, the de facto Government of the Vietcong can- claim to administer three-quarters of the countryside. "American — and not Vietnamese — air power sees to it that the Vietcong administration works from deep shelters and not from conven tional offices." The most em:neni writers in West Germany are now involved in a bitter conflict with Chancellor Er- hard and his Government. The issue is the growth of arbit rary power in West Germany, against which the authors are vigorously protesting. And lastly the resolutions passed at the P.E.N, congress emphasise the present mood of the world's writers There was unanimous support from the 500 writers from 58 countries for the resolution pro testing against the persecution of writers in Spain and Portugal. Another resolution denouncing the banning of a Portuguese writers' as sociation and supported efforts by Castilian, Catalonian and Portu- guese writers to win essential free doms from their Governments. Eight writers from Spain and Portugal were not permitted to at tend the congress. They were invited but were re fused passports or visas by their Governments The delegates aiso applauded an appeal to the United Nations to restore the exiled former Presi dent of the Dominican Republic, the writer Dr. Juan Bosch to his country. Arthur Miller was handed a letter to deliver to the United Nations Human Rights Commission protest ing against measures taken to limit Dr. Bosch's freedom of movement. Another strong impression I have formed is that writers in the socialist and capitalist countries are drawing closer to each other Both the Weimar and P.E.N, meet ings were free of the cold war rancour of previous writers' meet ings. In the capacity of observers a Soviet writers' delegation attended the P.E.N, congress in Bled — their first appearance at any P.E.N. Con gress They were enthusiastically greeted. In his report to Congress the General Secretary, David Carver, ex pressed the hope that the Soviet writers would form a P.E.N, centre and affiliate with International P. E.N When Dr. Van Vriesland, the eminent Dutch poet and retiring P.E.N, president reiterated this hope, there was great applause led by the literary dignitaries on the platform, including Stephen Spen der who for so long has waged ideological battle against the Soviet Union. In France, in Italy, and in the U.S. A. many leading writers are gradually abandoning outmoded cold war attitudes. In the face of the new dangers to mankind the importance of unity is being recognised on all sides by the writers of the world. JUDAK WATEN was shown through "Die Warhrheii" during his recent visit to the German Democratic Republic to&lt; the Weimar writers' conference. 