 "Tracks" — a good new collection [?] "-THE TracKs We Travel", a third collection of 21 Aus tralian short stories published by $be Australasian Book So- ciety, contains many examples of the increasing . sensitivity and perception of Australian writers. The setting of the stories is mainly in the bush, whether farming, shear ing or holidaying . . . Three stories "We Have Good Leaders" (Mick Staples), "Steel Is My Flesh" (Vera Deacon), and "The Long 'Uns" (Joan Hendry), have urban or industrial settings. "The Aftermath" by Merv Lilley of Perth convincingly handles the "unwritten laws of men" in the shear ing sheds. Slim's first impulse towards the scabs, is one of physical anger. "And what do you do with a scab?" I demanded. "A young crow hung excitedly down under a limb, rocking back and forth, and yelled 'Kill kill, kill.' "I shook my head and went on skinning while the sounds of the west seemed to vibrate back and again 'kill, kill, kill.' "I'll think of something else. I'm too bloody civilised to do that," 1 told them sadly. The pressure of conscience plus bad shearing and a photo on the pub walls of the West, forces the scabs to give the game away. "The Aftermath" is a story full of humour and the doubly complicated life Of a union militant. Published in "Tracks" for the first time Tom Doran of Wirlinga, N.S.W., convinces with his story "Midnight Shut — a shut during the building of the Hume Weir in 1925. They laboured in the "bull ring". "This was the bull ring — hated by most of the men on the Hume. To finish up in the bull ring was like losing one's soul. But we had no time to dwell on lost souls; we were in it and we had to make the best of it." There is clever humour and pathos in the characterisation of the drover Bogie in "The Bridge" by Jack Pen-1 berthy of Brisbane. Bogie looks after the company bul locks as if they were his own. He is a specialist with the beasts and is honest to a fault. "Bullocks are bullocks," Bogie said. "You worry about the bullocks, the meat company worries about you," young Maker said. "They don't even know you're alive,! they'll lose no sweat over you dead." "I always look after me bul locks," Bogie said. "Bushfire" by John Morrison of Melbourne rings with the despairing voice of Nell whose home is threatened — "Where the hell are we to go with eleven kids! This is my home it's all I've got in the world — by Christ I'll save it . . ' Morva Cogan plumbs new depths of the Aborigine's soul in "Cry My Bones," with an almost objective ..., account of the attitudes of two over worked truck drivers. Lloyd Davies of Fremantle has a humorous riot in "The Case of Wal ter Ogilvie". Walter's thesis is "Top Secret" and classified by security. The ramifications of the paper kingdom that follows are more than a sly dig at the conservative, left- hypersensitive cabinet and public ser vice. "Dear Wilderness" by Helen Brown of Canberra, is a sensitive story of the love of bush and nature, and the character portrayal of the teacher turned farmer and his impersonal generosity and helpfulness. These are just some of the fine stories in this new collection. Other authors include Katharine Prichard, Dorothy Hewett, Griffith Watkins and Ron Tullipan. ! "The Tracks We Travel" is now I op; sale, for 25/- a copy at city book- I .collArQ . L--:p . vi;. - :-j; j 