 Setback for freight pirates ! Australian ships for overseas trade SYDNEY : There have been official discussions be tween the executive of the Australian National Line and the general secretary of the Seamen's Union, Mr. E. V. Elliott, on the manning of Australian Na- tional Line ships for overseas trade. In an interview with Tribune yesterday ! Tuesday! B Mr. Elliott said: "They have in mind two modern freighters to carry refrig erated and palletised cargo ; these would be technically constructed for economic speed and a quick turn-around." Exorbitant freight charges by the overseas ship ping conference lines are the biggest drain on Aus tralia's economy after war allocations. The ANL-Seamen's Union discussion conies hard on the heels of a rapidly-growing, organised opposition to the recently- announced price increase in overseas shipping freights. JURAL producers, business circles and the trade union movement have harshly criti cised and condemned the in crease. This will be the sixth crippling freight increase this year. It will add at the very least £10 million to the national sea freight bill this year. It represents a 4 per cent rise in the bill of over £250 million. Qantas One week's cost of import freights alone, would build an overseas freighter costing about £5 million," Mr. Elliott said. "We have an Australian-manned air fleet, Qantas, that flies to many coun tries. Qantas upholds the Australian flag in overseas air trade. It op erates efficiently and profitably," he said. "International air movements out of Sydney record that in seven days 3' Qantas planes departed for over seas; destinations were as varied . as Auckland, London, Hong Kong, San "ancisco, Djarkata, Johannesburg, Noumea . . . and every plane is manned by a full Australian crew." "If we can run an overseas airline we can certainly run an overseas shipping line for Australia," he said. A stop-work meeting of 198 sea men from 16 different ships heard Seamen's Unions officials report on the discussions at the Sydney Trades Hall on Tuesday morning. After discussion and questions the following resolutions were passed unanimously: "Having heard the report on the official negotiations between E. V. Elliott, secretary of the Seaman's Union, and the executive of the Aus- tralian National Line on the man ning of ships for the overseas trade, we congratulate the executive of the Australian National Line on its recognition of the pressing need for the Australian nation to show its in dependence from the overseas ship owners by the extension of Austra lian National Line ships into the over seas trade. "We record that the need for a national overseas line is the policy of the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and has been vigorously and widely supported by the maritime water front and ship building unions. "The policy for a national over seas line has been accepted by widely . ronrocontatitro confinnc of mir nnnil lation as being essential to the well- being of Australia." Protests Four Australian primary producers' organisations have launched appeals on the grounds of hardship due to the drought. The organisations are The Austra lian Dairy Produce Board, the Aus tralian Canned Fruits Board, the Aus tralian Wool and Meat Producers' Federation and the Australian Wool Growers and Graziers' Council. SEE FREIGHT GRAB STORY OH PAGE 10. The transport rally in Moore Park (Sydney) last Monday is addressed by Dr. Lloyd Ross, NSW secretary of the Australian Railways Unfan1."vr"",'!' Organising to fight shipowners' grab Organised opposition to the proposed freight grab by the overseas ship ping conference line is growing among rural producers, business circles and the trade union movement. CHIPOWNERS have blandly ! announced that they will increase freights on wool by 6.6 per cent from .September 1. The increase will be ex tended to refrigerated and general . cargo from October 1 and. to fresh fruit from Feb ruary. 1 , 1 966. . This will be the sixth crippling freight increase this year. ' It will add at the very least £10 million to the national sea freight bill this year and represents about a 4 per cent, rise in the national sea freight bill of over £250 million. Four Australian primary producers' organisations have launched appeals on the grounds of hardship due to the drastic drought. Two of the organisations have joined forces to present a joint case against the increases to the. British and Continental Shipowners' Austra lian Tonnage Committee in London. The organisations making the ap peal are the Australian Dairy Produce Board, the Australian Canned Fruits Board, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers' Federation and ;the Aus-- tralian Wool Growers and Graziers' Council . The. latter two organisations pave sent a joint delegation to London; Both are members of the Federal Exporters' Overseas Transport Com mittee. This is an organisation of Austra lian exporters which annually nego tiates with shipowners on freights that will apply over the ensuing 12 months- It permits individual industries to seek freight relief on . the grounds of hardship. The Australian , Wool -Growers and Graziers' Council appeal" wiil/be based on hardship in the industry. Clip down . The . Australian Council of Wool Selling Brokers forecast last month that the 1965-66 clip would amount to 1,639.9 "million pounds less weight than the previ6us clip. A drop of 6 per cent.— ironically the same amount that shipowners are "jacking up their freights. : The Australian Financial Re view said- that- shipping, and wool trade authorities in Sydney hold little hope that . the joint delegation of. wool growers to London will achieve any substantial reduction in freight rates. One. authority , is quoted as saying .that meat producers, equally: with wool producers,, would ralso" have been- affected, by the drought,, but that the Australian Meat Board had decided not to appeal against the increases. However, according to a report in "Country Life" of August 20, the Australian- Meat Board is determined to, fight the increases'. Board fights It says- that if trie increases are applied it will cost the Australian mieat industry an extra £750.000 a year in freight charges at the current rate of export to America The" Board has told the shipping lines operating to America that the increase appears to be totally unjusti fied. It has said that unless the shipping companies can provide sound evidence to back the increase, freight contracts under the new rates will be invalidated. Under legislation which established the Meat Board, it has the' power to declare invalid any freight contracts for the shipment of meat overseas which involves payment of freights not approved by the Board. o The Board is opposing trie increase with the full backing of the Depar : ment of Trade and the Department Primary Industry. - . In a submission to the forthcom g -Australian Council of Trade Un o Congress the Boilermakers. So calls for a vigorous campaign to Australian shipbuilding program for the- establishment of an over shipping line. 