 NZ Unions swing behind Mt Esa miners -j-HE wide support for the struggle of the Mt. Isa men and their womenfolk against US-controlled Mt. Isa Mines has been further strengthened by international support. "Peoples Voice" in New Zealand re ports that the National Council of the New Zealand Federation of Labor has issued a financial appeal to aid the Mt. Isa workers and the appeal is obtaining growing success. Waikato miners, Grey Valley miners, Auckland and Wellington seamen, and drivers and Wellington waterside workers have already taken up col lections. The United Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers in America have sent 100 dol lars as a token of solidarity. Many members of this union work for Amer ican Smelting and Refining, the parent company of Mt. Isa Mines. Messages of support have also come from the Miners' Trades Department of the World Federation of Trade Un ions and from the Metal and Engin eering Workers' secretary in Cyprus. Financial support is continuing to come from all parts of Australia. The continuation of this support has be come more urgent, due to the stop ping of financial assistance by the leaders of the Australian Workers' Un ion. Queensland reports point to many refusals by employers to give work to ex-Mt. Isa miners. Similarly, the sacking last week of four Mt. Isa miners from the Man- apouri power tunnel project at West Arm in New Zealand has further spot lighted the role of employers _ gener ally and some AWU leaders in this dispute. 'These dismissals took place follow ing an approach by the president of NZ Workers' Union (Mr. W. Demps ter) to the contractors. The four men said they were all married with families to support and were being "starved into returning to work in the Mt. Isa mines." One of the men, Mr. G. Rigano, also pointed out the close relationship betwen the AWU leadership and the NZWU leadership. . Protests at police A stopworK meeting of Sydney waterside workers yesterday (Tues day) called for an Australian Council of Trade Unions' protest against the Queensland Government's sending of extra police detachments to Mt. Isa. New efforts by the American con trolled Mt. Isa Mines company to divide the miners over the past week include:— © Proceedings, listed for Industrial Commission hearing &lt;5n Friday, seek ing a restraining order against the Federated Engine Drivers and Fire men's Association, whose members at Mt. Isa are said to be operating gear to lower and raise underground work ers but are not providing any labor to handle ore. © Attempt to coax more workers back to work on the company's terms, by removing the requirement that they must have been employed on Decem ber 14. © Eviction from the company bar racks of men who have been living there but who are refusing to go back to work on the company's terms. Blunt words Meanwhile, rlghtwing AWU officials have— © Ordered Mt. Isa Mines workers to go hack to work— as is sought by the company. O Cut off distribution of AWU re-, lief to Mt. Isa AWU members (and their dependants) who are standing firm against a return without first securing the six-point terms, includ ing re-employment of Mr. Pat Mackie. Last weekend, after an incident at the barracks, according to the "Cour ier-Mail":— "In blunt words to the \ management, Mr. Coding AWU State president, 'in the interests of mem bers of my union who have gone back to work', demanded strong action to remove strikers from the barracks. Mr. Egerton, last Saturday called on the Nicklin Government to appoint a Royal Commission to inquire into the dispute. 