 \ Swing against 1 S 1 ® o right-wing in ; AWU ballot $UPPORT for Australian Workers' Union right- wing General Secretary T. Dougherty substantially declined in a recent ballot for that position. The ballot was court-con- f I ducted, the first such ballot in j the AWU. i Dougherty received approximately = 16 per cent less of the total votes I cast than he did in the 1961 elections. | His opponent in both elections was | W. (Bill) Deuis, a rank and file I member of the AWU. - \ Deuis received a higher percentage of the votes cast in 1964 than he did j in 1961 in every State except South I Australia. In SA his share of the j total vote fell by 1.7 per cent alT j though his own vote rose by 65. I His total vote rose from 3198 in | 1961 to 7427 in the ballot just con- | eluded— an increase of 132 per cent. At this figure his share of the total I votes cast equalled 27.32 per cent— I approximately 16 per cent more than . his share in 1961. i In Queensland his vote rose by ap-. ! proximately 200 per cent and repre- I sented 20 per cent more of the total j votes cast than was the case in 1961. j The poor showing of leading AWU ! officials in the Mt. Isa dispute is j- considered to have been a main fac- j tor in the decline of Dougherty's I share of the Queensland vote. L A decline of approximately 5000 in j the total Queenslnad vote is also re- : garded as a silent protest against the ! poor leadership Of AWU top officials, i Dougherty's vote in Queensland I dropped by 5313 while the vote for | Deuis rose by 2344. " ' ; Deuis was supported in his cam- I paign by a rank and file committee— ; the Committee for Membership Con- ! trol. With strictly limited resources j this committee has been campaigning I for some time to restore control of ! the AWU to the membership; | In the recent elections the com- j mittee was unable to match the offi- j cial AWU "machine" which in fact j supported Dougherty, j . Representatives of the . Committee I for Membership Control claim the | increased vote for Deuis reflects ' in- ! creased support for the committee | and its objective. They aim to extend the activities \ of the committee and are seeking j support amongst active rank and file | members in all States. I ' y 