 No basic wage rise for |j apprentices and juniors ,1 SYDNE Y : . Junior workers and most apprentices will receive absolutely j | nothing from the recent paltry wage increase handed down by the Arbitration II Commission. | A WOMAN, trade union officer (Miss Flo Davis) said this was possibly the most shocking injustice contained in the Com mission's decision. Miss Davis, (the assistant sec-, retary Liquor Trades Union in NSW) said it appears these young workers will get nothing because their wages are based on a per centage of the basic wage, except apprentices in Queensland. "No increase in margin, how ever small it may be, is passed on to these young people," she said. The Liquor Trades Union has a membership of 28,000 in NSW and about 60 per cent are women. Young girls of 18 are working as waitresses, housemaids, doing laundry work and even cooking in some hotels for a wage of £7.18.6 a week. At the age of 20 they still only get £1(1.7.6 a week. Miss Davis said that during the ACTU Youth Week, being held this month, the trade unions \ must do something to focus at tention. on this injustice to young workers. According to ACTU figures, by 1970 the average annual increase of young. people into the work force will be about 116,000. This means that about half a million juniors will not receive anything from the recent wage judgement. 1 The Commission's decision, which has sparked off hostile re-, action throughout the labor movement, gives a margin in crease equal to one and a half per cent of the six capital cities, basic wage and the worker's present margin. Not even the judgement has clearly indicated how this formula would apply, to women workers. There are some women work ers, who although they receive only 75 per cent of the male basic wage, do. receive equal margins. This is the position with many female employees in the u>m- j m irionwealtli Public Service whicn i | employs about 36,000 women ana j jj; Miss Davis said the formula j 1 could mean a change in relativity j of margins between men ana j | women. ' ' „ I if As an example, bar attendants |j in hotels now receive an equa ||g . margin for £3.3.0 but the irM. ,| wage is £18.18.0 as against 1 1 for the woman. j 1 The formula could mean tha =1 the male margin will be mcreas g . to £3.9.0 and the female to g Miss Davis said that women are very critical of the small incre i j offered by the Commission, an = g are concerned that prices wi l|| longer be taken into acc j|| when assessing the wages. j|| "This decision gives the grej® jg light to employers to further !|f crease prices. .rnngly II . "Working women are stro s jtf demanding that prices be co || led," Miss Davis said. „-|| j MISS FLO DAVIS 