 Will the new Institute be a mere showcase for pop and gimmick art ? , RECENTLY the Senate I of Sydney University announced plans for the establishment of a Power Institute of Contempor ary Art. This follows the bequest of shares worth over a million pounds "to make available to the people of Australia the latest -ideas and theories in the plastic arts through lectures and teachings": The bequest is in the will of Dr. J. W. Power, who spent the later years of his life as a wealthy recluse on an island off the coast of Britain and himself dabbled in modern an. In these days we often hear mod ern art spoken of in conjunction with big money, in fact few discus sions of modern art get far before someone remarks on the large sums of money one or another of the favored modern artists gets for his work. Overseas, U.S. millionaires com pete for works from painters in the news and behind such privately endowed institutions as New York's Museum of Modern Art and Gug- genheimer Galleries, there are also dollars by the millions. Now, Sydney, too; can have its Museum of Modern Art thanks to the opulent bequest of Dr. Power. The Power Institute of Contem porary Art among other things is to have a Gallery of Contemporary Art and will conduct courses and adult education activities, arrange exhibi tions and make purchases locally and overseas. For this we must be grateful to Dr. Power as the bequest, if used to popular advantage, would do so much to foster the study and appre ciation of art in our time within and beyond the confines of Univer sity scholasticism. The danger is that such an In stitute would tend to support and officially condone the narrow view of modern art taken by so many of our writers and critics.' In this view only work on a par ticular type, and originating from certain centres is regarded as mod ern, and terms like "modern" or "contemporary" as applied to pre sent day art are used not in a literal but in a confined and exclusive sense. Not all art produced in modern times is regarded as modern. This is perhaps justified when we are considering, in the light of contemporary society, some work which employs out-worn forms or draws on the sentimental ideology of a by-gone day, but modern critics tend to exclude from the domain of modern art anything that con tains a grain of realism or represen tation. Social realism and the art of the socialist countries is excluded in favour of abstraction and only work from countries of the capitalist world is considered. Much would depend of course on the personal attitudes of the Pro fessor-director of the Institute and the curator of the Gallery. It will also depend on how strictly the terms of the will are interpre ted. What is modern art, we might ask? Popularly modern are is thought of in, terms like surrealistic, futuristic or cubistic, and among the spe cialists, non-representational or avant-garde. But in practice the term can be so diversely defined that those en trusted with the administration of the Power bequest need not be tied to any strict determination.. I It is encouraging to note that with the Institute of Contemporary Art there is to be a Department of Fine Arts related to the Faculty of Arts. This could cover the field of mod ern art in architecture, decoration and applied arts as well as fine art which, though this term must be reserved for creative work that employs imagination, expression, fantasy and social content in a special way, does in a formal way . overlap the boundaries of applied arts and modify their character. We can say then that we are grateful for the Power bequest and hope that the concept ot modern art will be democratically interpre ted in the broadest sense, to include all the quite varied progressive trends covering, figurative work, of varying shades of realism, and not be limited to that which merely pursues the craze for novelty and decorative gimmickry. Both fine art and applied arts must be modern in spirit to be ef fective but the one must be rescued from speculators and the other from commerce and advertising if they are to 'serve the people and fulfil their true social function. H. McC. 