 This professor is also a wharfie! DROFESSOR FREDRICK ROSE, asked at a Sydney press conference recently if he was Director of the Insti- ture of Social Anthropology at the Hum bolt University in, Berlin, replied: "Yes, and! I am a Cambridge graduate and also a member of the Waterside Workers' Federa tion1 of Australia". He had been re-visiting Australia for four and a. half, months investi gating the part played by Aborigines in the contemporary life of -Austra lia. The investigations were: made in all States except Western Australia. Prof. Rose, who has a German wife and four children, intends to pub lish a book: on the Aborijgines soon after his. return to. Germany. He said Australia's linage overseas had suffered because of Government repression and general exploitation of its Aboriginal people. The recent "Freedom Ride" by university students against discrimi nation had made, headlines in news- Papers in Germany and' other parts of&lt;( Europe, he. . said. "The Aborigines, are becoming in creasingly conscious of their role as a people, they no longer were tribalised and there is a latent antagonism among them against ill- treatment and officialdom," Professor Rose said. He had found discrimination. 1 against Aborigines everywhere he went in Australia, Including a sign in a Dubbo- Hotel in N.S.W., saying that they would not be , served. The' Government should legislate :to make discrimination of any kind 'punishable by law, he added. Aborigines needed the help of tech nology and1 medical treatment that ; white people could give them, this was particularly so on the reserves but they wanted to administer the . reserves and not just be bossed about, by whites. i As bad as was the position of Aboriginal men> the plight of women ; was much, worse. ' There was little or no work for them and; there was a tremendous: drift by the women to the cities, - they were forced to leave their fami- ! lies and often their children aid husbands, he added. Later, in an interview with Tribune Professor Rose said he first' came to Australia in 1937,, where he made a study of Aboriginal tribes in North ern Australia, working then as a meteorologist. ! He stayed in Australia for many years and after, the war. was a Public Servant in the Dapartment of Post War Reconstruction. During the infamous Petrov con spiracy he was framed and later discharged,, but political discrimina tion was used and he was, unable tc obtain a position in the Public Ser vice or a university; even though he was a leading anthropologist. ! And that's when Professor Rose : became a waterside worker in Syd I ney.. When he left the waterfront to gc overseas the Sydney branch. mad&lt; him an honorary member. "I went; down a few days ago to get my current medal (wharfie's union card) and it's one of my proudest possessions," he said. : 