 — , 1 MH'ises I _ MONEY FOR MT. ISA MEN! Broken Hill miners, pledging £2000 a week or more in support of the locked-out miners of Mt. Isa mines, last Sunday gave a lead to every working man and woman in Australia. They responded unanimously at a niass meeting to the factual addresses of the Queensland trade union delegation sent to explain the Mt. Isa dispute, in which 4000 Australian workers are locked out by a multi-millionaire American-run company. Already money and pledges of aid are flowing in from Trades and Labor Councils, individual unions, and from jobs, through the Queensland Trades and Labor Council,, to support the Mt. Isa workers. The Broken Hill mass meeting was addressed by Messrs. Pat Mackie, chairman of the Mt. Isa rank and file organisa tion of the Australian Workers' Union members; Mr. J. Mc- Mahon, president of the Mt. Isa Trades and Labor Council; and Mr. A. Macdonald, secretary of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council. They explained that the Mt. Isa men's longstanding de mands for increases in contract wage rates, to meet high living costs in remote Mt. Isa, had been rejected by the company and the Queensland state machinery. An answering ban on contract work by the men had been met by a Government "state of emergency" and by a com plete lockout by the company. j The Mt. Isa men's demands are: — A £4 a week wage in crease. Increases in contract rates, bonus and shift allow- i ance. ! Reinstatement of Mr I Pat Mackie, who has been dismissed by the company and expelled by the AWU State leadership. Recognition of the Mt. Isa T & LC by the company. The Broken Hill meeting declared full support for the Mt. Isa men's de mands, they decided to send £4,000 immediately to support them, and to pay a levy of 7/6 a head per week (this will mean about £2,000 a week) —"or more if necessary." Meanwhile, the campaign of sup port is spreading through unions and jobs throughout Australia. Nicklin condemned The Broken Hill meeting un animously condemned the Nicklin State Government in Queensland for siding with the Mt. Isa Mines company against Australian workers. The Queensland speakers pointed out that the Mt. Isa struggle would probably be a long and hard fight, but that the whole of the Mt Isa townspeople were backing the fight. This was confirmed by a special article in last Sunday's Sunday Tele graph, which also however tried to blame the dispute on Communists. On this the finance editor of the Syd ney Morning Herald commented tersely "the evidence has to be pro duced." Mr. Pat Mackie, in an interview at Broken Hill, confirmed this: "The Mt. Isa people are as solid as a rock with the workers and there will be no turning back now." Mr. Mackie, in a TV interview with executives of the daily press in Bris bane, explained that everyone in Mt. Isa knew, that the rising cost of living justified the demands of the men. The company's published claims abo,ut £50 a week were about double what men were getting . there, he said. The men's attitude to the Queens- land AWU . leaders was that they did not represent the views of the Mt. Isa men. His own position was that he was under . the direction of the rank and file. Continued on Page 12 | This aerial picture of the « | Mt. Isa mine gives some S I idea of the kind of place, j | in remote NW Queens- j S land, where these copper J j miners and their families j | live and work. I At bottom of the picture are I workers' houses built in the | shadow of the smoke of the | smelters. I Out of this hole in the ground i is brought the ore that produced I for Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. a profit I of £5,929,087 in 1960-61, £3,392,976 1 in 1961-62, £5,597,769 in 1962-63, I and £5,270,971 in 1963-64. ! Fifty-four per cent of the j shares are owned by the Aine- | rican Mining and Smelting Co. of S New York. Only twenty nine j per cent of shares are owned in S Australia. I The Federal Government has j refused to pay the miners social | service benefits during the S lockout. | The company has repeated | their warning: "We have given all we are giving." S In 1961-62 the eight weeks' ) strike cost the company over j £2,000,000. They say their atti- 1 tude to Pat Mackie and the min- ) ers' claims will be just the same | in twelve months' time. S Life at the Isa is hot dusty | and isolated. I Women going there to join I their husbands find conditions I very different to what they i have known elsewhere. 1 However Mt. Isa women have I been stalwarts with their hus- | bands in the fight for their de- i mands. j Last Sunday, in Broken Hil!, i Mr. P. Mackie, speaking for | Mt. Isa mine families to a meet- ing of women, said that the Mt. | Isa women had fought solidly | behind their menfolk. Money For Mt. Isa Men! Continued from Page 1 Reports reaching Tribune of sup port for the Isa men include the following coastal ships: Iron Flind ers, £20; Age, £10; Poulta, £10; Dubbo, £10; Iron Knight, £10. The N.S.W. South Coast Labor Council and the Orange T and LC are among those who have pledged to raise financial support, to be for warded to the Queensland T and LC. Sheet Metal Workers N.S.W. Branch has sent £100 to the Queens land Labor Council. Council backs struggle In a special statement on the Mt. Isa dispute Mr. A. Macdonald, Queensland Labor Council secretary, said: "The issues in this dispute are very simple. Workers in Mt. Isa are en gaged in a struggle in support of basic trade union demands. They are opposed by the combined forces of a wealthy Yankee-owned company and the anti-working class Nicklin Government of Queensland. "Consequently the Mt. Isa workers need and are entitled to the un qualified support of the whole work ing class movement. Solidarity "The splendid example of working class solidarity expressed by the meeting of Broken Kill workers organised by the Barrier Industrial Council is of great assistance to the Mt. Isa workers. "It is a source of inspiration for thousands of workers elsewhere in Australia who are supporting this vital struggle. "The Queensland Labor Council Disputes Committee has drawn Pre mier Nicklin's attention to the fact that penal action will not settle the Mt. Isa dispute. As with other dis putes such action will serve only as a cause of aggravation. Genuine demands "The actions of the Mt. Isa Work ers stem from legitimate grievances about genuine trade union demands. These are increased wages, against victimisation, legitimate negotiations on all industrial issues with a local based and representative trade union organisation, the Mt. Isa Labor Coun cil. "Their demands and actions have the unqualified support of the Queensland Labor Council which in a special resolution of the Disputes Committee called upon all trade j unions, trade unionists and the people to assist Mt. Isa workers to j achieve a successful outcome of this j dispute. : "Finance and resolutions of sup- ! port are means of assisting this j struggle and Queensland Labor j Council is now calling for this ! assistance from the whole working I class." ! 