 CIA and Indonesian militarists — old allies against freedom WHEN Indonesia Colonel UntCing announced over Jakarta radio on September 30 that he had acted to forestall a righrwing coup by generals backed by the Central Intel ligence Agency, the USA im mediately rushed in with a denial. That was to be expected. The trouble from Washington's point of view is that few people any longer believe its denials of what the CIA is doing. Gary Powers' U2 spy plane was shot down over the USSR in 1960 and the Cuba invasion was launched in 1961. Both times TTS President denied that the US had anything to do officially with the attacks/ on other countries' sovereignty. Within days, or weeks, the Presir dents concerned had to issue new statements accepting full liability. Only this year Singapore Premier Lee Kwan Yew accused the CIA of trying to suborn citizens in 1961. US officials quickly denied it — then, when Lee threatened to produce proof, just as quickly admitted it. So history was on Colonel Unturig's side on September 30 when he said that a "Generals' Council sponsored by the CIA" had "planned to conduct a power exhibition" on October 5 and carry out a counter-revolutionary coup. The Sydney Sun-Herald New York correspondent, in a despatch to his paper on October 3, explained why Indonesians would be very likely to accept Colonel Untung's statement. "For Indonesians the three initials (CIA) call up bitter memories of the not-so-secret American interven tion on the side of Sumatra rebels who tried to overthrow President Sukarno in 1958," he says. ? "THE American role was brought into the open and dramatised by the case of Allen Lawrence Pope. "Pope, an American veteran of the Korean war, was shot down on May 18, 1958, after piloting a B26 in a bombing and strafing run against Ambon Island airstrip in the Moluccas. He was captured. "US Ambassador Howard Jones dismissed him as a private Ameri-. can citizen 'involved as a paid soldier of fortune.' In fact, how ever, he had been engaged by the CIA to fly for the rebels." ' The Sun-Herald correspondent recalls that Pope was jailed by an Indonesian court but released in 1962 after an. appeal by US Attorney- General Robert Kennedy. During the revolt cf 1958, says the Sun-Herald writer, "through the CIA, B26 bombers were clan destinely made available to the rebels, while the Eisenhower Administration maintained a pub lic policy of strictly correct neutrality." The whole story, he says, is fully documented by David Wise and Thomas B. Ross in their book "The Invisible Government — the story of the CIA." The US-backed revolt of 1958 was headed by four colonels— Sumual, Hussein, Simbolon and Lubis. They set up headquarters in Padang, Sumatra, but the revolt collapsed through the resistance of the people. General Nasution, later Defence Minister, organised the defeat of the rebellion. US support of that revolt was State Secretary Dulles' reply to Indonesia's refusal to join the SEATO treaty he organised in 1954. Collapse of the rebellion did not in any way lessen Washington's determination to stem the advance of thee anti-colonialist, independence movement in Indonesia. ? "jV/TANY observers have seen in the formally "correct" attitude carried on by Keennedy and John- son from the days of the Eisen hower Administration a cover for the anti-Indonesian operations of the CIA. A favorite CIA weapon is assas sination. Newsweek Magazine says on Oc tober 11: "In the past eight years, Sukarno has been the target of at least five assassination attempts — by grenade in Jakarta in 1957, by mortar fire in Makassar in 1958, by air attack on two presidential palaces in 1960, by grenade in Makassar in January, 1962, and by gun-fire in Jakarta in May, 1962. "At least 10 by-standers have been killed in these attacks, but each time President Sukarno has man aged to escape." ? CPEECHES by Sukarno, Subandrio and others in the 10 days before the current crisis began dealt re peatedly with the "Indonesian socialist" aim of the Government and sharply attacked profiteers and exploiters. These internal political trends, together with the marked coming- together of the Indonesian and Chinese Governments and mass or ganisations, must have been seen by the extreme rightist group of generals and other right-wing forces backed by US imperialism as a desperate threat to their private interests. Many higher military officers in Indonesia are among the officials running State plantations and in dustries who have come under heavy fire recently as luxury-loving grafters and embezzlers, indifferent . to the poverty of the people. The position of General Nasution, Defence Minister, has been obscure in the past week. He has long been the darling of the Western press as the most likely leader of an anti- This was based on known facts. Nasution was one of the very few Indonesian officers who reached the highest rank permitted to Indonesians in the Dutch colonial army — major. In 1952, as a colonel, Nasution led a group of higher officers in an attempted coup of defiance against a parliamentary move to cut the military budget drastically. After two days of tension, Nasution and his jjroup bowed to the greater strengh of the united political forces backing Sukarno. Nasution was pushed aside for three years, reappearing as Chief of Staff in 1955. When the 1958 Ameri can-backed revolt of a group of colonels occurred, Nasution backed the government. Subsequently, how ever, he was moved into the politi cal position of Defence Co-ordination Minister, removing him to some degree from direct command of the army. However, there is little doubt that the military-political apparatus led by Nasution and the dead General Yani, American - trained former Chief of Staff, has been at the heart of attempts in the past days to initiate a wave of repres sions against Communists and other democratic forces in Indonesia. This threat is by no means ended and is aimed at the whole policy of the Sukarno Government. If there seemed a practical chance of suc cess for the generals and their allies, the CIA and the US, British and Australian Governments would undoubtedly seek ways to intervene in support, as in other parts of South-East Asia. Sukarno ana antx-Commumst coup at some time. 