 "Govt not honoring its responsibility" TEACHERS' CONFERENCE DISCUSSES THREAT TO CHILDREN'S EDUCATION By Tribune's Industrial Roundsman The annual conference of the NSW Teachers' Federation , held in Sydney this week , faced some very serious threats to the pro- per education of children in this In the December issue of "Education", Federation president, Mr. S. Lewis, said 1965 is coming to end with a funeral note which sounds a fore boding for education in NSW for 1966. T"HE announcement that the NSW Minister for Education, Mr. C. Cutler, has ordered a review of all school works pro mised by the previous Labor Government in the next three years, constitutes a sombre end ing for 1965, Mr. Lewis said. Mr Cutler announced in Parliament that the Government will defer all school buildings scheduled for this year for which contracts had not been let. The future of all works to cost a total of £45 million is now placed in doubt. Sackings Already 11' workers from the school building and maintenance section of the Public Works Department - have been sacked and a further 160 dis missals are threatened in the new year. . - The school holiday period is gener ally the busiest time for this depart ment. These dismissals are also taking place when extra secondary accom modation' is required to meet the stress of 1967, the first year in which these schools will have to accommo date the full range of students over the six years of the Wyndham course. Added to this is the need for hew primary schools and additions and alterations to high schools and primary schools throughout ' the State. The previous Labor Government's plans in fact did little more than provide for the minimum educational requirements, Mr. Lewis said. "New high schools must be built and additions made to others to cope with the expansion of secondary education. "Reconditioned left-over schools, 'hand-me-downs' from old secondary or central schools, are not satisfac tory for primary education to meet the challenge of the 20th century in a wealthy country like Australia," he said. , Askin's "blush" . "The Askin Government came into office blushing -with promises for education— 'a new look for education' — the speeding up of school building, greater expenditure on kindergartens, the establishment of new teachers' colleges." Mr. Lewis said the present threat to education in this State can be met and overcome in 1966 by the combined action of all those who seek to advance public education, in demands on the Federal Govern ment to provide the necessary funds to the State Government. The executive report to conference stresses the main demands of thp Federation in the coming year. These are: — The State Government must establish the Education Commission as promised to the Federation prior to the State elections. This Commis sion must be a body of' five members, two of whom are elected by the Federation, two appointed by . the Government, with a chairman accept able to both parties. The Federal Government must be made aware of its responsibilities to public education through Australia and make available adequate finance for primary, secondary and technical education and teacher training. The granting of Teachers' College Scholarships to all suitable qualified applicants; to introduce a minimum three years' course of training for all teachers and to increase the College Students' allowance at least to the level of Victorian Trainees. The status of teaching and the erosion of purchasing power by price increases will make salaries an urgent issue. Recruitment and training "The Recruitment and Training of Teachers" is the topic to be discussed by conference this year. A resolution on this topic has been prepared by the Secondary Teachers' Association. The Association said the NSW Government is not honoring its responsibility in the recruitment and training of teachers and to provide satisfactory conditions for learning in the public schools. "The education of children must be entrusted only to fully qualified teachers," the Association said, and calls for the extension of training to four years. A demand is made on the State Government to state its intention of limiting entry to its teaching service, after 1971, to qualified four - year trained teachers. The Association also calls for im mediate substantial salary increases for teachers, sufficient to attract and retain adequate numbers of suitable persons. 