 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman THE "Save Our Sons" move ment last Sunday in Sydney collected 1100 signatures to a petition reminding Sir Robert Menzies of his statement in the Federal Parliament (April 20, 1939) regarding his posi tion at the outbreak of the first world war:— "I was in exactly the same posi tion as any other person who at that time had .to answer the extremely im portant question— is it my duty to go to war, or is it my .duty not to go? The answers to those questions can not he made on a public platform. Those questions relate to a man's intimate personal and family affairs and in consequence I, facing those problems, problems of intense dif ficulty, found myself, for reasons which were, and are, compelling, un able to join my two brothers in the infantry of the Australian Military Forces." Mr. Frost: "Is it the business of no- one but yourself?" Mr. Menzies: "I SAY THAT". THESE 1100 Australians can see no reason why the young men of today should not have the same right to decide for themselves as Sir Rpb- ert claimed for himself in 1916. ? THE talk up in Macquarle Street the other day in Sydney was the need for a re-paint of Parliament House. Everyone agreed— the only hold up is that nobody is sure what color Reg Ansett would like it! ? T>UILDING workers' on the Gold- fields House job at the Quay in Sydney rieckon it's not a "goldfield" for the workers. The £44 million project is being fin anced by South African capital. All the workers are getting is award wages, without proper sheds for changing and are expected to slush about in. the foundations for the want of a pump. On the other hand the first part of the structure was opened in grand style with the erecting, of a £64 thousand temporary platform for the occasion. I ' ? "MOW. a mass meeting of Federated Ironworkers' Association mem bers at the Williamstown naval dock yard in Melbourne has also protested against the support given to Menzies Vietnamese policies by the Associa tion's right-wing leaders. "We are sorry to see our leadership so out of touch with rank and file opinion and ALP-ACTU policy as we believe that the situation in Vietnam should be solved by implementing the terms of the 1954 Geneva Agreement," the dockyard workers said. Printed and published by D. B. Young; 168 Day Street, Sydney at 21 Ross Street, Forest Lodge,- 