 WHAT BASIC WAGE DECISION MEANS Wicked, scandalous, a sheer outrage, very unjust, absolutely ridiculous, appalling, a concept of "justice and reasonableness" which the trade union movement rejects completely these are words used by trade union leaders Bast week about the Common- wealth Arbitration Commission's majority decision on the basic wage and margins. On the other hand, employers and their organisations are rubbing their hands with glee. A reading .of the three judgments handed down by the Commission— one comprising a majority judgment of three Judges (Gallagher, Nimmo and Sweeney) and the other two, separate judgments by President Sir Richard Kirby and Judge Moore — shows why. What the judgment did ALL, five Judges rejected the claim by the metal unions, backed by the ACTU, for what was virtually a 12/- increase in the current basic wage rates. Judges Kirby and Moore favored an 8/- increase, but the majority decision rejected completely the claims of the AC' 'U. It reversed and put aside the prin ciples contained in the Commission's basic wage decisions of 1961 and 1964 and the reasoning contained in those decisions. It threw out prices as a reason for adjusting either the , basic wage or margins. It formally rejected the employers' claim for a total wage ( that is, for the abolition of the two separate por tions of the wage, basic wage and margins, and their merging into one wage) but it granted the employers' application for combining hearings in relation to the basic wage and margins where these aYe based on general econ omic grounds. 0 It increased margins by amounts equal to H per cent of the total sum of the 6 Capital Cities basic wage plus each current margin. Union claims The union claims had only sought to increase the basic wage by amounts varying from 10/- to 13/- per week— the smallest basic wage increases sought by the ACTU over the past 30 years. The amounts were necessary to restore the purchasing power of the basic .wage to the level of June, 1964, i" accordance with changes in the of- ficial statisticians and Consumer Price Index. . Because of the small amounts, there was little enthusiasm among the workers, especially as no serious ef fort was made by the ACTU leadership to develop a supporting campaign among unionists. The unions' case, in court, relied entirely on 1961 and 1964 basic wage decisions of the Arbitration Commis sion and the 1962 margins decision. Those decisions recognised price movements as a primary reason for adjusting the basic wage. The unions also concerned themselves with the question of industry's "capacity to pay" the rates claimed. The decision to follow these lines in presenting the case was made by the ACTU on the basis of an analysis of the 1964 basic wage decision, pre pared by Besearch Officer Hawke. This entire approach has failed. Concessions to employers The employers' case covered both basic wage and margins. Their claim for introduction ot one "total wage" was the same as their 1964 claim, then rejected by unanim ous decision of four of the five judges who dealt with the 1965 case. Commenting on that rejection in June last year, the "Financial Review" said the employers' application was the start of "a long haul" towards substantial changes, in wage assess ment. This year th employers emphasised a variation of their claim for a total wage. This was to have the two rates- basic wage and margins— retained as separate parts of the wage but dealt with jointly. They sought to have the basic wage reduced by 6/- and each margin increased by 6/- leaving the | total amount the same. They also proposed an increase by one per cent of the combined total of the 6 Capital Cities basic vage md each margin, this increase to be added to the basic wage, or the margins, or divided between both Big class campaign The employers ran a vigorous propa ganda campaign in their own class interests. They said employers now rejected the idea- that applications about wages were solely matters ftr the unions to initiate, with employers being content to file counter claims. They insisted that the main qucs ticn in wage assessment was "econ omic capacity of the nation" and not the economic position ol the workers. This employing class attack on union policy, and on aspects of previa ous Court judgments that stood in their way, was completely successful this time. Thus:— ' The "total wage" concept, though formally denied, was admitted- through a side door. The increase granted was only slightly more than the employers had proposed and has been added, as . they urged, to margins and not the basic wage. Effects on wages now The majority decision means there will be no increase in the basic wage for all workers in N.S.W., Victoria. South Australia and Tasmania, nor for workers covered by Federal awards in Queensland and Western Australia. Margins in the Federal Metal Trades Award will be increased by amounts varying from 5/- to 7/- per week, with the majority of the workers- receiving only 5/-. ' „ . The basis exists for the extension oi these increased margins to all other Federal Awards, but with qualifies tions. The extension will not occur whert any employer can show that "the ir dustry lacks the capacity to pay in creases in margins such as those ! awarded in the Metal Trades", or where "particular employees have al ready, since 1963, received marginal increases based wholely or partly on general economic grounds. ' For thousands, nothing The extension of these increased margins to State Awards and Wages Board Determinations are matters to be determined by the various State arbitration tribunals (Building unions in NSW have already moved to test this before the NSW Industrial Com mission). The State basic wage in Queensland and WA will not be immediately oi directly affected by this decision. A system of quarterly adjustment is still observed in those States in relation to the State basic wage. However following last week's deci sion. the anti-working class govern ment in each of these States, could lead to adoption by the . State trib unals of the Commonwealth procedure in relation to the basic wage. For thousands of workers, the majority of women and persons under 21, apprenticed and unap prenticed, there will be no wage in crease at all. 