 Rate increase aids monopoly From a Correspondent The ALP group in Newcastle City Council re cently defeated a move by the Citizens group led by the Lord Mayor (Aid. Purdue) to impose a general rate of 6 in the £>. "jHIS would have slugged rate payers for an extra £234,- 609, because of the increased valuations. In many instances these were as high as 200 per cent arid more. The A.L.P. amendment for 5id in the £ was adopted with the support of the nine Labor and two indepen dent Aldermen. This rate will slug ratepayers for £82,700 over last year and will fall heavily on hemeown- ing ratepayers whose properties have increased in value far in excess of the average increase of 35%. For reasons not clearly explained by the Valuer General, the average unimproved, capital valuation incr ease in City ward, the heavy centre of industry and commerce, was 12% as against the 35% in residential areas. These wealthy ratepayers will therefore enjoy an actual reduction in their rate bills because the per centage in their valuations Is less than the reduction in the rate in the £ from 7d to 5Sd in the £. There appears to be general ag reement that the works programme proposed by the Town Clerk incl udes necessary works; but ratepayers are critical of the fact that impro vements in their living surroundings which have been neglected for many years will still be deferred while main roads, streets and other pro. jects that will mainly service the heavy industries will receive priority Bind absorb the major portion of rate revenue. This fact was born out by Alder man Clark (ALP) who publicly decla- ed his support for the proposal of a rate of 6d in the £. During the deb- bate in the Council he admitted changing his mind because of letters and phone calls from people in his Ward protesting against the increase and neglect of their local needs. (The New Lambton Branch of the Communist Party had also appealed to Aid. Clark and other aldermen.) Aid. Bassan, President of the Regional Council of Progress Asso. ciations appealed to the City Council during the debate, to become more militant in the fight for Government finance for local Government, needs ais a means of avoiding rate in creases. Lake Macquarie Shire, one of the rapidly developing Councils in N.S.W. has increased the general nate by id. in the £ and the >. . minimum, rate from £3 to £12 to raise finance to meet its commit ments. In addition to this most rate payers, mainly home owning work ers, will have to pay a local rate to the Urban Area Committees. The Minimum. Rate will fall heavily on owners struggling to hold on to a bit of land for future homes who will receive no benefits for years to come because .of iso. lation of their land from commun ity centres. Cessnock City Council has also turned to ratepayers for extra money by raising the minimum rate from £5 to £8. This council is offering land free and other concessions to indus tries that may care to establish m the area. 'Port Stephens Shi:: while not in creasing its general rate for 1965, it will supplement revenue by the sale of assets (Land) and further loans. Loan repayments and inter est now takes 29 per cent of rates. 