 — _ SA State Conference: 1 Communists support lottery, but . . ADELAIDE: Whilst supporting the SA Labor Govern ment's proposal for a State lottery to raise finance for State spending on the people's needs, the SA State Confer ence of the Communist Party of Australia the weekend before last pointed out that there were many, more im portant sources for such finance. "J"HESE included: © An increase in the iron ore royalty paid by the BHP from 1/6 per ton to £1, re turning £4i million to the State. Contribution by indus tries to the cost of provid ing public utilities such as water supplies, electricity and transport facilities for them. © Increasing Federal fin ance for the State. The SA State Conference of the Communist Party of Australia was j attended by more than 70 dele- j gates from city and country or- I ganisations of the Party. I The election of a Labor Govern ment in SA and its achievements so far were welcomed by Confer ence. What was needed, however, was a stronger challenge to mono poly privilege by the whole labor movement. The Labor Government's pro posals for electoral reform was j supported as an advance for demo- j cracy while the CPA's support for J proportional representation was j reaffirmed. Conference gave attention to a State program for SA develop ment and to the need to build the CPA. The target for 45 new members was reached while Conference was in session and a decision was , taken to reach 70 by Christmas, j A fighting fund of "£3,000 by Jan- uary 1966" was launched. | Conference called upon the SA j Labor movement and people gen- j erally to play their part to end j the war in Vietnam on the basis j of .the 1954 Geneva Convention, ! defeat the Menzies' Government's j attack upon the Waterside Work- i ers' Federation and the "White » Paper" on Communism and win I a . 35 hour working week in the j car industry. j I e Appeal for 1 greater efforts j CPA Political Commitce mem- I I ber and Chairman of the Party in I ( Victoria (Mr. John Sendy), who j j attended the Conference, appealed j j for greater efforts by Commun- I j ists in rallying public opinion in ! favour of a foreign policy based j upon peaceful co-existence and a i rejection of nuclear war. I ! An end to the Vietnam war ad- j venture by the US Menzies Gov- I ernments was particularly im- j portant, said Mr. Sendy. j | In working for such aims, Com- i munists were experiencing deep S concern for the real interests sec- j urity and defence of Australia. B I Conference described the Men- | zies Government's attack on tn I WWF as part of an attempt to j ! cripple the whole trade um J j movement and democracy i I ally. The "White Paper" on com-. I munism is part of this attac ! I which is designed to smash op- | | position to the Government s u j popular foreign and domestic po J icies. ! The GMH sackings, Conference | said, is "another example of tne S callour attitude of monopoly cap- ! italism to the workers". | Conference supported the dem- j ! ands of the unions for a 3r» n « fi week, severance pay and calico | | the nationalisation of GMH. I I , JOHN SENDY ... an end to the Vietnam war adventure JIM MOSS . . . SA State Committee secretary 