 Ho puts the finger on the United States in Vietnam "No matter how many men and weapons the United States sends to South Vietnam, its defeat is imminent", writes Ho Chi-minh, President of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, in a special article in the current issue of New Times. PUBLISHED as the United States was boosting its strength in South Vietnam to more than 1 25,000, President Ho's,. article said:. "The Vietnamese have the support and generous assistance of the fraternal socialist countries and the sympathy of the people everywhere "I wish to convey our heartfelt gratitude, to the fraternal -socialist countries,- primarily the USSR and China, to the peoples of Asia. Africa and Latin America, and of the cap italist countries, ' 3 American- people included, for their sympathy and support." "The . Vietnamese will emerge victorious; south Vietnam will be free;; Vietnam will be reunited — of that there can be no doubt. That is the unshakable cc- "ction of all our people." President Ho says that in a des perate- attempt to ward off "inevit able defeat" the US attacked the DRV with hundreds of planes. Despite "peace negotiations" talk, President Johnson was continuing his scalatio: policy a-" 'espatch- ing another 50,000 men, bringing the total in south Vietnam to over 125 000 men. "This reckless , adventurism has utterly exposed the US imperialists. Their ignominious defeat is inevit able. They are . losing the war against 14,000,000 south Vietnamese — how can t: hope to vanquish our nation of 30 millions Advance to victory President Ho says that the US "wanton brutality" h using napalm, poison gas, " other methods, will not bring the south Vietnamese to their knees. The people; he says are advanc ing to victory under the banner of the National Liberation Front, hav ing already liberated four - fifths of the territory and three quarters of. the population. "The r . jple hold the initiative on the battlefi?nts -"d are, dealing the enemy one blow after another. The US imperialists have failed in all their plans of aggression. They are bogged down in south Vietnam and the longer they continue the war the -re reverses they will suffer . — the more difficult will . they find it to escape inevitable defeat". President Ho's picture of the sit uation contasts with whoops of joy coming from most of the US and Australian press last week over the US "victory" in Cihu Lai through' "Operation Pirananha". Trapping 66 liberation ' Jiters in a cave, the US marines killed them with a dynamite charge — a feat which made marine General Walt "so proud of my marines I can hardly speak." Time magazine bacljd that it was "the biggest single kill" by the marines so far. However Newsweek quietly com mended that "it was a victory, but scarcely a historic one — particu larly since most of the Viet Cong escaped the net and simply faded into the jungle to fight another day." Revolt of 700,000 The whole purpose of the oper ation was to "destroy" the "Viet cong". , , Newsweek also Admits that an organisation , of south - Vietnamese "montagnard" tribesmr whom ' the US has been tr"(n' to fight for &lt;?>/ ' - It' it, may defect to the liberation forces. In a revolt at their training camp at Buon Brieng, they captured the camp and held it for three days. Says Ne- sweek: "When the rebel lious tribesmen sauntered back into the bush, after eating their fill, they took 200 rifles with them. "With them, too, went 185 mcn- tagnard Special Force trainees. And it could happen again almost any where In south Vietnam's thinly perflated highlands." Newsweek adds that the rebellion, hushed up by the US authorities,, "now threatens to sprcd across the highlands, sweeping up the 700,000 montagnards ho inhabit nearly half the total area of south Viet nam". PRESIDENT HO 