 U.K. Budget makes the people pay LONDON: In an article in the Jly Worker, the General Secretary of the Communist Party of Great Britain (Mr. John Gollan) points out that there is a link between the Labor Government's « « VM - "X r# la. support for the Ub actions in viemam and its budget, placing new burdens on the workers. THE British Government's at titude on Vietnam, Mr. Gol lan explains, arises from its reliance on American backing for its own colonial wars east of Suez. "Because of the Government's policy east of Suez and its support, of NATO it won't cut military expenditures abroad", says Gollan. The Government is committed to a crippling arms burden of £2,120 mil lion a year. In both foreign and domestic policy the Government acts as the adminis tration of big business. There is a basic continuity of the Conservatives' policy. Immediate tax increases which will squeeze £164 million out of the people in the current year and £217 million in a full year, were the budget's main features. With other measures outlin ed, the people's purchasing power will be cut by £250 million a year. Most of this year's extra taxation of £164 millions will be paid by working class and low-income professional con sumers (in higher taxes on beer, spirits, tobacco and motor licences.) The extra capital gains tax will bring in a paltry £12 million. The new budget taxes have to be added to the imposts announced last November. This month the workers start paying 2/- a week extra for national (health) insurance. Sixpence more in the income-tax starts this year, and the workers have for some months been paying higher prices be cause of the imports surcharges and the extra 6d a gallon on the petrol price. The chancellor toed the line and pleased the foreign bankers at the ex pense of the people. Two days later came Economic Af fairs Minister George Brown's White iPaper on "Prices and Incomes" which will have the same results as the Tory "pay pause" Of Selwyn Lloyd. It fixes an upper limit in wage in creases in any one year at an average of between 7d and 8M in the pound counting overtime, shift work, the value of fringe benefits and reduced hours as part of wages. Although there is much about wages in the White Pap'er, there is nothing about keeping profits down. Prices .are rising, with the aid of the Government itself through its two budgets. There is no machinery proposed to give the Government power to cut prices or stop them increasing. 