 World War //. . . and liberation Guerillas hammered the Japs when the overlords fled or collaborated From MALCOLM SALMON in MELBOURNE August 15 — last Sunday — was the 20th anniversary of the end of World War II, in which, at a cost unprecedented in history, the peoples of the world alliance defeated the three-power axis of fascist imperialism. In the Pacific theatre, the war was launched by the imperial Jap anese regime which still exists and grows: today, but as a subor dinate to the United States, which has taken over the former Jap- / auese role of seeking to dominate the Asian peoples by armed force. ; Australian, American, British and Soviet forces played an import ant role in the victory over Japan. ' What is not officially mentioned in Australia today is the tremend ous role of the struggle of the A'an peoples against Japan,, not only in 1941-45, but for up to 10 years before that. THE poet is Ho Chi Minh, sitting in a prison cell in South- " ern China in 1943, and writing "On' : the Announcement of Wendell Wilkie's Reception in the Newspapers". Ho, the leader of the anti-Japanese guerilla forces in Vietnam, had set out in August, 1942, to travel on foot to the Chinese wartime capital of Chungking. His purpose was to arrange closer liaison between the Chiang Kai-shek Government and the Vietnamese partisan forces in . the common struggle against the Japanese. For his nains he was arrested by Chiang's police not far across the border, and spent the next 15 months half starved and maltreated in a . variety of Chinese jails. His poem on the entirely difierenl reception accorded in Chungking to the US politician Wendell Wilkie vividly recalls the extraordinary political circumstances of ' the Second World War, the 20th anni versary of whose end, in the defer, of Japan, falls this month. The idea of Ho Chi Minh a. the American Government sharing common cause might- seem strange looked at from 1965. But they dicl and the Second World War — tha vast upheaval in human affairs whose effects are still incomplete! worked out today— cannot be undei ' stood unless it is realised that the. did. Nor can today's Vietnam wai As no war before it, the Secon . World War was waged on the ant fascist side by a coalition of go-, ernments and peoples. Truly typical was the all-side. anti-Hitler srtuggle waged in th Soviet Union: armed struggle b\ Soviet regular forces from free- territory, partisan warfare by ir regulars m the occupied territory. This pattern was to be seen in all other theatres of war. It fully reflected the just, socially liberrv.'e character of the anti-fascist struggle. Both of us are friends of China, Both are going to Chungking, But you are given the seat of an honored guest, While I am a prisoner, thrown under the steps. We are both of us representatives of our countries, Why are we so differently treated? Coldness to one, and warmth towards the other: That is the way of the world, as from time immemorial The waters flow down to the seas. . . Wherever governments were found wanting in the fight, popular forces arose to carry it on. This was perhaps most marked in Asia, where . not a single strong Asian government existed to wage !he war against Japan. Indeed, the only participating Asian government, the Chiang Kai Shek regime in China, was funda mentally more interested in fightirr the Chinese Communists than th Japanese. As well as having to contend wit the attacks of its Kuomintang "ally, the People's Liberation Army led I " he. Chinese Communist Party cope with 60 p.c. of Japanese fore jperating in China, and with abo. )5 p.c. of Japanese puppet troop ncidentally, the total Japane orces opposing British and Ame . an arms in the Pacific were smal' ">an those fighting the Peop! deration Army in China." ' it all this was so in China, t nportance of popular forces asisting Japanese fascism elf .'here in Asia was even mo narked. In fact, if there had bee io popular resistance there wou uave been no anti-Japanese strugg - vt all in such countries as Vietnan ndonesia, Burma, Malaya and th ' ilippines In all these countries, the ol . jlonial regimes of French, British lutch and Americans had provet amentably inadequate to withstand the first military thrust of Japan in early 1942. In all of them guerilla movements arose through 1942-44 to tie down Japanese' forces, harry them and unsettle the Japanese rear. These guerilla movements re ceived some small assistance from the Allies, at various . times and places. But such assistance was more than repaid by the aid given by guerillas to Allied servicemen who found themselves, by accident or design, behind Japanese lines. No sooner did the war end 20 years ago this month than all the width of the gulf dividing these two sides of the anti-Japanese struggle was immediately revealed. Despite all their fine words, the main concern of the imperialist members of the anti - Japanese alliance was to reimpose their old domination on inetr possessions now the Japanese had gone. The main concern of the popular anti- Japanese forces was to secure genuine freedom for their countries, without any domination -by white man or brown. It is scarcely an exaggeration to say that the history of Asia since 1945 has been dominated by the relations between these temporary friends of the Second World War. The US in the Philippines, the Dutch in Indonesia, the French in Indo-China, the . Americans again in Vietnam today— all have waged, or are waging, war against the popu lar forces of national liberation that first grew up to strength and importance in the Second World War. There is no longer any doubt about who will win: the imperialists have suffered defeats enough, and the national liberation forces have won victories enough, in these past 20 years, to make that clear. ? The conservative American his torian C. J. H. Hayes might have been thinking particularly of Asia when he wrote: "The Second World War, from 1939 to 1945, was the decisive factor in the waning of Western imperialism. This war was more truly a world war than the First, and its effects were corre spondingly more far-reaching." But what is still unfinished busi ness in 1965 is: How much greater price will the peoples have to pay for the betrayal by the imperialist powers of the war aims of 1939-45? The question is far from being an academic one for Australians. Our country, too, as a participant in the anti-fascist war, felt the great social and political shock-waves of that war. We could even at one point claim that we had behaved more honorably than some in rela- . tion to the national liberation forces of Asia, our allies of the day. But that time is long past. For 16 years now we have been gov erned by men whom the Australian people had to throw from office in 1941' because they were congenitally incapable of leading a popular war. These men have ensured that we have played a full and increasingly active part in the betrayal of the goals of our people and our fight ing men in the Second World War. Look at the official observances of the Second World War in our country today — practically limited to commemoration of the Coral Sea battle, and invariably employed for snide political boosting of new (and far from popular) war aims. It is the pride of Communists and of members of the Labor Move ment to remember the Second World War for what it really was— a war that ended with a gigantio roar of triumph of the liberated peoples, determined to build a new and better world. The counter-roar or the monstrous US atomic bombs, which also mark ed the end of the war and was designed to stifle the shouts of freedpm in men's throats, has never drowned' out that sound, which still echoes around the world 20 years after. 