 Isa funds In good hands: more support needed BRISBANE: The thousands of pounds being contributed throughout Australia to support the struggle of Mt. Isa mineworkers for justice will be fully accounted for , said the secre tary of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council (Mr. A. Macdonald) this week. MR-. MACDONALD said that the stand of the Mt. Isa nqen and their families against the greed and economic disrup-, tion by the millionaire Ameri can-dominated company needed continuing financial and moral support. In the past week, the company has made unsuccessful moves to divide the ranks of the workers. The Queensland T and LC is the body officially designated by the ACTU to handle the Mt. Isa assistance 'fund. The actual disbursement of money from the distress fund in Mt. Isa is arranged through the disputes com mittee of Mt. Isa branch TLC in which unions affected are- represented. Mr. Macdonald said that no at tempts by the National Civic Council, the "Bulletin" or others to mis- represent the raising of funds for Mt. Isa workers would deflect the trade union movement from its determina tion to win just conditions and wages at Mt. Isa. Another invention of the anti-worker forces, including the Company, the State Government, the daily press and the Santamaria forces, is that the Mt. Isa lockout is part of a Com munist "plot to cripple the economic development of the North." Mr. Claude Jones, Communist Party Queensland State president said this week: "It is not the people of Mt. Isa, the trade unionists or the Communist Party who are blocking the real development of Northern Australia. "It is precisely the big monopolies, many of them foreign controlled like Mt. Isa Mines, and those who sup port them who are the road-blocks on the path to real development. "The Communist Party wants to turn our North into a thriving pros perous area, and only our Party has a real policy to achieve this. "We fight for a genuine anti-mono poly policy. We campaign ceaselessly for the nationalisation of our infant but growing oil industry. "We want the nationalisation of the metal mining, coal, meat, sugar and other industries which will create tens of millions of pounds of value yearly. ''But the great bulk of this goes to big monopolists— Australian, American, British and others, while the great and pressing problems of water con servation, adequate tropical housing, education, transport, wages, tax con cessions and so on are hardly tackled and if they are, they are , mainly designed so that the big monopolies can rip out more wealth. Big sellouts . "Santamaria's political poodle in Queensland, V.C. Gair, is the last person who should talk about anyone impeding the development of North Queensland. "In the years he was in the Queens land Parliament as Minister for Mines and later Premier, he was notorious for his servility to monopoly and especially Mt. Isa. He bears a big share of the guilt of those who have sold out our great resources for a mere pittance. "The Mt. Isa struggle throws a real spotlight on these gigantic sellouts. That is why we have the strident anti-Communist chorus to divert the attention of the people away from the real issues. "More and more people are begin ning to see the wisdom and correct ness of the Communist Party's policy for the nationalisation of monopoly as a first but vital step along the path . to Socialism which will lead to. a real and speedy development of the North." 