 Christmas in Berlin By T. ADLER "T"HE people of West Berlin will be able to visit their relatives in East Berlin for the Christmas and New Year holi- days, as in previous years. Since 1951, when the wall -.was built between East and West Berlin, . three times each &lt; year — Easter, Whitsun and Christmas - New Year . — there have been reunions bring ing joy, goodwill and peace between the inhabitants of this divided city. Yet this year it took a very long time to reach an agreement; many rumors .and distortions were spread - throughout the world about alleged political demands made by the German Democratic Republic Gov-, ernment and its unwillingness to continue the agreement as before; also . about the Bonn .Government's "humanitarian" attitude which had made possible the pass agreement. What are the real facts and who did delay the agreement? After the expiration of the iast agreement the GDR Government offered to renew the agreement, without any alterations, with the Senate of West Berlin. Negotiations took place which, by last August, led to an oral agreement on all points. But suddenly the represen tative of the Senate was summoned to Bonn, which has no say whatever in the affairs of Berlin. The agreement was not signed last August, for elections were in the offing and not one of the three parties in the Bundestag would run the risk of losing votes. So the Senate buried the issue until after the elections. , Yet in order to save face all the politicians blamed the GDR for "sabotaging" the pass agreement. , There had been an agreement on cases of hardship, whereby West Berlin citizens were permitted to visit their East Berlin relatives outside the stipulated periods in cases of births, weddings, illness of death. This agreement also had expired and despite the GDR Government's offer to renew it without any changes the particular office which handled these cases closed down for two months without explanation and has only just reopened. It goes without saying that ex tremists in West Germany have never ceased to shoot their poisoned arrows against the pass agreement, and the most influential represen tatives of the ruling party coalition are already threatening that this "will be the last agreement." Yet the GDR Government, backed by its staunch allies, will ensure that visitors will come to Berlin in broad daylight and not through dark tunnels. 