 WILLIS' GREEN I LIGHT FOR PRICE RISES H By oUr State Political ' Roundsman The day after the current session of the New South Wales Parliament opened,. Minister for Labor (Mr. E. A. Willis) refused to see a deputation from a confer ence of 600 metal trades union delegates for HEY had, been instructed to protest to the Government about the recent ; price in creases and to demand the j re introduction of price, control. Liberal Member for Burwood, Mr. Jackett, told the deputation: "We are against price control. Increase prouc- tivity and your wages will go up." Not only had the Askin Govern- I ment previously stood by as meat prices rose sky high, but Willis com placently said they would : not re- control meat prices. The day- Parliament resumed Op position Leader Renshaw and other Labor M.L.A.'s who, iri "question time pointed out the galloping price increases, had bqen left in no doubt by Askin that he would take no action whatsoever to rercontrol nrinfes. " ' ; In fact the do-nothing attitude of the Askin Government had been the green light for brewery, meat and other interests to have a field day. : Yet the- Government has power, through Cabinet regulation, to re- control liquor and other ;. prices at very short., notice. . Large bread manfacturers and oil interests have long been clamouring for higher prices, and it seems fairly certain that the Askin Government intends to lift remaining price con trols on bread and petrol. Abolish price control The Australian Financial Review (August 24) in a front page article wrote: "The N.S.W. Liberal Country Party Government, hopes to abolish price, control in the State simultaneously with the introduction of decimal currency on February 14 next year." Opposition Leader Renshaw ham mered the Askin Government in the address in reply. He pointed out that they, had taken no action whatsoever about the growing unemployment in the country towns resulting from the drought. He also said: — "Another grave matter of recent occurrence is the State Govern ment's failure to register any pro test against the decision of the Com monwealth; Arbitration Commission judgment on the basic wage case." He was particularly scathing about the Government's intention to abo lish juries in some court cases, such as accidents, and suggested that In surance companies would benefit from it. The trade union movement should also be on the alert from "Com prehensive amendments to the In dustrial Arbitration Act" which were being prepared according to the speech of the Lieutenant-Governor in opening the parliamentary ses sion. Askin in his election policy said that if elected he would introduce court controlled ballots for trade unions on the Commonwealth pat tern. Deputation A deputation from the . N.S.W. Labor Council will soon wait on the Premier, Mr. Askin with a de mand that he introduce effective price control. Unions, including the Liquor Trades, Glass Workers and the Milk and Ice Carters which requested the Council to take this action said that steep increases introduced in the Budget had been further sky rocketed by monopoly using the Budget as an excuse for further price ' grabs. 