 Aboriginal '' Land Tryst . for S. Aust. ADELAIDE: The SA Labor Government plans to set up an Abori- criufll Lands Trust in the near future to allow Abo rigines more control over their reserves and other Crown land. The Board would consist of Aborigines. There would be a progressive transfer to the Trust of Crown lands reserved for Aborigines, plus other Crown lands. Lands to be transferred were cer tain Southern reserves, unoccupied reserve lands, and certain occupied but unsupervised reserves where the occupants indicated they wanted the lands in the hands of the Trust. Larger supervised reserves might be transferred when Aborigines' Coun cils, which are being set up on such reserves, indicate they so desire. ytntMinofn trt rnfl VyUUiiUUh VYUU1U AiUUiUiai-o wy Minister a member to be appointed . to a board of the Trust. Dealing in land by the Trust would be subject to the Minister's consent. Further details have yet to come to hand which would give a clearer pic ture of all the ramifications of the Cnvornmont'c nlnn It appears on the basis of present information that the Lands Trust idea provides some measures of land con trol by Aborigines and therefore is deserving of support. The Communist Party holds that the Aboriginal people should have land rights in the full sense, i.e., to own and control land including its mineral resources, etc. Wealthy S.A. pastoralist, Mr. R. J. McAulay, has criticised the Labor Government's plan, declaring that Aborigines could not administer land. He has been effectively answered by letters in the daily press. One correspondent pointed out that Aborigines once effectively adminis tered the whole of Australia and "although living entirely on indigen ous flora and fauna, they did not wipe out a single species." He added: "In the Northern Ter ritory Aborigines are running big pine plantation projects, sawmills, fruit and vegetable market gardens, fishing and crocodile hunting projects and rapidly absorbing knowledge in the managing of other primary pro jects." Another correspondent wrote that administrative capacity varies within one race. The administrative capacity of pastoralists varied from good to bad "having regard, to Australia's need to" conserve vegetation in arid zones". 