 BraBtSinB i Nationalise the funeral parlors ! Act NOW before it's too late ! | THE University of Sydney recently announced that they were 'closing their books'. No more bodies could be taken for medical and student train- ing research. The statement said that the num ber already willed for this purpose was more than sufficient to ensure an adequate supply for many years to come. Our prospects of a. free funeral have now vanished. As things stand we cannot escape the costly clutches of the funeral directors who have a monopoly of the trade of burial and cremation. One is compelled to make a choice and summon one of these gentry to the "bedside. A bereaved and dis traught relative is easily persuaded to leave everything in the hands of these capable, experienced and sym pathetic directors. This sympathetic touch is well cul tivated as was shown in the filrii "The Great American Funeral". There they describe it as "grief ther apy". This therapy treatment consoles the bereaved and cleverly exploits any feeling of "guilt"— any feeling that one may not have done all that one should for the "loved one" in life. How can one make up for these lifetime remissions? An impressive funeral which will give a fitting farewell to the "loved one"! Alas, the small nest egg of hard eanied savings is heavily eroded when the undertaker is paid. Even the cheapest funeral costs a sizeable sum. With just a hearse, the cheapest coffin and a cremation the cost in Sydney ranges from £90 to £110. One can understand and sympa thise with the reluctance of the bereaved to appear to be haggling over the funeral expense. Precisely because the bereaved are in an unprotected position some measures are necessary to protect them from this mercenary intrusion on their grief. At present there is no alternative to the free enterprise undertakers. It need not be so. It should he possible to hire a Council hearse— to hire a coffin or some other simple hygenic container and be cremated in a Council crema torium for a modest few pounds. Trade Union support for such -a proposal would be invaluable. The Funeral Benefit Funds are useful but they accept the necessity to pay the costly private undertaker's charges. We need to speak up now before it is too late and our relatives are relieved of theirs-and our hard earn ed savings. H. C. Begg, Manly (N.S.W.) 