 BEHIND THE ECONOMIC CHANGES IN THE U. S. S. Ri By Eric Aarons and Pete Thomas L h "The most important thing in the new proposals is to get the closest co-ordination of central planning and local initiative," Pro- I fessor Liheritian told us in Kharkov on November 10. "WHAT is useful for society I as a whole must be useful for each enterprise and each person there, and vice-versa." The same thought was stated in different ways and quite independ ently by other economists and planners we met. Changes in forms of management of Soviet industry are thus aimed to resolve contradictions which had been growing under the previous set-up. These contradictions led to a de gree of slowing down in the growth of output for a given investment in fixed assets. The contradictions developed as a result of the rapid growth of the productive forces of socialist society ' (the total value of the fixed assets of Soviet industry doubled during the last seven _ vearsL Other factors were mistaken ten dencies to over-reliance on admini strative, as distinct from economic, methods, and a neglect of creative development of socialist economic practice and theory. Some defects of the past Previously, fixed assets (buildings, plant, etc.) were given free by the State to the enterprise (being re couped mainly from the "turnover tax"). The enterprise had no con crete economic responsibility to be sparing in their use. Profit (always an important cate- - gory in socialist economics) was usually calculated only 011 direct costs of production. The work of the enterprise was judged, and additional payments to the personnel above the base rates were decided on, according to fulfil ment of plan, especially volume of output. There was a tendency for enter prises to seek and "hoard" machinery, irrespective of whether it was fully utilised or not, so that they would have a better chance of achieving their output target. There resulted a sort of excess capacity— a drag on economic effi ciency. New basis of calculation Now, the enterprises will have to calculate their economic efficiency on the basis of the total of both the fixed and the working assets they use to achieve their results. With the anticipated "tightening up" resources will be made available for fuller satisfaction of the needs of the people, still the basic aim of Qrvtriaf cftmofv Previously, fulfilment of plan was based on achieving a given volume (e.g., number, weight, value) of output. Now the plan will specify instead the volume of goods to be sold. As output and incomes have gone up, customers have become more choosy, and have an increasing "buyer resistance" to poor-quality goods. Now, if they do not buy, the enterprise will fail to fulfil its plan, forfeiting the rewards attached. Previously, the additional resources and care needed to achieve higher quality were often not adequately compensated for in the price received for the product. Now, wholesale price lists (mainly set 10 years ago) will be revised and the price fixing mechanism made more flexible and more firmly based on cost accounting to establish the socially-necessary labor time required for the production of the given article. Later, retail prices will be re- U vised, but only in order to U REDUCE them— a difference £ |5 tween socialism and monopoly £ : capitalism which speaks for itself. | j The drive | for qualify I A quality" stamp is being intro- If duced for goods up to generally accepted world standards, and a 1 super-quality one for goods of still i higher quality. | Previously, individual workers, I teams- and separate shops received I additional payments on the basis of! fulfilment and overfulfilment of planl irrespective of the amount of fixed I assets used to achieve the result, orff I of the amount of the products of I ; the enterprise sold, and often irres-f ! pective of the assortment and quality! ; So they might be substantially l- I rewarded for work which, what- f ! ever tneir subjective wishes, was | ' not really so useful to society after ft all. | i Now, the additional payments will ? depend on the socially useful result I: j achieved with the minimum of re- 1 ; sources put in. ! 1 Moreover, everyone will need to | j give thought to the work of the | J enterprise as a whole, not just their | \ own work or that of their team or ; shop. I ; t Socialist | profit index | The best all-round index of econ- 1 omic efficiency is the profit. This & measures the surplus made available to society from a given outlay o!M resources (fixed assets, new ma- If terials, power, etc., and labor time).f| This is all that the importance i given to profit under the new pro- | posals signifies. Profit is not the 1 AIM of production, hut the mea- ||: enm nf nrnSiu-tlAn's ftffidenCV. I' Nor will the profit disappear into some private monopolist's coffers. It It will be divided into two parts. | One part will go to repay the statep: for the fixed assets assigned to it. g; The other part will remain the enterprise, to he spent in three ways: - The incentive fund— extra pay 1 ments to the personnel above the|; base rates. . I; The cultural and" housing fupo —for amenities, holiday camps, Kin- dergartens, houses, etc. j>&lt;; 9 The development fund— lor ex- &. penditure on a portion of necessary | new equipment, as decided by ; enterprise itself. No plan from a r ' can possibly embrace all .the det of every enterprise, and nutia | from below is being called on to a g much greater extent. |j Bigger funds | to factory 1 These three funds have always existed, but now all of them 1 become bigger than before, & further as economic efficiency I; In the light of all this, an . I, view of the fact that the m |; is a trustee for society, an be dismissed by the state or | v Insistence of the workers, ly hardly possible to ke s® . ts Ik talk of some capitalist id jr and of dogmatists in return ff munist movement about # m to capitalism/' m What is behind the recent changes in the Soviet economy? What about charges that If the USSR is "going ba?k 1 _ to capitalism? jl DECENTLY two Australian communists, Eric Aarons and Pete Thomas, interviewed Pr B fessor Evsei G. Liberman, Professor of Economics at Kharkov University, whose 1 962 B proposals served as the basis for a prolonged public discussion on the economy, culminating B in the measures now being introduced by government decision. Here is the gist of tha 1 interview .... 9 PROF. LIBERMAN 