 » b r New Rule Seller entrants on your marks ! Competitors in the Tribune Popular Seller competition for 1965 can get a quick start by getting their entry in now . The contest will be launched next week, on June I, and many ot the certain entries are still "dragging". Since the initial announcement of the rules, it has been decided to add an important new rule. All entrants will gain an addit ional 500 votes for every newsagent who agrees to handle Tribune reg ularly. These points will be gained as a result of a successful initial ap proach to a newsagent by anyone connected with the campaign around the particular popular seller. Tribune Management will then follow up up with the arrangements. Aim This competition through which Tribune readers and supporters in the various districts and industries throughout Australia contribute large sums to the upkeep of the working people's newspaper, has proved an increasing success in re cent years. -t Not only have large sums of money been raised, but significant new reg ular sales, including half-yearly and annual postal subscriptions, have been gained. _ o In 1964, for example, £1690 was raised in cash, 350 annual subscrip tions, 581 new consolidated readers, and 32 ' new regular sellers were gained. Organisations of groups of Tri bune supporters nominate their I ; t Popular Seller candidate, and proceed to raise money and gain sales, gain ing penny votes in accordance with the rules (below). Nominations are now called for, and should be addressed to TRI BUNE POPULAR SELLER COM PETITION, 168 Day Street, Sydney, without delay. This year, because of the success of the contest in recent years, it has been decided to extend the duration to approximately 35 months. Winners will be announced and awards made at the Tribune Ball, to be held in Sydney at a date in mid- September which will be announced as soon as possible. RULES 1. For every penny raised, one vote. 2. For each yearly subscription gained 1,090 votes. 3. For each half-yearly subscrip tion 500 votes. 4. For every single consolidated ex tra sale, 250 votes. 5. For each new seller who sells 5 or more papers regularly (this means on a stand, hotel run, door delivery or factory), 1,000 votes. 6. For each new newsagent sec ured to handle Tribune, 500 points. 7. All nominations to he accom panied with not less than one pound already raised so that each candidate will start with not less than 240 votes. 