 Statement by lo tJ D. gYDNEY : The following press statement has been issued by the Association for International Co - operation and Disarmament: The Association welcomes as a move towards negotiation of the Vietnam conflict the announcement by Presi dent Johnson that the U.S. is prepar ed to take part in "unconditional dis cussions". This is clearly a response to world wide and American domestic alarm not only at the increasing savagery of the war but also at the possible consequences of its progressive escal ation. However, the Association believes that any genuine movement for un conditional negotiations must be pro- ceded by a cease-fire agreement amongst all the parties concerned. Geneva Agreement Further, we believe that negotiat ion must achieve implementation of the principle of self-determination. This was provided for by the 1954 Geneva Agreement which required free elections to be held for the whole of Vietnam by July 1956. The Agree ment, in addition, forbade the use or threat of force, the supply of military equipment or personnel, and the estab lishment of military bases of a foreign state in Vietnam. Representatives of Jthe following States took part in the final Declaration of the Geneva Con ference. Cambodia, the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, France, Laos, the People's Republic of China, the State of Viet nam, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. The U.S., though taking part in the Conference was not a signatory to the Agreements ending hostilities in Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam. The U.S. did, however, give an undertak ing that it would "refrain from the threat or the use of force to disturb the agreements". The Association calls on the Aus tralian Government and people to see that Australia's influence is used both by direct approaches and through the United Nations to work for a cease fire. All parties in the conflict must be requested to observe the principles of negotiation, the right to self-deter mination without outside intervention and respect for national sovereignty. 