 I in Vietnam ! e QFFICIAL United States - Defence Department per mission for the use of gas in Vietnam at the discretion of US Commander-in-Chief Gen eral Westmoreland has open ed the way to the use of sev eral deadly gases the US has on hand in South Vietnam. Use of poison gas earlier this year n Vietnam gave rise to strong pro tests from public opinion all over the world, including the US itself, where Senator Joseph S. Clark said,. "I find that we have taken a step back to savagery." Answering the Pentagon's excuse that it is "simply tear gas" and "very humane," the South Vietnam National Liberation Front office in Prague, Czechoslovakia, recalls that the US has already admitted using highly dangerous gases in Vietnam. On March 23 last the US news- agency United Press International said the US had already tested such gases as "CN," "DM" and "CS" on the South Vietnamese. All are lethal if used in sufficient strength. Even a "small" dose of CN causes itches and burns. DM causes suffocation and un controllable sneezing. CS is the lung-destroying phosgene used by the Germans in 1918. The London Evening News of March 22 last said the US was also- using what it called "the dangerous BZ poison." Two days later the Federation of American Scientists, with 2,500 members, condemned the use of bacteriological and chemical wea pons in Vietnam. Ignoring this, the US was re ported by the Japanese press last May to have moved its germ war experiment organisation, "Unit4/6," to South Vietnam. Labor united against war CANBERRA: "There was not one member on the Opposition side of Parliament who was not opposed to the Vietnam war," Mr. F. Daly, Labor, NSW, said in Parliament last week. He was replying to an attack .by Mr. K. Cairns, Liberal, Queensland, on Dr. J. F. Cairns' pamphlet called "Vietnam — Is it the Truth we Want?" "While I am in this Parliament I will never cease to condemn the use of Australian troops in Vietnam, for which there is no justification whatever," said Mr. Daly. "I object on behalf of. the people in my electorate to "men being dragged literally from their homes and sent overseas. "I would not care if people pro tested outside every military con script camp in Australia against the policy of this Government." 