 \) r LIBERAL GOVT. PLAYS POLITICS WITH MILK [?] SYDNEY : The Askin Liberal Government in New South Wales is not only playing poitics with the price of milk hut is also keeping the lid on moves to lower the quality of milk sold to the consumer. This state of affairs is bound up with the Government's fear of Hosing ground at next Saturday's two hy-ellecfions— in Bondi (Syd ney) and OxHey (northern NSW). -|HE official Milk Inquiry opening in Sydney today (Wednesday) will increase the retail price of milk by 1 d a pint. Moves will then be recom menced to lower the stipulated quality of milk. A strong pointer to this was given publicly by the Manning River Times, a North Coast paper, on October 21, under the heading, "Move to reduce the quality of milk": "Lower Manning branch of the Milk Zone Dairymen's Union is op posed to any move at this stage to lower the standard of milk to con sumers. "Branches have been asked their opinion regarding a suggestion that butter fat content he reduced from 3.8 per cent, to 3.5 per cent. "Speakers claimed that nothing should be done to lower the butter- fat quality at a time when a prices inquiry was pending." The Government opposed an in quiry into the milk price until a by-election was announced for Oxley. As the Manning River Times wrote on October 15: "Had Mr. Chaffey (Minister for Agriculture) or the Government con tinued with its no-inquiry stand, the effects on the dairy region of Oxley would have been disastrous at the forthcoming by-election there." The Askiii Government, instead of taking real steps to help the dairy farmers, is hitting the consumer with a Id. a pint increase, most of which could easily finish in the pocket of big business. 2000 leave The Camden Haven branch of the Milk Zone Dairy Farmers' Union in a recent resolution pointed out that "The industry in one of the richest coastal dairying areas in NSW had reached a state where the farmers' union itself had started an appeal for destitute farmers." In the last 10 years, 2,000 dairy farmers have left their farms on the North Coast. This is happening at a time when the giant milk distributors for the Milk Board are enjoying high profits. In 1960 Consolidated Milk Indus tries Pty. Ltd., who control Fresh Food & Ice Co. and have a strangle hold on more than 50 per cent, of milk distribution in the milk zone, made a profit of £254,089. In 1964 they made a profit of £392,012, after allowing £500,000 for taxation and depreciation. Dairy Farmers in 1964 made a profit of £138,158 after allowing £464,213 for depreciation. A real, over-all Investigation into the milk trade would have to con sider (among other things) how real assistance could be given to farmers by cutting back on the profits of the giant milk distributors, and by Government control of prices of fer tiliser, machinery and other farm requirements. The Government believes that itsi agreement to a price inquiry will prevent a swing in Oxley to the Labor candidate, Mr. J. R. Andrews, who is a local dairy farmer and a Shire President. In fact it is also a cover for a consumer price ri3e. The Liberal Party aiso hopes it can help return the Liberal candidate, an outsider from the area, who will find it hard to get more votes than the Country Party candidate, a local identity. The return of a Country Party member in Oxley would sharpen the growing national conflict between the Liberal and Country Parties. The Askin Government is more concerned over its narrow majority in the Legislative Assembly and its minority in , the Legislative Council, than the plight of the .dairy industry, or the problems of consumers. Its callous neglect of consumers is not only expressed in relation to milk, but in its advice to big business that nothing will be done to prevent' price increases generally. Price increases, as well as large- scale increases in rents, have become a key question in the Bondi by- ejection (see Page 9). [?] vmaammt „//, WW////M/// Mi////// MR. SYD EINFELD, Labor candidate for Bondi. 