 SALaBorj ®over»ni(Mtf _ -1 Progressive policy can be implemented 4 ADELAIDE : The Communist Party would do i| all it could to assist the Labor Government in im« ll plementing its progressive policy which had the If mandate of the people of South Australia. ;j "THIS point was made by CPA candidates at their poll de clarations. At the time of writ ing three polls at which Com munists were candidates had been declared. They were Port Adelaide, ' Adelaide and En field. Other points made were: O The Communist Party regarded the monopolies and -their Liberal Party politicians as. the main har rier to social progress. United activity by the labor movement and the broader sections of the S.A. people was needed to advance the people's interests. The Liberals were likely to try and obstruct the new Government in carrying out important measures, including electoral reform. To do this they were likely to use their position in the Legislative Council, elected on a restricted franchise. 'Strongly expressed public opinion would be an important fac tor in defeating this obstruction. The Labor Party w campaign ing strongly on progressive policy points had won the support of the people. This was the way forward. It was a blow at those who sought to link the A.L.P. with D.L.P. and its extreme rightwing policies. The D.L.P. could not. prevent a Labor win on this occasion precisely be cause the Labor Party had fought for such progressive policies and against the anti-worker policy of the D.L.P. Final figures, gave P. Symon 904 votes in Port Adelaide or 4.5 per cent of the formal vote, compared with: 3.6 per cent in this electorate three years ago. In Adelaide E. Johnston with 746 votes received 5.2 per cent compared with 4.6 per cent last time. Other support The Boilermakers' Society has sent a message to the Labor Pre mier (Mr. Frank Walsh) congratula ting the Labor Tarty on its election to office. The Union also pledged full sup port to the Government in carrying out its election policy. The Union of Australian Women has forwarded a resolution to the Premier expressing pleasure at the Government's Intention to provide free school books for children and pledging the organisation's full sup port ia implementing this measure. The resolution continued: "We support the parent-teacher organisa tion's policy of free State educa tion and that Government aid should be directed to State schools rid not private schools. "We draw attention to the fact that parents pay out large sums of money for school amenities as well as for charitable purposes, "Our organisation contends that full Sfeate responsibility coupled with Inderal aid for education would remedy this state of affairs." 