 Barnes blabs his racist prejudice By JIM COOPER [?] The race-supremacy essence of the Federal Government's New Guinea policy was revealed by Territories Minister Barnes' State ments last week expressing sympathy and support for the illegal Smith regime in Rhodesia &lt;, "pHIS threw a cold light on his other statement, the same day, that the people of Papua-New Guinea were "com pletely satisfied" with their political progress. According to The Australian (Nov. ' 18) when the House of Representa tives was discussing the imposition of sanctions on the rebellious Rhode- slan Government, Mr. Barnes said he "wished the newly independent nat ion well", and considered that more could be achieved by continuing a thoughtful and calm approach to the Rhodesian question. He went out of his way to praise the South African Government which he claimed had the highest Negro liv ing standards in the world. Both South Africa and Southern Rhodesia are in fact racist prisons for the native inhabitants; the lead ers of these people are in gaol, many for years without any charge being laid against them. Officially it is Mr. Barnes' task to apply the provisions of the United Nations Charter to New Guinea. Education In fact his record, administering Government policy, shows a white supremacist outlook right from beginning. For example the Currle Commis sion on Higher Education Report was was delivered to Mr. Barnes late in March 1964. This Committee con sidered that its recommendation on the founding of a university in the Territory should receive urgent at tention. ! Mr. Barnes expressed his con- tempt for their recommendations and II for the education of New Guineans I by allowing more than four months | to elapse before he tabled it in the | House without indicating the Gov- jjf ernment's intentions. I It required the almost unanimous I demand of the New . Guinea resi- I dents to cause the Territories De- 1 partment to move. In March 1965 — I 12 months after receiving the Report I —Mr. Barnes announced that the I university was to be proceeded with. | Wage cuts | His next move was to cut by I 40% the already low salaries of the | New Guinean Public Servants. Faced | with an outraged public and some five demonstrations by sections of I the Public Service, the Department, I under Mr. Barnes, retreated and lim it ited the application of the cut. | All the elected members of the new i House of Assembly responded by | seeking some measure of control over | the Public Service. || The 1964 Budget— Mr. Barnes' first m --was a horror budget. With increased H unds of over £5 million, the Social H Services (Education, Health and H Welfare) were cut 1.8 per cent. 1 The ambitious 5 year plan of ad- 9 vances in Health and Education, of I Mr. Hasluck, was scrapped and the I target of 359.000 children in schools 1 by 1967 is now projected at 172,000. I f A important task of admini- stration is in Agricultural Extension. taking the .techniques of modern commercial agriculture to the peo- pie. Bj But none of the 815 new officers H recently added to the Administration are accredited to Agricultural Exten- sion. . n the other hand there has been n ev®Ffh activity in land survey which, !r Tribune has forecast, is to classify I w f. rable areas of land as "owner- fti;f s0 fbat the Administration can senate it for lease to Europeans, vg 