 SYDNEY'S IN A MESS FOR LACK OF A REAL PLAN YDNEY, the biggest city in the southern hemisphere, is in a mess for lack of a real plan and an authority that can implement it. Public concern has recently been aroused about one aspect of the problem — - the slow death of business life in the southern half of the city pro per. Marcus Clark's Emporium, in business in Sydney for 70 years, recently became the 49th retail store to close in the southern end of the city, in the last two years. ' Big stores are closing down at the rate ot one a month. . Small special shops and cafes that depend on the large retail stores to attract people to the area are automatically going to the wall. | Qut to the suburbs . . . The change stems from the fact that shoppers are doing their retail buying in the new suburban shop ping centres. There they find a full range of commodities at what used to be called "City Prices." These shopping centres have access and parking space that never existed at city stores, for cars, and are more attractive to the shoppers. The overwhelming majority of Sydney's new cijy buildings have been built in the northern end. These buildings have tended to concentrate the majority of office staffs, and they in turn have ex panded the retail shopping business for the stores and cafes in the north end only. jj Values have j plummeted Another factor is that almost all public transport— trains, buses and . ferries — heads to or 'hrough the . Quay (northern end). J The depressed southern end of the city of Sydney is becoming a big worry to the Sydney City Council, for property values have drastically dropped, affecting the Council's income from rates. \ Market- values are " not even covering the unimproved capital ' value (of the vacant block), let alone cover the improved value of ( the building. Marcus Clark, the store that has .. , just closed, is worth about £21 million. But no offer to purchase , has even come up to unimproved value of the land, i, To try and adjust to the new situation, Mark Foys and Anthony Horderns, two other emporiums, have converted half of their build ings to office space. >j However, this is no solution, fj for there is already an over- fj supply of office space— arising ij from the office block building i boom of recent years. Some city office space at reason able rents has been vacant for 18 months or two years; in fact, some planning experts have serious doubts that the office space in the gigantic Australia Square project will all be let. Building developers now know that, as a result, the city building boom is coming to an end. It is understood there have been no new applications for permission to build new office blocks in the city for some time. As present buildings are finished there will be an increasing army of builders displaced from their present jobs. There has also been a decline in applications for permission to build blocks of flats in the suburbs; so there, too, building jobs are going to be harder to find. The situation is developing at a time when there are great difficul ties in obtaining finance for build ing at accepted interest rates. Overall plan needed Discussion in the daily press of the plight of Sydney's southern half often centres on seeking ways to revive existing business life. This is an unproductive and useless approach. Narrow capitalist interests cannot be a basis for solving a problem that has flowed inevitably from the planless operation of the capitalist system. An overall plan is essential. But, seen from the standpoint of social planning, the present situa tion provides a golden opportunity to replan the city central area, and especially the southern end. Where retail stores are closing down there are good opportunities for new residential development, cultural buildings, new higher education establishments. Some of the space available could also be used to make new parks and gardens. By realining streets in the southern end of the city access to the northern end could also be improved, leading to an improvement in the whole transport problems of the city. Further evidence of the effects of development without overall plan ning lies in the fact that even the tremendous volume of new building in the northern end of the city has been one sided in favor of office developers. Retail stores are built to - make money, not just to provide shopping facilities for the people. The northern building boom has built to the old street pattern of the horse and buggy era. The pavements in the streets are not wide enough — Hunter Street is like a river of ants, with pedestrians versus motorists. This means a longer period for buses to travel in certain sections, and also making it unsafe for pedestrians and . motorists. "There was no attempt to develop a logical link between the new buildings and easy access to trains, buses and ferries. It is urgent that real application of planning principles is author ised, and given priority over private " commercial interests, if Sydney is to be saved from slid ing into another set of problems of planlessness that will produce a new crisis later. Arrow points to depressed business area 