 liSsPil" A New Guinea. Ensemble wonld save their songs, - legends from extinction THE recent success of the African Ballet on the Australian stage poses o mnflf important Ques- tion for Australia and New Guinea. When will encouragement be of fered for the develop ment of a New Guinea Dance Group? The African Ensemble was originally formed to define and portray the tradition and legends of the Guinean peo ple. Such a movement is re quired to collate and develop the traditional songs and dances of the New Guinean people. T ib-a all nan v-ila In tVio norfinnlor stage of development, songs and dancing play a very important part in the lives of people. They, like our ancestors, see no clear distinction between the natural and the supernatural, and their songs and dances are considered quite pratical ways of coping with certain aspects of reality. The success of their crops needs the intercession, of the spirits, as does the hunting and the fishing. The health of the tribes needs the continued efforts of the ancestral ghosts. These efforts have built up a fine heritage of ritual song and dance which would be a cultural loss of some magnitude — if it is to be lost. Barren of cultural content, modern capitalism presents a threat to this great heritage. Already carved arti facts are scarce. Such a fate faces their myths and legends, together with the interpretations in song and dance. Bold spirits like John Antill took the initiative in preserving the songs of the Australian Aboriginal, and. choreographers are now working on the dances. Writers and anthropologists have committed to paper some of the legends and beliefs of these people. By their continued efforts some, at least, of the great cultural heri tage of the original Australian people is being preserved. The heritage of the New Guinean people, too, is a rich one, and every effort should be made to preserve it. The formation of a Ballet En semble would play a major role in saving that which will enrich the world. The adaptation of songs, dances, legends, etc., would be a cultural ana iinanciai success. The African Ballet has shown what can be done. There is no reason why New Guinea should not have similar successes. 