 [?] [?] HiAUJ II 1 1 1 ' 1 BBPBm& "' r ' "'" "' Tribune devotes the entire page to reports from the recent Easter Conference on Aboriginal Advancement. Last week Tribune dealt with the Conference decisions on the struggles for full wage rights.. j CANBERRA: Return of unused Crown land to the Aborigines and a £150 million payment for lands already taken from them were important proposals by the Easter Conference on Aboriginal Advance ment. The far-reaching resolution, after thorough debate, was passed by conference mthe form proposed by the Abo rigines only" session together with amendments from the Lands and Reserves Session. The resolution "began:-— "We the Aborigines representing our people from all States of the Commonwealth propose: "This Council requests that tne respective Australian Government and/or Governments return to the Aboriginal people all that Crown land now not serving any particular purpose and sufficient for the reas onable welfare and development, of the Aboriginal people". It continued that: The respective governments should pay to the Aboriginal people a just price for the land already taken. This just price could . be assessed at £150,000,000, to be paid over a nine-year period and to be paid to nominees of the Aboriginal peo ple for the advancement and wel fare of the Aboriginal people. In the event of the governments refusing the request, the FCAA should take legal steps to achieve the objectives. &lt;, The Conference enthusiastically endorses this principle and suggests that compensation should be as sessed by a suitable, judicial author ity in full consultation with the elected representatives of the Abo riginal people. It also asked the FCAA Lands and Reserves Committee to consider in detail the implications of hand ing title to land to Aboriginal groups and consider what detailed conditions are necessary to safe guard such land from alienation. The question of land tax, mort gages, mineral rights and possible trusteeship provisions should be considered. "It should also consider the appro, priate form of distribution of com pensation, royalties or other in comes related to Aboriginal land title, so that Aborigines shall de rive maximum benefit from them, for example, whether such income should be channeled through Abo riginal groups or councils, rather than direct to individuals". This is a very big step in the Aboriginal struggle for rights and compensation for the alienation of the tribal lands and against the progressive destruction of their cul ture. ' In his contribution to the dis cussion, Dr. Pittock outlined the provisions of the Acts brought down by the Franklin Roosevelt admini stration in USA to regularise the position of the American Indian and to give some compensation for the lands so ruthlessly taken from them (Dr. Pittock claimed that '99 per cent of the lands were ceded by the Indians). The reservatione were transferred to Indian control and are managed by councils -elected by the Indian population. All mineral rights are reserved to the Indians. The Navajo Indians are wealthy as oil was four>d on their y.-r«o4-!0T)>_ Already the Calif ornian Indians have been paid £22 ,000", 000 as com pensation for most of California. Dr. Pittock claimed that the Aus tralian Aborigines were the only people in the world without recog nised land rights. The recognition of Aboriginal land rights and the payment of compen sation to the Aborigines could well lay the foundation for the develop- I ment of the Northern Territory and j Northern Western Australia. ! This would necessarily want to be I coupled with an intensive training j scheme to raise the literacy stand ard arto acquaint the people with I the requirements of the modern t -exchange economy. 