 VIETNAM YDNEY: Young people in Sydney this week demon- strafed several fimes outside the US Consulate against the US raids on North Viefnam and called for a negotiated settlement of the Vietnam war. Last Monday afternoon more than 40 young people, including univer sity students anc' apprentices pic keted the US consulate .building :n Wynyard Street, City. Several youth organisations took prrt. The dejnonstrators wore smocks ("Stop the war, lTEr OTIATE ! ) dis played placards ("End the . bombing now, demand negotiation!") and distributed leaflets (picture above). The leaflet supported the Anglican Bishops' call for the Federal Gov ernment to "take positive steps to help br in the war in Vietnam to an end." The leaflet said: "We young peo ple are concerned that the con tinued bombings of North Vietnam and the arrival of large numbers of US marines means rushing headlong towards a big war. Since our Govern ment supports the United States we could be involved." Interview On Tuesday a deputation from the Eureka Youth League interview ed a very wary Consular official about US policy in Vietnam. He said that it was a "possibility" that the war could become wider. He stated that he had no idea why the US was not taking the initia tive for an unconditional cease fire. He agreed that the regimes »n South Vietnam were unpopular with the people. He did not know whe ther or not the US Government supported the present regime. Another combined demonstration, bigger and brighter than . the pre vious day was held yesterday (Tuesday) afternoon -when mora . than 50 young people gathered out- Continued on Page 12 Youth act on Vietnam Continued from Page 1 side the Consulate building with smocks, placards and leaflets. Last Saturday the Eureka Youtn League initiated a meeting in Syd ney of more than 70 youth. The meeting opposed the involve ment of Australian and other for eign troops in the Vietnam war It disagreed with America's "right' to be in Vietnam and protested strongly against the US bombing raids on North . Vietnam. The meeting supported "a those who are calling for a return to the Geneva Agreements and negotiations to end the war." The meeting opposed "all attempt to extend the war and especial)" the involvement of Australian con scripts." The meeting agreed to protest to the US Consulate in Sydney every time the US made an aggressive at tack on North Vietnam. They have invited all youth to join in the protests. \ 