 By their friends ... These very same forces posie as the guardians of demo cracy but their deeds and their associations expose their true position day after day. ' In Saigon, seat of the "free, government", whose "request" is supposed to justify the American- Australian war of intervention, there has never been an election of any kind and in fact no independent government exists. There is only the domino-like sound of a succession of obscure puppets falling to the American push. This is the "demo cracy" supported by the war groups, in Australia. In Athens, a King and a Parliamentary minority of heirs of the Metaxas fascist dictatorship- have conspired tc overthrow the - democratic majority government of Papan- dreou, who is backed by a huge mass movement for peace, Greek independence from the NATO (American) military domination, and for democracy. Australian rightists wel comed this cynical move, but the Greek people will give the answer. . In Australia, the past Weeks have seen nauseating "concern" about the future development of such important democratic organisations as the trade unions and the Labor Party. Instructions, rdvice and interpretations on the policies, rules and lear'crs they should adopt have beer plentifully available. But it should not be lost on the working people that all this comes from t' e same sources — rthe Menzies Gov errment and its arbitration organs, the wealthy press, the Sant'marians . .. in short, the most important anti-urjgn, anti-Ichor forces in the country, who constantly seek to turn all organisations of the workers into tame instruments , of tLe rule of canital . V : Against these g-ouos pledoed to war and the destruc , ' " tion of demon racv are. however, ootent:allv much strongei forces ren-Fse-totlve of the Ai«ctr?lian oeoNe— -the national trade union oolicies, the Communist and Labor Parties, a Jarre p-vf nrrvina numUor of-cPo-Wp ->n-4 »s mo»- . and "'omen -of, the . intePfh »aJ , atist«v pod rHininns fjolHc ira out clprlv and r»of«'m:nd to v-trVpte A trp'i.- from . nd t-o—/- !o«-c kv»|' - ooU'e jor) +--> . A QJP 