 Give BOOKS 4 ?> lor Xmcas STATE AID FOR 1 EDUCATION — A Public Mischief By W. E. Gollan, 1/6 (1/11 posted) . OTILL topical today as discussion rages in parent's movements, r newspaper correspondents fill the | letter columns and politicians vie I for votes. Gives the background. I and the basic issues involved. THE JUNGLE | By Upton Sinclair, 7/6 (8/5 | posted). A SAVAGE novel embracing the working conditions of the stock- | yards and slaughterhouses of ! Chicago. In the early 1900's Chicago was a jungle in lyhich one needed, to I be. young and strong to survive, and then only for a few years. The exploitation and degradation I of the migrant population is i woven into the story and also I the resultant conversion of some 1 to the cause of Socialism. | The book was first published in | 1906 and the immediate furore 9 caused the changing of food laws 2 in the United States within six | months. ! THE BAY OF PIGS i! By Haynes Johnson. 51/- (52/11 posted). TN April, 1961, fifteen hundred Cuban patriots went ashore at the Bay i of Pigs against 100,000 Castro troops. They were told to go ahead and invade even if the President ordered the invasion to be cancelled — for they had been trained and put into battle by the CIA. Defeat came— they were imprisoned by Castro, who held them to ransom. Released in 1962, their full story is given in this book. The shocking facts include plans made by the CIA to countermand White House decisions; and how the US Joint Chiefs of Staff approved a suicidal plan of in vasion that could not possibly succeed. An epilogue assesses the | effect of Kennedy's assassination j on the cause of Cuban freedom, j A story of heroism, hardship and j betrayal, based on unimpeachable !" sources, MY GLORIOUS BROTHERS By Howard Fast, 25/- (26/2 posted). QONSIDERED one of the finest novels of Howard Fast, this novel . is based on the story of the Jewish resistance to the tyranny of Greece There is violence and brutality in the story, but also love, loyalty and tenderness; it conveys a particularly sensitive picture of that primitive but civilised people, and the age in which they lived. According to the BBC, "A fine example of what a novelist of real brilliance can do to bring alive a period remote and dim so far as authentic history is concerned ... a book which cannot fail to excite the reader to admiration." Available from — - NEW WORLD I BOOKSELLERS j 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. . ' 