 Pensioners demand more houses (Pensioners' conference SYDNEY: The shocking state of housing for a?ed peopSe was revealed at the 32nd annual conference of the OriginaB Old Age and Invalid Pensioners' Association of NSW, held in Sydney on February 3, 10 and 11. -pHE conference endorsed unanimously a motion con demning the existing situation and demanding special finan cial assistance from the Federal Government and a big increase in State Government's subsidy for housing for the aged. It was pointed out by speakers that iti the ten years since the Aged Persons' Home- Act began, a total of £5,609,378 in giants hare been paid out, providing homes tor only 5.387 people. Bur delegates proved that there are at least 80 .(UK) pensioners in NSW who need this subsidy. Fuiihci. since the end ot World W'ai 11 the NSW Housing Commission has provided 2.762 homes for aged persons a lid anotlici 889 are being built. This means that by the end ot 1964/65, if the Commission completes the present progiam. about 10,000 needy pensioners out ul 80.000 will have been offered a house at a price they can afford. The NSW Premier and Treasurer (Mr | B. Renshaw) said in his Loan speech last u-ar that 1,000 units for aged people would be built by June 30, 1965. The\ would be financed by £500,000 from the Housing Commission and £500.0(10 from poker machine taxation. He said that in 1963/64 poker machine tax was £5,634.046. Of this, £5,134.046 would go to hospital revenue and £500.000 for housing for the aged. Fair Rents Court cases, of eviction only last week included 17 cases oi pensioners who could not pay the rent: demanded. Conference delegates pointed out thai on the North Shore homes,for the aged like Arrunga units at Lindfield, B'nai B'rith Parents Home at Waitara Rosetta Agst Memorial Homes, Wah roonga, and Vasey Auxiliary Units at Waitara provide for only 120 people. According to Alderman Gorshenin of North Sydney Council there were 10,000 elderly people in this municipality facing desperate housing problems. Delegates said that in 1963 thi Church of England would have erected modern units at Wahroonga. The pro ject was blocked by residents protesting that home units full of aged persons ii the area would depreciate the value i their properties. The conference revealed also: Because of over-crowding £ chronically ill patients were refuse admission at Royal North Shore Ho pital in just two days; The drug Svnerniycin which ha helped to save the lives of many elclerly persons has been withdrawn from the Commonwealth Pharmaceutical benefits list, and now carries a charge of £3. or more; " That pensioners do not get free p h ysio t hcra py t rea tm en t ; O Over 105, 0U0 pensioners are debarred frorii receiving medical bene fits because of small increases in income through superannuation payments. On the South Coast hundreds of pensioners have been waiting for home units for up to six years. The Housing Commission has stated that they will not erect housing units in areas that have no sewerage; Pensioners claim unfair rejection of claims for invalid pensioners. In 1963, 18,279 invalid pensions were granted but 23 per cent were found to be ineligible. Pensioners asked for a Tribunal made up of a government official, a Minister independent of the Social Service Department, an official of the Pensioners' Association and one other. The Tribunal would give fairer consideration to these cases. The Conference carried unanimously a resolution asking for an. immediate increase- of £1 in the old age pension with an ultimate pension off half the basic wage. Pensioner delegates listen intently during the Congress last week in Sydney. Mrs. Ring, a delegate to the conference, is the only living foundation member of the Pensioners' Association. 