 Wool reserve price is a step in the right direction - tjy Joe Baihs SYDNEY: Wool brok ers and big wool growers, aided by a sec tion of the daily press, are united m the attack against the Wool Board's proposals for a reserve price scheme for wool. The reserve price scheme, while a long way from giving the growers control over the sale and price of their, wool, is a step in the right direction. . Over a number of years woolgrow- ers' organisations representing the smaller sheepmen have campaigned for a say in the marketing and in the price they receive for their wool. They have now won the first round in their fight and a ballot among wool growers is to be held to deter mine support for or against a reserve wool price scheme. This ballot will give the majority of wool growers their first real chance to strike a blow against the wool monopoly. The international wool combine sup ported by the Federal Government and big wool growers has hitherto successfully opposed the . growers' demands and maintained a tight grip over "the wool auction price, and thereby over producers in the indus try. The reserve price scheme proposes that each year a. minimum price for each type of wool would be estab lished. Wool that did not bring the reserve price at the wool auction would be bought in by the producers' wool marketing authority. With a reserve price the grower is guaranteed a minimum price and if the market price rises before his wool is sold he gets the benefit of the higher price. Wool producers in the two other main wool producing countries, New Zealand and South Africa, have suc cessfully operated similar schemes. The State ALP Conference declared its support in principle for the scheme and proposed amendments to strength en the plan. Important points are: A reserve price formula which would recognise the cost of pro duction. Eligibility in the ballot for all producers of six or more bales of wool annually (at present to be eligible to vote a grower must produce 10 bales or over). These and similar progressive points are Communist policy for the wool industry. They also have the support of the vast majority of woolgrowers who are small producers. The time is therefore opportune for the ALP to give immediate active support to its conference decision and join in the fight with Communists and farmers against the wool mono poly. 