 I Communist Party free of charge US BLOW AT McCARTHYISM / The US Supreme Court decision invalidating the member- I ship section, the "very guts" of the 1950 McCarran Law, has been welcomed by the US press and friends of freedom 1 everywhere. 1|T is a warning to Australian I reactionaries, the DLP and the Liberal extreme right who are pressing their White Paper demand that the tide is against McCarthyism everywhere. Chief US Communist Party spokes- pi man Gus Hall said he hoped the i decision would truly mark the end I the McCarthy era. I vT3lis view is supported by the New II York Times, which said the decision J ought to signalise the end of an era. ® ''Surely the- fact that yesterday's II adverse decision was unanimous H must give the Justice Department 1 Congress some ground for belief 1 that the way to prevent Communism js not through repression,", said the limes. - Tr&lt;=ime admitted: "In the 5 today there is little public or ongressional demand for more anti- ornrnunist legislation along the lines 01 the ; McCarran Act." "Jp16 New York Post greeted the omentous and damaging" bl w at ''passe(i in the depths of the McCarthy hysteria." The immediate effect of the ruling n throw out the cases against 43 for wlK) were heing prosecuted Iaepnic" ng register as "foreign Act- f as reQuired by the McCaTran leavmS 41 still to be decided. WashPi6 a Federal District court in mngton had convicted the Party itself for not registering as an organisation. But, says Newsweek Magazine, "the verdict came in under a cloud— the US Supreme Court ruling a bare four days earlier that gutted a key sister section, of the same law. "The Supreme Court stopped short of declaring that the law is uncon stitutional. But the ruling spelled a certain end to 41 other pending individual- registration cases. "And it reinforced legal doubts about whether the district court conviction of the Party would stand up. on appeal." The Supreme Court decision hit and hurt the Administration in the middle of what it intended to be .a new wave of McCarthyism — a decision by FBI chief Hoover, Vice-chairman Dodd of the Senate Internal Security Sub-committee and Attorney-General Katzenbach to "investigate" all or ganisations supporting peace and democracy and opposed to the Vietnam war. Noting this in Moscow's New Times, US Communist spokesman Claude Lightfoot says there is a "growing - interest in Communism among wide sections of the people. I have taken part in numerous cam pus discussions, radio and TV debates and could see that ordinary Ameri cans, especially young Americans, want to dig down to the truth; they want to know more about Com munist aims, the achievements of the USSR and other socialist countries." 