 [?] 35 year bar to man's naturalisation Adelaide: The Federal Government has been challenged to produce secret information which debars from naturalisation a j worker of 37 years residence in Australia. 1 The challenge has been made by Senator Cavanagh of South | Australia. ! UR. STEVE PAPPAS, of Ade | laide, had applied for nat- ! uralisation in 1929, 1932, 5 1948, 1959 and again last year. | In rejecting all these app'i- £ cations the Government has I never at any time given in- 1 formation that would not com-- | mend Mr. Pappas as a decent I Australian citizen. | Members oi the migrant commun is itv claim that secret dossiers are kept by the "Security" forces which could be, and probably are, based on material supplied by anti-Labor pimps and informers. It is this in formation which bars people like Steve Pappas from naturalisation. Senator Cavanagh claims that he department's decision could drive Mr. Pappas into a life of crime. Challenge "He has reached the age of re tirement at 65 years without any social service benefits, and he will be forced to plead guilty from time to time to havine insufficient means of support," Senator Cavanagh said. In challenging the department to make .known their reasons, Senator Cavanagh quoted a reply from Mr. Opperman (Minister for Migration) which read — "Some time ago I decided that in normal circumstances I would not include, in letters to members of Parliament, information of a con fidential ' nature concerning individ uals whose applications for admis sion to Australia or for naturalisa tion, had been unsuccessful. "You may be assured, however, that my decision not to approve the grant of naturalisation to .Mr Pap pas was reached only after the most careful consideration of his applica tion. "I am satisfied that the decision was well founded and should stand." Evasion This is obvious evasion by a Gov ernment Minister of the real facts of the case. Prior to his recent efforts on be half of Mr. Pappas, Senator Cavanagh had stated in the Senate on Thurs day, September 16, 1964 — "Mr. Pappas is one of the m ist i inoffensive little fellows anybody j could meet. He is popular and does nobody any harm. I "He has a knowledge of tae Eng- j lish language, but not sufficient to make him an active advocate for any I cause. j However, all the time I have known | him he has been peddling Communist I literature around the streets, j "I can only assume that he has been a member of the Communist I Party, but I do not know his political i affiliations. j "To my knowledge he has always | worked hard and paid his taxes to I the Commonwealth Government. | Senator Cavanagh said Mr Pappas f had paid heavy taxes for 37 years j as a single man. | "He has done no harm in Australia, f but he is not entitled for social ser- | vice benefits for which he has paid,' | the Senator said. S "Now, having taken his income tax | and social service contributions for | 37 years, the Government denies him ! the right to get something back. This iis an injustice. "We are reaching the stage where as in the fascist world, a cloak of I secrecy is being drawn and a man I can be condemned without any proof | of guilt." Steve Pappas is an active trade unionist and has been so for many many years. Formerly an. ironwork er, he is now a painter and docker and a delegate for that union to the South Australian Trades and Labor Council. , It is expected that considerable interest will be taken m the case of Steve Pappas, not only because of his treatment as an individual but, because many more militant and ac tive workers are debarred from Aus tralian citizenship by the "cloak of secrecy" referred to by Senator Cav anagh. 