 "The pill" — a fertile field for massive drug company investment By KATH OLIVE, B.Sc.. A.I.D. It, is almost impossible to pick up a women's magazine these days without finding some reference to ,"The.. Pill" i-yotherwise, the steroid anti- fertile pill, first marketed in the US by Searle's, a big drug company. Many women and many of the medical profession regard the Pill as. a real boon/ but their enthusiasm must be luke-warm indeed com pared with that of Searle, judging by facts given in "Chemical and Engineering News" last year. Enovid, Searle's trade name for its Pill, was first marketed in 1957 for menstrual disorders, on short term prescription, and in 18S0 was released by F.D.A. for long term use for contraception. In 1959-60, Searle's annual sales increased by 5.5 per cent, and pro fits by 8 per cent. In 1960, The Year of the Pill, sales increased by 20 per cent and profits by 26 per cent. In 1963, when they had held 100 per cent of the U.S. market for 3 vpsrs snips innrpflspri bv 26 Der cent. to 71.4 million dollars, and nearly 54 cent of every dollar was pre tax profit, as against 42 cents per dollar in 1959. No other drug company did any- where near as well. In cold cash, sales of Enovid alone rose yearly as follows: 1960 1.5 million dollars 1961 6.0 million dollars 1962 12.0 million dollars 1963 25.0 million dollars Searle's bonanza stimulated com petition. Having held 100 per cent oi the market, they were challenged by" Johnson and Johnson in 1963 with Ortho-novum, who. took 10 per cent of .the market, and others soon fol lowed., Oi course similar products are produced and marketed in Europe, particularly West Germany. It is estimated that in 1964 sales hit 40 million dollars, and there is now an all-out race to capture the still untapped market. Perhaps in 15-20 years time the fall in the birthrate already attri buted to the Pill by some U.S. and Australian observers may adver sely affect sales, but maybe the whole industry will be nationalised by then. As competition grows, the under developed countries become a par ticular sales target. There is a tremendous propaganda campaign at the present time, en compassing many humanitarians ignorant of the drug houses in terest, as well as philosphers and scientists committed to the interesu- of private enterprise. This campaign stresses the ui gent need to halt the population explosion, particularly in the former colonial nations, as well as those still under direct imperialist domination. However, in those places like Taiwan, Latin America, etc., where the U.S. can and does directly at tempt to impose mass birth control programmes, the high degree of il literacy maintained by imperialist rule mitigates against a large in crease in sales of the Pill; as also 'does the intense poverty. These products require the basic skills of reading (instructions) and counting (days) for effective use. The Chemical Engineering News , articles also discuss the possibilities of the foreign market in other drugs, as there is an uneasy feeling that the ' home front may not be so rewarding in future. However, a plaintive note, enters a grudging acknowledgment that all may not be plain sailing here, espec ially with the newly self-governing nations, who "may" object to the U.S. getting their rake-off, and where trading may be vulnerable to govern ment regulation, or even to Sociali sed medicine. Turning to the broader scope of the U.S. drug industry (which has a significant interest in the Austra lian market and industry), Chemical and Enigneering News lays bare the picture of vast and growing profit ar.d. exploitation of ., human illnes- and fear. Australians are well up the scale, of those vulnerable to the Pill and powder posters. As our medical services and bene fit funds today are orientated very "j firmly towards providing yet morer profit for the drug monopolies, the facts are important for us. While the figures are for the U.S., i,t can he confidently said that both the financial trends and, the philo- sophy of the industry, apply to any such monopoly; including the Aus tralian. In August, 1964, on the basis of " industry trends to that date, it was estimated that total world-wide U.S.. . drug industry sales of all products would reach 2.5 billion dollars by December, 1964, being up 6 per cent on 1963. Net income (i.e. pre-tax profit) was correspondingly up 8 per cent to 530 million dollars. It was further forecast that total drug industry sales in 1965 would increase by a further 6 per cent and profits by 8 per cent. Half the U.S. drug industry sales are in "Ethicals", that is, drugs promoted only by physicians and available to the public, only on a doctor's prescription. They are by far the most profit able lines in the 'drug industry's repertoire. This industry's performance has been much in advance of U.S. in dustry as a whole. Since 1957 it has averaged gains of 7.7 per cent per year whereas . — . || sales of manufactured goods had an average growth rate of 4.1 per cent. kM Over the same period drug pre-tax profits increased by 6.5 per cent 'M annually, as against all industry's &lt; || figure of 3.4 v per cent annual in- :|| crease. 'jm An interesting analysis of reasons 'm for this h? ->y position followed \:W, these figures, |9 NOTE: Next week: Exploiting Old J9 Age- H — 