 "Teach-in" : debate rises: on Vietnam war: Staff correspondent AX ORE than 75 per cent of speakers expressed oppo sition to the Menzies Govern- msnt's foreign policy in Aus- . . . it. trali.a s tirst major teach-in at the Australian National Univers'tv, Canberra, last Fr'day nioht. ' This marathon discussion on the Vietnam war — the idea came from United States universities— began at 7.15 p.m. and finished at 3.30 a.m. Some 801 people, mostly academics and public servants, endured stand- in-room-onlv for most of that time. Four Liberal Ministers declined to attend the "teach-in" through "lack of time". A leading speaker and one of the main organisers of the teach-in was Professor C. P. Fitzgerald (Far East ern History Department, ANU). He said there was much evidence daily in the press that tended to show that to the people of Vietnam, the war was a civil war, and that this view was accepted by many western people on the spot. "Slug's Gountry" "Vietnam is a single country," he said and explained that Diem, the first President in- South Vietnam, had "refused to carry out the provi sions of the J 954 Geneva conference which provided for a plebiscite to defrrmine the form of government ir-'dnr which the temporary division of the country could be ended in re un illation. "This is the origin of the South Vietnamese state, which we are now ashed to believe is a separate «aticn invr-ded by foreign forces from the nch "It is not anytb'ng of the sort; it is a part of the Vietnamese nation and its territory is under a gover.uvont of military d'etators some of whom, like Diem himself, were in fact northerners not even -ih es of the South." Profcr.ror Fitzgerald questioned the aims of the American-Australian intervention.. He warned that phy sical r "termination, or expulsion ol millions of Vietnamese people was not redbstic Nor was the uncondi tional surrender of the "Viet Cong to Saigon. - The "only, alternative., was the. pei- . manent; pccuftoh" of'5tfte >outh b$ r-" us A'ustrMii fo'esp to guar-: antee the "hated, ruthless and in competent" government of Saigon. "We are being led step by step . . . into a war which will be seen throughout Asia and the world at large as a war of white men against yellow men, of western imperialism . reimposing its rule on an Asian people. "The armies of the Saigon militar- ists will no longer fight; they melt away, they avoid combat, they sur render . . . very soon now the armies of the Saigon militarist regime will be a liability . . The professor said this process was inevitable , unless a solution, with participation of the National Liberation Front leaders, was sought: Morris West Supporting the Government, Mr T. E. Hughes MHR (Liberal, NSW), Mr. Geoffrey Fairbairn (History lec turer at the ANU), Dr. Peter Boyce , and Dr. T. B. Millar (bPth fellows in International Relations) present ed examples of what Catholic authoi Morris West called "myths" and . "fairy tales". Mr.' Hughes stated that the war in Vietnam was "not a civil war". Any one who believed so. was being "deluded as the Communists want them to be." There was "evidence" of massive infiltration and aggression from North Vietnam and China. His "evidence"? The American White Paper.. South. Vietnam had a free government and we were fighting for it because we were believers in freedom. Mr. West responded: "1 beg you to believe that it is not the aca demics, authors and philosophers who create myths but politicians." Mr. West said that as a Catholic he was opposed to Communist phil osophy. But Communism was an idea- and "we would not wipe out an idea by H-bornbing Peking or napalm bombing Vietnam villiages.' If we did a "more terrible dragon would rise from the ashes" and "our children would wake one day to a horrible reality." The Prime Minister had elected t( make, peace a dirty word. He said that, because of Menzies V- eamp&ignv gainst ; criticism5 bf :i his foreign policy Australi&hs had toil defend "that for which we were sup- M posed to be fighting, the right of free |l j speech." a ' . Mr. Francis James, editor of "The 9 Anglican" said Australians were be- 1 i ing taught that Communists are I I "some sort of sub- human" with I whom we can find no common | i ground. But "God is the father ol | all men, not just Western Dens- I crats." And "Christ died on fe B Cross for ail men, Marxists, blast a and white, Americans and Russians.' "The responsibility for the misery of the -present conflict in Vietnam and the imminent dangfl of a final world war rests on the j government of the United States.' j The only political solution was fot | the US to withdraw, North Vietnam jj or China had no reason to negotiate, . Mr. R. Cooksey (a research scholai | in political science) said that Aus- - tralia's friendship with the United States was one of the "great fan- tasies of our political life." We wer beginning to "do the US biddi g | without worrying about Australia. The war in Vietnam was not u accord with Australia's national m terest apart from helping Johnso j domestic problems." : Mr. R. Richter, an An»cal g student, said there was growing sent in the US from the gov® , ment's foreign policy but many : feared that public opinion wo put back "in the deep freeze Crimes Ad Mr. B. McFarlane (a _ researc low in economics) said in cong represents the aspin ati considerable number of P P South Vietnam." He lack of facts of "the Bulletin j ist Mr. T B. Millar." . "The most shameful aca aC, deception is the hiding of .orjtJ triat the Vietcong enjoy esii support of the South , people," he said. . d spe ; The Menzies Government n cially amended the CrlI".,_ 0 rejgt jf deal with opposition to ,._peopl® j policy. He said the Australians . should "defy all restraints m Government would like w f full and frank discussion j , -4 