 Huskvarna's confidence had fatal results iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii By Kath Olive B.Sc., A.I.D. lllllllllHillllllllllllllllllllllilllllH' llllllllllllllllllllllllililiiilllllllllllli "THE "Acta Medica Scandina- vica" scarcely seems a pro mising source for a good de tectlve story, but that is where I found this one. Deaths from uraemia, a blood con dition due to kidriey failure, rose so sharply in the Swedish town of Huskvarna that a closer examination of deaths was held from 1952-61 Huskvarna is an industrial town of 13,000, known for its sewing machines, bicycles, sporting guns, outboard motors and cast-metal household appliances. Its total work force is 3,000, including 1800 factory workers. The males made up 78% of the death rate. The town had been tak ing Hjorton's, a phenacetin powder, since the Spanish influenza epidemic of 1919. Hjorton's were named after Dr. Hjorton who had first made the powders during the Spanish influ enza epidemic. He was a highly respected- practioner and became famous for his powders. A fable grew that you could be stronger, more agile, work quicker and earn more money if you took a few Hjorton's during the day. Many families started the day with a powder. They were offered like cigarettes. They even came gift-wrapped for ' birthdays, and were as acceptable as flowers and fruit as gifts for hospita. patients. The greatest achievement was to be able to .swal low them without water. With rationing of phenacetin dur ing World War II, the Hjorton ad dicts had to get air-mail orders from the length and breadth of Sweden, and. travel to nearby towns that were not addicted. By 1947 there were some murmurs in back benches about "the dangers of irresponsible consumption", espe cially for children. But it was not until 1961 that phenacetin was restricted to prescription. In Australia phenacetin can still be bought on the open market. No restrictions are specified by the Pharmacists' handbooks. In the 1950's, examination showed conclusively the link between phen acetin and deaths from uraemia. In one factory 80% of the men admit- ted, unwillingly, that they were PT'&lt; (powder takers). In the hot foundry, with mor&lt; rapid metabolism, greater excretior > by the kidney, increased water con sumption, and profuse sweating the phenacetin affected only a few. Huskvarna's death rate from urae mia was six times greater than Jon koping, (M times as big) and double Facersta (the same size). Examining pharmacists' sales records it was found that each per son in Huskvarna ate 54 grams (l 8 ozs) of phenacetin a year — jn Facersta it was 5.3 gms and 6.0 gms for the whole of Sweden. The investigation began in 1958 as a simple "anti-powder" campaign but quickly progressed to a survey of phenacetin consumption, backed by both factory management and the trade unions. The first questionnaire was not received enthusiastically, it wis publicly burnt by some workshop Nevertheless, 1000 replies were r& ceived. While many denied the habit, some admitted intakes, totalling up to 29 kilograms (about 65 lbs) over periods of up to 10 years. While about 30% gave "pains" as the reason for starting the habit, 40% gave the "high working pace", and 23% the "force of habit". Despite lectures on a substitute powder to break the habit the town thought the survey was a fair sort of a joke. Confirmed PT's who tried to stop were laughed at, until deaths and severe illness increased. Then 936 workers were examined, 189 admitted to being hardened PT's. Of the 189 about 33% showed kidney damage against 2.4% of the non PT's. It was found that kidney damage among PT's depended a lot on the physical make-up of the subject rather than amount consumed. So a, moderate taker could be in a highly' susceptible group. A.P.C. powders in Australia are al lowed to contain 300 mg per powder, So anyone taking, say, 2 powders . per day regularly, would, over 10 years, consume 2.19 kg. (over 5 lbs.). Most workers continued to blame low wages, speed-up, incorrect fix ing of piece-rates, as the causes oi persistent powder taking. The advance in technology and automation has meant increasingly that physical strength and effort yield to the worker an increasingly poor dividend. . The employers' spokesmen claimed that today's trend is towards "good living at the expense of physical and spiritual vitality", and said that ris ing living standards and the greater use of analgesics and sedatives go hand in hand. The powder takers were people who could not reconcile themselves to the rat-race of modern industry. They were constantly anxious about their work, unhappy in their jobs, and worried about the future. This is apparently their weakness and be setting sin. No one's fault but ther h own! I Many women workers and house- wives in Australia are powder-take g for similar reasons, and our alc I consumption is not unrelated to J same cause. | The investigation in Huskvarna j had the support of the Trade U 1 covering the factory. The wo | need this sort of co-operation I scientists to improve their c jg tions and living standards. d would appear from the Husk « case that they need to draw || own sociological conclusions. g| 