 Unity can do it again! Fortunately the shipowners and the Government did not get the sup port of any section of the labor movement. Dr. Evatt (the then Leader of the Opposition) declared in Parliament: "Don t let a wretched overseas shipping combine control work on our waterfront." Despite all warning the Govern ment arrogantly pushed the legisla tion through Parliament. As Dr. Evatt said: "The shipping combine was a financial power be hind the Liberal Party." This assisted the whole labor movement to rally in defence of the Federation. A combined waterfront unions' conference and the ACTU Emergen cy Committee, held in November 1954, condemned the action of the Government declaring the legisla tion as "anti-working class in char acter and must be fought by the whole labor movement until it is repealed." All workers, irrespective .of whe ther they were members of trade unions or not, were called on to refrain from applying to shipowners for work on the waterfront under the provisions of the legislation passed by the Government. A Warning was made that 'any such applicant will be treated by the trade union movement as anti-work ing class and an industrial ren egade." A declaration was made that the whole resources of the labor move ment, industrial and political, "must be mobilised to defeat the operation of the pernicious Menzies recruit ment clause of the SI Act, to force the Government to refrain from pro claiming the clause and to repeal it at the next session of Federal Parliament." This declaration also had the full support of the Labor Caucus. Labor Councils, unions, work shops and jobs throughout Australia also declared opposition to the legis lation. In the face of this united pressure the shipowners conceded defeat. Their spokesmen then said "they doubted if the new amendments to the S I Act are workable." This also proved wrong those in the labor movement who thought that once a Bill became law, it could not be fought. History is now repeating itself. Once again tlie Government is flying in the face of united op position, So let the repeat be complete. A united labor movement in 1965 can do it again! 