 GOVT. MAKES POOS EXCUSE EOS STOPPING ANNUAL RAILWAY LEAVE ADELAIDE: About 50 per cent of the railway workers from Tailem Bend, key workers on the main south line linking the SA and Victorian railway systems, have had their annual leave deferred for about three years. Is one feature of un satisfactory cond i t i-o n s which led to a meeting of about 100 railwaymen, members of the Australian . Railways Un ion and the Australian Fede rated Union of Locomotive En- ginemen. The, reason for the annual leave deferment is given as "staff shortage". The workers declared that higher wages and better conditions were needed to attract men to the indus try. Bad conditions Examples of present conditions are: The men are paid a pitiful f d an hour penalty rate for v/ork between 3 p.m. and 6 a.m. They work continuous, exacting night work, often in fog, on long trains in the Murray Bridge and ' "t. Gambier divisions of the SA Railways. Radio equipment is In pooi con dition. Speakers at the meeting called for the maintenance pfARlT-AFULE. unity which had won industry allowance and service grant payments and to beat down the savage "penalties" sys tem which had been imposed upon railwaymen a few years ago in the name of "discipline". It was agreed that . combined meet ings of the two unions should be held at least four times a year. (Port Lincoln men have successfully held such combined meetings.) The meeting unanimously decided that engine crews and guards would not man trains over 75 vehicles un less both the locomotive and guards van were equipped with radio com munications in good working order. Should the equipment fail during the trip, the men would not pick up further trucks at wayside stations. The SA Railways has been given a time limit to get the radio gear in order and union officials, with rank and file representatives, will wait up on thes Department to inform it of the men's determination. The meeting also decided that dep utations. from the two unions should wait upon the Minister of Transport (Mr. R. Kneebone) to enlist his sup port to restore regular annual leave and to eradicate a's- much night work as possible and . to pay adequate pen alty rates. »' -i 'v 