 [?] IN the dock this week at Cen tral Police Court was Sydney wharf ie Terry Mc-Namara, chamed with offensive behay- ior. He was accused by a Croat ian (also in court on the same charge) of biffing him at the recent rally in the Domain, or ganised by the Australian Coun cil of Trade Unions, calling for withdrawal of troops from Viet nam. Terry denied the charge, but added that hie objected strongly to disrup tion of meetings opposing the Viet nam war. The Magistrate said that the Croa tian probably thought he had the same right to object to meetings advising people not to go. Spoke up Terry: "Well, your Wor ship, if he's that concerned, why doesnT he go himself?" ? rPHE Askin Government's moves to abolish juries on behalf of the wealthy insurance companies, to cut down damage, payments in road acci dents, has brought to light some home truths. The NSW Bar Association opposed the move, saying: ". . . the jury rep resents the ordinary man and is. com posed of people who have first-hand knowledge of the cost of living "... and many other matters of a practical nature of which JUDGES HAVE LITTLE OR NO EXPERIENCE." This fact is made clear every time the court makes a basic wage deci sion and is a good argument for the introduction of juries to determine the living standards of the Australian people. ? TN the Steel Award hearings last year, the Judge ruled that the pros perity of the industry or that size ariw. . 'd- not be co In 1855 is cosl the BHP £13.6 in wat,-. ton oi steel and their profit was £4.7 per ton. Last year the wage cost per ton was £13.5 and their profit £12.3 per ton. We should also have juries to deiennme av.-aras! ? QIR FRANK PACKER, big press and TV owner, was given a rebuff the other week when Justice Taylor, of the NSW Industrial Commission, ruled that two stereotypers, sacked by the Daily Telegraph, be reinstated. Their dismissal, Justice Taylor said, "was harsh and unjust." The two men (active unionists) were victimised and sacked by a "special courier" while asleep at their homes alter just completing a lOi-hour night shift. The dismissals caused a stoppage and the paper missed an issue. What a shock all this must have been to Sir Frank . . . with his mate Askin in power as Premier he prob ably thought it . was open season! 