 [?] White Paper: "The Australian Economy 1965" "We're sorry folks, but we just don't know where we are going!" rOOTHSAYERS of capitalism have long been proclaim ing that there will never be another calamitous depression like that of the 1930's. The reason .they claim, .is that the capitalist class today has a far bet ter understanding of the economic system and can avert threatening depressions by judicious manipula tion of credit. From the same, quarter there has also been much talk about the bene fit of long range planning to ensure a steady and high annual rate of economic growth. The latest Commonwealth White Paper on The Australian Economy 1965, gives a rude jolt to these theories. It shows that capitalist economists are just as much in the dark as ever and capitalists just as power less to uredict the future. In fact, it shows they don't even know with certainty what is happen ing in the present. Consider this excerpt from page 8: "What has actually been happen ing to growth through 1964-65 cannot yet be expressed, even in a preli minary way, as a rate of increase in national production at constant prices." Further on we encounter such ad missions as, "Data on production of capital equipment are sparse," . . . and, "Data on activity in other ser vice activities, such as wholesale end retail trade, finance, education and health, are limited." Little wonder that the "White Paper amounts to no more than a series of inspired guesses as .to what the future holds. How reliable are these guesses? Let the White Paper speak for itself, "Doubts thus gather as to the fortunes of our economy in the year ' ahead. "It would, of course, be a :;are year that began quite free from doubts. "It would be a rare year also that did not as it went along see some doubts proved groundless and others arise. "At best we can try to weigh these prevailing uncertainties against the elements Of strength and promise we know our situation to hold." In other words, if things don't get better they will get worse. u. w. Campbell, Sydney 