 EXPERIENCE IS k 600D TEACHER Workers' reliance on Arbitration is wanina | . By L. J. McPH ILLIPS. I- "Two main features marking tlie present stage of the wages campaign are tbe substantial claims workers are advancing and the decreasing reliance ©n arbitration tribunals for winning these claims. 'lllHllillllllllllllilHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIillllllllillllllllli illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilliii The facf that workers are already moving to win wage increases equal to and greater than the total increases sought in the ACTU announced basic waqe and margins claims emphasises that — the total amount of the ACTU claims is inadequate to meet workers' needs; successes for actions outside the arbitration tribunals could make formal claims by the ACTU of little if any interest to a large section of active unionists by the time they are are dealt with unless they are greatly increased. This requires that the ACTU claims in relation to the two main wage elements, basic wage and margins, should be in creased. NEXT WEEK, the writer will make some critical analysis of the ACTU approach to present and future basic wage hearing, and will show that ACTU decisions do provide the basis for an increase in curresit ACTU wage claims. .DOTH these features arise from very natural causes. Rising living costs accompanied by mounting indebtedness are the cause of demands for sub stantial increases in wages. These currently range from £2 to-£5 per week. Experience of the restricted grounds acceptable to the various wage fixing tribunals for increasing wage rates 'has established the futility of confin ing the struggle to arbitration or of even approaching these tribunals with the essential claims now being advanc ed by unions and workers. In addition to indicating the current wage needs of the workers, these claims are a reflection of certain main wage demands in the ACTU program. At present the ACTU claim for ad justments to current basic wage rates ranging from 9/- to 13/- a week is being pressed before the Common- we-'h Arbitration Commission. F mtly the ACTU Interstate Ex- ecu announced that a general in- crer in margins would be sought later in the year. Increases to be sought would aim to restore the pur chasing power and relativity of mar gins to their 1947 position. (An article dealing with this claim will be published later.) If this claim were advanced now it would mean approximately £2/4/- per week increase for a base rate trades man under the Federal Metal Trades Award and £1/17/- per week for a tradesman's assistant. Projected margins claims for all other workers vary according to their present margin and the relativity be tween their margin and that of a fitter in 1947. Taken together the current basic wage claim and the projected mar- gins claim mean increases of 54/- per week for tradesmen and 47/- a week for their assistants. Although the claim for increased margins will not be formally advanced until later this year, many workers are moving now for wage increases equal to and greater than the total amounts mentioned here. The more workers do this, the !llllllllllllll!lllllll!ll!l!!lllllllll|l!!!!lllll!lllllll!llllllllll greater the chance that the claims will be granted as award rates, and the floor level of award standards raised. " Over-award payments have always been a major factor in claims for award wage increases before arbitra tion tribunals. This was the case in the 1959 -and ll!llllll!l!l!!ll!llllllllllll!lll!!lllllllllll!l!llllllllllll!!!lllll 1963 margins claims before the Com monwealth Arbitration Commission. Queensland Industrial Commission this year increased award margins in that State's metal trades award solely because a large number of metal em ployers in Queensland had already been forced by mass action to grant increases of the same amounts. Now the Nicklin Government has decided to increase the margins of Queensland rail workers by amounts similar to those already won in the metal industry. These events- further confirm the repeated experience in relation to formal claims for increased award rates. They completely deny the claim by Judge Gallagher that strike action is damaging .to the workers' interests. Mr. L. J. McPHILLIPS 