 Rhodesia: Wilson's "African Munich" From RUPERT LOCKWOOD (Latest reports indicate that British Prime Minister Wilson and white Rhodesian Premier Smith have reached some basis for com- promise that is suitable to the white racists and the wealthy British investment interests.) MOSCOW : The ' 'African Munich", as African newspap ers call British Prime Minister Harold . Wilson's refusal in Salisbury to give any effective support to the 4- million op pressed Africans against, rule by 200,000 white apartheid- ists, will be answered by a more united, stronger arid aroused Africa. The 3rd Assembly of Heads of State and" the Government of Or ganisation of African Unity just ended in Accra (Ghana) showed AL.ca now in the mood to advance from econ omic sanctions to armed aid to end survivals ui uuiuiiiaiisiii uii wie xvlu can continent. The OAU concentrated on organsing for action against the Rhodesian and . South African apartheidists and the Portugese colionalists and their backers. I In addition to denouncing Prime Minister Wilson's weakness and call ing on all governments to impose sanctions against the Smith Govern ment if independence Is declared by the white minority, the OAU Con- ference prepared for concrete action. Diallo Telli, secretary-general of OAU, said the white ininority govern ment "cannot be tolerated" and OAU was prepared to take "resolute measures against the colonialists in Africa and their backers. Diallo Telli pointed out that .heads of African States at the Accra As sembly had resolved to set up a "Military Commission" with the object .of solving . the Rhodesian crisis. The Commission, Telli added, had already begun working out con crete steps. A "Liberation Committee" of nine" of OAU was deputed to work for a single front of liberation in each colonial country to end divisions as i,n the Portugese colonies. The OAU in Accra elected a com mittee of representatives of Kenya, Tanzania, ' Nigeria, United Arab Re public and Zambia to plan measures to ensure carrying out of OAU policy against Southern Rhodesian apar- .heidists. President of Congo Brazzaville, \lassamba Debat, said after the \ccra Assembly "OAU is even pre pared to use force and recognise iny Government in exile as the law- ul Government of Southern Rho- .lesia if Britain allows Ian Smith .o make a unilateral declaration of independence." . Experience of economic ' sanctions against South Africa had shown that sanctions were not" sufficient, Debat con tended. 