 Seminar on local govt. JYDNEY: A symposium to discuss local affairs and assist to develop a Com munist program for the Sydney metropolitan area will be Held on Sunday, September 26, at the Jim Healy Memorial Hall in Syd ney at 10 am. t will be organised by the Syd ney District Committee of the Communist Party. .The Sydney metropolitan area streches from Broken Bay in . the north to Blacktown f \ the vest and Sutherland in the south. Its area is seme 671 squae miles and Population more than two million PO' "le or 56% of NSW. Every year me 50,000 n'y inhabitants come into tlie area. ponJ?e-riG are 35 municipal and shire oils and 29 other authorities. J® symposium will provide an asnpp' t0 examine the major is of local government, such as the main powers and activity of local government. On© of th© main issues will be finance for the local government. The grave shortage of finance is recognised by councils as being the major problem holding up vital pub lic works such as sewerage, roads, etc. Alderman A. Shaw, president of the Local Government Association of NSW said in opening a local gov ernment seminar last September that "local government suffers from a dire shortage of money." A spokesman for the Commun ist Party said this week that 10% of federal revenue should be allo cated to local government. But is this sufficent? What other methods are there to raise the vit ally-necessary finance? How much will the full return of the petrol tax yield to the councils? These and other questions will be discussed at the seminar. How do Sydney people travel? Despite a basically sound electric train system, it doesn't cope with today's needs. Ferries are antiquated and government bus services have never entered many areas. Both Labor and now Liberal Governments have shown no real plan of development. This is Sydney's big problem. It will provide one of the most in teresting discussions at the Sym posium. The Symposium has some impor tant aims. Firvt is to gain deeper understanding of some of the most important questions confronting the people of Sydney in the local gov ernment areas. Secondly, to see how more people can be encouraged to actively par ticipate in developing a better planned city area, curtailing the power of private vested interests and making the peoples need, not monopoly greed, the mainspring of development. Short lectures will open each - of the sessions. These will be prepared by people keenly interested in the subject and their views will stand or fall to your questions and dis cussion. Enquiries can be made by 'phoning 26 2161. 