 "TREAT A MAN AS AN EQUAL AND HE WILL SURPRISE YOU!" [?] j "How 'responsible1 would Mr. Morris, the manager of Vesfey's cattle empire, be on £5 or less a week?" said Mr. R. Peckham, an Aboriginal worker. Mr. Peckham was an observer at last week's hear ing by the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission j for equal pay for Aborigines. I UR. MORRIS gave evi- 1 dence on behalf of the I 1 employers who are opposing | equal pay for Aborigines in | the pastoral industry. | The North Australian Workers' TJnion is pressing for equal wages ' for 1,100 Aborigine pastoral workers ;« f1ii> Northern Territory. This demand is being backed, morally and financially, by the Aus tralian trade union movement. Mr. Peckham is a builders' laborer working in Sydney and receives equal wages. ! f He has also worked on NSW sta tions doing tractor driving, clearing, ploughing, fencing, axing and power- 1 I saw work. On ail these jobs he I received the full award wage. | Mr. Peckham gave Tribune hisj I impressions of the three days hej | spent in court listening to employers'! fj arguments as to why Aborigines are $ not worth equal pay. I ' j No Aborigines 1 in court I "It was all very polite and dignified with barristers and employers' rep resentatives putting forward argu ments to three judges. "Here was a case heard on behalf of 1,100 Aborigines and not one of I our people in court. The employers' representative (Mr. J. R. Kerr, Q.C.) said he was con cerned that a requirement to pay award wages would be fraught with social risk for the Aborigines. "Mr. Morris (manager and a direc-. tor of the Australian Investment Agency pty. Ltd., which manages vast pastoral properties) said em ployers accepted their moral obliga tions to take an interest in the Aboriginal as a human being and not just as a member of a labor force. "Concern" i "?ut. their . 'concern' and 'moral obligations' were opposed to decent wages and conditions. "Tile way they talk you would think Ithey were doing the Aborigine people great favor by paying them low Wages. "Why chase labor?" Mr. Morris is in favor of having tation camps. From these camps e has a pool of labor from which can get stckmen and domestics— "by chase labor?' he said. n From this labor pool about 25 LL4ent' is in constant work. Those king share with the others not work. tribfr ,nf?rriS S?eS this sharinS (a reacr, ce> he said) as _ the Igines holdr\&lt;; back the Abori- " sh,Hhe. emPl0.yers did a bit .more 8 oi their profits, the Aborigines would have gained full equality years ago. "We are told that Aborigines are 'unreliable and inefficient' and that until he becomes 'reliable' he is not worth award wages. "But even Mr. Morris admitted that many workers such as drovers, head stockmen and others were good enough to receive full money — but don't get it. Profitable labor "He also admitted it was profitable to use Aboriginal labor— and why wouldn't it be? These people have been exploited in the Northern Ter ritory for the past 60 to 70 years. "It was only as late as 1959 that these workers only got 'hand outs'! "Now we. are told that about 95 per cent, would be sacked if em ployers were forced to pay equal wages and the labor problems would be solved by mechanisation. . "The Government is also threatened that it will have to look after the unemployed. "If Aborigines, are 'unreliable,' it's a reflection on the pastoralists and the Governments/ "Treat a man as an equal and he will no doubt surprise ypu," Mr.. Peckham said/ . . "v > . / MR. R. PECKHAM . . "the way they talk you would think they were doing the Aboriginal people a great favor by paying them low wages!" 6 6 Could you be i responsible ' living in this?" Picture taken by Mr. Peckham in 1962 shows the "living quarters" on a station on the main highway- from Alice Springs to Darwin. 