 "It's @i mess, M ax. i i A hleedSy, esufSesi ibbsssB" i .. e The USA will never j silence the Yiet cuckoo j W. A. WOOD reviews "The Ambassador", by Morris West | THE AMERICAN DIPLO- MAT doesn't understand why his Buddhist mentor keeps on. asking him "What will you do when they ask you to kill the cuckoo?" But the reader of Mr. Morris West's latest, best-selling and most controversial novel, "The Ambassa dor", has some clue to the riddle He notes that the diplomat has just been appointed Ambassador to Sai gon in the last year of Ngo Dinb 1 Diem 's rule. Later in the book it is explained in terms of a Japanese parable: "Three great men of Japan were faced with a reluctant cuckoo. "Nobunaga said '1 shall kill the cuckoo if it will not sing'. ' Hideyoshi said, T shall invite it to sing'. "lyeyasu said,- T shall wait for it to sing'." When Washington has to deal with a non-co-operative cuckoo it doesn't spend too much time debating its course. lyeyasu is laughed out oi cou:'t from the start. Hideyoshi may be given a brief hearing, but is suspect. In a showdown Nobunaga is then man— and this applies whether the president is Kennedy, Eisenhowei or Johnson. nd so the Nobunaga plan is what Mr. West's Ambassador is instructed to put into effect in Saigon. He is given an explanation of America's aims which doesn't have much in common with Sir R. Menzies talk about "frontiers of freedom". The man from the State Depart ment tells the Ambassador, Maxwell Amherley: "It's a mess, Max. A , bloody, thankless mess. We call it a subversive war, but at bottom it's a civil war as well . . . "We're involved because we want > : to maintain a military foothold in South East Asia and deny China an ; ; : access to the Southern rice-bowls and sea roads to Asia . . .. We've committed thirty thousand men and God knows how many millions oi dollars ... "We backed Phung Van Cung ana his family because they were the . best and strongest administrators available. 1 think they still are; but they are out of control . . ." # # No wonder the book is not popular with the Americans and the Sydney Morning Herald's literary reviewer, who praised it, had to be answered in the same issue by a "political" expert who condemned it. It will not be popular, either, with the Primate of Australia, Archbishop Gough who has blessed a cause up held in Vietnam by a character like West's Harry Yaffa, local chiei ol the Central Intelligence Agency. Yali? tells the Ambassador: " There are things 1 have to do tha- you can never approve, and there - fore it is better that you shouldn't . khow them. I have to kill men and suborn women . . .It you want to V 'Salve your conscience by having men v:" li ' to you. I can do that too Asked about his . own conscience, Yaffreplies: "A luxury, Sir. I found long ago I couldn't afford it," He is an expert, he suggests, in oroviding the means to do "the ex oed.ent thing at the right time" The "expedient thing" at the moment is the elimination, physical if necessary, of the dictator Ngo Dinh Diem, rather thinly disguised as Phung Van Cung. By making Cung something ol a patriot, which Diem was not. West sharpens his picture of how Ameri-. can imperialists remove an obstacle. The real Diem ran foul of the US because his open anti-Buddhist pol icy had aroused mass opposition. He became a liability to the CIS and had to be offered up to the Buddh ists as a human sacrifice. The fictitious Cung of Morris Wesi seals his own fate when he admits to an "Australian novelist' (who tells it to the US Ambassador) that he wants to oust the Americans and . is thinking of negotiations with his fellow-Vietnamese in the northern Democratic Republic. That settles his hash. Yaffa moves at once to exterminate him by means of subsidised pro-US generals like Khanh and Minh. Legitimately, as a novelist, West has departed from historical exac titude to make the situation he pic tures more typical of what goes on in that part of the world where the dollar still rules. (It may be, ol course, that West knows more about Diem than has yet appeared in the histories.) By seeming to make Diem bettei than he was, West correspondingly makes the American leaders even worse than they have been st. far resented. But they shouldn't complain . . . West puts into the Saigon Em bassy three . Americans- probably three more than there actually were —who had not scrapped or stifled their consciences. And' these speak' up well in the Embassy discussion?- about what America will do with another people's country. "I'm ashamed, that's ail" says sec retary Anne Beldon to the Ambas sador. "I'm ashamed of the crude ana callous way we dispose of people's lives and destinies as if they were cattle being herded from one fieJc to another . . I still didn't hear a word about what the people need, what they fear, what they long for- just a little quiet and a chance to see their sons grow up without even hearing a gunshot or seeing an arm ed man on every corner". How could a dangerous-thinkei like that survive in a US Embassy, with the Harry Yaffas on the watch for them all the time? Another is Mel Adams, the First Secretary, who resigns in protest against the coup, on the ground- fantastic to everyone else- that it means interfering in a sovereign state's internal affairs. ' ' ' . . ' > He says: "Somewhere, sometime in all this bloody tangle of politic? and diplomacy, a simple human decency has to enter. Someone ha? to affirm that a Chinese has as- much right to eat as a Californian. that a Marxist is not necessarily 8 mOnstfer . . the world can t be run by policemen and intelligence agents —or Ambassadors either for thai matter." The Ambassador shuts him up smartly and betrays Cung to the as - sassins. He is a Macbeth like char acter whose conscience seems to drive him .to greater crimes in the effort to suppress it. his conscience comes viciously o life again after Cung is slain, des pite the Ambassador's efforts to douse it with brandy. He has "a moment, ot pure hoi ror" on seeing, not Cung's ghost but his own image in the mirror— "the most hateful image I had evei "seen; pasty-grey, with red. staring eyes, flared nostrils, a trap mouth drav/n into a hateful sneer . . ." He j goes berserk and attacks the mirror j with the brandy bottle. j From this self -created hell he flees j back into the Buddhist monastery he \ started from in the story, there to j seek "enlightenment", which, he is j told he will get "in no place" and I "at no time" and by a process of j "not seeking". j In this he differs from most of West's readers who want as much enlightenment as they can get both here and now and are seeking foi it, conspicuously helped, on the sub ject of Vietnam, by West himself. The Catholic Weekly's reviewer, John Dawes, while praising the book, says it, may "annoy the Americans". That is distinctly possible. Mr. West has set himself apart from the full-throated aviary of cuckoos and other birds (a thistle- loving canary from Canberra for in stance) who can be relied on to warble what Washington wants, the moment it holds up the bird seed Mr. We$t is a violently off-key cuckoo. He should be on guard, since he is opposed by powerful persons to whom conscience is "a luxury". "The Ambassador'", . by Morris West. William Heinemann, 30/ Paul D. Harkins (left), former Commanler-in-Chief of US forces in Vietnam, shown here in Saigon with Nguyen Khanh (centre) and Henry Cabot Lodge, who was in Australia recently as President Johnson's "special emissary". 