 Arab pacS: against colonialism From RUPERT LOCKWOOD OSCOW: The Arab Soli darity Pact just signed by the heads of Arab states and governments at Casablanca laid a new and more powerful basis for united struggle against colonialism in Africa and the Middle East. The Americans in the oil regions he British in Aden, Yemen and the Persian Gulf, the Portuguese in Angola and Guinea and the Rho iesian and South African apar heidists have good cause to fear. The solidarity declaration of the i2 Arab nations gave a clear warn ing that any encroachments on the independence of one Arab State would he regarded as an encroach ment on the independence of the .vhole Arab world. The Arab heads of State and Government (the council of kings and presidents) pledged support to the liberation struggles of Portu gese Guinea, Angola, Mozambique and the peoples of the occupied areas of the South Arabian penin sula, Oman and the Persian Gulf area and to fight against apartheid in South Africa and white minority rule in Rhodesia. The conference also took a strong stand for nuclear and general dis armament, for a Vietnam settlement in accordance with the Geneva agreements, for liquidation of all foreign, bases. : ' Through just and equal economic relations and removal of the sur viving colonial fetters the Arab nations will speed their social and . economic progress. The council of Arab kings and presidents saw Afro-Asian co-opera tion as the foundation of Arab policy and agreed to co-operate with the Algerian Government in calling the second Afro-Asian conference on November 5. Agreement on this conference signals a closer link:up between the Arab nations and Black Africa to ?xpel the colonialists. Washington, London, Lisbon, Bonn, Capetown and their ik" papers had confidently pre c split and failure at Casablanca, differences were resolved or tnr into the background to ens unity. .n o0Tee. Even Saudi Arabia came to ag ment with Egypt on Yemen . . greater importance than Tun absence. . ter. The conference agreed to minate inter-Arab polemics _ recriminations by press and The Moroccan newspaper guard forecasts success » gest tasks now facing t world— to end . imperialist rui . all Arab territories, to put ; an to the plundering of the Ara by foreign capital and to economic backwardness. djahid The Algerian paper El mowi sees "a new and Wealthy P allowing Arab countries : fo itt) time to enter the world scene "identical positions on th - I wofld problems." id the UAR President Nasser sa conference was one 0 ,v0rld . useful ever seen in the Arab wu 