 Great days with Mt. Isa's "United Nations" From PETE THOMAS, of Queenand Guardian, back from a week in Mt. Isa. f "The way the company treats us means that the workers need to be united always", said a Polish worker. A Czech said: "We've been through this sort of fight with Mt. Isa Mines before". an Italian said: "Not I one of us Italians went back to work yesterday - when the company and the Government tried to make us give in" And a Hungarian said: "The company is all the time solving problems for more production, but not our problems." They were a few of those to whom Tribune spoke, in a random selectirn, at the Mt. Isa Labor Council payment of relief money on Tuesday last week. Mt. Isa Mines workers include many nationalities (some say more than 40) but, in the struggle against the company over the last six months, all have joined in common cause. On the Mt. Isa Labor Council's various committees (finance, relief, publicity, etc.), members have in cluded Finn, Hungarian, Czech, Dutch, Greek, Italian, German and other un ionists. The creation of stronger bonds of unity between workers of all these nationalities has been one of the most positive of many gains in the long struggle. Dramatic events The payout last week ana those snay interviews followed days of dram atic .ents in ML Isa in the struggle against US-controlled Mt. Isa Mines and the collaborating Nicklin State Government. On the Friday, there had been the stirring airport demonstrations, which became a sharp protest against the Government-police-TAA actions wtrch prevented Mt. Isa Labor Counci. pre sident John McMahoo even from travelling through Mt. Isa on a Darwin-bound plane. With the protest was also a wel come to Queensland Trades & Labor Council representatives J. Egerton, E J. Hanson and J. Devereux, as well as Fred Thompson, North Queensland leader of the Amalgamated Engineer ing Union. On the Sunday was the great meet- ing which filled the Star Theatre and spilled to the extent of some hundreds in an overflow into, the street. Veterans described it as the best meeting they could remember. On the Monday, Australia Day, dev elopments crowded one after the other —all of them fruits of Mt. Isa work ers' solidarity and the massive nation wide support and action. The Government-company scheming for workers to surrender by a mass return to work that morning tempted fewer than 70 workers (only 11. of. these being underground workers) to offer for work. Surrender A couple of hours later, news came that the company had suspended its threatened halting of contracts tor Mt. Isa Mines projects. That meant continuation of "jobs for 700 workers Then, within minutes of that news came the report that the Nicklin Gov ernment, in an ignominious retreat, had suspended its tyrannical Order- in-Council which it had introduced only six days previously and which had backfired so violently on itself Within about half an hour of news being received that the order no longer was operative, miners' rank and file leader Pat Mackie was giving t a crowded press conference at a Mt j Isa hotel. i The Nicklin Government naa been I determined that Pat Mackie would be j kept out of Mt. Isa (which he had left to address meetings in Southern j States) while the struggle was being | waged. ; Police had been looking toi mm I throughout Queensland and in NSW; j the Nicklin Government had rem j forced Mt Isa police with a special ! contingent of politieal-squad and | other police — and yet, there was Pat 1 Mackie in the hotel's' well known 1 "bullring", telling pressmen and the | crowding audience that he nad been bac in Mt. Isa tor two days Mt Isa people appreciated it nugt ' ly. Earlier, the Queensland T&LC pre sident (Mr; J. Egerton) had said at the Sunday meeting that bushmen had told him that "there are two thousand and twenty-five ways of getting into F, Mt. Isa, and there aren't 2025 police \ here to watch them all — even though 1 at times it may seem that there are | that many police." j The despatch of political-squad and l other police from Brisbane to Mt. Isa i was characteristic of the thinking of ( the Nicklin Government. The with drawal of these police last week was another illustration of how the people of Australia had forced Nicklin & Co. to give way. I . After his return to Mt. Isa, someone : asked Pat Mackie if he had been dis- ; guised for the trip back. "No," he r said. "Or yes, perhaps I was — I didn't i wear my baseball cap." j That Mackie baseball cap has be come a sort of insignia in Mt. Isa. While police were hunting for Pat \ Mackie, a number of workers got ! - themselves passable imitations of \ his red cap, and wore them ostenta- \ tiously. I Another worker got a Brisbane f Telegraph picture of plainclothes police, with stolid faces, arriving in ; Mt. Isa from Brisbane. He .got to 1 work with a colored pencil— and every police head was adorned with a red baseball cap. Another worker got pictures ot some AWU rightwingers, including State secretary E. Williams. On them, too, he had drawn red baseball caps That went over well. In conversations and in press state ments, Pat Mackie was fervent in his - praise for the support elsewhere for j Mt. Isa workers' struggle. j "There is more militancy through- out this country than I ever realised, , and it's not . just the seamen ana the -wharfies and it's not confined to the workers." Pat 'Mackie has repeated time and again that the issue of his re-employ ment is not a personal matter but a question of trade union principle, for protection of workers against victim isation. .. Lots of workers m Mt. Isa will tei you that Mt. Isa Mines has time and again cut off leadership among tne rank and file. Militants (Communis s particularly) are marked, to he aea with as quickly and effectively possible. Paying relief Unions and others throughout Queensland and Australia have been sending money to help the struggle. There have -been big cheques from Broken Hill, the Waterside Workers 1 Federation and other unions There have also been donations from in dividuals. including pensioners who have contributed from their own cruelly-small fortnightly pensions The donations are deeply appreci ated. -The weekly Henderson Hall payout by the Mt. Isa Labor Council is an - ; illustration of the value of the help | PAT MACKIE talks with union leaders soon after his reappearance in Mt. Isa last week. Gn the left is Mr. J. Egerton, president of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council, and centre is Mr. J. Deyereux, secretary of the Amalgamated Engineering Union a,nd Metal r Trades Federation of Queensland. 