 The straggle for democracy in Greece KA ASS . demonstrations by up to one million people at a time are opposing the un constitutional appointment as "Dremier" as Mr. Athanas- siadis-Novas, a Minister of former Prime Minister Papan dreou's ruling Centre Union Party. This appointment was made in a hurry by King Constantine and the Greek military junta, who refused to allow Papandreou to sack G«A'ouf- alias, the Defence Minister. Papandreou is supported by 149 members of the CUP and 22 member of EDA, the United Democratic Left. He is opposed by only 107 right wing members and 24 defecting members from the CUP. He must have the . . support of 150 members to govern. Greek police last week killed one demonstrator, a University student (25 years of age) and injured hund reds of others with clubs, tear gas and bullets. Many strikes and stop works 'are opposing the King's action and refusal to hold elections. A tan ©n demonstrations A ban has been placed now on demonstrations. Police on motor cycles are holding the streets. George Papandreou's policy in the 1963 elections won left wing support and he gained an unprecedented majority— 53 per cent of the total vote— on February 16, 1964. . Papandreou's 1964 election pro gram was "to restore democracy in Greece; liberate political prisoners; clean up the Government apparatus; bring the Ministers in the Karaman- lis government (1956-63) responsible for misappropriation of millions of Treasury funds to trial." . His foreign policy was "friendship with all nations" and he would "raise wages of lower income brackets at home." This program, supported by the left wing, won him the election. However, as soon as he was in stalled as Premier the American-led NATO powers, whose treaty include.; Greece, started to put pressure on Papandreou through young King Constantine, to appoint Garoufalias a powerful Greek industrialist, as Minister of Defence. This pressure was successful. The King and the rightwing Then the King, through Garoufal- ias, blocked Papandreou's efforts to sack generals who had organised the fraudulent re-election of right-wing Karamanlis in 1961. The generals and the right-wing opposition in Parlia ment then campaigned against Papandreou's program and prevent ed it being carried out. Garoufalias, working for NATO, also stopped the Makarios Govern ment in Cyprus from receiving a shipment of Soviet defence missiles. He told Greek shipowners (with out telling Makarios) not to deliver them. They stayed in Alexandria. NATO NATO wanted Cyprus as a missile base and had plans to partition . the island. Garoufalias was their go- oetween with MaKarios. JtJut the plan for Cyprus was beaten by united action by the people behind AKEL (the Cyprian Workers Party) and Makarios. Then in Athens came a dramatic disclosure of the plans of the mil itary high command led by Genni- matas. They had given orders that during the Lambrakis peace march in May from Marathon to Athens, the army should arrest any soldier or anyone who looked like a soldier in the march. This was to be done outside Ameri can bases along the route. Provocation If possible the marchers would be provoked to resist and 50 to 100 were to be machine-gunned'. This would "prove the instability" of Papandreou's government and open the way for a military coup. However, the plan proved ineffec tive and was dropped, because 500,000 people marched from Mar athon. More recently, on June 11, all 6,000 Athens police and 40 district attor neys spent all night "rounding up persons suspected of sabotage of the army". They arrested eight people. Later these people had to be released. In response to the growing danger to Greek democracy, the Papandreou Caucus resolved to sack Garoufalias, Gennimatas and other military- fascist leaders in the armed forces. Papandreou himself would be Defence Minister. lefused to sign King Constantine refused to sign the dismissal bill, an action un precedented for years. While Papandreou was threatening to resign, Athanassiadis-Novas was ready in a car outside, waiting for the world from the King. Five minutes after Papandreou left, Novas was being "sworn in" as the new premier. He said he would pre sent the King with the names of his new Ministers in a day or so. Papandreou heard all this on the radio. His government then resigned and called on the Greek people to defend democracy. The Novas "Ministers" have been insulted and abused wherever they have gone in Greece in the last few days. They are afraid to leave their offices without armed escort. On July 17 Mitsotakis a Cretan, wanted to go to parliament to take over the Ministry of Commerce'"' Security police rang and told himi not to go — there were 1,000 Cretan# outside in an ugly mood. He later went under escort of 100 soldiers. 1 This is only one of the many ways! in which people are showing their- refusal to accept the Novas regirnei I 9 Greeks and Australians demonstrated in support of the deposed Greek Premier, Mr. Papandreou , outside the Greek Consulate in Sydney fast Friday. Members of the Greek commuBufy march in Sydney's May Day march this year. 