 Right wing attack on trade unions rebuffed at the ALP Conference By a Political Correspondent The 1985 Federal Conference of the ALP took decisions that mean a rebuff for Big Business, Santamaria's NCC and the rightwing within the , Labor Party. These groups had hoped to taite over uie rictunan orauuu and alter the traditional ALP relationships with the trade unions by setting out to control them; and make structual alter- ations to the constitution to en hance the role of Members of Parliament and weaken the role of trade urions at the national level. The aims also included the re writing of foreign policy to exclude the campaign for a nuclear free Southern Hemisphere and the de mand for the return of troops from Vietnam and South East Asia. Other aims were adoption of State aid for private schools and preparations for Mr. E. G. Whit- lam to take over the Party leader ship and for initial talks to be opened' up with the DLP. - Despite the intense press and TV campaign which preceded the con ference and the loud whoops of victory which followed the recent ' Federal Executive meeting in such 1 anti-labor organs the Sydnev Morn ing Herald, Bulletin and News Weekly, the right wing failed on L every point.. ; Mi. Whitiam who had prepared ; carefully with a pre - conference I speech at Newcastle attacking f the rights of affiliated trade unions and who received such full svpport from" the editorial columns of the Sydney Morning Herald, reneged on his threat to resign 1 unless satisfied by conference on i his demands which included action - against Victoria now and not some s decision for future application. Conference did not meet this demand and Mr. Whitiam swall owed his pride and did not resign. Reports suggest that his stocks have slumped considerably over recent weeks. : The Sydney Morning Herald in summing up the Conference said that it will be as before the Con ference with the same leader, same constitution, " same trade union leadsrs feting at the Federal Ex ecutive and Federal Conference, "The total impression was one of failure" lamented the editorial, which went on to particularise con cerning Mi'. Calwell's continued leadership the failure to alter Labor policy on State aid; "New South Wales was brutally rebuffed on State aid". The retention of the nuclear free Southern Hemisphere and . the. withdrawal of Australian troops from South East Asia. The compromise on relations be tween the ALP and the trade unions meant rebuff to the Oliver-spon sored NSW move for ALP execu tive "certification" of approved ALP members in union ballots. This followed strong opposition by unions throughout the country. Whilst the Victorian Branch proposals to permit ALP members equal rights in trade unions with other union members was not proceeded with, neither was the right-wing move to exclude affiliat ed unions from national influence in the ALP. Mr. Wyndham (federal secretary) had to pay attention to trade union opposition in his speech on the question. The Conferenc, produced a series of extensive policy decisions all of which merit close consider ation and discussion. These range from the welcome deletion of the offensive "White Australian" plank (although how far the policy has been - changed needs examination) , to the 40 hour week, restoration of quarterly adjustments to the b2Sic I wage, equal pay and repeal of penal I clauses. Disarmament, irrovea social services, attention to Abor igine problems, foreign investments science and housing policies an many others. — TERRITORIES MINISTER CHARLES BARNES RESPONDS TO THE CALL FOR A NEW NAME AND FLAG FOR PAPUA-NEW GUINEA 