 [?] THE P.K.I. CANT BE "RUBBED OUT" ' By L. AARONS The Australian Establishment is happy about what it thinks is a great victory wan for it by the Indonesian rightist generalse The current anti-Communist campaign in Indonesia has all the trimmings of arson, murder, pillage and repression for which the Communists are falsely -denounced but which are warmly applauded when practised against Com munism. "THE newspapers are report ing this campaign as a mass popular movement for the sup pression of the . Communist Party of Indonesia. In this they are just as wrong as they were when reporting mass support for Ngo Dinh Diem or the unshakeable soli darity of Malaysia. Blinded by class projudice and racial superiority, they can not understand single events in Asia because they do not un derstand : the historic signifi cance of the great revolutionary process of national liberation. The real significance of the presents- Indonesian counter - revolutionary violence is revealed by a careful ex amination of the press itself. The burnings and destruction of PKI offices trade union buildings and the headquarters of women's and youth organisations are the work always of a few hundred people. Police and army stand by, not to preserve law and order but to protect the violators. In fact, police and army actually organise the arsonists. The Army generals recently staged a mass demonstration in Djakarta, to show their mass backing. They claimed 15 million people taking part, but this was too much even for the Australian press, which cut the figure to 100, Q00. People not taken in : "THIS in a country of great political consciousness and interest. In 1954, I spoke at a Communist Party meeting of 400,600 people in Djakarta; and spoke to audiences of 100,000 or more "in Solo, Medan and Malang. Then, the PKI had 150,000 members and was only beginning its great growth of the past decade. One thing stands out in Indonesia today — that the masses are not taken in by anti-Communism. It is clear that the rightist officers have so far succeeded in maintaining their hold over most of J the army, and are able to use it against the democratic movement. Abundant evidence has shown that: important sections' of the military still oppose the counter-revolution. Sukarno prisoner A large part of the national capi talist grouping and its political rep resentatives have vacillated and gone over to the dominant military side. President Sukarno is an unwilling captive of the generals who are trying to pressure him to go ;tilt further in his criticism of the :ommunists. Though there is much still unclear, :t is now well established that there was in fact a rightist coup planned by the generals for October 5, Army Day. This was common gossip in Djakarta, as early as August, as was TA meddling in the coup. Colonel j'ntung and officers grouped around rim, tried to forestall this coup by hemselves seizing military power. The September 30 movement was ot a "Communist bid to seize ower,"' as claimed by Inodnesian nd Australian reactionaries. If the" PKI had seriously aimed at aking a revolution, it is impossible i imagine the struggle would be .".fined to a section of the Armed rces elite The masses of workers nd peasants would have been drawn ato the struggle in the great indus- rial cities like Surabaya, Djakarta and Semarang and in the countryside Reports of fighting have been con fined to Central Java, ana are con sistent with self-defence against Afmy excesses. Central Java has long been the arena of peasant-Army conflict, caused by Army officers supporting the landlords in obstructing land reform. The present position is compli cated, but the PKI is evidently carry ing on its activity and . courageously defending its position. The Army generals' will certainly fail to solve anything in the economic sphere, or improve the people's livelihood. To the contrary, they are the main core of the new class of bureaucratic capitalists which is exploiting the people and causing shortages, inflation and mass suf fering. World support The Indonesian Communists can : count upon the support and help of the workers and peasants of Indo nesia, and upon Communist Parties all over the world. The Communist Party of Australia declares its solidarity with Indo nesia's Communists. It calls upon all Australian democrats to express their opposition to the growing excesses of the militarist dictatorship, including the forcible suppression of Indonesia's mass trade union, peasant, women's and youth organisations. Indonesia is Australia's closest neighbour. What happens there will have important effects for Australia's future. There is no more shortsighted view than the official welcoming of a mili tarist dictatorship In fact, the very figures now getting into real power were those who insisted on the para- troop landings in Malaya. Rightist military leaders are always likely to seek solutions in military adventures and to exploit chauvinism and ex treme nationalism. Australian - Indonesian friendship and good neighborly co-operation will best be served by a representative government of all democratic forces. It will be most seriously threatened by military dictatorship and repres- sion of the democratic forces now going on. . . . PRESIDENT SUKARNO 