 An unbridgeable gap .... between ALP and DLP I DERTH: This was one of the major questions debated on "VIEWPOINT", Channel 7, Sunday, July 4, between Sen- ator F. McManus, DLP, and Mr. F. E. Chamberlain, State Secretary ALR. Senator. McManus said there were . three main issues that divide the ; two part'es— foreign policy, de fence, communism in the trade un ions. He considered these differences were strong at the top, but not ill the rank and file. - The reason for this was that ALP leaders had been able to main tain Parliamentary seats and un- . Ion positions only because ex-ALP members we -e now in the DLP; that top ALP people had done well out of the split. He asserted that the ALP was in fact "two parties" — one close to the . DLP, the other, violently opposed, and expressed the opinion that it will eventually split into two par ties. "No com most ground" Mr Chamberlain said the gap be tween the two parties was un bridgeable; there was no common ground in .the thin-s that matter ed, .and that it was as absurd to talk of a conference between the Liberals and the ALP as between the ALP and the DLP. The DLP had the audacity to call itself democratic and labour, when in fact it was neither. Its only role was to keep the Labor Party out of office and keep the Liberals in. He referred to State Secretary Martyr who had gone on record as admitting this was their purpose. . The. DLP received less than 8% of the national vote— that in it self . demonstrated their standing in the eyes of the majority of the Australian people. The ALP, Mr. Chamberlain con- tinued, flatly opposed the Govern ment's policy in Vietnam, which Senator McManus' party supported. He re-affirmed his support for the policy of the ALP on 3 major issues — against the sending of Aus tralian forces to Vietnam; for the recognition of China and its ad mission to United Nations, and no aid for denominational schools. "If that makes me left-wing labour," he said, "then I'm pleased to be clas sed as such.' "I believe in the ALP platform, and I'm pledged to honour it— it is for this you constantly attack - me." "The ALP is a left-wing organ isation — you are to the right," said - Mr. Chamberlain, "so you left the ALP and in fact you are now fur ther to the right than Menzies." Dangers in banning communists Heated debate was on the right to legal existence of the Commun ist Party in Australia., Senator Mc Manus stating that their Party did not want the Communist Party ban ned, but wanted to. defeat commun ist influence in the unions. "An honest Labor Party would see that the unions didn't fall into commun ist hands." "Mr. Chamberlain pointed out that it was generally accepted the DLP was fanatically anti-commun ist. Those who now led the DLP had supported the anti-communist Bill in the referendum to outlaw the Communist Party, and he was pleased and surprised to hear they had got over thip mad attitude. However, the DLP had in the past . advocated the legal banning, of the Communist Party, and this was a dangerous policy. The police state in South Africa, he said, rested on the Suppression of Communism A- Act—and there would have been similar attacks on civil liberties in this country as m there were at present in South m Africa had the anti-communist act s been passed. f McCarthy ism 1 in Australia I He added — "one of the alarming things in Australia is the degree of I McCarthyism at present. You must I conform— or you are looked on as a communist." I "If people think, and reach the K same conclusion as the communists j do, they must either retreat or be | condemned as a communist or fel- | low-traveller." ;| "Trade unionists who are mem- 3 bers of the Communist Party are J legally entitled to stand for office, as anyone else." "This had been established m the NSW Industrial Court, which , had laid it down that there shall | be no discrimination on the grounci j- of political affiliation." 