 [?] .. This gave the imperialists the opportunity to intervene; and their Military Mission has remained' ever 'since — first under the American Admiral Nimitz, and now under . the Australian General Nimmo. The United Nations established a cease-fire line of division of Kash mir, and called for a plebiscite to follow the withdrawal of Pakistan armed forces and of the "bulk" of Indian armed forces. Both sides professed acceptance. Since then, Pakistan has repeat edly demanded a plebiscite, but without prior withdrawal. India has refused a plebiscite, on the grounds that the withdrawal of Pakistan armed- forces had not taken place, and subsequently on the further grounds that local elec tions (held under conditions making their validity dubious) rendered a plebiscite superfluous. EMBARRASSMENT Abdullah's demand for self-deter mination had, by 1953, become a political embarrassment to the Indian Government, and he was thrown into prison on the alleged grounds that he had conspired with American imperialism, -but in fact without charge, trial or evidence. He was held in prison for 11 years— for nine without charge or trial— with one temporary interrup tion in 1958, when he - was for a short time released. But, after it became clear that the people's support for him was as great as ever, he was placed back behind bars again within four months. Nehru, shortly before his death in 1964, sought to find , a way out of this hideous impasse. Abdullah was unconditionally re leased. The two Old friends met and embraced. Negotiations began. Abdullah put forward his plan that Kashmir should become not the source of conflict, but a bridge of friendship between India and Pakistan, through a confederation of three independent States of India, Pakistan and Kashmir. Hopes of a settlement ran high: Nehru's death dashed these hopes. The effective power passed into the hands of the Right Wing bosses of the Congress machine, with close connections with the army chiefs and , with ferocious anti-Pakistan propaganda as their stock-in-trade; while in Pakistan power was- in the hands of the military rule of General Ayub Khan. The gunpowder trail was set for the explc wz. GRAVE STEP The Indian Government took the grave step in May of this year of placing Abdullah and over 50 -leaders of the Kashmir Plebiscite Front associated with him again under detention, supposedly on the grounds that he had spoken of his aims of self-determination with . Chou En-lai in Cairo. The Government decreed the com plete incorporation of Kashmir in India— that is, the final annulment of the remaining distinctive rights. It was impossible to imagine that these steps would not meet resist ance from the Kashmiri people. Then roilowed military action which India has described as "armed infiltrators" from Pakistan, and whom Pakistan has described as "Kashmiri freedom fighters." The battle soon developed into direct fighting between Pakistan and Indian armed forces in Kash mir. The cease-fire line was crossed by both sides. On September 6 Indian armed forces invaded Pakistan outside Kashmir and the conflict developed into full undeclared war of the two States, with air battles, bombing of cities and cruel suffering of the peoples. HELL LOOSE Now the "hell In India" thus let loose is reaching its most extreme fulfilment with this fratricidal war and all the suffering brought upon all the peoples. Proposals for outside interven tion, United Nations action, other than urging cessation of military hostilities will not settle the issue and could offer opportunities to the imperialists to get their hands on the spoils. (The experience of the Congo has sufficiently shown this.) A cease-fire is urgent. But this alone will not end the conflict, which can break out anew. KEEP UNITY Proposals for the partition of Kashmir, advocated in some quar ters, would only butcher the unity of the country and the people and leave the basis for renewed conflict. There is only one possible basis for - a lasting' peaceful settlement. That is that the people of Kashmir . should be free to dtermine their own future. Let the Indian Government re lease Abdullah. Let agreement be sought for the withdrawal of military forces on-, both sides and on this basis let Abdullah be invited to form a caretaker government to organise genuinely free elections. The freely-elected representatives of the Kashmiri people can then choose between the three alterna tives: accession to India; accession to Pakistan; or independent Kash mir friendly to both, and with its independence and integrity guaran teed by both. Such a settlement would corre spond to the interests of all the peoples concerned, of India, o Pakistan and of Kashmir, as we as to the future of world peace. 