 ACTU-WWF meeting sqys thot . . . Inquiry can make no real contribution CYDNEY: Federal officials of the Waterside Workers' Federation have branded the proposed inquiry into the | stevedoring industry as "an industrial farce — a smoke screen to cover already pre pared legislation". A conference between the Austra lian Council of. Trade Unions and the WWF last Wednesday in Sydney said that "because of the restricted terms of reference proposed by the Minister for Labor (Mr. McMahon), the inquiry can mak no real contri bution to industrial peace on the waterfront." . "The recent remarks of Justice Gallagher, advocating the use of the Crimes Act against waterside work ers, the comments of the advocate for the Commonwealth in the same proceedings, and the publicised comments of the Minister on water front matters, strongly suggest that the purpose of the inquiry is to formulate means of imposing fur ther restrictions and . penalties on the WWF," the conference said. The ACTU is to have further dis cussions with the WWF on its in dustrial claims and will seek the views of other unions directly in volved in stevedoring operations at I a conference in Melbourne on June 30. Last week Labor Minister (Mc Mahon) announced that a Victorian barrister (Mr. A. E. Woodward) was to conduct the inquiry to take about three months. The inquiry's examination would include: "efficiency" and minimising stoppages; supervision of stevedor ing operations; provisions relating to discipline; assistance to waterside workers who become surplus to the industry's needs; "a better balanced age distribution of workers." Terms of reference criticised The Federation, in a press state ment, criticised the terms of refer ence, the person chosen to carry out the inquiry and the insufficient period (3 months) in which it will be conducted. These are said to confirm the Fed eration's earlier vie- that any inves tigation set up by the Federal Gov ernment would fca designed to justify an attack on waterside workers. It said that the terms of refer ence of the inquiry are narrow, fol low the shipowners' proposals, Ignore the important aspects of freight- charges, port facilities, shipowners' profits and the virtual uncontrolled monopoly that overseas shipping com bines have on shipping and steve doring. They ignore the labor movement's policy for nationalisation of steve doring. "The investigator has no experi ence of this industry," the statement said. 