 'I " " ' " ' 1 J Basic wage claim . | J needs big support | 1 | '/ By an Industrial Correspondent j. . I Application by the Australian C@istc»8 of Trade Unions for an | increase in the Commonwealth basic wage will require powerful active support fey call unionists to- meet the strong opposition that | will come from employers and' the Federal Government. , yHE claim has been made I to the Commonwealth Arbitration Commiss ion if by 10 unions covered by the Federal Metal Trades f| Award.. Jj The application for varying p amounts in each capital city is 51 based upon price increases in j| each city since March 1964, but v| the Commission has already made it dear that it will not I automatically raise the basic | wage to meet price increases. I The unions' claim will be advo- "k cated by the ACTU Research Officer | Mr. R. Hawke and, is expected to commence in Melbourne late in Feh- /; ruary or early in March. I Counter-move /&lt;| Employers have already applied to f| the Commission for a. "total /wage" k to consist of the present basic wage plus current margins with the addi- U tion of small increases not exceeding p four shillings. || It is expected that this application || will re referred to the full Commission || and dealt with at the same time J as the unions' basic wage claim. $ This was the procedure followed last year when employers made their S| attempt to get a "total wage". M aCTU will oppose the employ- ers' "total wage" plan and press the j|! unions' claim for a wage increase, it . asic wage was fully reviewed if ie Commission last year when . the unions sought an increase of ...£ ?at claim was " backed by a nation- M Wl!e campaign of propaganda and agitation. A In June, 1964, the wage was. iiv creased by £i. :| Tw? Judges awarded only lo/- and w HW! including the .Commission. Presi- || El Judge Kirby, awarded If circumstanes the matter is 1 nr 5 J11 accrdance with the view | of the President. f is> employers' spokes- I h»wo aP anti-warking class press .ghave frequently criticised the £1 in- b :i C t. 6 as a "ernan decision." i creLrSS the larSest basio wage in- vj| a won by the workers since II 1950 and the campaign conducted m support of the claim exceeded any basic wage campaign since that date. However, the 1964 increase repre sented only 7 per cent of the then current basic wage, whereas the in crease in 1950 was a 14 per cent rise. Last year's increase was the first movement in the Comm'onwealth' Basic Wage since 1961. The 164 increase v/as made in opposition to the-employers and the Menzies Government, after a. full re view of all factors including price rises, productivity and general econo mic capacity . The £1 was described by the judges awarding, it. as a "just and reasonable increase" based upon their estimate of the economy's capacity "since 1961, its capacity now and its capa city for the predictable future." The unions will claim that the "real" wage decided upon then must be restored and, because its purchasing power has declined as a result of price rises, the wage must now be increased by an amount equal to these price rises. Referring to price rises the Com mission in its 1964 Judgment said: "As to movements in prices both past and future we regard' them as of importance because in our view it would be inequitable in an eco nomy developing as rapidly as the Australian economy to allow the basic wage to erode through price movements unless there Were some good reason for doing so." The Statistician's figures show that price rises have already eroded the basic wage to the extent of 9/- a week in Queensland and Tasmania; 10/- in New South Wales; 11/- in Victoria and 13/- in South Australia. These amounts will be further in creased by the time the: basic wage case is decided and the unions will ask. for more than the sums set out in the present application. The unions' claim directly affects all workers whether covered by State or Federal' awards in N.S.W., Vic toria, South Australia and Tasmania and those covered by Federal Awards in Queensland and Western Austrar lia. Any decision on this claim would subsequently have a bearing on. the basic wage in State- awards in these two latter States.. 