 [?] NOW IT'S N.G. TIMBER TO U.S.A. By JIM COOPER Recent newspaper reports indicate that the Menzies Gov ernment is about to make a gift of the vast timber resources of New Guinea to the immense timber monopolies of USA. 'THERE are 20 to 30 million - acres of commercial forest land in Papua and New Guinea with an industrial potential of considerable magnitude", is the opening phrase of the World Bank Report on the question of forestry. Altogether therq are about 90 million acres of . forests, but the figures mentioned in the World Bank Report refer to areas that are easily accessible. Reporting the Minister for .Terri tories, Mr. Barnes, "The Australian" stated that it was proposed that timber production was to be trebled from 105 million super feet to 300 million super feeet in five years. It is proposed to open up two million acres in the centre of New Britain with an estimated harvest of 3,000 million super feet, a very choice stand of Klinki Pine in the Jirami Valley of 120,000 acres estimated to contain 300,000 super feet and a third in the Vanimo area of 750,000 acres, with an estimated yield of 2,000 million super feet. "Japan, USA" "The Financial Review," reporting Mr. Barnes, said: "The major market is probably Japan, followed by the west coast of America, and it is from these two areas that the Government will no doubt try to attract the overseas capital and knowhow vital to the industry's development." As there would be very considerable resentment to any give-away to Japa nese capital, the above statement almost certainly means that the vast timber resources are to be traded to the US timber monopolies. Further than this, the report of the Minister's statement indicates that these monopolies will be invited to write their own ticket. . At present contractors for timber leases are required to observe rea sonably strict conditions for the development of their leases. They are required to establish mills and other ancillary equipment, but they are not required to use them. The Australian subsidiary of a Japanese company which holds a lease at Cape Hoskins is harvesting and exporting logs to be milled in Japan. Collar reserves These limiting restrictions will be swept away when the leases are handed over to the US monopolies, and there will be no guarantee that they will develop them. It is an unwritten law of monopoly that they seek to control all reserves which could be used in opposition to them, without necessarily develop ing them, since this would require additional capital investment with little or no increase in the market. Unless there is real resistance by the New Guinean and Australian public, the vast timber potential of the Territory will pass out of New Guinea's hands to overseas private concerns which will use their owner ship to jack up prices and hold the building and cabinet making indus tries to ransom. Should circumstances require them to work their leases all the profits will be channelled out of the country, leaving the Territory without their timber and the values created by its exploitation. 