 | DLP Senator Marionette' s for the D. T. mm CANBERRA: Close col- III lusion between the Demo- jjj cratic Labor Party and Sir III Frank Packers Sydney .Daily Telegraph in attacks || . on the Labor Movement v was exposed in a Senate |r; debate last week. ... This happened when Senator jjjj F. McManus, DLP, , Victoria, II spoke about an alleged "unity X ticket" in the Victorian ARU |||j . elections. jiii "You are only a marionette HI -for Alan Reid," Senator Justin v O'Byrne, Labor, Tasmania, told nil Senator McManus. HI (Alan Reid is the Sydney Daily M Telegraph's chief Canberra cor- III respondent.) Ill In reply to Senator, McManus, Senator Cavanagh, Labor; SA, said the two DLP Senators had i11.' "ratted" on the ALP after it jj; had brought them high office and positions of prestige. ... "They ratted on the Party, . mm vilify it, and continuously cam llll paign against it," Senator v Cavanagh said. Jill Senator McClelland, Labor, llil ; NSW, said that Senator Mc-: K Manns was conversing at length in the Kings Hall that evening with "a notorious journalist" from the Sydney Daily Telegraph. "When that journalist walked into this chamber at 20 minutes past 10 I was able to tell my deputy leader that Senator Mc- . Manus would be speaking in the adjournment debate," said Senator McClelland. Senator McManus had raised the unity ticket issue not because of genuine concern about it, "but merely because Sir Frank Packer in NSW has decided that the by-elections must be fought again on the old bogey," said . Senator McClelland, referring to the two NSW State by-elections coming up. Senator Keeffe, Labor, Queens ' land, said: "The DLP is a small party that lives on hate. It feeds on hate and believes in some of the' most reactionary things "It believes in the atomic bomb. It declares . that Aus tralia should stockpile ' atomic. bombs. It believes in all the v tilings that the fascists be- jj|j lieved in years ago and still , i||| believe In. It believes in the X ' power of the gun and the |j|| jackboot. llll "We have iseen in this- cham . ',1 ber the DLP working against ,j| trade Unions. We saw its repre- v seriatiyes working against the . /ji Waterside Workers' Federation, l| when . we were debating the Stevedoring Bill. . . , They ut- ,'J tered all the filthy things they could about waterside workers."' jj| Senator McManus spoke on the motion to adjourn the Senate :j|| —a time usually reserved foi ill debating matters of urgency. , M Senator McManus said nothing | about the drought, high prices, X or . the shortage of homes, school ' and hospital finance. He spoke as though Australia had nothing ' to worry about but "unity | tickets" in the ARU. - The Daily Telegraph duly feat ! tured his speech and did not report the comments of Senators McClelland and Keeffe. - &lt; >; ' / - ... ; : . .us. 