 Vietmaati patillc debate s "Withdraw American, i Australian troops!" ! &lt; I says Pf. J, Calms | SYDNEY: The with drawal of United States and Australian troops from Vietnam will have to come sooner or later, Dr. J. Cairns (Labor) told a Sydney public symposium last Wednes day. PglSHOP J. S. MOYES (An- glican) said Australian trooos had bsen sent into a deadend. The Symposium on whether the West should pull out of Vietnam at- traoted a packed audience. Organised by the Australian Institute of Interna tional Affairs the Symposium teams were Dr. Cairns and Bishop ' Mayes against Mr. W. C. Wentworth MHR (Liberal) and Mr. G. Fairburn. The ABC-recorded . proceedings will be broadcast tonight (Wednesday, June 30) and next Wednesday (July 7) over 2FC Sydney at R.15„ p.m. Dr. Cairns said the military opera tion in South Vietnam is ineffective and if it continues will lead to a major war. It should be brought to an end now before it escalates White Paper The attitude of the US and Austra lian government was based on a false estimation that the people of South Vietnam are fighting for freedom - against invasion, and that if South Vietnam goes, all of South East Asia has gone. Quoting the US White Paper "Ag gression from the North," Dr. Cairns said not one Chinese soldier had been found in South Vietnam and not more than 112 Chinese weapons had been found. "Is this a downward thrust from China?" he asked. "If we accept all claims in the White Paper as true, then not more than five per cent of all weapons ,, captured from the Viet Cong are for eign, while 95 per cent have been captured from US supplied forces. "The Viet Cong is over 90 per cent : ligenous and they control 80 per cent of South Vietnam. A national revolution is taking place in South Vietnam," he said. Replying to a question from the audience on how negotiations can commence, Dr. Cairns said that as a first step it was necessary to recog nise that the South Vietnam National ' Liberation Front was the force the US was fighting. He agreed with a questioner that the title of the symposium was wrong, as there were only US and Australian troops in Vietnam. Dr. Cairns, to a further question said the so-called government of South Vietnam was very doubtful. The US came into South Vietnam in 1954. A little later they brought their puppet Diem Ljm Belgium. The people of South Vietnam overthrew Diem and nine ether governments since then. W.C.W. on A-bombs Mr. W. C. Wentworth said that the West was there by invitation of the South Vietnam Government. "If we leave, Asians won't trust us and all of South East Asia will go. ' In 10 years Australia would then be „a Chinese province. "I put those who want the US to withdraw, in the camp of the war mongers. "I believe in a policy oi de-nuclear ising China. "I have always believed in knocking out their nuclear factories." Dr. Cairns: "Even if it means using nuclear weapons?" Wentworth: "Yes". The audience booed. Asked who was the legitimate gov ernment of South Vietnam to negoti ate with, Wentworth agreed that no government had been elected but said the people of South Vietnam were fairly' happy. Mr. Fairbairn said that to negotiate with the National Liberation Front would be a betrayal of the govern ment to which Australia was com mitted A voice from the audience: "Which general?" Mr. Fairburn agreed that there were no Chinese armies in any South East Asian country and he agreed with Dr. Cairns about what he had said about captured arms. Can't kill ideas Bishop Moyes said he had a deep affection for the people of USA, but US governments still had to learn the world cannot be bought by gifts or a big stick. "You cannot kill ideas by killing people who hold them, you can only defeat one idea by another one. Com munism is an idea and a passion, he said. "I once asked a Chinese Bishop why China went communist. " 'We were hungry,' he said, 'and the Chinese people are now better off than they have ever been.' "It was a mistake for the USA to enter Vietnam. There are people in the USA who want to escalate the war and fight China now." Bishop Moyes said that President Johnson's call for negotiation while refusing to recognise the 'vietcong', really meant a demand for surrender. Geneva Agreement Bishop Moyes said: "In 1954 the French recognised Vietnam. Since 1954 the West has broken the Geneva Agreement. "No elections were held ir 1956. "The Geneva Agreement prohi biteci foreign military forces &lt;v bases, he said. "In reply to the Bishops' lettei Sir Robert Menzies said there j were no US bases in South Viet- j nam. I have an authentic map showing 26 US air bases.' Question from the floor: How cai the West justify our presence in Viet nam and say we are fighting for democracy when an election wa: not held in 1956 as laid down bv !he Geneva Agreement? Dr. Cairns: It elections had . held both Menzies and EisenhowV estimated that 80 per cent would havi voted for Ho Chi Min. j W. C. WENTWORTH . . . wants to bomb China. j DR. CAIRNS . . . wants with- j drawal of troops and negotia- j tions. | 