 Asia talks peace: 1 Menzies, war ( MiMii.Tiiiir'niiniiinr»TiiMirgiiiiiiiKwriLl.WJmm-.»m.|ll'>MUIWIl»MJIInamPWrrr.M..iij.mi.i . 1.1. .n lf| J New peace moves in South-ias Asia this iffweek — by Vietnamese, Indonesians and Mal aysians — were answered by intensified war- moves by the United States/Britain and Aus- tralia. In Vietnam a group of prominent Buddhist leaders in Saigon launched a public campaign for an end to the war against the liberation forces. j| The South Vietnam Premier and Vice-Premier were both fquoted as having publicly declared they "wanted peace. But the USA issued a "White Paper" aimed at clearing the way for a gigantic expansion of the Vietnam war; and State Secretary Rusk and others made statements ruling out jjjjpeace by negotiation. Jb The Menzies Government's Defence Minister PaTtridge 3 said that Australia would expand its "aid" to the Vietnam fjtwar if the US wanted it. jl In the Indonesia-Malaysia dispute peace prospects , brightened, following declarations by both. Indonesian Foreign Minister Subandrio and Malaysian Premier Rahman that they j4were prepared for "unconditional negotiations". fTHE British Government White Paper announced that Bri tain would concentrate on rjpjuilding up huge nuclear-cap able forces "east of Suez", -j In Australia, Senator Pal- tridge said if it was, decided to /fnake a "sudden air strike" Igainst Indonesia, a "crack" "'Australian aii squadron now 'Arriving in Borneo would do "a !rst class job". v , Peril that Mountbatten's visit "/Holds for- Australia is shown in the Sydney Daily Telegraph's admis- 4 J&on that its aim is to induce Aus tralia to "maintain and even step jnp" its assistance to Malaysia. si some press reports envisage the possibility of British V-bombers us- 4ng Australia for nuclear strikes \;gainst Indonesia and then depart- fgta leaving Australia to incur the ®|letaliation. Nationalisation by Indonesia of £36 millions worth of US rubber estates will serve to rally the nation more firmly behind th|at Government's anti-imperialist pol icy and may assist to free In. donesia from foreign profiteering. 