 Union demands on agenda for Sth. Aust. Government ADELAIDE: The Labor Gov- ernment's legislative pro gram outlined at the opening of State Parliament last week contained many urgent and progressive measures that will be of benefit to the people, of the State. At the same time the Liberal-domin ated Legislative Council, by contesting the "domestic" Parliamentary Com mittees, gave notice of its obstructive aims. Business for the session just com menced includes amendments - to the Industrial Code, Apprentices Act and Workmen's Compensation Act to bring them into line with the demands of the trade union movement. Super annuation benefits will be provided equal to those paid by the Common wealth and there will be a lower, op tional, retiring age. Capital and corporal punishment, for so long a blot on the State will be abolished. The Government will proceed with the plans for a boat haven and housing area in the Sema phore Park district. Land for Aborigines, stepped up home building, increased funds for education, the building of two new hospitals, and other development plans are among the heavy list proposed. Amendments to the State Constitu tion to end the State's infamous elec toral gerrymander are expected at an early date. Early action is also planned for the townplanning report which has been pigeon-holed for some years. In the Legislative Council chief Lab or spokesman, Mr. Shard, moved that three Labor MLC's and two Lib erals should form the Standing Orders Committee. This was defeated by the Liberal majority and four Liberals and only one Labor member were elected. A similar procedure followed for the other committees. Later the Premier Mr. Walsh com mented "I am disappointed at the attitude of the Opposition in the Legislative Council. It has almost reached a dictatorial approach on matters that have already been sub mitted by the Government in the Council." He said the Government of the day was entitled to a majority on all committees concerned with Govern ment expenditure. It might be as well if the "Honourable Gentlemen" in the Legislative Council were more co operative said Mr. Walsh. The press has found little to be critical about in Labor's program. The News said "With several im portant exceptions such as planning for aboriginal welfare, its rejection of capital punishment and free school books the Labor program does not differ radically from a Liberal pro gram." " At the same time there are fears \ about spending more than the finance available. The News said "But again the cautious note on spending must be sounded. It would be a natural trap for a new eager Government to overstep the bounds of financial dis cretion in its anxiety to begin with an impressive flourish." The Advert iser said "A reasonably tight rein will need to be kept on charges and costs if that expansion (under the Playford Government) is to continue at any thing like the same pace." That these fears are unfounded and that there is great wealth available is shown by the annual report of the Mines Department. This revealed that 44 million tons of iron ore valued at £194 million had been quarried in 1964. However the BHP paying a royalty of 1/6 per ton received this for less than £4 million. An increase in the royalty charged could provide several million pounds for the benefit of the people. 