 Workers'tbasic need is in f amily i living wage Second of a series by L. J. McPHILLIPS Workers' efforts to Increase their w cages ere greatly strength ened when the demands they advance are a reflection of official — and especially national — union demands MANY demands at present being pressed by workers exceed the officially announced demands of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. This is because these official de mands are inadequate for work ers' current needs. This situation calls for a substantial increase in the amount of ACTU demands. The basis for doing this is con tained in current ACTU decisions. The application at present before the Arbitration Commission is con fined to restoring the purchasing power of the basic wage to its June 1964 level. In all the given circumstances this was a sound tactic, but because the amounts claimed are small the claim has aroused very little en thusiasm. This is to be regretted, but even more regrettable is the almost total absence in official ACTU announce ments of perspective for future basic wage claims. Analysis Decision for the current claim was made following a report by the ACTU Research Officer, R. Hawke. This report was by way of an analysis he made of the 1964 basic wage decision. Main gist of this report is: e The trade unions should abandon 1953 as the starting point for the basic wage claim. (This has been the starting point in every application since the system of quarterly adjustments was abolished in October 1953.) The judges have gone as far as they intend to go in restoring the 1953 purchasing power and they have gone a considerable distance. The Arbitration Commission now listens with respect to the wage arguments of the ACTU, to a considerable extent acts upon them and the judges assert the principles of wage fixation advanced by the ACTU. In these circumstances the ACTU should adopt the 1961 and 1964 basic wage judgments as their starting point. In essence In essence this means acceptance at this stage of the basic wage fixed in June, 1964, adjusted — per haps yearly — in accordance with price movements and periodically reassessed on grounds which the judges have accepted and presum ably will continue to accept. This proposition is a far cry from the view expressed by Mr. Hawke in 1960 when he described the Com mission's basic wage decision in that year as showing the useless- ness of basing a case on the Com mission's own judgments. . A Federal Unions' Conference de cision described that 1960 judgment as "evasive, cowardly and spurious.' One leading trade union official of that time expressed the view of many when he put to the Confer ence: "While wo accept that whilst the compulsory arbitration system remains, we cannot do other than periodically take cases to it, we ex press our lack of confidence in it." Since then the Commission has made three wage decisions, viz, a 3 2/- basic wage increase in 1961, a £1 increase in 1964 and a 10 per cent increase in margins in 1963. Each case was accompanied by a vigorous campaign. Nonetheless, each of these deci sions fell a long way short of the unions' claims. They left the basic wage for many workers still well below its 1953 purchasing power and margins for practically all workers below their 1947 purchasing power. Flimsy ground This is flimsy ground on which to reverse the 1960 view. Furthermore, the unions have never based their wage claims solely or mainly on grounds which are necessarily acceptable to the wage fixing tribunals. No good reason exists now for accepting such a proposition. A new basis is needed for future basic wage claims and it is to be found in a decision on this ques tion made first by the ACTU Con gress in 1955 and repeated fre quently since then, including the 1963 Congress. This decision calls for a full fam ily living wage as a basic wage and this is the claim the unions should now advance. A proposal to this effect has al ready been made by several unions and in some areas it is being taken up by workers. A SCENE from New Theatre's current production, "A Penny For a Song", shows (right) the star Sir Timothy Bellboys (Alan Herbert) with his brother Lamprett Bellboys (Arthur Rudkin). 