 Russian buggy bears in town this week From ALF WATT MOSCOW: A taHeeifed froisjpe of Sovief cireiss artists will be ' in Australia this week ©n the first visit of these splendid entertain- ers to our eonntry. ALMOST ail in the troupe are i in world class and have per formed in many countries. Last year the Soviet circus gave over 2,000 performances to 7 mil lion spectators in the German Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Rumania, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Mexico,, India .and Italy. Australia is only one of the many countries which will be favored by a visit this year. i Performing tigers and bears, tiained by masters Nazarova and Berzano, came to Australia by ship !in time for the first performance (in Melbourne. I Those fortunate enough, to get "'tickets, fortunate because the spe cially built circus house is sure to be packed out, will get thrills and pleasure from the animal acts and tht- other artists who. include: , A team of acrobatic jumpers led by V. Dovayako, the only man in the world who can make three 'somersaults and one complete side turn in one jump. &lt; French critics said of him that he ' bieaks the law of gravity. © Tight rope equilibrists led by V. "Voljhansky who won a gold medal land the world champion, title at the k, Belgium competitions., s © A gymnast team led by .M. Niko- "layev who performs complicated and | impressive tricks on a circular hori zontal bar. | © Outstanding jugglers and anti- jpodists, Alexander and Violetta Kiss, | and the tight rope acrobats, the fSolokins. I A light touch will be supplied by INikulin and Shuyudin, funny men of I the circus ring and the screen. | "Hie Soviet circus is developing j rapidly," p. Bardian, chairman of the ; State Circus Committee, said recently. « r>lere are sixteen amateur 1 £e?e's Circus Circles in the Soviet Union and many amateurs are moving ; Jnto professional ranks after addi- ; tional training in the Circus and Variety Artist Academy. The decision has been taken to jbrnld 40 new circus houses, the one jin Moscow will be in a huge hall | with three revolving arenas. ! i Margarita Nazarova seen with her tamed tigers will be a star of Soviet circus guest season in Australia. 