 Reader criticises Palme Dutt article It is with sincere regret that I must protest against some aspects of the article by R. Palme Dutt, "Kashmir, the solu tion" (Tribune, September 22). L-jAViNG been resident in In dia fnr manv vears I do not for one moment defend the former British rule in that country, neither do I believe in other than the truth. I agree with Mr, Dutt that the hasis of India's claim to Kashmir was that Sir Hari Singh the ruler was Hindu. But it is well to remem ber that when the moslem ruler of the State of Junagadgh elected to accede to Pakistan, India immed iately occupied his territory and claimed it as Indian on the grounds that his subjects were in the ma- ority Hindu. Contrast this with their rejection of Pakistan claims on similar grounds (some 80 per cent of Kash mir's population are Muslim). Indeed the separation of British India into India and Pakistan was made on religous grounds. The origin of this partition goes hack to 1933 when the Muslim League failed in their talks with the predom inantly Hindu Indian National Congress, who consistenly refused to concede the political entity of the Muslims, or the right of the League to represent them. In 1940 the Muslim League formally adopted a separ ate state of Pakistan as a Muslim goal when the British left India. This aim was achieved in 1947, Pakistan taking over areas where the population was predominantly Mus lim—thus creating the widely sep arated East and West Pakistan. The Singh family became the ruling dynasty in Kashmir somewhere in 1835-40, long - before the British Government assumed control from the East India Company in 1858. In deed, even the East India Company did not control the Punjab (South of Kashmir) until after the Sikh wars of 1849. So it would be extremely inter esting to know how Gulab Singh, in his remote mountain state of Ladakh, paid money for his neighbouring states of Jammu and Kashmir— which the British did not occupy or control- Regarding Mr. Dutt's references to the over-running of Kashmir by "tribal levies" in 1947, there was no "British Governor" of the North West Frontier Provinces when this oc curred, Pakistan was separated from India on August 15, 1947. The British were no longer in control when the in cursion took place in October 1947. The invasion was not made by "le vies" officered by Britons, but by fanatical Moslem tribesmen coming to the assistance of the Moslems of Kashmir. Sir Hari Singh had hesitated up to this time about choosing between India and Pakistan. He personally favoured India, bub knew his people wished to join Pakistan. His plea for help to India was met on condition that he acceded to India. The entiy of Indian troops to Kashmir was now resisted by the Pakistani Regular Army and fighting began between the two countries on this Issue and has continued sporad ically since. Regarding Mr. Dutt's claim that a plebiscite has been prevented by Pakistan's refusal to withdraw its armed forces. This is contrary to my own belief and such information as I have available. Possibly Mr. Dutt has failed to distinguish between the Pakistani army and the "Azid Kash mir", who are the "Free Kashmir Army", Pakistan's claims are on three grounds— economic, religious and pol itical. Kashmir's only railroad con nections are with Pakistan. Its rivers all run into Pakistan. At the time of division the only reliable all-year- round roads were to Pakistan. The headworks of many of Pakistan's im portant canal systems are located in Kashmir, I regret the necessity of contra dicting an article published in Tri bune. It is important, however, that our paper should have a reputation for truth. I make no claims to be an "expert" on India and Pakistan, but I can describe myself as being well informed. There is much more in dispute; I have only replied to the more glaring discrepancies in Mr. Dutt's article. J. M., (Mairavllle) 