 J. D. Lang— the Bishop Moves of the 1850's | By W. A. WOOD "GROANS and great confusion swept the Royal Australian Circus during last Monday's -patriotic ralfy-i". A report like that might per- \ plex the newspaper reader of to day if he saw it in his daily paper. . . , The Royal Australian Circus no longer stands in York Street, Sydney, and while confusion isn't known at our public meetings, "groans" have yielded to more articulate ways of objecting to what is said by a speaker. But the 1854 reader of the Sydney Morning Herald or The Empire would have known all about the circus and the confu sion. He would also have had a shrewd idea of whose speech at a pro-war rally there would have been most likely to produce the groans. His first guess would have been John Dunmore Lang and if the occasion referred to was the rally to boost Australian support for the Crimean war against Czar Nicholas' Russia, his guess would have been right. Rev. John Dunmore Lang M.A., D.D., as presented to modern Australian youth, is a very res pectable figure. " Not emphasised is the fact that he was a man of the type of Bishop J. S. Moyes or Rev. Alan Walker and other anti-war clergy of today— ready, for a head-on confrontation with the Govern ment if he thought the cause of peace and independence demand ed it; And his courage . was never more needed than on Monday, May; 23, .1854 when he appeared at a war rally to plead the cause of p'eace. Tlie main speakers supported a m'otion that "we. are prepared to submit to the calamities of. war. vinf defence of the great prin ciples of national independence and general civilisation". Lang,' the founder and first minister of Scot's. Church (whose present incumbent, Rev. E. Gwyn Miller . today supports", the "Can berra Vigil" cbmmittee) arose to deny this. Hp questioned whether this realiy was a righteous war. He objected to the people of this colony pronouncing an opinion on .a war in Europe ("great con fusion, in which groans and cheers were mingled" says the Empire's account.) Lang attacked the Sultan of Turkey (Britain's ally in the war) . as "a man who yesterday was a Greek and a Christian and today a Mahomedan" ("Great confu sion here arose and lasted for a few. minutes", says the press re port, "during which three cheers for, the queen were called for and veiY generally respondent to".) . Lang recalled that in 1849 Brit ain's Tory Government had stood aside and allowed Hungary, '.a. noble and chivalrous nation of 12 millions guided by the gallant Kossuth", to be "ridden over" by the Czar. Yet now it was going to 'war. to rescue the despotic. Sultan, v Undeterred by "immense up- - roar", Lang then let loose a blast at Britain's other ally, the French emperor Napoleon III who, he said, might switch sides and threaten Australia from his col-, ony in New Caledonia. fo hecklers claiming thai he was disrupting the. meeting Lang said: "He believed he was never more in the capacity of a min ister of peace than now, and in opposing the adoption of this address, he believed he was do ing more towards the preserva tion of peace than any other man present." There will he no argument ' about that 111 years later. And even then Lang seems to have won, by his courage, some sym pathy even among the most rabid war-supporters of his day. As his speech went on, "hisses mingled with a few cheers" begin to give place to "immense cheering, mingled with hisses" and finally "The Rev. Gentleman resumed his seat amidst a general out burst of cheers, mingled with some expressions . of disap- v proval". No need to guess who was responsible for the groans, the confusion and other expressions of disapproval. It was the mili tarists, the Rightwing clerics, the ideological forefathers of Sir F Packer, of Santamaria . and .Knopfelmacher who today try to .smear as "un- Australian" or "treasonable", anyone who wants peace. They had better be careful oi they will find themselves smeai ing a founding-father of Austra lian independence. ' . : Lang's opposition to the "ihotioi failed that Monday. . night, . but .. his demand for a peaceful, in- dependent Australian foreign policy did not. It was taken up and finds a central place In Communist and Labor movement thinking today. 