 [?] More BHP pits [?] BULL! (NSW): Since four miners were killed #w@ weeks ago at- OBd Bulls mmet owned! fey the Br© ken Hill Pty. Lfd.# mineworkers have been forced to fake strike action to enforce normal safety conditions in other mines owned by this aiant steel monoooflv. Other mine owners, including the State Electricity Commission, are show ing the same preference for production as against respect for safety regula tions. yHL Bulli miners died when j methane gas ignited soon after they had commenced their shift. Before a shift commences it is customary for an inspection to be carried out to ensure that the workings are safe. Two days after the Bulli disaster, men at the Nebo Colliery, owned by Australian Iron and Steel, a BHP subsidiary, went on strike when the management refused to issue safety lamps for gas detec tion. Disregarding the tragic death of the four Bulli miners who were, killed because of a gas explosion and fire, the management claimed that the Act did not require them to supply safety lamps. The men were on strike for two days, and when they returned to work the management still refused to allow them to have gas detection safety lamps. The mine was idle for several days before the mine owners conceded and safety lamns were eranted. i Neglect | Other examples of neglect for | safety since the disaster were: ( © At the Stockton Borehole | . Mine, also owned by the BHP, the ! men had to strike to force the I management to agree to have addi- | tional timber used where there was | a damaged girder. I ©At Newvale Colliery, owned | by the State Electricity Commis- | sion, in the Northern NSW District, I men were withdrawn when the I District check inspector, Mr. Jack | ' Tapp, in answer to a complaint, | found that there was gas present. I ® Men at Coalcliff Colliery, | owned by Conzinc Rio-Tinto (a | British mining monopoly linked S with American mining interests) I -went on strike when the com- J pany breached an agreement and | refused to allow a check inspector | to enter, the mine to examine had | roof conditions. | "Long battle" ! for safety | While the miners and people of Bulli and other South Coast centres | were attending the funerals of the | dead miners, the BHP management of the Nebo Mine had deputies I working in the mine. | During the day they called on them 9 to do miners' work. They refused I and were sent home. I Mr. Lance Nobes, the secretary of 1 the Bulli Miners' Lodge, who was ! working in another section of the I mine when the explosion and fire I happened, said there "had been a S long battle for improved general I safety measures" at the mine. S On numerous occasions, he said, | requests for more "stone dust" to I be spread in the mine had been I refused on the excuse that the | machinery used was defective. ("Stone ! dust" is spread in a mine to lay coal | dust.) i He said there was deep-seated | anger and resentment among the I men at being left down the mine to work for some hours while the fire was raging in another section. (This was exclusively reported in Tribune last week.) A chain reaction of explosions could have killed about 200 men working in the mine at the time. A meeting of members of the Combined Mining Unions has de cided that work will not resume in the Bulli Mine before a full inspection is completed and a three- cornered conference is held with the management, the Miners' Fcd- eration and the Mines Department on safety. The last meeting of the Miners" Central Council expressed the opinion that increased mine accidents were directly related to the neglect of safety in the drive for maximum production, "which in turn brings maximum profits." "Through the establishment ol Safety Committees, this most vital factor should be kept under review at all times so that necessary action can and must be, taken to preserve life and limb 