 AustraSiap wharf ies : accept invitation to Hanoi conference SYDNEY: Australian waterside workers will he represented at a conference in Hanoi I North Vietnam I next month. JHE conference has been I convened by the Inter- national Trade Union Committee for Solidarity with the Workers and People of South Vietnam. The Waterside Workers' Federal Council at its meeting in Sydney last Week (May 3-7) decided to accept an invitation to send a representative to the conference. Earlier In the week the Council had condemned the Menzies Government decision to send combat troops to Vietnam. Mr. E. Roach W.W.F. Assistant Fed eral Secretary, told Tribune that the decision to accept the invitation to the Hanoi Conference had been unanim ous as also was the choice of the representative. Mr. R. Rose, Newcastle Branch Sen ior Vice-President and a member of the Federation Federal Council will represent the Federation. Council's resolution on Vietnam con demned the policy of the Menzies Government and called for action by the ACTU against- this policy. When the ACTU Executive failed to give' a lead fOr the action proposed the W.W.F. Council criticised the ACTU decisions and said: — "The ACTU leadership has a heavy responsibility to take every action both industrially and politically in the name of world peace to safeguard un ionists, their wives and families and to prevent the youth of this country from becoming gun fodder in the U.S. war of aggression against people fight- . ing for self determination." The Council repeated its call for a special Congress or Federal Unions' Conference without delay to deal with proposals for action against Menzies' policy. Rejecting employers' proposals to transfer waterfront labor from a casual to a permanent basis the Coun cil said they "would not be of value to either Waterside Workers or the in dustry generally." Federal Officers were instructed to meet the employers as soon as pos sible and demand an answer on claims for a non-contributory pension scheme, a Mechanisation Fund and other out standing matters in accordance with the All Fort Conference Decisions." Mr. Roach said the All-Ports Con ference decisions called for increased wages, attendance money, annual leave and long service leave. National stop-work meetings are to hear a report on negotiations to-date and proposals for an industrial cam- paign if negotiations are unsuccessful. Plasterers1 action gYDNEY: The NSW Council of the Plasterers' Federation last week in Sydney called on the Menzies Government "to reverse its decision to send Australian troops to fight iii Vietnam." Strong condemnation was levelled at the Government "for trading 800 Australian lives for American dollars, and to succumbing to American pres sure of threatening economic sanc tions on Australia for its failure . to play a' more' prominent role in Ameri can aggression in Asiatic theatres." "This Council is mindful of Ameri can policy in SE Asia which they see as a strategic and political area to further American capitalistic mono poly." "American intervention in the Viet nam civil war has not revealed any curbing, of large landholders and their undemocratic powers over the peasants, nor has America been able to show that she has won the respect and confidence of the working class,"' the union said. The Wool and Basil Workers Union, has asked the ACTU to organise mas sive trade union opposition to '.the; sending; of Australian troops to Viet ; nam : pnnteo ana Dublishea by D fc ( n r» - i 68 Da v ' ' Street Sydney a - 21 Ross, . Street Forest Lodge - 