 LBJ caught out by US correspondents MEW YORK World corre- spondent Richard Starnes wrote at the end of last year: "It is no longer disputed in informed circles that the Viet Cong insurgency is supported, at least passively, by a large ' majority of the .peasants in that non-viable non-country we call South Vietnam. "Guerilla warfare withers and dies if it is not supported by the people." Radio commentator David Schoen- brun, speaking in Springfield on February 22 last said: "Ninety per cent of the Viet Cong army killed or captured in South Vietnam" were fighting "within ten miles of the villages where they were born. "The Administration has used such terms as 'red terrorists' and 'Viet Cong' to disguise the fact that most of these anti-Government forces are of South Vietnamese origin." And New York Post -correspon dent Jack Anderson wrote on April 21: "In South Vietnam the Viet Cong have used against us pre cisely the same tactics our fore fathers used so successfully to wrest independence from the British." Ti the South Vietnam Liberation Army were made up of terrorists it would not have the wholehearted support of the South Vietnamese peasants, says "New Times" writer L. Sedin in the current issue, avail able in Australia. He replies to anti-guerilla propa ganda by President Johnson and others Men who kill their compatriots and walk about with their heads on pikes (one of Johnson's accusa tions against the Vietnamese pat riots) would never have been able to liberate three-fourths of South Vietnam and lead nine million of its people, adds Sedin. In describing all the patriots as "Viet Cong" which means Vietnam ese Communists, the U.S. invaders are using a routine method of the nazis in the second world war, he adds. A document issued from Hitler's headquarters on September 16; 1941, cited at the Nuremberg trial in cluded this directive: "Every instance of unrest against the German occupation authorities, irrespective of the circumstances, should be treated as originating from communist sources." In the same way U.S. propaganda speaks only of "Vietcong" although it knows that the South Vietnam National I deration Front includes besides communists, other political parties and Buddhist and Catholic groups This was admitted by Newsweek on April 12. Sedincites U.S. writers as them selves admitting that the "Viet cong" patriots come from the people and are supported by them. The real terrorists in South Viet nam are, of course, the U.S. invad ers, with their napalm and phos phorous bombs and their public ex ecutions of captured patriots, which even the children are forced to watch— lor instance the execution ot Le Duan in the Da Nang stadium "All these bring back to mind the nightmarish days of Hilter's New Order in Europe" says Sedin. U.S. Senator George Aiken (adds Sedin) said on April 21 he found it hard to understand what the U.S. hoped to gain by sending out 200 planes to destroy a single Vietna mese village "That is indeed hard to under stand', says Sedin. "But remember how Hitler's S.S. destroyed Lidice in Czechoslovakia or Oradour in France, or thousands of Soviet villages. "These seemingly senseless acts ot savagery have a deliberate purpose —to break the people's will to re sist. "But history has shown that no teiror, however harsh, can break the will of patriots." MODERN mobile rocket launchers for use in. army tactical operations roll past the review stand in Prague, in socialist Czechoslovakia, during the recent parade celebrating the 20th anniversary of the victory over the fascist alliance in World War II. 