 PEACE CONGRESS APPLAUDS USSR. AID TO VIETNAM i By W. E. GOLLAN r " i MR. W. E. GOLLAN. a I j member of the executive f ! of the Australian Congress j I for International Disarms- j ment, spent several months j I in Europe prior to and | j during the recent World I | Peace Congress in Hel- f j sinki, Finland. | | He was a member of the j j special committee on j j Vietnam. J JjjVERY participant in the recent world peace gather ing at Helsinki, whatever his politics, displayed very warm and friendly support for the Vietnamese people. The 96 United States dele gates from many walks of life joined in the general estimate by all delegations that Vietnam was the victim of US aggres sion. The Soviet Union held a specially important place because of its lead ing role in the peace struggle and its aid to Vietnam. Soviet delegation leader Alexander Korneichuk also condemned the US attempt to force a serious diplomatic defeat on Vietnam by proposing "negotiations" while massive U.S. forces occupied key positions in South Vietnam and continued to bomb the North. Gratitude The Vietnamese leaders themselves testified to the extent of Soviet moral and material aid to Vietnam. The leader of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam delegation, Dr. Le Dinh Tham, said at a plenary Congress session: "We thank the USSR, who by all possible means (my emphasis, W.G.) support our patriotic struggle and strengthen our national defence, thus enabling us to safeguard more effec- tively the security and sovereignty of our people." To no other country was such a reference made. The South Vietnam National Lib eration Front delegation also thanked the Soviet Government by name for its offer to send volunteers and arms to South Vietnam at any time on the request of the NLF. That the NLF has not made any such request shows the sincerity of its further statement that it wishes to avoid extending the war because of its possible development into a nuclear war. This contrasts vividly with the attitude of the USA which, despite itsi enormous superiority in . arms, constantly seeks to extend the war by. involving other nations and by its air-raids on the DRV. In this as in all other matters the USSR and Vietnam adopted a com mon attitude. A World Peace Council delegation, which had just visited the DRV, re ported to the Helsinki Congress that it ; had seen many Soviet-supplied anti-aircraft guns guarding all bridges, and other installations. It also saw sites prepared for ground-to-air missiles. The effectiveness of this equipment was shown by evidence supplied by the DRV Government showing that over 400 planes had been destroyed by ground fire. The delegation also interviewed some of the shot-down US pilots. China's attack Despite these facts the Chinese arid Albanian delegation leaders accused the world peace movement and the USSR of being, in effect, tools of imperialism and "alleged they were seeking a negotiated settlement based on a Vietnamese defeat. Congress delegates heard these charges with incredulity and dis missed them as not worth serious attention. However, the same allegations have since been carried by the Peking paper Ta Kung Pao and re peated over Peking radio. Ultimately, of course, the Vietnam question must be settled at the cgnierence tame. Such persistent and misleading attacks of Chinese Peoples' Repub lic spokesmen on the USSR, far from helping the final achievement of a settlement based on the Geneva Agreement rather play into the imperialists' hands and weaken the whole struggle for unity in defence of peace and national in dependence. 