 SA Labor Day march led by the Premier DELAIDE — With each year, the Labor Day march in South Australia reflects more the traditions and cur rent demands of the work ing class movement. The tameness, the employer - inspired "partners in industry" approach the large participatior of employer floats, of former years, are being broken down. This' year it was gratifying that the march was led by Premier Walsh and other Ministers of the Labor Government, in office after 32 years The Waterside Workers' Federa tion featured the attack upon its organisation and all unions — by the Menzies' Government. A wharfic with a dirty old sink in a pusher introduced Menzies as "Lord sink of the war ports." Menzies him self followed,, dressed in an- old- time admirals' uniform and carry ing a thistle and brief case lab elled "plans tor unions". The PM led a chained unionist bearing the words "tame -cat". The 35 hour working week de mand was a feature of the march one banner demanding its immed iate application to the car industry where sackings have taken place. The Trades and Labor Council equal pay committee display showed women in national costume of those countries, including the socialist countries, where equal pay has been won while an Australian women carried a question mark. The Seamen's union entered a float advocating the national over seas shipping line, and took up the. peace issues of conscription and the war in Vietnam. Amalgamated Engineering Union banners for nationisation of mon- | opolies, restoration of the purchas- ing power of wage margins, an end to penal powers, and dealt with the question of industrial safety. Building unions marched behind the Building Trades Federation ban ner reading "One industry — one union." Other banners called for an increased basic wage, price control, a paid picnic day for build ing workers and levelled trench- ment criticism at Arbitration. The Electrical ' Trades Union featured the four weeks annual leave demand. Govennent departments entered more displays than usual this year. In the afternoon, the Labor Day Celebrations' Committee held a successful picnic in the West Park- lands. 