 After the dark nights of fascism, the flowering of the arts in the GDR From JUDAH WATEN, who is visiting Europe. "THERE has been much re building done in West Ber lin and there are very fine new buildinqs to be seen, some cultural, many more housing insurance companies, banks and other monopolies. Billions of dollars have been poured into West Berlin. Until proper controls were im posed the German Democratic Re public was systematically looted from West Berlin; so much so that it is estimated that it was a con siderable factor in the so-called "economic miracle" of West Ger many and West Berlin. One of the strongest impressions I formed of West Berlin was of the dominating presence of all the 1 giant German monopolies like Sie mens and Borsig that flourished un der Hitler. Hitler and his gang are gone, but the black:coated bandits who fin anced them are well and truly around. Apart from this sinister aspect West Berlin more or less is like any other large capitalist city, right down to the Coca-Cola ads. I daresay there are more con certs and operas in West Berlin than in most capitalist cities; all Germany has a rich musical life. But rubbing shoulders with the best are the worst, the sleazy strip tease shows and the cabarets. Worse than this, however, is she revival of old military tradition, through the restoring of statues of old military brigands like Moltke. I had the impression that there were few statues of great demo cratic figures to be found in West Berlin, nor were there many streets named after them. Heine, for instance, seemed to me to be ignored. In fact, in West Germany he is still traduced as in Hitler's day, but now under cover of "literary criticism". ? ' |N the German Democratic Republic it is different. In the cities and towns the mem ory of . the great democratic and humanistic figures of the past is revived; hot only Communists but . liberal statesmen like Walter Rathe- nau, let alone writers like Heine after whom there is a street named in every town we visited. In the GDR the anti-fascist sur vivors of the concentration camps and of exile are paid pensions and have an honored place m the com munity. I met a number of them in Berlin . and in provincial cities, writers, political workers, industrial work ers. . For instance, there was the poet Eva Lippold-Brockorff who spent 10 years in Hitler's prisons and whose husband was executed eight weeks before the war ended. She is today a noted translator of Ame rican verse and hopes to translate Kath Walker's collection of poems. Then I met a worker secretary of a Socialist Unity Party branch in Halle who has an unbroken record . of 50 years of activity, including eight years in Buchenwald. In Berlin, the capital of the GDR and throughout the GDR you will see in the bookshops the books of . all the writers suppressed by Hit ler, regardless of whether they were Communists or not. The whole of the humanistic Ger man literature of the 20th century, an enormous literature of great : wealth and diversity of talent has been made- available to the Ger man people and has : formed a sound basis for the new literature that has emerged in the GDR. A single publishing house has published complete editions of the works of J. Beecher, Brecht, Feucht- wanger, Leonard Frank, Heinrich Mann, Thomas Mann, Anna Segh- ers, Friedrich Wolf and Arnold Zweig. Many Jewish writers have been republished. At the moment the great Yiddish writer Sholem Alei- chem is enjoying a vogue. The short stories of Sholem Asch - are being widely read. It was a GDR publishing house that published the first book of poems of Nelly Sacks, written un der the impact of the destruction of the German Jews, poems full of the deepest religious imagery. There is no artistic conformity in spite of what the capitalist press keeps reiterating about the social ist world. Many trends are represented in the arts in the GDR. In Halle I saw the work of a talented primi tive painter named Albert Ebert. He mostly paints scenes of every day life. He is well supported and his work is to be found in most galleries. In music, all the modern Western composers are performed, as well as contemporary German compos ers, both GDR and from the Fed eral Republic. I saw an opera by the West Ger man composer Werner Egk, staged at the State opera house, and a wonderful performance it was. The opera houses, even in the smaller cities, are of a very high standard, maintaining the finest German musical traditions. Their repetoires are extensive. In Dessau, a city of 100,000 peo ple, the opera house staged the whole of Wagner's Ring as well as operas by Mozart and Verdi and several modern composers. In the State theatre next door there were during the year per formances of plays'by Sean O'Casey, Shakespeare, Ibsen and Aristo phanes, as well as the classical and modern German playrights. The author of the article in the Composing Room of the East German newspaper "Die Wahrheit". An illustration from the book j 