 [?] Soviet economy I From RUPERT LOCKWOOD I in Moscow S AOSCOW: Soviet Premier I Kosygin last week scath- I ingly criticised western press -'inventions about some kind I of crisis in the Soviet econ- I nmv." ; I Giving the .first main report at j the central committee meeting of | the Communist Party of the I Soviet Union, Kosygin said:— I "Our enemies are dismayed to see I many independent Afro-Asian count- ! ries select the socialist way. of I development, study the experience I of the Soviet Union and other | socialist countries and develop I economic and political , contacts i with us. I Brezhnev explained in his report I that the economic changes "pro- I ceeded from the necessity to clear | away, to remove all barriers I obstructing full scope for the I action of the economic laws of i socialism." I Gains made | in 7 years 1 Kosygin pointed out that indus- 2 trial production was up by 84 per ! cent in the 7 year plan period I ending this year, instead of the 80 I per cent envisaged, electric power ! had been more than doubled, steel I output had increased from 55 I million tons to 91 million tons — J greater - than the aggregate steel I rviwln nf "Rrifoin Pronno cinri JrA .ft. UUU West Germany combined. "They would like to discredit socialism, its economic methods, its efficiency in the sphere of economy. However, this is a use less attempt. "The important feature of the economic reforms proposed is that they will strengthen the position of socialism in the economic competition between the two different social systems." Kosygin and CPSU secretary Brezhnev (who delivered the second main report) dealt with certain defects in the present ; socialist . economy, not as failures but in order to remove obstacles to speedier advances in the Soviet Union towards communism. - ' Oil, 'natural gasj engineering, metal working and chemical : indus- tries had more than doubled their output. But socialism offers far greater opportunities. "We must admit," said Kosygin, "that the advantages and opportunities offered by the - socialist system of economy are still far from being used in full." Bureaucracy was put under fire by both Soviet leaders. Brezhnev gave as an example of bureaucratic barriers to progress the fact that to introduce a new oil drilling device of proven worth required the signatures of 15 representatives of different organisations. Another Central Committee mem ber Zarobyn, cited to the meeting a case where 30 different signa tures had been required on a single matter. Kosygin said "Our administrative apparatus is greatly over staffed and costs too much." Delays in bringing new . plants into production leading to the freezing of funds and facilities and defects in research work and application of new technological processes devised by Soviet scien tists were subjected to criticism. Automation was proceeding too slowly and the tendency was to build large enterprises in' cities instead of decentralising, leaving as Kosygin complained "consider able reserves of manpower in small towns." Reforms in management Kosygin told the meeting improvements in economic manage ment are now being carried out by almost all European socialist countries. The meeting, while re-emphasis ing the Soviet Union's policies of peaceful coexistence, concentrated on radical economic reforms be cause the Soviet's giant industries have outgrown the present methods of management by the 1957 terri torial economic councils; As the -various branches of industry become more specialised and integrated they require managerial organisation on a branch basis under central direc tion to allow co-ordinated planning to provide for the expansion of technical facilities, finance, labour and wage .policies and more inde pendence and initiative for branch management. To aid management reforms which were unanimously adopted the meeting decided to set up new economic ministries. In addition to greater managerial initiative there will be opportunities for fuller flowering of workers' initiative, speedier application or new technology and automation, increased material and moral incentives to labor, improvements in cost accounting, price assess ment, labor productivity ana quality and distribution of goods. All these measures are aimed to raise real wages and the well-being of the Soviet people quickly ana spectacularly and augment t capacity of the Socialist camp maintain peace and cu aggressors. Secretary Brezhnev referred to the need for a big lift in asI?n : ture which has this year bee" affected by droughts while otne areas have been water-logged, foreshadowed vast irrigation a drainage projects. I It was - significant that one of the Soviet Union's top agricultural scientists, 47-years-old Fedor Ku a kov, replaced Vitaly Titov as sec retary of the CPSU. Kulokov been an agronomist since 19 in 1964 became head of the : Agricultural Department. I ' The. Central Committee meet ! resolved to convene the J gress of the CPSU, expected to held early in the first half o 