 The making of a great trade union — M— — .. 1WW.BVHJW .IMIIL1 1.1 UiUM— By henry McCarthy I . . . who worked as a 1 1 wharfie for six years in 1 i Sydney and Melbourne. i The almost unceasing press attacks on wharhes are always dosed with attacks on the Communist Party. If the press had their way a Communist would be denied the right to breathe, let alone belong to a union. Should one or more become union officials, this, according to the press, spells disaster for the workers. "THEY will cease to think and act like Australians and all their union rules and instruc tions will come direct from Moscow. In fact if ever an organisation proved these claims to be tripe, it Is the Waterside Workers' Federation. July 14 was the fourth anniversary of the death of Jim Healy. He became general secretary of the Federation in'1937. For about 20 of his 24 years as Federation leader he was a member of the Central Committee of the Com munist Party. During this period, when he worked closely with all who were interested in the welfare of the wharfies, the Federation made its greatest advances up to that time. The Healy era saw the end of divi sions and hatreds bred by the vicious "Bull System" and associated bad Wnmwimmmmwtwumfuitnuiwiitntwimtiiuniuniiuiwnnitniiinniiitiif 7/// conditions which had robbed wharfies of every shred of dignity associated with a man's right to a job. Under the "bull System," militant workers were victimised, and denied the right to work. It was an auction block of labor, a hang-over from the days of the slave mart. Wharfies were picked up for a job outside the gate and outside pubs. It was, "Hey! you in the dirty sweater . . ."You, Darkie . . . you! in the greasy shirt.' ' With an end to this insult to human dignity came the basis for unity and organisation that has nurtured the mateship and militancy among wharfies that is - legend the world over. It was the wharfies themselves that wrought these changes when they found the way to unity as a result of the efforts of the Communists, members of the Labor Party and other workers of no political party. mnmrnmniiimmiimmimmwrnnmillllllllliwr Mr:mwil'Wlllll!IWIIIIIII!!!h The Waterside Workers' Federation today is living proof that they suc ceeded. Its powerful struggle under today's leaders brings strength to the struggle of all Australian working people for better living standards and for democratic rights. The Federation's greatest days are still ahead. Despite propaganda to the contrary, there is more cargo handled and less hours lost through strike action on the wharves today than for many years. Since 1955 cargo handled has in creased by 10 million tons per year and three of the last six years were the lowest on record for time lost through stoppages. But there was a period on the Sydney waterfront, remembered by old-timers as the "dark years," be tween 1925 and 1937, that were really "golden years" for the shipowners. In the whole of those 20 years not one strike took place. During these two decades of indus trial peace wharfies were as brutally " exploited as any workers in the world. It is described by Tom Nelson, the secretary of the Sydney branch, as "a period when the union officials had the utmost faith in arbitration." Why worry? That is very briefly something of what the waterfront was like in the past. There may be some who will say, "Why worry about the past? It's the present that's important." True, hut it is the shipowners who want the general public and, even more, the latter-day wharfies, to know as little as possible about the past. And more, it is necessary to know something about the shipowners as employers to understand the struggles of the wharfies and other maritime workers. Today The waterfront is a much better work-place today than it was in the thirties. Wharfies have a roster system that ensures equalisation of work, they have holiday pay, sick pay and appearance pay. They have an efficient first aid service, there are modern dining rooms on some wharves, and other amenities. But in not one instance were these amenities given to them by the ship' owners. They were won, after often bitter struggle and sacrifice, in many cases after they were an accepted necessity in other industries. While volumes have been written disparaging the wharfie, relatively few facts have been written about him and the industry he works in. Costly methods Statistics prove that he is among the world's most efficient dockers, working under the most primitive of cargo handling conditions. Shipping authorities themselves admit that cargo handling equipment on Australian wharves, particularly in Sydney, are responsible for at least a 10 per cent, increase in shipping freights between Australia and North America. The Sydney Sunday Telegraph ad mitted in a recent article that wharf facilities had "grown little from the horse and dray days." It said that recent shipping con gestion in Sydney had been the worst since World War 2. Ships in the harbor waiting for berths had varied from 38 to 48 a day. Yet, blame for the slow turn around of shipping is usually laid at the door of the wharfie. In no other industry in Australia is the worker so completely con scripted by the employer. A wharfie is at his beck and call six days and six nights a week and in certain emergencies can be forced to work on Saturday night. About one-third of his working time is compulsory overtime. In what other industry do workers work 12 hours and more a week overtime and get a pay that compares with a wharf ie's? Should he refuse to work, the Australian Stevedoring Industry iiiniiiiiiiiii mum limn j Authority will crack down with the most savage penalties. For instance, in the last two months Sydney and Melbourne wharfies have been fined in wages well over a quarter of a million pounds. Hostages These savage penalties are usually imposed under what wharfies have aptly named the "hostage system." For what it considers a breach of its harsh discipline, the ASIA im poses one or more "working days" on the wharfies concerned. Suppose the penalty is "three working days." this means that they cannot return to work until the port Is free of dispute for three straight working days. In certain circum stances their suspension could run to weeks. Recently the ASIA fined the whole of the port of Melbourne (over 500Q men) nine days' attendance money. This exceeded the £130,000, or £12/14/3 a man. The Melbourne men had stopped work in protest against an Arbitra tion Court fine of £2000 with costs ag;ainst the Federation. Most members throughout Australia were fined three days' attendance money for taking part in a national stoppage for wage increases, pensions and other demands. Savage penalties are handed out daily and indiscriminately against a band of men who are essential to Australia's economy. They go on working in an arduous industry and fighting back against these attacks from a foreign-domin ated shipping conference that has no other interest in Australia than to extract from the labor of its people the ultimate in profit. NEXT WEEK: Politics on the waterfront. ..j- TRUCKS queue up to unload at Wharf 25, Pyrmont, in Sydney, last Friday. 