 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman |F it weren't so serious it would be laughable! The United States aggression in Vietnam is to enable the Vietnamese people to enjoy the fruits oi the "free world" and maybe if they are lucky they could build a paradise somewhat like the American way of life. Now we are told that the New ¥ork press has launched a desperate crus ade to seek solutions to vital economic and social problems plaguing that city. Here are some of their findings: POVERTY: Nearly one fifth of the population now live in impoverished conditions,, with sub-standard income, in cramped, poorly heated, unsanitary, rat-infested apartments.. YOUTH: About 70,000 youths are roaming the streets, out of school and but of work. POLICE: The largest municipal police force in the world (27,000) has failed to generate much respect tor the law Half of the nation's narcotics addicts now live in New York. Illicit gambling and prostitution flourish In after-hours joints in Harlem, "reefers" ! (marijuana cigarettes) are smoked f openly and prostitutes, as young as a 13, solicit openly. Why no raids? '-'Some of our best customers are f cops," said a barman, . ' g # «= ! TV/TT. ISA Mines Ltd. and its friends f are now engaged in a character i assassination job on miners' leader jj Pat Mackie. ; ? Workers at Mt. Isa tell of the story ; | the police were putting around the ' i pubs prior to Pat making his appear- j \ ancce in the town last Sunday week, j According to the police, who made ! j out they were "in sympathy with the = men" it was "rumoured" that Pat bad j ! jumped a ship in Sydney and was ' j "shooting through" with strike money! j i Just as well he managed to get j I back into the town to speak for him- ; 5 self' I jj := J \ A worker told us that he sought bank : : finance to build a three bedroom ! » coUage. - | He was required to get three quotes. \ These were £4,200. £6.250 and £6 500 : i t 'or the same cottage. The lowest got the contract and tne ; »vJidor did a first class job paid ' better than award wages and made 1 mcney. j What a cop the others would have | r>-or1«l | ; " - " : i Printed and published by D B j t Young. 163 ; .Day Street, Sydney; ?at 1 ! 21 -Ross Street Forest Lodge ' f 