 "Critics" silent on wage issue By our Industrial Correspondent Despite criticisms by the Menzies Government and by employers of aspects of the much discussed Vernon Committee Report on the economy, they are all united in restricting and controlling wage levels. THIS Committee's report on i wage assessmenr is aimosr identical with the reasoning in the majority judgement of Justices Gallagher, Nimmo and Sweeney in the 1965 basic wage-margins case. This reasoning and the result of its application to wage assessment have been completely rejected by the trade union movement. This Report was submitted to the Government one month before the 1965 wage decision of the Arbitration Commission. Public comment on this fact obliged Minister for Labor Mc- Mahon to deny that the employers or Judges had access to the Report before the Commissioners' 1965 de cision. Workers' suspicions on this may be heightened by the fact that the Com mittee chairman was Sir James Vernon, head of Colonial Sugar Refinery, and included other promi nent representatives of emnlovers. Supports views of judges Three factors should be noted in relation to this Report and wage assessment. They are: The Committee's views are not new. They have all been previously advanced by spokesmen for employ ers and the Menzies Government in opposition to the trade unions. The Report coincides in general and in detail with the majority views of the Judges, who will deal with the 1966 wage case. Consequently the views of these Judges, so vigor ously rejected by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, are now strengthened by a so-called "expert" . .. committee. The Committee's Report Is now available to the employers and will undoubtedly be used by then, in opposition to Union claims early next year. uespiie menzies puDiic criticism of the Report, his Government's representative will support its find ings on wage assessment and will join employers in using it against the unions in wage cases before the Arbitration Commission. Will be used against unions Because of all this the position of the employers will be greatly I strengthened in opposition to the unions' claims. Two important views submitted by the employers and adopted by the 1965 majority decision are: The Arbitration Commission's duty ia not merely to settle indus trial disputes by awarding wages it considers just and reasonable. It must, in fact, use its position to affect the economy. Assessment of wages according to movements in prices and produc tivity must be replaced by assessment according to price stability. The recent ACTU Congress decided to reaffirm the prices-productivity formula. Next year's wage claim will he based upon this formula. The Judges would have to desert the reasoning of the 1965 wages deci sion before the unions could succeed with the prices-productivity claim. The Vernon Committee Report sup ports the Judges and employers up to the hilt by specifically opposing the unions' prices-productivity for- mula and declaring "price stability should he central to the Commission's task." In fact they propose amending the Arbitration Act to ensure this being done. Drag on award wages Other points on which the Com mittee supports the employers are: Both basic wage and margins should he assessed at the same time. This should be done annually with so-called price stability being the main factor and living costs of only secondary importance. a Over-award payments do not prove "capacity to pay" and so are not a ground for increasing award wages. Because total earnings exceed flat award rates these should be restricted and increase slower than national productivity. Irrespective of the academic value of the Committee's work, its findings on wage questions will assist em ployers and make the winning of wage increases through Arbitration proceedings more difficult and doubt ful than ever. Hi . iOR'i . ' 