 'We must work for humanity, | for the people' "|"HE German Democratic Republic and socialist countries do not intend that a Hitler shall ever be allowed to rise again , said Mr. B. Vickers, a West Australian writer. "I do not think the people of West Germany would want it to happen, but some of the evidence is disturbing. He recently attended the Wei mar Writers' Congress in East Germany as a member of the Aus tralian delegation. After a good look at the wall, and crossing through it, he said that the "puny little" Berlin wall is a godsend to the peace of Europe. "I went over to West Berlin, where there is no doubt that some Nazi elements had a voice in the government. They have a say in the press, and this is power." If the Powers stopped playing poli tics with Germany and a divided Berlin, the people would live to gether amicably. "Until then the wall safeguards the peace of Europe, although it is a most unimpressive thing in many parts." Mr. Vickers is very frank about his apprehensions before he arrived in Berlin. "I must confess I had grave doubts," he said. "Some of the propaganda that fills our press had rubbed off on me. I expected to see something of a police state — everybody glum, drab clothing and so forth. "But it seemed to me that - the people there feel just as free as we do in Perth. "It was the same in the Soviet Union, where, with other Austra lian writers, I was invited after the Congress. "In both countries I moved about on my own just as freely as I do there. "When I could speak to people, I did- so, and they often found some-one who spoke English to keep the conversation going. "In East Germany I saw no-one who was ill-fed; everyone seemed well clothed and happy. . I stood out side a factory gate at 7 a.m. and watched men and women troop into work laughing, looking happy and content. -In the streets I saw people dining in good restaurants. "I went to a variety theatre in East Berlin where, by the look of them, many of the uudience were workers "Although I could not understand the language, it was obvious that some of the . jokes were political , satire and the audience roared. . "In fact, German satire seemed to be more biting than we would tolerate here. - "The G.D.R. did. a marvellous job with the Writers' Congress. "They did not attempt to organise us. We were able to find and make friends and have conferences with writers from many countries. "The place of writers in the com munity was rn important part of the discussion by writers of the G.D.R. "On the day that the writers' manifesto was adopted, every .coun try attending had a spokesman at the Goethe Theatre in Weimar, with the usual headphones and translations into each language for the visitors The emphasis throughout was on humanity, positive content, the ,«o nity of man. g' "Tibor Dery, a Hungarian writer an old man who servea many year' in gaol, repeatedly stressed that we must -work for the people, for humanity. 1 Travelling along a country roari with Trudy Adler, I saw a lot of women working in a field, so we pulled up and talked to them. "There were about 30 of them planting potatoes, and I learnt from them that this was a communai farm. "Once they realised I Was ' friendly, they turned in into quite a party. I asked them about the communal farm. They all said life was much better now. In the old days they . all had a little bit of land ano slaved on it. Now they all helped and were not expected to do the heavy work they had done in the past. "I did not want to go to Buch- enwald, because I thought it would turn out to be a spate of hatred and hate is not a good thing in my opinion. "The interpreters were mainly men who had been prisoners in the camp, but they did not talk of hatred. Therefore it was very impressive. "The only things left were the gravestones and ovens. It was enough to see this. I was sur prised to find that 5,000 British and Americans had been butchered there. "A West German- liberal of the old school summed up for me the differences between the two Ger- manies. "I met htm in East Germany at the castle of his son-in-law, a baron who renounced his title and is s physicist. We walked in the woods alone. "He told me West Germany was an affluent society, but a fragmented society — every man for himselt 'In East Germany', he said the or- I dinary man has not got a motor- j car, perhaps no refrigerator, but he J has something we have not got and : we can thank the socialist countries j for giving it to him — ideals. That is why the socialist countries are winning hands down'." Mr. Vickers found the Soviet -Union very interested in Australian | writing, in any sort of positive literature that gave some hope for | humanity and a world people could h , live in happily. "They knew a great deal about Australian literature, not only m writing circles. "Once when I was in the street, j leaning over a parapet on the a I kva river, boys of 17 or 18 were ey - ra ing off the girls parading. 1 "One of the boys asked in Russian if I was a tourist. When I W him who I was, he spoke m «I lish. li "I found that three of the boys B had read my books. The mana» M a tractor factory in Tashken Jg read a book of mine. But tw 11 tralians I met had never hear" » me or my books. II "To sum up, as an old J I am satisfied socialism can onay to work without any loss of P || freedom." Eli ' MAGAZINE PEOPI 