 esestiw— ' » u.. \ . ' i -\4 lean you get? EffiSja Iksh t jfl HAT is it to be "un- | Australian"? B Is it "un -Australian" to B press for an .Australian tele- M vision network showing Aus- w tralian programs written, act- B ec and produced by Australian B artists? |S Or is it more Australian to jjjl buy all the third-rate violence B and cheesecake and zac-a- ffi dozen clowns , that some other B country wants to sell? |1| The "untouchables," or Australian S television, the owners of the big ''||g| commercial stations can do this, 111 and still claim they are not "un- "lljji Australian." This table will give you some idea: FILMS IMPORTED FOR TELEVISION Year ended 30th June: ; . U.S. U.K. , Other Countries percent percent percent 1957 75 18 7- 1958 ' 80 10 10 1959 88 9 3 1960 88 10 2 1961 85 12 3 1962 84 15 1 1963 - 83 17: — . (Source Australian Broadcasting Control Board Annual Reports). The National TV Congress to be held in the Grace Auditorium, - Sydney, on March 20 and 21 will give all, genuine Australians a chance to discuss the Vincent Sen ate report on Television. The major criticisms of Austra lian television by the Vincent Senate committee are: — Not enough— Australian drama. Too much drama of crime, violence and horror. In imported drama, a mono tony of themes of crime, violence, horror, and domestic comedy. Not enough news, particularly international news in the news bulletins. Lack of a controversial or critical element. ? 0NE of the hundreds of or ganisations already sup porting, the TV Congress in March is the Australian Rad io, Television and Screen Writers' Guild. Mr. R. Lane, the secretary of . the Guild, who has just made a fact-find ing trip to England, made this comment on the , forthcoming Congress. "'The Writers' Guild strongly sup ports the National T.V. Congress. Our main interest in Australian television is in the field of drama, and this interest is two-fold. We have a natural concern in wishing to see drama reflecting our own national way of life shown upon the television screens of this country; so that Australian child ren will not grow up saturated with the manners and accents of other countries; that they will not come to accept the neurotic and violent images produced by American tele vision as a basis on which to mould their lives. We also have a natural concern for the existence of the dramatic writer in this country. That he should be allowed to practise and develop his craft in his own land, and should be able to earn a proper living by so do ing. These two interests, national and professional, are clearly inter twined. Without practising professional writers there can be no indigenous Australian television drama. The refusal of the Government to insist upon even a small quota of Australian-written-and-produced tele vision drama has forced many of our best writers to leave Australia and take up residence overseas. While conditions here remain as they are, these writers cannot re turn and make a living in Austra lia. Unless conditions change, drama tic writers in this country will be forced to follow their compatriots overseas — and without Australian writers there will be no Australian television, drama. A recent survey of the pro grammes of Sydney's two commer cial television channels showed that 70 per cent of peak night-time viewing Was given over to drama — 44 hours of it per week. This was made up of 34 hours American and 10 hours British — with! no Australian drama whatso ever. Since then, one hour per week of Australian drama has been added to the programmes of one Sydney commercial station. This is not enough. Writers must have continuing work in the tele vision medium, so that Australian- ""ritten-and-produced programmes will reach a high standard and al low Australian viewers to enjoy and appreciate plays about their own country and their own people. We believe that the implementa tion of the Senate Committee's report on television will make this possible, and that is why we are backing this Congress." ? Australian author Frank Hardy, whose TV series "Yarns of Billy Borker", is one of the few popular Australian shows on TV, urges "all sections of the. labor movement to become actively involved in the TV Congress in March". "The defence and development of Australia's democratic heritage and culture expressed on the TV screen is the business of the Labor Movement," he says. "The Labor Movement must de monstrate its concern with the national interests of the people. "Increased Australian content of TV drama, which is one of the main recommendations of the Vin cent Report would help the Aus- talian people retain their healthy, national identity. "The democratic traditions of Australian art ensure that the con tent of Australian programs would be more humanist and positive than much of the American material now screened. "Then there is the economic aspect of the industrial unions making common cause with Actors' Equity, the Musicians' Union and other associations for whom the TV Congress is a vital question of jobs and wages. "The powerful newspapers who own commercial TV stations and their friends in Canberra will re sist the demands of the Congress, so will the American film -mono poly. "They can be defeated — if the people act. "An important step would be for all Union Executives and Shop Committees to elect delegates to the Congress." There is no limit to the number of delegates that organisations can send to the Congress. The committee's address is 72 Stanley Street, East Sydney. Phone 31-7718, 31-7719. Mail enquiries to P.O. Box 309, Potts Point, Sydney, or 1st Floor, 178 Collins St., Melbourne. > Phone ' 63-6689. - > MAGAZINE BACKGKOlINli 