 C alwell speaks at | Haylen hook dehut 8 Nation should i have Evatt papers SYDNEY : The personal and political papers of the late Dr. H. V. Evatt, former Federal Labor leader, should be given to the nation and Mr. Les- lie Haylen should be appointed one of the exeeu- !1 tors, said Mr. A. A. Calwell, Federal Labor leader, H in Sydney last Friday. R CALWELL was guest speaker at the Australasian Book Society's launching at Anzac House of "Big Red", a new book by Mr, Haylen, for many years Federal Labor Mem- - ber for Parkes (Sydney). Mr. Calwell said he made the proposal convinced of the impor tance of making the significance of Dr. Eva tt's great deeds fully available to the nation. Mr. Calwell paid tribute to Les lie Haylen's courage as a Labor parliamentarian and author. He said that, like every other parliamentarian and citizen .who' finds anything wrong with the es tablished order, Leslie Haylen had been reviled and attacked. "But I have found him a man of sterling qualities," he said. "Although Leslie Haylen in 1963 lost the non-Labor seat he had held for the Labor Party for 28 years, I do not regard his parlia mentary career as finished. He has those qualities which must break through and show to the people," he said. "Big Red" The story of "Big Red" seemed to deal with Leslie's own feelings about some of his family's back ground and a good deal of his ex periences around the area, which was so near to Canberra. Mr. Calwell stressed the need to encourage Australian literature and education. "We are a long way behind the United Kingdom and Russia in this regard," he said. "Education is im- ' portant for us and we have a long way to go to encourage people, like Leslie Haylen and others, who are giving of their best qualities in the publications they are trying to sell to the Australian people. mere is a great neiq or 010- graphy to be tackled, but the money is not available." Mr. Calwell's speech was greeted with applause from the audience, .wheh included many distinguished authors and other prominent peo ple Mr. Allan Ashbolt, whose book, "An American Experience" will soon be published by ABS, was present and spoke briefly. Mr. Haylen, who was warmly wel comed, outlined the essence of .two books which follow "Big Red" to complete a trilogy. "I believe somebody must write a history of the Labor Party which won't be found in Hansard. In 'Big Red' I have attempted to show something of the earlier days of the Labor Party, the Aus tralian Workers' Union, the shear ers and the teamsters," he said. Mr. G. W. Ford, lecturer in Eco nomics at the University of N.S.W., presided. Mr. Edgar Ross, by outlining th$ aims of the ABS, appealed to peo pie to join the ABS. Mr. A. Calwell Mr. G. W. Ford 