 More to come about 'Mavis'? YDNEY : Some creative work- . ers in Sydney's TV industry believe that the present contro versy around certain episodes in the "Mavis Bramston" TV series is only a front for a more sinister developing attack on the show's serious social criticism and . anti-war tendency. This hour-long national show, writ ten and presented by Australians, has been frequently orientated against race discrimination as in the United States and Australia, has sharply and skilfully criticised the hypocrisy of those who justify the inhuman war against the Vietnamese people "for peace and free dom's sake", and has lampooned Royalty, the Mcnzics Government, and many aspects of capitalistic society. On some occasions it has handled sketches with a sexual theme in such a way as to provoke genuine public indignation and has thus opened the way for the recent attacks. In the course of a well-conducted' panel discussion on the rights and wrongs of "Mavis Bramston" on Chan nel 7 on Sunday night, disturbing trends were included, The majority of the select panel either favoured or accepted the idea that a sponsoring company might in tervene and censor the content of a show. Mr. F. M. Daly, MI-IR, and a Roman Catholic, priest considered - that any satire on aspects of church doctrines should be banned. The priest, Father C. Keogh, also objected to a pre- Christmas exposin - of the Ku Klux Klan, on the gr- its "objec- tionable" use of -the. fiery cross. Mr. E. Sr. John, QC (who defended the publishers of "OZ" magazine last year) praised the show and said that no subject should be excluded from the range of its satire, but considered that certain of its presentations were inap propriate at a time of night when families, including children, were viewing. Miss Betty Archdalc, Abbotsleigh Church of England Girls' School head mistress, objected to sponsor censorship, and also pointed to the curious fact that, while "Mavis Bramston" was being attacked on grounds of bad taste, most TV channels were daily screening a mass of mediocre programs in "appal ling" taste, without any complaint from the same critics. Support in WA PERTH: The most Rev. George Applcton, Archbishop of Perth, and the Right Rev. R. G. Hawkins, Bishop of Bunbury, are among TV viewers who have publicly defended - the "Mavis Bramston Show". " 'The Mavis Braniston Show' needs to be judged as a whole," the Arch bishop said in a letter to the West Australian on March 31. "People laugh at something guyed, but as the laugh dies away in their hearts they are sometimes left ivith a troubling' point of truth. "We need to bring a much more critical mind to what we arc given in radio, films and TV newspapers and magazines. Let us save some of our ammunition for this wider target." The Bishop of Bunbury has stated that he hopes the show "continues without censorship." Waterside Workers' Women's Com mittcc Fremantlc Branch, at its monthly meeting, decided to send a letter to Ampol urging them to continue the show without censorship and support ing their use of Australian artists and scriptwriters. Two petitions in support oJ Lhe show are circulating at the WA '.'niversity Canon J. Watts, rector of St. Michael's Anglican Church in -l-'loreat lJark -is or ganising .a petition to nave nit- -.show ' banned. " f 