 i I Mill ! 1 | with Noel Counihan I I SYDNEY NOLAN and L. Albert pucker, two of the. j most p'rominent members j of the "mythmakino" J school of Australian paint- I ers, have both held Import-' I ant one-man shows re- ! cently in Sydney. I A strong vein of Australian I nationalism has emerged in | their work. I Both add strength to the fig-. I urative stream in our. painting | as opposed to the abstract. In both there is a resurgence i of more realistic methods and a 1 return to links with the Heidel- 2 berg School against which they J rebelled in their youth. 1 . Both paint now with enorm- ! ous confidence, even to the poirit I of slickness at times. I They people their bush scenes I with figures, seen as mytholog | ical beings. | In Nolan the "myth" is sym- s pathetic and human, Ned Kelly I still, much reduced in scale and I nude but for the symbolic hel- 1 met. 1 Sympathy is the element most ! missing in the work of Tucker, j Boldness, vigor, technical dex- I terity are all there, but not ! tenderness or sympathy. I To Tucker, Man is hut the I insensate destroyer. Established and fashionable ias Nolan and Tucker are, their influence was strangely lacking in the recent show of Young Contemporaries at Farmers' | Gallery, | There the domiriarit influen- | ces were' the Sydney painters | like Olseri and Coburn, as well I as Whiteley, Fairweather, and I the Pop and Op schools, all the j rage in America. I Op, the very latest, is con- | cerned with optical illusion 1 through the manipulation of 8 bands or stripes of flat color. J A striking example at Farm- I ers was Dick Watkins' "St. 1 Remy", with its implied trib- | ute to Van Gogh. | | Within the framework of I these current trends quite a | few of the young exhibitors | genuinely and capably grappled ! with the : problems of painting. I The almost total absence of I Realism weakened the show and j robbed it of proper balance, I symptomatic of some prejudice I on the part of selectors. | However there was an inter- | esting current of satire and 1 social comment, welcome when | one considers the escapism and I conformism common amongst | even the young a few years | ago. I A montage by De Groen en- | titled "The victim is always x the same", attacked war, as did 1 the First Prize Winner Mike | Kitching's "Conscription", and j also his "Fire Two-Fire Three." I Kitching has talent. He as- ! sembles his wall constructions I of wood and metal with wit z and imaginative skill. I mn'J a S "Conscription" is good sat- I I ire and an effective response to j I an issue of urgency to his gen- I I eration. I I Beneath his apparently ; light- | I hearted use of found objects I j and junk, wringers, cistern j | fittings etc., is an underlying | I and commendable seriousness I i of purpose,. j 