 No nuclear weapons ' lor West Germany! MOSCOW: Seven Socialist countries at a Warsaw Pact meet- . I ing issued a serious warning against giving nuclear weapons iita West Germany, where nasi influence is becoming greater. . -W -rHIS "summit" confer- i of Bulgaria, mm- From Alf Watt in Moscow lllllllllllllllllllllllll illllllllllllllllllllllll' |ary, East Germany, Po land, Rumania, the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia jvas marked by full and "friendly unity — a rebuff to those speculating on a breakup of the Socialist alliance. The meeting was attended by the first secretaries of the Communist and Workers' Part ies, the leaders of the gove-v rnents and other leading person alities of the seven states. The communique of the meeting issued made the following points: © The main tendency in world affairs at present is the growth of forces striving for the consoli dation of peace, but nevertheless, great activity and persistence is be ing shown by imperialist forces which are trying to aggravate the situation in different parts of the wona. © Plans for a multi lateral NATO nuclear force have a specially im portant significant role in im perialist aggressive policy and are a grave threat to peace in Europe and in the world. The creation of a multi lateral nuclear force in any form whatso ever would mean proliferation of nuclear weapons and, particularly, the granting of these weapons to West German militarists. This holds true both for the United States' plan for a multi lateral force that is supported by the Federal Republic of Germany and for the British plan for an Atlantic nuclear force. West German militarists regard access to nuclear weapons within either of these forms only as a step towards the possession of their own nuclear armaments. West Germany after becoming a member' of NATO, was given and seized the opportunity of creating an aggressive military potential in defiance of the Potsdam Agreement concluded after the unconditional capitulation of Hitl.er-Germany in 1945. Access to nuclear arms would encourage these West German re venge seekers to carry out their ter ritorial claims against the GDR and other States. If -NATO states insist on giving nuclear weapons to West Germany, then the Warsaw Treaty states, would IHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII illlllllllllllllllllllllll be forced to carry out necessary de fence measures to safeguard their own security. The Political Consultative Committee of the Warsaw Treaty countries be lieves that the safeguarding of Euro pean security is the most urgent de mand of our time. | This could be served by implemen- | tation of the proposal to freeze j nuclear armaments and by the ! proposal to create a nuclear free zone j in .Central Europe. | Supporting the initiative of Poland : the "Committee calls for a confer- ! ence of European States to discuss I measures for ensuring collective j security in Europe, j As before, member States of the S Warsaw Treaty organisation are | ready to sign a non-aggression pact j with NATO. They support efforts for a Ger- | man peace settlement in the interests j of securing peace in Europe and i believe this would be facilitated by ! the perpetuation of existing borders, I the liquidation of remnants of World j War II and by commitment of both' j German States not to equip their ; forces with nuclear weapons and I to take measures for disarmament, j They support the proposal of the i Government of the People's Republic of China for a world conference of heads of states on full prohibition and complete destruction of all nuclear weapons. As ,a first step to this aim they support prohibition of the use of nuclear weapons. They also support the proposal of the Cairo Conference of Non-Aligned States to hold a world conference on disarmament. 