 OIL TANKER WAR LEAVES MENZIES II HIGH AND DRY ! j SYDNEY: New moves in the oil tanker war on the Australian Coast and revelations before the Tariff Board recently have spot- jjghted the anti-Australian stand by the Menzies Government on | the oil issue. announcement last week II bv r W. Miller of his in- Jition to sell his three tankers EaUse of the oil companies Sorts to squeeze him out has Minted to the need for a sus- : tfjned effort of the labor move- | nfent to maintain what it has lnms the Seamen's Union that initiated the campaign to have Aus- rgSed tankers on the coast. Under the Australian Navigation Act, Australian-manned tankers have absolute priority for coastal oil car goes over overseas tankers. But foreign oil companies prior to 1964 monopolised the whole oil car rying trade employing low-wage Asian crews. Taking advantage of the Seamen's Union campaign an Australian com pany, R. w. Miller, successfully forced three tankers onto the Aus- tralian coast to compete against the foreign companies, after resistance by the companies which were backed by the Menzies Government. The Government said Miller must lodge an order with an Australian shipyard to replace his first tanker. This was agreed to. Attempts were then made to pre vent Miller importing two other tankers by imposing a bond of £420,- 000 as a guarantee that these tank ers would be re-exported when Aus tralian-built replacements were avail able. This harsh penalty was dropped under pressure of stopwork action by Australian seamen and hostile pub lic reaction, A victory Entry of Millers three tankers into the trade was an important victory. The foreign companies also were forced to engage Australian crews and to lodge replacement orders with Australian shipyards. The oil companies have now counter-attacked by deliberately de priving Miller of oil cargoes as a fresh attempt to squeeze him out, to pave the way for a return to coastal tankers manned by low-wage crews. Miller's reply was to threaten to sell his tankers. The Australian trade union move ment can be expected to react to this situation, since the effects go far beyond seamen. Following the black bans called last week by the Seamen's Union and the Firemen and Deckhands Union as protest action against the oil companies, the NSW South Coast Labor Council last week expressed concern at the decision of R. W. miler to sell his tanker fleet. This would jeopardise the employ ment of Australian seamen and would represent a "complete capi tulation to the oil monopolies". Council said it would continue to struggle and campaign against the overseas oil monopolies and their use of cheap labor crews on ccasfcaj tankers and for the establishment of a national overseas shipping line. The Federal secretary of the Sea men's Union, Mr. E. Elliott, has called for an open sitting, of the Arbitration Commission to deal with this matter. Mr. Elliott said that the union believes the issues involve important principles of concern to the Aus tralian public generally. Mr. R. W. Miller has now. ask 2d the Government to insist that seven weeks notice be given by the ci! companies before engaging foreign tankers. The short notice now given by the companies makes it impossible for a Miller tanker, when on a job, to get back in time to take the next cargo, which is then given to a foreign vessel. I The policy of the trade unions, | including the ACTU, has been fot j the Australian National Line to en I ter the oil trade. This demand should be renewed in face of the announced possibility of Miller's tankers being bought by the wealthy Ludwig group. Daniel K. Ludwig Is the owner of National Bulk Carriers and Uni verse Tankships of the USA and a group of oil companies. This group recently bought out the Australian coal and transport interests of Placer Development Ltd. in NSW. In West Australia, Lud wig has an interest in iron-ore min ing and is biaking a bid now to carry this ore to Japan in his bulk ship ping fleet. Such a sell-out to Ludwig could hardly be considered in the national interest. R. W. Miller, who is mainly en gaged in coal shipping, entered the tanker trade because oil, transported in low wage tankers, was getting the edge on coal. If his efforts fail to achieve this he can still leave the strugle and make a handsome profit by selling out to such intreests as the Ludwig empire. This give added reason why the labor movement must renew its de mand for the National Line to enter the oil trade. Squeeze on Aut. oil The foreign oil companies also are using their monopoly position as re finers to keep Australion oil off the market. This is the background of the Tariff Board inquiry which . is charged with reporting on how the value of Australian crude oil is to be determined and what protection should be given in the form of im port and excise duties, etc. Sir Kenneth Coles, the chairman of Australian Oil and Gas Corpora tion Ltd., which is interested in the Moonie field, asked the Tariff Board to make refineries buy all available Australian crude oil before granting them licenses to import oil. The Miners' Federation at its re cent Central Council meeting had correctly asked the question: "What about coal?" . The Tariff Board inquiry "cannot be regarded as meeting the require-; ments of the Australian coal indus try, which has suffered from the machinations of the overseas oil interests for a far longer period thai:, the Australian oil industry," the union said. 