 " 11 " n— | I h"? following rules governed office procedu e in the j year 1852. I MERCHANTS AND SHIPS CHANDLERS SYDNEY TOWN, 1852. RULES FOR THE CLERICAL STAFF I The owners- hereby recognise the generosity of the new labour | laws, hut wall expect a great rise in the output of work to compensate | for these near Utopian conditions. | 1. Godliness, Cleanliness and Punctuality are the necessities of a s good business. ' | 2. On the recommendation "of the Governor of this Cplony, this firm— J has- reduced the hours ofi work, and - the Clerical Staff vwilV now only , j | have to he present between the hours of 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. on week | days. J The Sabbath is for Worship, but should any Man-of-War or other ) vessel require victualling, the Clerical Staff will work on the Sabbath. j 3/ Daily prayers will be held each morning in '.the Main Office, j The . Clerical Staff will he present. - - | 4.- Clothing must be of sober nature. - - I . The Clerical Staff will not disport themselves in raiment of bright | colours, nor will they wear hose, unless in good repair. | 5. Overshoes and Topcoats may not be worn i.n the office, but | Neck Scarves and Headwear may be worn in inclement weather; 8 6. A stove is' provided for the benefit of the Clerical Staff. 1 Coal and WPod must be kept in the locker. ' - I | It is recommended that each member . of the Clerical Staff bring 1 | four "pounds of coal, each day, during cold weather. ' | 7. No member of the Clerical Staff may leave the room without j permission from Mr. Ryder. | The calls of nature - are permitted, and the Clerical Staff may use 2 the garden below the second gate. I This area must, be kept in good order. | 8. No talking is allowed during business hours. I 9. The craving for tobacco, wines or spirits is a human weakness, S and as such, Ts forbidden to all members of the Clerical Staff. I 10. Now that the hours of business have been drastically reduced, I the partaking of food is allowed between 11.30 a.m. and noon, but work will not, on any account cease. 11. Members of the Clerical Staff will provide their Own pens. iA new sharpener is available, on application to Mr. Ryder. . 12. Mr. Ryder will nominate a Senior Clerk to he responsible for the cleanliness of the Main Office and. the Private Office, and all | Boys and Juniors will report to him 40 minutes before Prayers, and Is will remain after closing hours for similar work. Brushes, Brooms, Scrubbers and Soap are provided' by the Owners. 13. The New Increased Weekly Wages are as hereunder detailed: Junior Boys (to 11 years) 1/4 ! Boys (to 14 years) - 2/1 I Juniors - - 4/8 I Junior Clerks 8/7 I Clerks ' v 10/9 | Senior Clerks (after 15 years with the Owners) 21/- 