 ..... -j j j N presenting the rep or) of the Aboriginal Indus tries Committee, Mr. N Peterson stated that Abo- riginal artists were being economically exploit e d because they did not have a marketing organisation of their own. He sharply criticised the Church Missionary Society which he sard would pay a maximum of only £3 for any painting by an Aboriginal be cause it claimed it wanted to- encourage Aborigines to turn to more productive pursuits. Mr. Peterson said some of thes« paintings often brought high .prices 1-Ie had seen one for sale in the Society's shop in Sydney for £100 Mr. Peterson said that the paint ev did not receive the profit from sucli sales, the money being sent to a council for capital use at jmis. 6ions. Answering Mr. Peterson in a state ment to the Press on behalf of the Church Missionary Society, the Rev. J. A. Brook stated that, profits from the sale of arts and crafts were returned to the particular mission from which the goods -were received . He added "The principle of a community benefit rather than ex clusive individual benefit has been adopted from the outset." It is obvious from Mr. Peterson's statement, that the profits returned to the missions do not get into the hands of the 'producers so there is neither individual nor community, benefit. This Mr. Peterson states is caus ing considerable discontent among the Aborigines. Mr. Peterson outlined the critical factors holding up the development of specifically Aboriginal Industrial projects — . 1. Lack of capital— to buy the ex pensive equipment needed to run any sizeable project, whether min ing, fishing, or agricultural. 2. Lack of money to pay the sal aries that technical experts require. 3. Lack of . information on possible projects and the economic resources of the Reserves, combined with a, lack of interest from the Govern ment Departments concerned. To deal with this the committee recommend that — 1. The F.C.A.A. press each State Government to carry out an inten sive and exhaustive survey of each Aboriginal Reserve and see that the reports are followed up. 2. The Federal Government be. asked to establish a fund from which 'to pay the salaries of the technical experts necessary to set up any specific project. 3. That, an Aboriginal co-operative be established with branches in each capital as an outlet for handl . crafts and any other marketable produce made by Aborigines. _ 