 A journalist-lecturer poses the question . . . AUSTRALIA AND ASIA what kind of an independent foreign policy? "Australia in Asia today is not a 'potential victim' of aggression, but an actual perpetrator of aggres sion. "The present Australian foreign policy alienates and of- fends those alongside whom the Australian people must work out their destinies forever." iutR. Malcolm Salmon, a writer for the Victorian Guardian on South-east Asian questions, said this in Sydney on September 27. Mr. Salmon was giving the last of the series of four September Lec tures held by the Communist Party in the Jim Healy Memorial Hall. His subject was: Australia and Asia — Geography and Politics. Previous subjects had been, Man and His Place in the Universe (Mr. Ernie Thornton), Communism, Reli gion and Morality (Mr. Eric Aarons), and Economics and Culture in the Affluent Society (Mr. Bill Gollan) Because of the economic ethnic and political differences between Australia and its neighbouring region, Australia faced foreign policy problems more delicate per haps than any other capitalist country in the world, Mr. Salmon said. The Asian revolutions now pro ceeding were in essence socially constructive, and not internationally aggressive. They were as historically authentic as any revolutions of the past— Ampriran Prpnoh nr nnir nthor In Australian conditions, there was a ' particular need for a correct, historically-based and discreet approach to relations with our neighbours. But instead of providing Australia with this kind of foreign policy, the Menzies Government, in every major move that it made, acted as an agency of American foreign policy. This was true of the ANZUS Pact, the SEATO Pact, the North-west Cape nuclear submarine base, and the commitment of troops to Vietnam. Policy not Australian There was nothing distinctively Australian at all about the Menzies foreign policy. Its lack of creativeness was summed up in the words of External Affair. Minister Hasluck that "there was no alternative to force" in our relations with South-east Asia. The Communist Party's stand for a truly independent foreign policy required the creative search for peaceful and distinctively Austra lian solutions, and, in our internal life, a re-structuring of the educa tion system, for example, to bring it into line with our real geographi cal and political environments. Right-wing spokesmen were con tinually hammering the theme of . itralia's small population in rela tion' to our neighbours to prove that the country was "weak" and had to rely on American "protection," said Mr. Salmon. But this was a deliberately one sided presentation of the problem. In fact, in the economic sense— a vital one for the defence of the country — Australia was much strongei than its closest neighbours. Mr. Salmon quoted an Indonesian diplomat in Australia as saying that if Indonesia's population was ten times Australia's, Australia was at least ten times as strong economic ally i.s Indonesia. Even a supporter of Government policies, Dr. T. B. Millar, in his recent book, Australia's Defence, had conceded that there was no sign that Indonesia or China was plan ning to attack Australia. He had made a particular point of the fact that in any case Indo nesia lacked the economic re sources to do so. Armed neutrality? Noting that there exists today an unprecedented ferment of public discussion and interest in foreign policy questions, Mr. Salmon said that one of the most interesting new ideas to emerge from this discussion was that of "armed neutrality" as a policy for Australia. This idea had been canvassed in left-wing Labor, trade union and intellectual circles, and deserved attentive study by Communists and all concerned with Australia's future. Mr. Salmon said it was charac teristic of Australia's position that most of the major political crises in the country's history had been associated in one way or another with our relations with the outside world. He instanced the anti-conscription struggles of the First World War period; the battles against war and fascism in the '30's; the Second World War period, which had had profound social effects inside Australia; the the anti-communist referendum struggle of 1951, with its links with the Korea war; and the Labor Party split of the mid- '50's, which sprang directly from the Labor Party's efforts, to re-orient its foreign policy. "The crisis now developing over Australia's participation in the American war against Vietnam con forms to the same pattern," Mr. Salmon said. As in the past, so today over Vietnam, the struggle over questions of our foreign relations is merging with the struggle for democracy in our internal life, he said. Wharf ies and foreign policy The proposed Liberal Party "White Paper on Communism" was aimed directly at stifling public criticism of the Government's war policy. Likewise, the present attack on the Waterside Workers' Federation had an important foreign policy side to it. The Government was not only out to smash one of the most powerful organisations of the" working class, but in doing, so to cripple a force that had often in the past spear headed the Australian people's activi ties against international aggression. Mr. Salmon concluded: "The struggle for an independent Austra- lian foreign policy is a struggle for Australia's survival as a peaceful, democratic society, worthy of its place in the world, and able to survive in friendship with those whom history has made its neighbours." MALCOLM SALMON 