 Metal workers want national stoppage for £22 basic wage CYDNEY : A conference- of 800 metal trades dele gates last Wednesday in Sydney called for a 24-hour stoppage of metal unionists in support of a £22 a week basic wage. It also called for firm action for governmental price control, including a national ACTU petition. The conference, called by the N.S.W. Metal Trades Federation of unions, condemned the Arbitration Commission's recent national wage case decision. "There must be established as a minimum wage a rate based on workers' full family needs and that profits of industry are such that these can be more than well met," confer ence declared. The delegates, representing about 200,000 metal workers from seven unions, were elected from jobs and workshops throughout Sydney and - other N.S.W. centres. Support for notion-wide strikes Unanimous support was given to the eight members of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' executive who voted for nation-wide .stopwork action in support of decent wage standards. "We believe that the minimum basic wage should be £22, a figure which based on ACTU policy, more truly reflects/ the needs .of the worker , than does the existing ACTU proposal -of £17/2/-." Many delegates spoke of their fin ancial difficulties "arid thp need for union officials and ACTU leaders to come clown among the workers. A cost of living questionnaire is to be conducted throughout the metal industry. Conference " said the £22' has been endorsed by a number of respon sible trade unions and similar dele gate conferences. To this should also be added the margins demand for the restoration of the 1947 relativities. This would give a tradesman a wage of £32/13/-, a second class machinist £29/11/6, and a tradesman's assistant £26/14/-. The delegates called on the forth coming ACTU Congress to affirm "a basic wage of £22 a week, to initiate a program of nation-wide action and v . to include a 24-hour stoppage in the metal trades. The N.S.W. Branch of the Federa tion was also asked to meet to consider the calling of a 24 hour stoppage of metal workers through out the State. ; Tf was decided that Job meetings be held to discuss agenda items for the ACTU Congress (Sydney, Septem ber 13). A call was made for the election of delegates to attend the Congress as observers. Price control Other proposals, carried in a reso lution on economic demands, cailed for the intensification of a cam paign for equal pay for women, higher wages for apprentices and juniors and the need to strengthen job. organisation. Condemning the actions by employ ers and Governments in reducing wages by increasing prices, taxes and other charges, conference called for: A nation-wide petition to be organised by the ACTU demanding price control. An immediate conference be tween the Commonwealth and State Governments to discuss the prob lem of price control with a view to overcoming Constitutional diffi culties that exist in relation to the power of the Federal Govern ment, and to formulate a nation wide system of price control. Conference declared full support for the Government rail and bus workers' struggle for increased wages and condemned the use of the penal powers against the transport, unions. The N.S.W. Labor Council was called on to make this issue a test case of: struggle against the anti union penalties in the Arbitration Acts. The delegates said the use of penal ties is an intolerable state of af fairs. "We call once again for the ACTU Congress to carry out the terms of its 1963 decision, i.e.: 'Where the penal powers are used, the unions in the industry concerned be called together to determine the necessary action." The delegates also condemned the National Civic Council for "its dis ruptive activities within the trade union movement." A resolution called for the with drawal of all foreign troops from Vietnam and to allow the Vietnamese people to determine their own future in accordance with the 1954 Geneva Convention. Earlier, conference was addressed by Professor E. Wheelwright from the University of Sydney on the background of the Vietnam situa tion. The delegates also demanded the immediate recall of all Australian troops from Malaysia. They said, "the presence of Aus tralian troops cannot and will not prevent the people of Malaysia from determining their own future, as is witnessed in the present breakaway by the State of Singapore from the State of Malaysia." "We commend the joint activity of the ACTU and the N.Z. Federation of Labor against the proposed French atomic tests in the Pacific area-. "We also acclaim the courageous stand taken by a growing number of clerics and intellectuals and writers against the war policy of the Menzies Government, particularly in relation to the war in Vietnam. He urged all workers and the trade union movement to act in a similar forceful manner," conference said. 