 HUGE PROTEST WAVE ON VIETNAM A tremendous upsurge in the opposition ! to the Menzies Government's decision to I send Australian troops to fight in South Vietnam has occurred since eariy last week. Opposition to the decision by the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and new sections of the churches has been added to that of the Communist Party of Australia and important spokesmen for trade unions and churches. An unprecedented wave of big mass demonstrations has rolled from capital to capital, demanding withdrawal of Aus tralian troops from the unjust American war against the Vietnamese DeODle. CTIRRING calls to new levels of protest action have been made by Labor leader CaJjwell to the labor movement, and by a leading Christian, the Rev. Alan Walker, to the church communities (see panel at right) . Sit-down In Brisbane last Thursday, water- siders, seamen, ship painters and dockers and Seamen's Union Women's Committee members jam med the United States Consulate and the footpath outside, in the heart of Brisbane, in a mass , protest against U.S.A.'s war in Vietnam and the Menzies Government's decision to send combat -troops. About 50 of the unionists and women surged into the Consulate office, holding aloft their placards and slogans. Tlie remainder (the Courier-Mail put the total figure at 500) stayed outside on the Queen Street foot path and held up their banners and placards for all to see. Up on the third floor U.S. Consul C. G. Sommer aroused the unionists' anger when he insulted them with the term "ratbags". The next day an hour-long silent vigil was conducted by members of the Women's International Lea gue for Peace and Freedom in Aiizac Square, in the heart of Brisbane, against the Vietnam war On Saturday over 40 young men and women — students and workers — staged a 45-minute sit-down at the Brisbane General Post Office in Queen Street on Saturday morning in protest against the Vietnam war and the de- cisison to send an Australian bat- ! talion. | Melbourne j In Melbourne last Sunday, despite j pouring rain, 500 people demonstrated | outside the U,S. Consulate and held j a meeting of protest against the j Vietnam war. Dr. J. Cairns, Labor M.H.R., ad- j dressed the meeting which unani- j mously called for a reversal of the I decision to send Australian troops; 1 Also on Sunday, the theme of | protest on the Vietnam war do- | minated the record Wollongong j (South Coast) May Day march of j 2500, with 10,000 watching. (See 1 Page 12). | The Federal Council of the Trans- 2 port Workers' Union (80,000 mem- bers) in Melbourne, expressed "vehement" protest at the. decision "to send Australian troops to join other foreign troops whose purpose is interference in the national af fairs of' Vietnam." " Earlier; in the week Sydney had witnessed a big demonstration of 500 including a "sit-down" ontside the U.S. consulate and Federal Govern ment offices arid a further poster- parade the following day outside Sydney Central police court, when those arrested during the "sit- down" were charged. On the Wednesday, 1500 gathered outside the Consulate during a Sydney student demonstration against the war. In Canberra, also on Wednesday, a meeting of 300 on the lawn in front of Federal Parliament House, ad dressed by Dr., Robin Gollan of the National University staff, opposed the sending of troops. The same day 100 trade unionists in Newcastle, organised by the Trades Hall Council, met ' visiting U.S. General Dean Strothef with peace placards and posters, after a march through the city. See also Page 5. Labor Party call: "No troops to Vietnam" CANBERRA: In a historic speech in Parlia ment last week, Mr. A. A. Calwell, Federal Labor Opposition Leader, "firmly and com pletely" opposed the sending of an Austra lian infantry battalion to fight in Vietnam. 1 1 E made a stirring call to " all in the labor movement to do their utmost, despite difficulties, to reverse - the Menzies Government's deci sion to send troops. (See Page 1.) Speaking Tor all members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party, Mr. Calwell said the Menzies Gov ernment's decision was opposed "in the name of Australia and Australia's security." It was the "height of folly' he said, and went on to warn that conscript 20-year-olds might be sent to reinforce the present commit ment. He also stressed the isolation of the USA and Australia in what was "intervention in a civil war". The great majority of the "Viet- . cong" were South Vietnamese, he emphasised. The South Vietnamese "Govern ment" which had asked for the troops, did not base itself on popul ar support, he said. Demands for Australian troops . would be stepped up and might rise from 800 to 8000. While making these and . other valid points, Mr. Calwell weakened his case by saying that "China must be stopped" and claiming that Amer ican withdrawal would be "disas trous". In subsequent debate Menzies Gov ernment speakers took full advant age of these statements by Mr. Cal well, for neither of which did he offer any evidence. "Aggression" While claiming there was "aggres sion from the north" in Vietnam, Mr. Calwell said: "But the war in South Vietnam, the war to which we are sending this battalion of troops as a begin- ouig of our commitment is also a "®vil war and it is a guerilla war. The great majority of the Vietcong ere South Vietnamese." ( He denied that the war was either created or principally maintained" hy the North Vietnamese Govern ment. consequence "our men will be ugntmg the largely indigenous Viet- nS in their own home territory. nf wil1 be f igHting in the midst 0 a largely indifferent, if not resent- m and frightened population. "Corrupt regime" will t>e fighting at the re- siSu' m suPPrt» and pre- X2y der the Action of an S in-finefficient' PartiaUy cor- even ltary regime which lacks r.. . semblance of beins or mTpS' df.mo?ratially based." Vietn.m said the Present South or ninth gve.rnment was the eighth M Diem aince th" murder „„le® 18 months ago. Port" basis Popular sup- port oi t'h? Pmsumably has the sup- « the 1, ,; 0r !Se m,ing Junta replaced whim » . f&ll and be it the support of the ruling junta or when that junta itself is replaced by another. "That has happened eight or nine times in the past year and a half. . The Americans have supported four of the Governments of South Viet nam and opposed the other four. "The Government of South Viet nam does not base itself on popular support. Yet this is the Government at whose request and in whose sup port we are to commit a battalion of Australian fighting men. Don't believe it! "We are told we are doing this in the name of the free and indepen dent Government and people of South Vietnam. I do not believe it and neither does anyone else who considers the matter with any degree of intelligence." Mr. Calwell, who had accepted the thesis of "North Vietnamese aggres sion", then himself quoted figures which refuted that assertion as made by both himself and Menzies. He said that while Menzies had spoken of 10,000 "infiltrators" last year "the American White Paper on the subject put the figure at 4, 000- odd certain and 3,000 more estimated —7,300 at the outside. "The evidence of the White Paper does not seem to bear out its asser tions, its thesis that the war could be fully explained in terms of North ern aggression. "The report of the International Control Commission, quoted in the White Paper, listed as having been captured from the Vietcong between 1962 and 1964 three rifles of Chinese origin, 46 of Russian origin, 40 sub machine guns and 26 rifles of Czech origin, and 26 weapons of all kinds of North Vietnamese origin. Other weapons are in proportion. "All this for a force of some estim ated 100,000 men who have waged war successfully for years against 500,000 troops. 'Support from North' "This does not support the theory that in past years the Vietcong were mainly depending on supplies from the north," said Mr. Calwell. And even it, support had increased in recent weeks it did not mean the "Vietcong" would collapse if this new support was cut off. "The more the Government re lies on the theory of increased northern support as a basis for its actions, the more difficulty it must have in explaining away the Viet cong successes in the past when, as it maintains, Northern support was comparatively small. "If it believes that it is simply a question of aggression from the North, and all will be well when that aggression is stopped, it is deluding itself and trying to delude the Australian people as well." Bottomless pit He added: "To exhaust our re sources in the bottomless pit of jungle warfare, in a war in which we have not even defined our pur pose honestly or explained what we would accept as victory, is the very height of folly and the very depths of despair." How long, he asked, would it be "before we are drawing on our conscript youth to service these growing and endless requirements" in Vietnam, Malaya, Borneo and New Guinea. "There is now a commitment of 800. As the war drags on, who is to say that these will not he drawn from our voteless, conscripted 20- year-olds? "And where are the troops from America's other allies? It is plain that Britain, Canada, France, Ger many and Japan, ' for example, do not see things with the precision of the Australian Government;" Mr. Calwell said the ALP wanted negotiations to end the war. "Yet at the very time when the great weight of world opinion calls for a pause, Australia says there must be no pause for reflection or consider ation. "Negotiations" "Australia's role should have been to support the call for negotia tions and help those working to wards them." But the Government had now withdrawn from the ranks of negotiators. On the Government's own show ing the decision to send troops had been made before President John son's "offer" of negotiations and its "rejection" by the Communists. 1 A. A. CALWELL 