 AUSTRALIAN GREEKS PROTEST AGAINST RIGHT-WING COUP ' SYDNEY : Big meetings of Greek Australians in Sydney and Melbourne have condemned the con spiracy between the Greek King and extreme right ist forces that have deposed the elected Papandreou Government. |N Athens, a demonstration of 200,000 supporting Papan dreou was typical of a nation wide upsurge in defence of Greek democracy. A national general strike was scheduled for this week. Following the coup, Greece is threatened with foreign-backed re pressions of the kind carried out there by the British and American armed forces in the immediate post war years, to establish a rightist dictatorship. For months warnings have been is sued from democratic sources inside and outside Greece of an intended army coup to displace the Centre government of Papandreou. The North Atlantic Treaty Organ isation, spearheaded by the USA, was named as the inspiration of the threatened coup. Papandreou was elected by a sub stantial majority at the general el ections at the end of 1963. While not fulfilling his pledge to restore full democratic rights, he released most of the political prisoners, permitted considerable freedom of expression and reached a friendly agreement with socialist Bulgaria. But this, it seems, was too much for the Americans and coup rumours increased. Last week Papandreou decided to move in first by sacking defence Min ister Garoufalias. But Garoufalias re- fused to resign. The Western-backed King supported him and in turn dismissed the Prime Minister, replac- ing him by a Rightwing member of his own party. Sydney At one of the biggest meetings ever held in the Sydney Greek community last Sunday night, 500 people sent a cable of support to the deposed Prime Minister. The meeting, held in the Atlas Club, also cabled the King asking him not to interfere in Greek polit ical life. Last Saturday, Atlas Club members distributed leaflets to the Greek com munity asking them to protest ag ainst the rightist coup d'etat in Greece. Thirty sellers sold 2,000 of a special edition of the Greek weekly "Neos Kosmos" in an hour last Saturday. Melbourne In Melbourne, a meeting of 400 Greek people last Sunday was ad dressed by Labor MHR for Yarra, Dr. J. F. Cairns, Mr. J. Elefantis, Pres ident of the Greek Community, and Mr. J. Gogos, editor of the Greek newspaper "Neos Kosmos". The meeting called unanimously for action in support of democracy in Greece. A broad committee has been formed to draw into activity all democratic organisations and indiv iduals in Victoria who over the years have shown interest in the struggles of the Greek people. The meeting adopted by acclam ation a resolution to demonstrate outside the Greek Consulate in Mel bourne on Wednesday, July 21, at 5 p.m. 