 AiisL buys ®@r© H ©ttf ® iPIP H ® strife in $e mm While the US Government h f rant ically seeking "c v/ay out" in South Vietnam, the Australian Government is preparing tc send more troops there. Soufh Vievtieam is the biggest -$X&lt;a n li.sjs s: o vjr Ay sir, ' gl t P » R H " H « i » B 0 „ f ra PA-"'"?! ita— Tiiis macts uas. aeon aamstrc-:. ..// »y e>oth £XTw/e:afi ft'.uatr. Minister Hasl&acL and Defence MSsfer PLa1frj$g@. a USTRALIA L now be-, /v . . , - , ing asked to help more' a war in Vietnam which the Americans and Viet namese themselves a r e cither totally unwilling or increasingly reluctant to fight. American wavering, spread ing rapidly, has now reached top level in the remarks of US Assistant -State Secretary Wil- liam Bundy, who said last week end that: "US withdrawal from Vietnam is unthinkable as Ion? .as the South Vietnamese were willing to fight the Viet Cong." But the story of South Vietnam over the past 10 years — and especial ly the last two or three — is that the South Vietnamese people do not want to fight and would not fight but for the occupation of their country by 23,000 US troops (or "ad visers"). Telecast On Sunday night Australian TV- viewers saw a US Columbia Broad casting Service telecast from Viet nam showing thousands of South Vietnamese fighting, not the "Viet Cong" liberators, but their- own US imposed Government. Nearly ' every scene showed huge crowds thronging the streets of Saigon, Hue and other cities carrying placards and shouting slogans against the US Ambassador, General Taylor and the dictatorial regime he supports. The telecast, over the National Channel, made a good background against which to review the demands Australian Defence Minister Paltridge is preparing to make for more Aus- ralian assistance to the South Viet nam government, target of these de monstrations. The program suggested America should never have gone into Vietnam. The CBS commentator finished by telling the Australian audience that America no longer had any "good" solutions for the Vietnam problem and clearly inferred that negotiation was the only way out. The demonstrators' attack on General Taylor was a new turn in Vietnam, where demonstrations mostly have been against the US puppet regime rather than the US itself. Now, however, the South Vietnam people are directly showing their resentment at US interference — as for example by burning the big US library at Hue and stoning a US official. Australia, if it continues to follow the US course in Vietnam, must come in for some of the odium in creasingly attracted by that course. Buddhisms The South Vietnam Government the Buddhists were this week campaigning against is even more militarist than the one they managed to oust last September. Tlie Agence Fiance Presse com mented that the latest reshuffle marked "the South Vietnamese Army's spectacular comeback on the political scene." This "civilian government" now "includes more generals than it had when K Khanh was premier last year", the agency. The reshuffle was carried ou'. dor the manitoulation of Go. Taylor, who afterwards loudly pressed his pleasure at the result. The Soviet Union has allege and the US has admitted," in privat that the continuing US air raids Laotian territory held, by the pat. forces are illegal. According to the New York Tir of January 16, "privately (L officials acknowledge that there i no basis under the 1982 accord f; carrying out such missions in Laos.' 