 Action rising on wage demand CYDNEY: Workers and union leaders packed the Com monwealth Industrial Commis sion yesterday for the basic wage hearing, in answer to the NSW Labor Council call last week for unions and job dele gates to demonstrate there. The packed court reflected growing mass action for wage increases. This action which has in some cases already forced employers to grant in creases, will be stimulated by last week's ACTU decision to act this year for restoration of margins to 1947 purchasing power and relativities. Over 1000 Australian Electrical In dustries workers decided on a 24 hour stoppage on Tuesday morning when the company stated that it "might be two years before they would be pre pared to negotiate." on the men's wage claims for an increase froni 12 per cent to 25 per cent in bonus pay ments. About 4000 postal workers will stop for four hours today (Wednesday) in reply to delays in meeting their de mands for salary increases and bet ter conditions. (See page 12). The Federal executive of the Ad ministrative and Clerical Officers As sociation (23,000 members) have decid ed to send a deputation to the Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies, to pro test at the Board's delays in reviewing wages. Recent gains in Sydney through job action and negotiation have included: Fred Clark's Stainless Steel £1 in crease; Dickson and Johnson £1; Clyde Engineering £1. Government transport workers are demanding £2/9/- increment payments; Brewery workers, £4/10/- weekly in crease; Australian Electrical Indus tries 25 per cent bonus payment in stead of the present 12 per cent. Other industries where wage de mands are active include; — NSW Gov ernment Transport — £ 2/9/- weekly increment payments; Main Roads Board — 15 per cent weekly increase and casual rates for weekly hiring; Maritime Service Board — £3 a week; Malleys (biggest sheet metal manufac turers in Australia). The Australian Council of Trade Un ions had denounced the Menzies Gov ernment's dishonesty in the current basic wage case. A resolution from the Interstate Executive of the ACTU says that the Government asserted that it had no intention of making submis sions about what the Commission should do, but would make submis sion about the state of the economy. When the Government made its actual submissions it stated ... an increase in the basic wage at this juncture would be fraught with grave danger for the economy. "The Commonwealth Government has, however, clearly been guilty, as stated by the unions' advocate, of flagrant and blatant dishonesty before the Commission," said the ACTU. 