 .MMimaWWglWWUBWWWHWWWIIW » - , „„ n M I IJL ,. ,M , lit ; aB&lt; ' I||||" | | t HIS LORDSHIP IS IN FOR A SHOCK f-fOW many years is "grad- 1 ually"?; That's an important question for thousands of Australian Aboriginal workers on cattle sta tions — if millionaire station owner and industrialist Lord Baillieu has any say. And in fact he HAS a big say— the Baillieu family is perhaps the richest of Australia's 60-odd ruling capitlist families, and one with close influence on the Menzies Government. Lord Baillieu, an Australian who is based in London, has been in Australia for his annual visit. After a trip to Brunette Downs, a 3 million-acre cattle station in the Northern Territory managed by his nephew Peter Baillieu he said: "Abor iginal stockmen's pay should be gradu ally raised to white levels," according to the Melbourne "Herald" of January | Such on approach is an echo of | Menzies Government statements about I unspecified, "gradual" achievement of | independence in New Giunea. Statements by Aboriginal spokesmen, ! like those of New Guinea indigenous | leaders, have already indicated that they will not accept this vague talk of "gradualism". In Darwin recently, well-known Aboriginal .leader Mr. Phillip Roberts, back from a visit to Kenya as a guest of the Kenya Government, stressed the importance and urgency of equal pay for the job. "Until we Aboriginals have economic as well as other equality with white Australians the words 'advance Aus tralia Fair' are just not honest," he told the press. Lord Baillieu is well aware that Aboriginal stockmen provide the main labor for the cattle industry in the Territory. They already look after some 35,000. cattle on Brunette Downs, which in a few years will increase to 70,000 head. At present operating in the Territory an ordnance prescribing £11/12/3 as the highest wage an Aboriginal can earn a week. In some industries the maxi mum is only £2/8/3. Aboriginal women can earn only 25/- per week, ? THE Melbourne "Herald" re- ports further that his Lordship is "very sad" about the shut-down at Mt Isa, which he also visited in his grand tour of his Austra lian investments. He is not sad because the Company's lockout has put him and his family oo short rations, as is the cae with the families of the miners who actually produce the copper, silver and lead from the great mine. But he has a good reason to be "sad". According to the detailed analysis of Mt Isa Mines Ltd contained in Pete Thomas's booklet "Buried Treasure" (c/- _ Queensland Guordian) , the Baillieus are prominent among the Australian individuals and companies who, between them, hold 29 per cent of Mt Isa shares. Other individual shareholders of special interest include: Mr. E. Evans, Mines Minister of the Queensland (Nicklin) State Government which is providing the shock forces to attack the Isa workers; and Sir Arthur Fadden, former Federal Treasurer, and his family. The Evans family hold 3500 shares (worth about £6,000 on the market last year); and the Fadden family some 29,000 shares (£55,000). Australian firms interested include: Perpetual Trustees, AMP, National Mutual and Colonial Mutual— all in surance companies. Then there are groups of shaerholders hidden behind various banks, including: ANZ Bank, Bank of New South Wales and, again, Wales Nominees. Electrolytic Zinc and Electrolytic Refiining and Smelting are other Australian shaerholders. > Judging by the remarks of the Sydney Morning Herald's Financial Editor on January 30, Lord Baillieu is not the only Australian shareholder who is "sad". Above all, they are sad because they don't control the company, it is ASARCO that shut the' mine down. The "Herald" man writes: — "To the American Smelting and Re fining Co. . . fluctuations in the Austra lian share market are a mnior, inci dental by-product of the industrial show-down. \ . f'To local shaerholders the matter is of direct importance. It is the first serious stumble after a 15 years record of outstanding, consistent capital growth ... . "An investment of £209 made in 1949 to acquire 100 Mt Isa shares of £1 had, after bonus capitalisations and without the investment of another penny, be come worth more than £4,000 ... in the stock exchange of last August . . ." To shut down a vital metals mine like Mt. Isa, even for a year, may be (as is reported) common practice for a billionaire outfit like the Guggenheim Corporation which stands behind ASARCO. They are concerned with a bigger principle— the smashing of the trade union movement in Mt Isa. But for an ordinary millionaire like Lord Ballieu, . . . well, it's "sad" to have to wait for those big dividends. The really "sad" and bad thing is that Australian copper production and miners families are at the mercy of interests that have nothing in common with Australia's own interests. Australian nationalisation of Mt Isa, and it operation in Australia's interests is the demand that is rising on all sides in the labor movement. FOOTNOTE: Lord BailHeu is presi dent of the Dunlop Rubber Co In Britain and a director of Dunlop Rub ber Australia; joint deputy chairman of Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation; joint presi dent of Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Ltd; and a director of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank and of the Midland Bank. LORD CLIVE 