 Call for ACTU statement on New Guinea . SYDNEY:. On the eve of New Guinea's first trade union congress, the Australian Council of Trade Unions has been asked by a Federal union to "issue a forthriaht declaration de- nouncing the promotion of capitalism and colonialism in Papua-New Guinea. "|"HE proposal, from the Fed eral body of the Building Workers' Industrial Union, calls on the ACTU. to demand "that all foreign-owned enter prises, including those owned by Australian capitalists, be nationalised and be controlled by the Government and handed over to the peoples of Papua- New Guinea on .the attainment of independence". The BWIU said that socialism is a higher form of society than cap italism and the Australian trade &lt; union movement, which stands for a socialist Australia, is obliged to HAmflnH q cnnialicf YvafVi fn-r f peoples of the Territory. The NG conference will be held at Lae on Australia Day weekend, to plan the formation of a Fede ral iin of the nine associations of Workers now operating in the Terri tory. At the December meeting of the - ACTU Executive it was decided that the President, Mr. Monk, attend the conference to assist the work of the trade unions in the Territory. . It was also decided that financial assistance up to £2000 be given by the ACTU. This action by the ACTU was highly commended in the BWIU letter. "That the Papua-New Guinea trade unions will require assistance is evidenced by the fact that the Men- zies Government has adopted some of the proposals made by the World Bank for the so-called development of the economy of P-NG. "One such proposal adopted is that approved new manufacturing and service industries be granted income tax exemption for five years". "The selling of P;NG to Australian and other overseas colonialists by the Menzies Government calls for the strongest condemnation by the Australian labor movement", the BWIU said. Mr. F. Purse (Federal Secretary, BWIU) said that Australia is pledged to a program to guarantee inde pendence to Papua - New Guinea the shortest possible time and also to assist its economic and social development. A proposal put forward by the union in 1961 said that instead of encouraging private enterprise in the Territory, the indigenous peoples should be assisted to develop and maintain public enterprise and that co-operatives should be encouraged and developed in various phases of production. The BWIU also called for the de velopment of a universal educational system, including primary, second ary and tertiary education. Another demand is that the peoples of P-NG be guaranteed ownership of land and resources of their coun tries in perpetuity. 