 NED KELLY won't lie down By DENIS KE VANS fsJED KELLY is remem bered not for his marks manship, or because he stole thousands of pounds to eat, or even the fact that he disagreed with police persecution. He was the man whc wouldn't lie down in the face of insuperable odds brought against him in a Victoria not far removed from a police state. Kelly wouldn't lie down, and Kelly's ghost won't lie down. As he said (of the outlaws) : "They are not all dead yet. It will take 40,000 police to get rid of them. I will return from the grave to fSght." Who is the "they" he is talking about? It couldn't be a few outlaws be cause "40,000 police" would get rid of them. Kelly knew the history of Ireland and the convict system in Aus tralia from first hand. The "they" he refers to must be his people, his class, who "got little justice from English law, but plenty of injustice." ! The heel of Britain | He knew that under Britain rule 1 Irishmen had been flogged to death, ! tortured with the "pitch-cap", and I "rolled down hills in spiked barrels." I Ireland would never forget. Kelly knew his father had been transported for seven years from that Ireland for stealing two pigs; that he had served the seven years of convict labour without incurring f further penalty, and had started a new life in Australia. 1 He knew that his father had been I gaoled fourteen years later for killing j. a heifer for food. I His guilt was unsure, but as an I "old lag" the scales of justice were | tipped against him. !He died soon after his release from gaol. Ned was about 12 and had to | leave school' to help his mother, i The police visited the farm near Greta regularly. They were as arrog- j ant with the Kellys, the Quinns, and j the Lloyds and other small farmers I as if the farmers had already been I convicted and condemned for every I unsolved "duffing" and "planting" (case in the Strathbogies. As the police pestered his family, | Ned, unfortunately, went out of his way to provoke the police, f In October 1869, when just fifteen, j he. was arrested .for "holding up, I beating and robbing" a Chinese | hawker. He was acquitted. ! In May 1870, Kelly was arrested ) for being the accomplice of the j comedian bushranger Power and in- | terned for a few months. I Like dung in j a paddock S On his release he was arrested for j horse stealing at Greta. Constable j Hall it was who tried to arrest him, but Kelly (16 years old) threw him j over a fence and "straddled 'him and j rooted both spurs into him." j Hall called for help and six men I held Kelly while Hall bashed "him j with his revolver, j Said Kelly: "I dare not strike any of them as I was bound to keep the I peace or I could have spread those j curs like dung in a paddock." - Kelly got three years for receiving I the mare (he was in gaol on the day j it was stolen). i After his release, he found that all ! his own horses had been stolen and sold by a policeman, Constable Flood, who was the best horse stealer Kelly had seen besides him self and George King. Kelly worked felling timber for £2/10/- a week, and when- the saw mills closed he began "mickey mus tering" or rounding up wild cattle and horses. A rumour started that Kelly "was stealing stock— it had been put out by a big squatter, a Mr. . Whitty. Kelly said that he then began whole saling and retailing horses and cattle "to give them something to talk about." These events all occurred with a constant badgering of the Kelly family by the police. The stock of the selectors was im pounded by Whitty and others under the mask of their Stock Protection Society. Kelly said he had seen them impound up to sixty head a day— even off the Government roads. Mrs. Kelly had a dozen children to look after — they were close to the bread line. It was in April 1878 that Kelly first shot and wounded a policeman — Constable Fitzpatrick who had come to the Kelly's house to arrest Dan Kelly without a warrant. Kelly and the gang then went bush. They robbed Euroa bank in Decem ber 1878 of £1900 in cash and notes iand 30 oz of gold dust. They robbed the Jerilderie bank in February 1879 of £2,150, and gave the town's school .. children a holiday. They were four days in'', Jerilderie masqueraded as policemen-, and "shouted freely for all hands."' They were seen in the main street by a Mr. Gill the editor of a Jerilderie paper who said, "those smart police men would be the coves to-send after the Kellys." As the song "Ye Sons of Australia" says: "O; Paddy dear, do shed a tear, I can't but sympathize Those Kellys are the devils for they made another rise This time across the Billabong where Morgan made his beat They've robbed the banks of thousands and in safety did retreat. Now when they robbed Euroa bank you said they'd be run down But now they've robbed another one that's in Jerilderie town That's in Jerilderie town, my hoys, and we're here to take their part And shout again — "Long may they reign — the Kellys, Byrne and Hart. The reward for the Kelly's capture was now £8,000, dead or alive. New South Wales Government re-intro duced the Felons' Apprehension Act, which made an outlaw in Victoria also an outlaw in New South Wales. Despite this huge reward, the gang was fed and helped by the farmers and their families — informers were few. One Aron Sherritt was shot dead at Beechworth by Joe Byrne; another named Curnow gave the Kellys away at Glenrowan. It cost the Victorian and New South Wales Governments £50,000 to kill the "Kellys". Police were held up to ridicule, (something they have never forgiven), and police corrup tion ' that Kelly was witness to be came house-hold knowledge. "Prejury is no crime in the police force," said Kelly. Kelly was hanged, aged 24, but his exploits became a living legend. Did Kelly feel remorse or guilt for murdering the three policemen Scanlon, Lonergan, and Kennedy at Stringybark Greek? Kelly's own words are clear: "Were they my own brothers I could not have been more sorry for them. This cannot be called wilful murder, for I was compelled to shoot them, or lie down and let them shoot me — but I am reckoned a horrid brute because I had not been coward ly enough to lie down for them. Certainly their wives and children are to be pitied, but they must re member these men came into the bush with the intention of scatter ing pieces of me and my brothers all over the bush. Yet they know and acknowledge I have been wronged, and my mother and four or five men lagged inno cent. And is my brothers and sisters and my mother not to be pitied also?" Kelly's armour is nothing But. Kelly will long be remembered because the conditions that sparked the rebellion in Kelly (the rebellion, not 'the irish') will always exist in one form or another while class society remains. And so long as the police bash and extort confessions, and kill innocent victims, they will be hated and con demned by the working class. [?] ! Ned Kelly's armour has just been consigned to j the cellar of the National Museum in Melbourne, ! capital of his home State- But the vein of rebel- | lion against injustice and authoritarianism j still runs deep in the Australian character. j As game as Ned Kelly The people would say, As game as Ned Kelly They say it today- 