 [?] [?] By H.McC [?] The usual storm of controversy blown up by the judges' award of the Arch i b a I d Prize rages again — but this year it is not around the award but around the judges' "no award!" "J"HERE is much' speculation in art circles as to the rea son for this, as, although the judges' selection for public exhibition contains no out- stand inp work, awards in the past have been made to por traits no better than the best in the present show. One rumour going around is that the judges were unable to agree, half favouring what is now called an avant garde painting and the others a staid, conventional work. However the award is made on a majority vote after the choice has been whittled down to two and the president has an extra casting vote. I do not see how this could be. I think "art politics" and a clash of inter e/ts exerting pressure on the trustees are probably behind it. Spokesmen and pressure groups of the dealers and others who have invested heavily in the avant garde are constantly, in reviews, articles and TV" commentaries, telling the Trustees of the gallery as well as other buyers just what paintings and what type of painting should be bought or handed awards. Avant garde of course! The judges, knowing that what ever way the award went, modern or conventional, they would cop it in the neck from one side or even both, decided to back out. Clearly in making the selection for the public exhibition the trustees have tried- to please each of the main art groups. The show is divided into three sections: — firstly, the conventional, mainly from members of the Royal Art Society; then the in-betweens, mainly from the Society of Artists; and finally the avant garde. This policy of selection would - result in paintings superior to some on the walls being excluded from the public show. The over-all impression is of a lack of direction, an absence of a national character in the work. ' The show is a hotch potch of trends and fads without continuity or cohesion. The avant garde critics and pub licists must take much of the blame for this. One can almost say with William Blake: — "These men were hired to depress art." National character or content are their pet bugbears. The picture these interests wanted the judges to select was the least representative of all. In spite of all this, there are a number of interesting portraits in the show as well as some that are very bad indeed. The other two exhibitions, parti cularly the landscapes, are both of great interest and will be reviewed next week. _ 