 [?] j Science can alleviate | 1 the disastrous ! J effects of drought i I By W. MOUNTJOY j 5P" C 1 Drought is not on exclusive Australian climatic phenomenon. ! I jf strikes with particular severity Australia , the driest continent J | n the world with meagre water resources. j i the rains which have | ; fallen in Sydney, Mel- , | bourne and Perth in recent : weeks has not meant that the drought is broken. Widespread and soaking falls f are required to replenish water ; supplies, start pastures grow- ing and allow soils to be pre- I pared for the sowing of wheat, &lt;1 oats and barley. 1 Most parts of Australia have had ;J below average summer rain. > Out of 59 weather, districts in N.S.W.' 37, or two-thirds of the State have been proclaimed drought areas. March rainfall was 78 per cent to 95 per cent less than normal J and the lowest for 50 years. . j The same was true of Victoria 'j where rainfail for the first three months of the year was the lowest for half a century except for the / Wimmera and the West Coast. The position in South Australia is much the same. Queensland was in a good posi tion on the North Coast and in the gulf country but very dry in the "corner" and bad in the South East, including the Darling Downs. West Australia has had good to patchy rain the pastoral areas and the South West and the Northern Territory has had good rains in the top half but the centre remains dry. To complete the national picture Tasmania has suffered a dry sum mer with near drought conditions on the North -East Coast. The drought has had many diverse eifects. Stock losses all over Australia have been serious, pastures have deteriorated and none are good. Fish have been driven further offshore as no food has been brought down by fresh water. Potatoes in the Eastern States are scare and dear; seed potato production has drastically declined and will seriously affect product! or in the near future. Milk, butter, cheese and bacon | supplies have been reduced to- t gether with fat lambs and beef 1 production. An immediate effect has been a sharp rise of those staple articles i of diet — meat and potatoes. Drought severity has been high- I lighted by the position on the g North , Coast and the Darling j Downs in Queensland, both norm-: | ally well favoured areas. S Massive Commonwealth grants I should be onade to the State Gov- t ernments to provide for low interest i loans to cover farmers for fodder ( purchases, the immediate sowing of j animal food crops such as vetches I (where sufficient rain has fallen I and grants to maintain farmers on j their holdings. j The high prices of fertilisers and ' agricultural machinery make it I more difficult for small farmers to i make a reasonable living. A long-range plan by our civil \ engineers, agronomists and irriga- 1 tion authorities would counter the 1 effects of future droughts. We have a power grid extending beyond the States; why not a water grid where water can be sent : where it is required. . Civil engineering projects to con tain floods, provide water for ir rigation are well within our range. A rational fodder reserve should be built up and maintained. J In a run of good reasons there j would be a certain amount of re- ' dur.dancy but this would be more J than offset by the preservation :l- j tact to our animal resources. j We may be a long way from j finding a way to control weather j at will but at least long range j , weather forecasts are a distinct pos- ' sibility. j 