 NG workers ! on the prod 4 | By JIM COOPER | INDUSTRIAL discontent and j a spate of police intimida- , tion are providing the back- , ground to the first arbitration healing on New Guinean nuh He servants' wages, which opened m Port Moresby on j October 26. y j So strong is the resentment -of | New Gumean workers to the povertv j living standards, the primitive work ! mg conditions and the police in | tirnidation that the Administrator j Sir Donald Cleland, had to make a personal appeal to the workers to I use the processes of arbitration and | conciliation to settle their claims, j Mr. B. C. Goodsell, president of . the P-NG Employers' Federation sees some "outside" influence and urges Security to investigate the reasons. He said: "We do not know where the influ- ence is coming from, but these strikes are not in keeping with the normal ttUHuuet. ui me natives. Employers I would have .to get tougher if the I present attitude continued." j Genuine grievance 9 I But Mr. Tim Chapman, secretary i of the Port Moresby Workers' . ;q. g ciation, said: I "There was dissatisfaction among I the Port Moresby workers over pay j and conditions. We believe there are | genuine grievances underlying this I dissatisfaction." The recent strikes, despite some » weaknesses in the presentation of I their case, have displayed a unity j and willingness to struggle which j has taken the employers by surprise ! and has raised the efforts of the I workers to a higher plane— which j the employers in the future will have ; to regard as normal. The attitude- of the employers to the legitimate demands of the workers ensures that more struggles are inevitable. Immense profits Despite the immense profits wrung from the exploitation of the Territory and its people, Mr. Goodsell is re ported as saying: "We have to face the fact that this is going to be a poor country for some time." n XIkjk I xxjio io uie same euuiiuuiy wuiui | gives an estimated capital return to I Australia of £6 million per annum I and where millionaire companies like | Burns Philp Ltd. and W. R. Car- j f penter average over a 20 per cent. j | return on watered capital. W. R. j j .Carpenter's have raised their paid I capital from £425,000 to £6 million in | 15 years. Over £100 million— mostly j Australian — is invested in companies I on the Territory's register. These I companies operate alongside foreign j concerns with interests in New g Guinea which have an aggregate ! capital strength of £600 million, j As only 85,000 of New Guinea's j 2,000,000 people are in gainful em ! ployment, the rate of exploitation is I fantastic. j Administration officials doubt the j employers contention and say the j cause of the unrest is more simple: j j the men are dissatisfied with their j j wages and conditions and are not . | sufficiently organised to seek im j i pro.vements by "more responsible j means.'"'" ; What they mean by responsible | means, . no doubt, is the Wages Board which earlier gave an increase i of 5/- on the previous rate of £3/10/ per week in the Port Moresby area. .Obviously decisions of this charac ter are not going to improve the position of the workers much and will do little to convince them to abandon the strike weapon. The lesson from nearly 60 years of industrial arbitration in Australia is that real gains are made only when workers in industries, following , militant, policies, are ' ready and willing to take action in defence o their rights. 