 Under the Big Top they are inseparable by DENIS KEVANS everyone knows by this time, the only thing elastic about the two Moscow C i r e u s clowns, Yuri Niculin and Misha Shuidin, are their braces and their smiles. The two go together like pies and peas. They have developed after 16 years of" work in circus, film and television in Mos- sow and all over the world a better combination . than two international footballers. Yuri, 43, the "melancholy" part ner is the tall one with a way of smiling with his top two! teeth, like a partly amused wallaby. He does this at least ten seconds after he has cracked a joke, looking at you reprovingly as you burst out laughing. , He has appeared in seventeen ma- jor films including Henry Lawson's c Loaded Dog" — filmed for >ne first time in the Soviet Union. Misha, 42, is the "happy" partner. Uressed in brewery-horse pants, fruit salad socks, and tumorous football Dots, he looks a clown of much experience. "Clowns make the audience think J|»at they are really stupid with Yuri 8et wp an&lt; eir antics," said 'Then, suddenly, they perform 'LnJarvdlo.us trick which brings «,nrJillS,C own the audience is ill that these 'clowns' could «o such a thing." ver.y ' ' Misha, "clowning is to caied work- You've got failure .6 2 £0 through plenty of achieve anythiifg.rChmfiS be£re you lhcaci»lLvdon- has worked out self lM „;,.t Pyessum best for him- tharer he isaying, What \ People laugh at Yuri on sight. Is there some secret in this? "Yes. But you'll have to. ask my mother about that. She breathed it into me the day I was born. She's responsible." What makes a good clown? "Our old teacher, Kaorandash, is a short, ugly man with an expressive face — and people just can't help laughing at him. He looks like a real 'dill', I mean eccentric, useless, you know — arid then suddenly he'll . turn a somersault or something and the aud'..nce goes 'berserk; they probably think if that "clown" could do it then anyone could do it. "It's a surprise to them that this peculiar person, so. unlike the nor mal, can perform these tricks. "You miht note that Gorki says in his reminiscences of Lenin that Lenin liked the clowns and eccentrics in the circus. He considered that they were in one way protesting against the status quo and boredom of a money society. "In the competitions for new clowns at the Circus Academy we get up to 1,000 applicants. Only 15-20 get : through and then their work is only just starting. "People can be funny in the pub, at parties, on the job, but when they get in the ring, like chameleons, they turn the same colour as the sawdust and almost disappear in the silence, if you understand what I mean." (We were laughing again at that smile.) "Our own story's one of hard work. "After the war when we gradu ated from the Moscow Circus Aca demy we thought we were 'set'. . "We used to work out a routine, do it for ourselves, and literally split our sides laughing at it we thought it) that funny. "The trouble was when we got it into the ring the audience didn't see the joke. "We often left . the ring to the applause of our own sandshoes on the sawdust — as the saying goes." What did you two do in the war? "We were soldiers, not comedians. Misha was a tank captain and fought right through — got a dose of high explosive in Germany towards the end. He got many decorations — Order of Red Star and so on. "I was an artillery scout and fought in the defence of Leningrad." Did you entertain at all, Misha? "Yes," said Misha quietly, "we made up parodies, and sang them with the guitar. I used to learn off pieces of Sholokov and Chekov and recite them to the troops." The only visible mark of the war on Misha now was the small, blue tattooed wings on his left forearm. "There wasri't much comedy in the war, but we remember only the good things. "One act was they used to hold up a terrier-dog in front of the mike and he'd bark as if he'd seen a burglar. Then we'd announce in a stiff military voice: 'That was the Reich's propaganda minister, Herr Goebbels, announcing the latest vic tory on the eastern front'." When we asked Yuri and Misha if they'd made any satire on Aus tralia there was an indignant "no!" and this explanation. "To satirize you must study some thing for a long time, especially a country whose traditions and customs you do not know well. "We know all the shortcomings and drawbacks of life at home and we have plenty of satire oh it. But to do it here would be in very bad taste — we leave that to those who know the country better. "At home we do many satirical sketches: "There is the famous one on the old bureaucrats, known all over the world, who manufacture bits of paper with secret messages on them to the tea girl." Misha plays the bureaucrat in this sketch. He sits at a desk with telephones all round him, "snowed under" with piles of official-looking papers, Moscow Circus clowns send greetings to Tribune readers with this drawing by Misha Shuidin. auaaeniy yuri appears witn a stretcher under one arm, and a doc tor and nurse with him. The gent at the desk is terribly busy, without actually doing any thing. He looks up once, and then con tinues his silent chanting over his papers. "Good evening, good evening," Yuri keeps repeating. Finally the, stout gent at the desk says: "What it is you want? Don't be too long about it, I've only a minute to spare." "I'd like a job ..." "I see, hrrim, where's your refer ence from the Municipality you live in?" "Is this it?" (Whips it out.) "This has got the wrong stamp on it. I need one with a triangle on it not a circle." "Is this it?" (Whips it out.) "Yes, but where's your certificate about your father?" "Is this it?" "Yes, I see, and where's your cer tificate about your mother?" "Is this it?" "Yes (the stout gent is getting more agitated), but where s your small-pox certificate?" "Is this it?" "All right, but where's your anti- rabies certificate?" "Is this it?" "All right, but where's your para chute jump certificate?" "Is this it?" "It is, yes, but where's your deep sea diving certificate?" "Is this it?" "Oh, no!" he says, leaping up on his desk, "if I had a pistol I'd shoot myself." "Will this do?" says Yuri, leading him over to the stretcher. "Ah," he says, "you haven't got a licence for that pistol!" "Is this it?" says Yuri, whipping out the licence. The stout gent then shoots himself and falls on the stretcher. As they carry him out, Yuri says to the crowd: "He was my third victim for the day." Yuri's wife, Zina, works in the circus, Their son, Maxim, 8, doesn't know whether to be "a fireman or a taxidriver". Misha's boys are Slava, 18, and Andrei, 8. 