 - ; ; ; | Caltex welcomes | j uou to Bangkok ! . i By delayed mail from PETE THOMAS, of Queensland Guard- ian, travelling with ERIC AARONS on a journey to the Congress of the Communist Party of Chile. I INITED States big business is as gracious in Bangkok as /everywhere else. On the road "into the city from the air port, a large sign greets you: '"'Caltex welcomes you to Bang- kok." What right US oil monopolists ( have , in giving themselves the role of host in this capital of Thailand is not explained. But after seeing example after example of the pre sence of US monopoly Interests and US armed forces, the imp udent Caltex sign comes to be in?. .stegrated with the pattern in Bangkok. Our stay for 24 hours or so In the city (in which SEATO has its official headquarters — as dis- ' tinct from its real command post in Washington) was unsolicited. Something or other went wrong with the plane; thkn the crew ran out of their permitted spread of ' hours, and so there we were. ?/' Bangkok has "&lt; the characteristic r /features of- Asian centres. Narrow ; streets,, in which cars, and buses ' with' ever-blaring horns nose their way through pedestrians and bi cycles and small tricycle cabs (a sort of midway vehicle between a . pedicab and the taxi cars used , by the well-to-do). ' Tiny shops serve as both the handicraft workshop - and the out let for the product. A bootmaker does his work squatting on the footpath. Men and\ women make their difficult Way1 along the footpaths carrying, joggling buckets on the ends of poles balanced on their shoulders. In a street flanked by mud and and/ stagnant water, a chauffer- driven car turns off and honks imperiously for a servant to come and open the gates' that lead into a mansion set amid lush lawns and gardens. Within a mjle or so of the shops and the few luxury hotels, water buffaloes slosh their clumsy, powerful way through paddyfields. In Bangkok,: all this is overlaid with Americanism. At the airport., as we came down the plane's, gangway, we saw the nest of Esso tanks.- Nearby were fleets of Esso road tankers and other vehicles. (Shell and others were there, too/ , On the tarmac were US Air Force planes. In the crowded airport build ing,; two US Air Force sergeants pushed their way through with unconscious- arrogance, taking for granted' their privileged right of way through ' the crowd of peo ple.' As a bus took us towards the city, a ' US Air Force jet snarled savagely, low overhead. Even chi'd- - ren by the road did not look up. , Nor did the man who, laden with pole arid buckets, . crossed the raft- way line while a train bore down on him, agonisingly close. TJS jets, obviously, are too common to arose interest. Hoardings proclaimed the virtues of such weli-known US products as Coca-Cola and Pepsi. Others excitedly announced Hollywood and other films. Most of the hoardings (and, at night, an even greater proportion of the neon signs) were either entirely or predominontly in En glish; those people who really belong there, who speak a differ ent language, are riot the ones who have the money to spend on the rapturous delights that are stridently advertised by western civilisation's emissaries. A large building in Silom Street, accommodating shops with assorted wares, also acknowledges the fac of whose custom is being pursued, i big red and white sign above t says affably: "Howdy". There is — obvious even to one lay visitors such as us — :rty in Bangkok. There is squalor- :here is pandering: the invitations o visit "Number One girl-" There is all that - and it fits in with the US presence, the cai- uex welcome, the role ignf7OCA Bangkok of being one more far from American soil, for yo SEATO intrusion and aggressiou, to menace peoples living '.m- , lands that rightfully are their ow . 