 Jewish literature in the U.S.S.R. Bv Judah Waten hAO SCOW: It was by chance that I saw a copy of 'Soviet Homeland", the Sov iet Yiddish literary magazine, on a news kiosk near my hotel in Moscow. : ' I am interested in Yiddish liter ature, having worked with Yiddish writers in Australia. I have translated into English one Yiddish novel and a number of short stories and have written two novels and many short stories about Jewish migrants in Australia. Yiddish literature fills in the past of my people, since many of the' Jewish migrants came to Australia from Russia in- the years before the 1917 Revolution and later from Poland Many American and British writ ers writing in English about Rus s'an Jewish migrants also regard the Yiddish literature in the same light.; T especially like the Russian Yid d;ph writers. To a large extent Yid dish literature is the child of Russia; having its origins in the work of . the Russian Yiddish masters like Mendele and Sholem Aleichem. The Russian Yiddish literature can boast of many other eminent prose writers such as Bergelson, Der Nis- tor, and Nathan Lurie and they are known all over the world. Although he is getting up in years Nathan Lurie is still writing in Odessa and I hope to visit him there. I have heard also of a new novel by the Kiev writer, Eli Shechtman, and another Kiev, novelist, Falikman, is writing an epic novel of the war and the ghettos set up by the Nazis. There are other . Yiddish writers in Odessa and other centres where .Jews live. These are not the same centres as before the war for then "Jews lived in the Southern and South-Western Ukraine, in towns that. were often predominantly Jew ish. The Nazis murdered most of the Jews in the areas they occupied. Many who managed to find refuge in. other .paxts ; of the Soviet Union stayed on when the . war ended., In Moscow, where there are: some- ; thing like 250,000 Jews, there is quite an impressive body of Yiddish writers, new and old. Many of them contribute to "Soviet Homeland," including Alexander Gubnitzky who started to publish five years ago and Lt. General Hirsh Plaskov who is still on the active military list. At least 50 poets contributed to a recent Yiddish anthology, seven of them poets who began to write after 1958. "Soviet Homeland" itself is pub lished in 25,000 copies, the bulk of which are sold in the Soviet Union. This is the biggest Yiddish magazine in the world. Among its readers are many Yiddish speaking members oi the Communist Party, the Govern ment and the army. This would all suggest that Yid dish literature is in a healthy state in the Soviet Union. But I would not want to convey the impression that the majority of Soviet Jews, either young or older are interested in Yiddish literature. v: r I have met many Jewish, .people . here— workers, writers, engineers, journalists, radio announcers theatre ticket sellers and a tailor and. also the world famous author, Uya Ehr- enburg. To all of these people I spoke about Yiddish literature and the future of Yiddish. Only a few of them had read Yiddish writers in the original but most had read them in Russian translation. Only a com paratively small percentage of them could read Yiddish or sneak it. One night 1 entertained my Rus sian relatives. There were 14 of them — an elderly aunt, two elderly uncles, one nearly 80, two cousins with their husbands, children and grand-children — a fairly average Soviet-Jewish family, containing skill ed workers, engineers, shop-assist ants and students. It was a merry night, though not without poignancy. We talked about my dead parents, but about many other things as well, the lives of my relatives above all. My aunt, uncles and I monopolised the conversation for we were the only ones who could speak Yiddish, the others understood it in varying lesser degrees; Except for my auilt, who now and'; ; again reads Sholem Aleichem in the ' ori ginal, all the others, even the uncles, only read books in Russian, includ ing translations from the Yiddish. The younger people knew very little about Yiddish writing. In this respect they are not dif ferent from the younger generation of Jews in the United States, Great Britain and Australia who also in the main aire not very interested in Yiddish literature and do not read Yiddish. . They read very much the same books as. the rest of ;the Australian people. They, do not even read many Yiddish books in English transla tion, for there are very few oi them. When Yiddish books are translated they rarely go into big editions. In the- Soviet Union many Yiddish books are translated into Russian and other languages, and often in very big editions. In this respect the situation here is different from that in other countries. The Yiddish literature has be come an integral part of Soviet liter ature and is read and appreciated not only by the comparatively small number of Yiddish readers, but by Soviet readers generally, non-Jews and Jews alike. Some. Yiddish writ ers, such iss Kvitko - and . Sholem Aleichem =, have become househould names- in the Soviet Union.. PHOT Cfc i group J of Yiddish writers at a Moscow reception. 