 v-v m it A n aa . Oil the irmge benefits for bus, rail workers A RECENT letter in the Syd ney Morning Herald was an unfair attack on govern- transnort workers. The attack was based on an out sider's over-estimation of special so-called "fringe bene fits" featured in Transport Department job advertise- | merits. - Such "fringe benefits" include a rail workers' free holiday pass. However, the truth is that very j few railway workers use -their 1 passes. For a start, they are not allowed ' | to use. their passes on some of the I better trains. I The passes are second-class only, f and as such do hob include a sleeper. If a rail worker wants a sleeper 1 he , must pay first class fare plus the cost of a sleeper. Rail workers do not travel to and from work free of charge, although they have tried for more than 20 years or more to achieve this. Some 60 per cent or more rail and bus workers are not tradesmen. They are classed as semi-skilled, or unskilled labour, although they are trained and skilled in the par ticular job they do, because they have done it constantly for so many years— 20, 30, or 40 years. From the most authentic reports we learn that we have railed 12 per cent more wheat this year (ended June 30), than last year. From January to June this year we hauled over 8,000 trucks of stock and. nearly 19,000 trucks of fodder at concession rates. The rise in our haulage of super phosphate in N.S.W,, 90 percent over the last seven years, is des cribed as "explosive". We hauled it to every corner of the State. For the past 5 years we have smashed our previous year's record in this regard.- We do all this with a continued reduction in staff. We press the plates and build the trucks that are used to do all this haulage in railway workshops, I but we are not i vited to take I part in sharing out the profits. I We still remain the lowest-paid metal workers in the country. Other big metal industries do not find it as difficult to get labor, as they would if the railways paid wages equal, to outside industry. —L. S. CanfeH President, C'hullora Sub -Branch, Australian Railways Union, Sydney. 