 SA unions support I wkarfles' flight il ADELAIDE — Metal, rail and maritime workers jl in South Australia have made clear their support for jf the WWF in the struggle against the Menzies Gov- ft ernment's aim to crush the waterside, workers as an ll effective force in the Australian Trade Union Move- If menf. DAY time conference of over 100 metal workers organised by the Metal Trades Federation in Adelaide last Friday week condemn ed the Menzies Government for what it called its "fascist like laws" that were a "threat to the whole Trade union movement. Conference declared that the aim was to control and create "tame- cat unions" and pledged full support to the WWF in the campaign. As practical measures, the Con ference decided to call on the metal trades shop stewards to organise meetings of protest. Further, a call has been made to the Federal officers of the affiliated unions to approach the ACTU with a proposal to call a Federal Unions' Conference to plan the campaign of the unions against the proposed legislation. Rallmen The Australian Railways' Union S.A. State branch conference carried a resolution; "condemning the attacks by the Menzies' Government on the WWF" and "calling upon the ACTU and State branches of the ACTU to mobilise the maximum support in Opposition to the Govern ments' and Employers' attempts to weaken the trade union movement." ARU general secretary (Mr. U. O'Brien) sent a telegram to ACTU president Monk requesting the urgent convening of a conference of all transport and waterfront unions for full consideration of the matter and to protect the fundamental rights of the trade union movement An ARU spokesman (Mr. J. Wood) said that waterside workers had the full support of the S.A. branch. Seamen A stopwork meeting of seamen in Port Adelaide unanimously carried a S resolution which strongly condemned the Menzies' Government "in bring- ing forward legislation designed to I undermine the trade union structure S on the waterfront." II The resolution continued: "We re- B gard this new move against the £ Waterside Workers' Federation as f| part of a pattern of attack on w fundamental rights of all trades j| unionists and is designed in the 1 first place to cut down the powerful g influence of our kindred waterfront union in the developing movement of opposition to foreign and domes tic policies of the Federal Govern ment. "We declare our solidarity and wholehearted support for the water side workers in their fight to retain their fundamental rights and trade union independence and for their campaign for industrial pensions, mechanisation fund, and economic demands and the national 'overseas shipping line. "We are prepared to take any necessary action to back our wharf colleagues in the present situation and call upon ACTU officers to take all steps to organise . . .the full united force of the whole Labor movement in the campaign to defeat all legisla tion now before Federal Parliament." 