 Comrriuriisl"s and the trade union movement The Communist Party, which had differ ences with both the Right and the Left of the Australian Labor Party, nevertheless sought co-operation for common aims be- tween all sections of the labor movement, Mr. L. Aarons, CPA general secretary, told a press conference in Sydney last week. MR- AARONS said the party had iss'-ed a public state ment (see lest week's Tribune) and called the p ess confer ence to set the record st'aHht rn the Dolicv of the Communist Prtv on industrial icS"es and it&lt;- ->ttit"Q to the trde unions This had received much pub- f I-itv in 'ecent weeks and had of'"n ben mimnmsented. "In our view, the Arsrpiin trade unions are the backbone of the labor movement, which a1 so includes the Labor Party and the Communist Party. "Trade U"'.Mn membership is fai greater than that of either the ALP or CPA, and includes people of all . political and religious views, who are united h" reoognhion of the need for union organisation and action to improve wages and conditions oi employment. "This uni.ted character of the unions is expressed at all levels of the movement — on the job, at union meetings. In leadership of individual unions, and in the parliaments of the movement — the Labor Councils and Australian Council of. Trade Unions. ' "Artificial creation — by forces out side the union movement — of the so-called 'Unity Ticket' controversy, is an attempt to confuse the issue, to divide the unions and institute outside control. "Practically all Communists are workers, either industrial or white collar. As such, they are required by the Party Constitution to 'join and help build the trade union or profes sional association covering their calling.' "Communist trade unionists want to build their union and the whole trade union movement. Their views on how the movement can be built, the policy it should fight for and the methods of action it should use, are naturally conditioned by their philo sophical outlook and political views. "Because the union movement covers- such a broad grouping of the people, and because it depends for its power upon uniting people of diverse views, the Communist Party opposes any action which would make the trade union movement a battle ground for party political conflict; "Still more, we are against any effort to impose party-political control or domination on the trade unions. We think this would be harmful to unionism and could rebound to the detriment of those who tried to I impose it." QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Q.: Sir . ; trade unions dominate a political party? A.: I don't think this is desirable or a fact today. Many trade unionists cio neiong to parties, oui most ao not. The ALP system of union affilia tion doesn't give trade unions control of that party. As to trade unionists who are mem bers of the Communist Party, they express themselves just as other members do. Q.: Does the CPA try to influence trade unions? A.: Individual 'Communists have views and ideas and put them for ward in their union meetings and among unionists But we don't try to get unions to carry out Communist Party politics as such. Q.: Could this week's Communis Party press statement lead to trouble with the ALP? For example, the reference to Mr. Whitlaiii? A.: Whatever trouble there may be in the ALP already existed there before we made our statement. We made the statement because of hostile press propaganda about the Com munist Party and its attitude to the unions. Concerning Mr.. Whitlam, we don't consider his recent statements about unions to be in the interests of the trade unions or Labor Movement as a whole. We simply state our views to that effect. Mr. Whitlam and others, of course, have the right as public Dgures to state their views. On some . other issues we have agreed with Mr. Whitlam, but on this matter we disagree. Q.: But what about the EFFECT of this CPA statement? A.: In making the statement we were not motivated mainly by Labor Party statements, but rather by those of outside forces — sections of the press- and TV, for example — mak ing a big issue where one doesn't really exist. The real question, for the trade union and labor movement is not "unity tickets" but the right- of unionists irrespective of their politi cal views to' determine union affairs. Q.: Does the statement mean a QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS . Continued from column 3 II change in the party's views on the trade unions? A.: We've always seen the trade unions as. all-embracing and also as a means to common action by work ers. There is no change in this view. Q.: What Is meant by the phrase in the statement "the Communist Party is a definite political trend within the labor movement?" A.: The labor movement embraces all trends that want to advance the interests of the working people. The Views of the CPA do not always agree with the views of the AIP but on many issues they do. For exampie, while both parties have the general aim of socialisa tion, we Communists have our own views on how the working people can actually change the social sys tem from capitalism to socialism. So we can describe the party as one definite trend in the labor move ment. Q.: Does this imply some increas ing support for CPA policies? A.: Support for CPA policies is not confined to the trade unions. The party has some 5,300 members (which is, incidentally, about 25 per cent of the figure recently published for ALP membership). The CPA stands candidates in Federal, State and local elections. In the most recent election (NSW State election) CPA candidates secured an average figure of 4.7 per cent of the votes over the 13 seats in which they stood. Thus the Party has the support of a section of the community at large. Also so far as the trade union ists, the organised working class, are concerned, the CPA has the support of a section. It Js by no means a majority section, hut is, in our view, the most politically advanced section. Q.: is it proper for a man, elected to union office as an ALP candidate, to then form an alliance with the CPA, despite the "unbridgeable gulf" that ALP leaders have said lies between the ALP and the CPA? A.: Firstly, it is rarely that anyone is elected to union office on any party "ticket". The real point is . — should or should not all unionists work to gether for their common interests? We. believe it is proper that all unionists, of all political views, should co-operate together in this way. Q.: What Is the CPA attitude to "certificated" ALP candidates? A.: We say it , is wrong to issue tickets" on a political party basis In trade unions. We have never done It. We don't agree with it as it will divide the trade union movement E on party lines. . " m Q.: Do you regard it as an ideal 1 arrangement when there is returned R to union office a group of officials R including Communists, ALP men and P non-party members? K A.: It does allow the various view- Pi points of the 'workers to be reflected in the top executive level of a union W This helps unite a union ' Ik |; Q.: Is the CPA making a plea for H co-existence with the left-wine- nf 11 the ALP? If A.: The CPA is making a plea for 1 co-existence and united action with 1 ALL trade unionists for common ob- 1 jectives. Our main purpose is to set I out clearly the views of the CPA I on trade unionism, particularly that I unions should he independent of I political party control. || CPA policy is for peaceful eo- i existence and co-operation between 11 all sections of the labor movement SI for common aims. || In Australia the wnrkino- Hi movement has created two political m parties with different views on how If to realise the socialist aim. if We have differences with both ihe I Right and the Left of the A.L.P. m But we also have things in com- If mon — such as socialisation, and m immediate issues such as the in- if teresting proposals recently made by If Mr. Whitlam on nationalisation, and establishment of government enter- 11 prises competing with overseas pri- II vate monopolies. If We do not, however, agree with If him that these would constitute 1 socialism. Still, 'we would support | them. I Again, the ALP opposes the policy I of sending troops to Vietnam. 1 So do we. We. agree on this. 1 But as to the reasons, as explained for the ALP by >Mr. Calwell in -Par- J liament, we disagree in part — par- | ticularly in attitude to the so-called |J "American alliance" || We agree, too, with what Mr. Whit- Ji lam was recently reported to have |l said in Singapore, that the Viet || namese people should have the right ll to choose their government, whe- t| ther communists or not m On these and. other issues, the p ALP has some views, we have others. M There should be "an approach of co- 1 existence and discussion among the I working people to elucidate which | political trend is. the better, on the I various issues." I The press conference, which was I well-attended by press, radio and TV I representatives, was chaired by Mr. C, Jones, a member of the party's Ij secretariat, who apologised for the I absence .of the' president (Mr. R. 1 Dixon) on holidays, arid the vice- I chairman (Mr. L. Sharkey) who was 1 ill. I " '""/www///. V//A Y/S///S//w/SS&/jy/Ml MR. L. AARONS 