 German mercenaries in Vietnam; West German leaders demand restoration of Hitler's borders From RUPERT LOCKWOOD OSCOW : Socialist and other peace forces are alert to the menace of nuclear blackmail and aggressive irontier act ions by the Bundeswehr now that the West Ger man general election is over. It has already been indi cated that the Warsaw treaty defences will be given more power to ban aggressors, and European Socialist forces are uniting more closely in face of the growing dangers from West German revanchists. The spirit . of closer unity Was evident in the visits just concluded of Rumanian and Czechoslovak Gov ernment and Party delegations to Moscow and the current visit of the German Democratic Republic delega tion headed by Walter Ulbricht. The ruling Christian Democrats in the West German elections displayed posters with road signs pointing to ci.ties formerly known as Konigsberg, Danzig, Breslau and some in the former Sudetenland, all of which have become internationally recognised socialist possessions. Erhard, who plans to see President Johnson soon, openly declared he would press for revision of frontiers The Washington-Bonn partnership in arms is already taking shape in Vietnam. Despite Bonn denials that there are German mercenaries in Vietnam, the West German news paper Bauern Ruf interviewed the mother of former serviceman Man fred Kinast, whom, she said, was trained in the United States and then sent to Vietnam with a large group of West Germans. Back in Munich, according to the newspaper "Deutsche Volkszeitung, ' this former soldier showed his mates a photo, which, he said, was taken in Vietnam jungles depicting him and his West German colleagues in uniform. "Deutsche Volkszeitung" quotes an official American source in Munich as saying, "It's not excluded that German citizens participate in mili tary operations in Vietnam in US army uniforms." Mr. Brezhnev, the USSR Communist Party Secretary, in welcoming the Czech delegation, referred to the West German elections and said: "Ii we acquaint ourselves with speeches of ruling parties' leaders and con sider the election platform of those at the helm of West German politics, we can easily see that the substance of what the Bonn diplomats say is the demand to provide the Bundes wehr with nuclear weapons, a call for the restoration of borders of the vanquished German Reich and for the revision of results of the Seconc World War." Brezhnev stressed there would be no normalisation of rela tions with Bonn on the basis e satisfying revanchist claims. Signs of resistance mounting insit and outside Germany include th clear-cut declaration of Germany'; most powerful union — the two-million strong Metal Workers — followed b; Chemical, Printing and Municipa Workers against nuclear arms, fror. tier provocations and the Vietnar war, and pointed French overture to Poland and other socialist cou tries. Because of Polish President Cyra; ciewicz's present visit to France Bonn . insultingly attacked bbtl France and Poland as if 1939 pre liminaries were being re-enacted. Bonn was particularly angered by the Polish President's Paris declaration that Poland's frontiers were inviol able. Pravda noted that Bonn's attack was distinguished "not only by its sharply aggressive tenor, but also by the fact that all forces and parties represented on the West German poltical scene took part in it simul- taneously.". (The Christian Democrats have won the elections with a reduced ma jority.) 