 'V if wBKBBwpwwi|B BBSIHBGHSb "Blond men with guns" are defending a ramshackle State An ultimatum tram Abdul Rahman to Lee Kuan Yew to "stay out" of Malaysian Federal affairs or face a showdown shows again that the ramshackle State Australians are being conscript ed to "defend" is being torn apart by internal dissensions. C1NGAP0RE Premier Lee's statement that "there is something wrong about blond men with guns defending Asians" will be the more heartily echoed by Australian "blond men" when they find they are not really to be used to defend Asians but to ^inter fere in an Asian State's in ternal affairs. Malaysian Premier Rahman's at tack on Lee coincides with an nouncements that a Malaysian Fed eral Government mission will visit Australia, not primarily (it is re ported) to get support against In donesia hut to counter the effects of Lee's earlier mission. While he was in Australia Lee was openly accused hy the secretary of Rahman's party of heing "an agent for Indonesia and China" working with Indonesia in its anti-Malaysia policy. Lee, for his part, told the Sydney Sunday Telegraph that Rahman was a "fool" and hlamed him for the "trouble" he expected in Sahah and Sarawak. Asian specialist Denis Wamer wrote on March 26 that "the Federal and Singapore Governments keep sniping at one another . . . Kuala Lumpur is dismayed by Lee's ob vious successes in Australia and New Zealand. As the ultra-conservative Malay and Chinese leaders in Kuala Lum pur see Lee, he is a danger to Malay sia second only to Sukarno.". Warner, in effect admits that Lee and the Singapore Chinese have a case: "The Chinese deserve sympathy j that the top posts in the Federal | Civil Service are denied to them; that they are in fact second-class citizens." Lee Kuan Yew and the People's Action Party of Singapore have been J demanding an end to this discrimin- I ation. Rahman has replied with an ultimatum which, says the Austra lian's Singapore correspondent, poses the greatest threat yet to Malaysian unity from internal poli tical sources. "Observer" (Sydney). 