 TRIBUNE I j ; , I Failure on Failure I 1 I I SUDDEN flurry of "White Papers" issued by three j I # Governments forming the framework of neo-coloniafism j | in South -East Asia throw harsh new light on the situation s s there. | j One "paper" was a document of the Malaysian Govern- | Sment, revealing how the organised internal opposition to ! Britain's neo-colonial Malaysian regime now includes not ! only "left" groups but also the leaders of two conservative j parties and even a former Cabinet Minister. Australia is I I propping up, by armed force, a regime that suppresses | democracy and is a source of conflict and war. I Then there was the British Government's White Paper, | confirming that Britain's main military concentration is to be allocated to holding S.E. Asia for the rubber, tin, oil j I and trading millionaires. J There can be no secure peace in the Malaysia region j | until the British take their military forces home. s I The third document — aptly branded by Soviet Premier j il Kasygin a "Black Paper, an aggressor's paper" — spelled ! out the US determination to put all its reliance on expanding j the war in Vietnam. | Of course, absolute reliance on "force only" is the long I I established US policy, openly boasted also by the Menzies \ I Government since last August. j ! The significant point is that it is now proclaimed de- | j fiantly IN THE FACE OF world-wide clamor at .government, j S parliamentary and press levels, for a negotiated peace set- I Itlement in Vietnam. i The Soviet Union, People's China, the other socialist j countries, and the Communist movement throughout the world are demanding withdrawal by the USA and a nego- | tiated solution based on recognition of the Vietnam people's I independence. \ ! Not only has the US policy failed; Washington is deter- f J mined to pile failure on failure. j ka ow ser'ous then, for Australia, is the intention of the j | Menzies Government which, as proclaimed last week by I j the Defence Minister (Senator Paltridge) is to go on build- j j ing up forces and committing more open acts of war in 1 j Vietnam as in Borneo and Malaya. I j If unchecked, it means piling failure on someone else's j = failure; it means receiving far more Asian condemnation I j than the already sharp denunciations from North Vietnam j I and Indonesia. j ilt means a fast-growing Australian arms expenditure I' in the USA and elsewhere for which; it is now freely pre- j | dieted, Australians will have to pay heavily this year both j I in decreased trade balances and in increased taxes. , ! a For the peace, security and family well-being of every ! J Australian, it is time to change Australian foreign policy ! | — while there is time — to one of independent action for | s peace, friendship, trade and respect for the national inde- j | pendence of our neighbours. j j Savagery in sport j j "|"HE Australian Swimming Union's savage expulsion of j | four renowned young women champions is far more J 1 than the worst example of bumbling sports officialdom yet to draw merited scorn from all over the world. \ These "sentences" of up to 10 years' exile from com petitive swimming are grossly inhuman acts against young I people whose life, physical and mental, is deeply bound up j l with the self-sacrificing and patriotic career of champion- j I ship swimming. j These harsh "disciplinary" measures, against girls . whose achievements have been made possible only through ! the highest degree of self-discipline, have been , taken by J officials whose own failures in leadership in Australia and I. at Tokio have already been under press criticism, yet who J are apparently exempt from even the mildest investigation | . | or rebuke. j j Most disturbing is the fact that the girls appear to have' j j no easy channel of appeal, either against the severity of « j the penalties or the charges themselves (which concern ! J. only high-spirited behaviour deserving at most some mod- ! ! erate disciplinary action) . i J Indeed, the question arises whether the thousands of i j members of the amateur swimming associations in all j I States, affiliated with the ASU, have any possibility of j democratic control, or even a say, in policy and'administra- 1' tion of this great national sport. Sport is very much a part of Australian life and cannot j be excluded from the Australian people's rightful struggle I | to demand and., extend democratic rights, j- It will be a contribution to that struggle to lodge pro- I tests with the ASU Secretary, 247 George Street, Sydney. ,j. Telephone 27-2174. 