 I Aussie-Enzed |s@anien demand ) Tasman ferry SYDNEY : The demand for a trans-Tasman vehi cular ferry service, based on joint Australia-New Zealand ownership and manning, and support for Si the planned trade union peace conference against I nuclear tests and for disarmament are features of a I joint statement issued last week by officials of the I seamen's unions of Australia and New Zealand. I "THE statement was issued fol- I lowing a week's discus- 9 sions of common problems be- 1 tween a delegation of the Fed- erated Seamen's Union of New I Zealand . and representatives of if the Seamen's Union of Aus- V:t tralia. ' Those taking part were: New Zealand: Mr. W. Martin, gen eral president and ; Mr. G. Mc- Leod (Dunedin secretary). Australia: Mr, E. Elliott, Feder al Secretary and Mr. J. Benson, Sydney secretary. The statement, issued over the signatures of the four of ficials, said: "Throughout the week 'September 20-24, 1965, a meeting of representa tives of our respective unions has been held and the discussions have been mutually beneficial. "We recognise a seaman's life is relatively the same in both our countries, and that discussion on common problems enables a more correct approach by our unions to the shipowners and the respective governments. "We declare there is an urgent need for a joint Australia-New Zea land Government Trans-Tasman passenger-vehicular service; and that this service should be initiated by two such ships jointly subsidised- by the respective Governments, built In Australia, one such shin to be manned by a New Zealand Union crew, the other by an Austranan Union crew. "This would break the strangle hold that the overseas monopolies have at present on the Trans-Tas man passenger trade. Peace conference We are each vitally affected by ; Proposed French Atomic Tests h the Pacific — both our Unions' nksyships are firmly resolved in opposition. We are organising with the aim 'Tkmg the A.C.T.U.-F.O.L. spon- wea peace conference, to be held rmw y .n December this year, a for vice against atomic tests, general disarmament, and peace thm» vic? at will be heard bv w the world and heeded y the Government. i |lnerstanding and the gains will 1 result from our discussions resolve . ur'her strengthened by our I chanmn .» aVe 111 the fufcure inter- I pn ! g 1 C orte; -OL- 18 the Federa- 1 equivaienf cf' the New Zealand 1 of TrlT ' » e Australian Council I UI Trade 