 Roundup of Vietnam protests: | ! ,1 Cairns calls | for action I ADELAIDE: The wid est mass action of the Aus tralian people is needed to defeat the Menzies Gov- ernment's policy on Viet nam. This call was made by Dr. J. F. Cairns, MHR, Victoria, speaking at a meeting organised by the SA Com mittee for International Cooperation and Disarmament. Some 300 people packed the King's Ballroom to hear Dr. Cairns and Pastor Sercombe of the Church of Christ denounce US policy in Vietnam and the sending of Australian troops to South Vietnam. Dr. Cairns said what Australia does now can affect her relations 'with her Asian neighbours for generations to come. He said that the national liberation movement of Asia arose out of a long history of suppression of their rights by colonists and local landlords. "It is a movement no one can stop" he declared. Communists participated in this movement and worked out their poli cies in accordance with local condi tions seeking to win influence among the workers, peasants and intellec tuals. There was no evidence to support Menzies' suggestion that a Communist thrust towards Australia was taking place from Communist China and North Vietnam. Dr. Cairns used an official US State Department document to shatter such a suggestion. US figures alleged that men and weapons had gone from North Vietnam to the south. But the weapons were not enough to fill one junk-size ship and the men constituted a handful, and even then one was listed as doubtful. Captured US weapons The fact is that the South Vietnam fight is conducted by South Vietnam, using captured US weapons, Dr. Cairns said. There was no aggression from the north. Dr. Cairns warned that the Men zies Government had made it possible to send conscripts anywhere. The Labor Movement was united in opposing Menzies' Vietnam policy he said. Pastor Sercombe said he was op posed to US policy in Vietnam be cause it brought the danger of a third world war, it protected corruption, it perpetuated the division of Viet nam, and the present atrocities. In the final analysis, US policy was self- defeating. Secretary of the Gas Workers' Uni on (Mr. E. Crimes) chaired the meet ing which raised £89 for the peace fight. Adelaide seamen A stopwork meeting of seamen at Port Adelaide urged the Australian Council of Trade Unions to convene a conference of Federal Unions to decide on necessary action to halt the Menzies' Government's interven tion in Vietnam. Passport protest BRISBANE: The Queensland State Management Committee of the Build ing Workers' Industrial Union, meet ing in Brisbane last week, protested against the Federal Government's withholding of a passport for Mr. R. Rose of the Waterside Workers' Union, who had been selected to go to a trade union conference in North Viet nam. The committee also condemned the Vietnam war being waged by the US and Menzies Government. Fairfield meeting SYDNEY: At a public meeting at Fairfield the following resolution was carried unanimously: — :tj "That we, representing the convic- tion of a large proportion of Aus- tralian people of all political opin- ions, deeply regret that our Govern- A ment failed to take positive steps ' towards a peaceful solution in Malay- sia and Vietnam before being com mitted to support our allies in at- tempts at a settlement by force of arms. | "We declare that the Vietnam situa- 1 tion should be settled in accordance I with the Geneva Agreement of 1954. M "We implore all Australians, as the 3 one white nation vitally concerned in m Asian affairs, to establish and main- 11 tain peace, goodwill nad co-operation 18 with our neighbours in this South-East M Asian 1 region." m Coalcliff miners 1 Miners at Coalcliff Colliery on the f South Coast of NSW have written to II the US Consul demanding the with- 3 drawal of American troops from Viet- » nam. :i 