 What's behind the | forthcoming Automation 'Congress' A congress being organised in Melbourne by three pro-empSoy- er organisations for May is seen in trade union circles as aimed at involving unions in collaboration with employers and the Gov ernment for application of automation in employers' interests. "J'HE "International Con- j gress on Human Rela- 1 tions" will be held in Mel- j bourne, May 3-5. j -THE Victorian Employers' Fed- j eration, the Committee of j Economic Development of Aus tralia (CEDA) and the Austra lian Industries Development Association (AIDA), all of which include leading repre sentatives of employers' inter ests, are organising the con gress. It will deal mainly with "The Social and Economic Impact of Automation and Technical Change." The "international" status of the gathering appears to stem f 1 om the list of main speakers who_ come most ly from overseas. Speakers Speakers for the Congress include Professor Galbraith, John I- Snyder and M. B. Poison of USA; N. Fisher and Lord McCorquodale (UK) ; Masaru Ibuka (Japan); Dr. H. Ltibeck (West Germany); Professor Downing, Sir Douglas Copland and Menzies' Labor Minister W. Mc- Mahon (Australia). All of these are connected "with employers' circles. ACTU President Mr. A. Monk is also a speaker. Experience shows that only the labor movement has a policy to meet the social effects of auomation. It includes: Shorter hours © Longer leave © Full employment ® Increased pensions These proposals are all strenuous ly opposed by employers and their organisations including those who are organising this Congress. Real aims Referring to advancing technology and automation, a letter, from the Organising Committee says "Aus tralia . . . within the next decade will be faced with the problem of deter mining a positive political and econo mic policy for the future. "The need for the Congress is in the fact that the problems no longer lie in the future — they are with us today and therefore we must search for the solutions today. "This search needs international co-operation and the combined efforts of government employers and the trade unions, putting aside all past differences." Real purpose of the gathering is therefore being seen in trade union circles as involvement of the trade unions in collaboration with employers and the Menzies Government for "peaceful" and profitable extension of automation In Australia, despite the known facts of its threat to jobs. Two features of the background to this Congress are: © A report in the Financial Re view of plans to extend the use of automatic computors for controlling production processes in Australian industry. ® Steps by- the -Australian Insur ance' Staffs Federation to protect its members from dismissal due to in troduction of, computors. Extension of electronic data pro cessing equipment in an extensive scale to certain warehousing opera tions. On January 12 the Financial Re- view reported: "It was learned this week that several major organisations are actively , investigating the use of com putors for control . of industrial pro cesses and manufacturing operations "It seems likely that Broken Hill Pty. Ltd. will show the way. The company has asked computer sup pliers to submit tenders for two different systems — one to control a furnace at Port "Kembla and the other to control steel production at Whyalla. "The placement of orders for a few machines would mark the first major advance along the road to in dustrial automation through com puters." "Process control by computer is often described as true automation because the machine and a network of instruments and controls supplant men in the primary responsibility of running industrial production." Dismissal of a clerk from a Mel bourne insurance office as a result of computer introduction helps expose a fanciful story previously told about effects on labor of auto mation in the office. This story was that displacement of labor would - not occur because natural wastage, i.e. deaths and re signations would render it unneces sary. Not only is this no longer valid but this story also ignores the fact that automation reduces the -total number of jobs available. One official of an American com pany manufacturing computer equipment has estimated that its introduction has resulted in the re duction of about 40,000 jobs per week in the USA. - « 1 1 