 W.W.F. TAKES UP WAGE CHALLENGE SYDNEY: Today's national 24-hour stoppage of waterside workers has been called by their union as part of its program to resist provocative attacks by the Government, employers and the Australian Stevedoring Authority against the union. "|HE Waterside Workers' Fed eration is playing a prom inent. role in challenging wage freeze policies and the use of the arbitration machinery to favor wealthy employers at the expense of all Australian work ers. Against this background, attacks on the wharfies are being sharpened as the Government fears a new upsurge of protests over the forth coming budget burdens arising from the Vietnam war. Today's stoppage will be followed by others at fortnightly intervals as part of the campaign to win worth while reforms and better conditions for waterfront workers. A press statement issued last week by the WWF said the decision is not taken lightly. "Lock-out" "Faced with a situation where the ASIA uses lock-out procedures to promote port stoppages, the Govern ment sets up a bogus inquiry and the employers attempt to fine the union into submission, the Federa tion has no alternative but to or ganise its own industrial resources to protect its members. Last week the Melbourne barrister (Mr. A. Woodward), appointed by the Government to inquire into the steve doring industry, said his investiga tions would not include employers' profits or proposals to nationalise the industry. He said he believes employers' profits have little to do with tho 411c? 4-Vio i i i. « wl hue inuustry.j The Federation statement said its "efforts have been and will be designed to promote a better industry and in this respect have set up the following objectives: Nationalisation of the Steve doring Industry for the good of Australia. Modernisation of Australian port complexes. Security for all the workers in the industry— waterside workers, tally clerks, watchmen and fore men. To this end the Federation is seek ing: Non - contributory retirement pensions, a mechanisation fund, in creased wages, guaranteed wages by providing penalty - free attendance money increased to a realistic figure, increased meal money, long service leave provision-? on the same basis as applied to other workers (three months for 15 years instead of for 20). The Federation said "these are worthwhile and necessary objectives that can be met out of the profits of the overseas shipowners who carry our trade." (See pay 5.) Heavy fines Considerable unrest has developed throughout the Australian waterfront industry over the heavy fines and sackings of waterside workers, par ticularly in Sydney and Melbourne. Last week Sydney "hostages" (men locked out until the port is dispute- free) demonstrated against the ship- owners and others making public attacks on the union. Up until last Friday about half the dney waterfront were locked out from the industry. The waterside workers say that attacks being carried out by the shipowners and the ASIA are part of an attempt to deny the workers their just claims and to cover up the recently anounced freight increases. Following the announcement to hold today's stoppage, the Minister Continued on Page 12 Waterfront Continued from Page 1 for Labor (McMahon), shipowners' representatives and sections of. the wealthy press have, renewed their outbursts against the Federation. The Sydney Morning Herald (August 3) completely distorts the issue by saying . that none of the Federation's claims have been sub mitted to arbitration and, in the words of McMahon;- "the Federation has abandoned arbitration." No authority Mr. N. Docker (Industrial Officer of the WWF) said that of the Federa- tion's six industrial claims only three cime within the jurisdiction of the Arbitration Commission. These are for increases in wages, attendance money and meal allowance. Justice Gallagher, of the Commis sion, . admitted he has no authority to deal with industrial pensions, a mechanisation fund or long" service leave. Nor can he deal with the nationalis ation of the stevedoring industry or the demand for the establishment of a national . overseas shipping line. Mr, Docker said- that of the wage claims,, the major one was .before he Commonwealth Commission in 962. .. : ; The union's claim for a 7/- an hour increase; was argued before Justice Ashbumer . during 1962 and 1963 and was; referred1 to the Full v Bench, which only granted 3£d. "The" whole membership "of the Federation declared, this decision ito;- ! .totally 'inadequate' Mr. Dicker. vSajd.- ...j. , ; >f£ V» I ; J J jf.1l -> y 