 Tightwad threat to ballet tour SYDNEY: The planned seven months overseas tour of the Australian Ballet Company could be cancelled unless greater consideration is given to the welfare of the dancers. A CTORS Equity Association ot Australia is dem'rHma that- the management -of the company provide for the gen eral welfare, security and pro per living conditions of the ballet while on tour. The management of the ballet want the 37 members of the ballet to find and pay for their own accommodation and meals while on tour. General secretary of Equity, Mr. Hal Alexander, said this week that the union is insisting that food and ac commodation (the latter all under the one roof) plus transport to the theatre be provided in addition to the mem bers receiving the full award rate of pay. Govt, at fault? The company plans to visit the United Kingdom, South Africa, Israel, Switzerland, France, Germany, Italy, the Philippines and Japan. The award wages for the dancers are experienced male £20.18.6, experi enced female £19.4.0. Inexperienced danCers are paid 10/- less in both cases. "If lack of finance is. the reason for these conditions being forced on the dancers,- then a positive approach should be made to the Federal Gov ernment for more finance," Mr. Alex ander said.- "It should not be solved at the expense of the dancers." Mr. Alexander said that many of the members of the corps de ballet are under 21 years ana it is somewhat disquieting that the management ex pects members of the ballet to obtain upon their own accommodation in countries in Europe and Asia. According to an Equity member in Tokyo, accommodation and meals would cost about £40 a week. There is also the added difficulty of lan guage and transport. The ballet members would also en counter similar problems in Europe. The Sydney1 Symphony Orchestra is also planning an overseas tour this year and will play for the ballet at the British Festival. Mr. Alexander said that the Aus tralian Broadcasting - Commission will provide and pay for all the accom modation, with meal allowance, and will arrange for the orchestra mem bers to be quartered together through out the tour. "It is inconceivable that the manage ment of the ballet would expect mem bers of the ballet, including a number of girls under 21, to accept different and worse conditions than those offer ing to a mature group of adults in the orchestra," Mr. Alexander said. 