 Big Tax Slugs For Unjust War Slug the worker to pay for unjust war commitments is the key note of the 1965/66 Budget. Income tax will rise by 6d in the £., petrol 3d a gallon, beer Id a middy, spirits l| _a nip, cigarettes 3d for 20 and tobacco 3d for 2oz. At a very conservative estimate this will rob the average worker's pay packet of about 10/- a week. THIS estimate is based on ' the following: — Income tax, up 6d. in £1. On average wage of £20 1/3 9 Petrol tax, up 3d. gallon. Al lowing 1 gallon a day to travel to and from work and 3 gal lons for wee-end 2/- Beer, up Id. a middy. Allow ing for a very moderate con sumption of four middies a day on knocking off and 10 on the week-end 2/6 9 Cigarettes, up 3d. a packet of 20. Assuming a moderate smoker consumes 20 a day and his wife does the same 3/6 Total per week u 9/3 If a worker is In receipt of more than the average wage, and if the wife also like a drop as well as a . smoke, the weekly tax slug will be corerspondingly higher. More for war Not one. penny of this additional tax slug will go towards making life easier for pensioners or widows. Not one penny will contribute towards improved housing, education, medical or social services. All will be swallowed up by increased war expenditure to meet commitments in Vietnam and Malaysia. The total amount of additional tax raised by the new imposts on. petrol, beer, spirits, cigarettes and tobacco, plus the increased income tax, will amount to £84.6 million for a full year. The increare in war expenditure will be £81.4 million. This is an increase of 27 per cent, on last year's, figure of £386 million and constitutes the largest increase of any item in the Budget. Notwithstanding the fact that the State of Malaysia is now de funct, £9 million is allocated for military aid to Malaysia over the next two years. Handouts Foreign oil and mineral monopolies and beef barons will get further lavish handouts from the Budget, but there is no money for drought-stricken Australian farmers. South Australia and West Australia will get £14 million to build railways for mineral monopolists. Queensland will get £1.6 million fi.nance harbor and township facilities for foreign aluminium monopolists at Weipa. Queensland and West Australia will get £2$ million to build cattle roads for overseas beef barons, Vesteys & Borthwicks. Oil exploitation, which is 80 per cent, in foreign hands, will benefit by an increased subsidy of £7 million. Holt sought vainly to sugar-coat the Budget by opening up with some trivial concessions in social services. . total cost of these concessions !S only £20.4 million — less than one- quarter of the increased war expen- There is no increase in aged pen sions, only a 10/- increase in supple mentary assistance and an easing of conditions to qualify for Pensioner Medical Service. Coming right on top of the Arbitration Commission's rebuff to the ACTU's moderate wage claiips, Holt's Budget is sure to stimulate increased industrial action by the trade unions around their wages demands. Budget train Four hundred and eighty delegates left Sydney today (Wednesday) on the unions' "Budget Lobby Train" to Can berra. Delegates from unions, pensioners' and women's organisations were demanding a budget to put the tax ation burden where it belongs — on the wealthy companies and individuals — and to lower taxation on the work ing people, increase pensions, and grant much higher child endowment. More than 300 unionists travelled by bus to Canberra from Newcastle and the South Coast, and a plane was chartered from Melbourne. Canberra workers stopped work for four hours to join a demonstration march from the station to Parliament House. 