 [?] Hire purchase snatch from grieved woman . \A/E are all familiar with the difficulties people get into over hire purchase transactions, but this case I heard of appears one of the worst. When the woman's husband died, her solicitor contacted the firm from which the goods were purchased and asked for a suspension of payments until the widow got her affairs in order. Several days later, vvhen she was out, the firm sent along a truck, her house was broken into and all the goods in question taken away. Besides depriving her of the goods, much damage was done to the wom-- an's home. She is now suing this heartless company for breaking and entering. « #= W"V the discrimination by in surance companies towards under-25 drivers? If damage is done to a car belong ing to a driver in this age group, he or she has to pay the first £25, where as older drivers pay the first £10. Sure we Know the accident rate is higher in this age group but the driver is liable even though he may not even be in the car. This means all damage, not only that caused by, collisions. «: «= #: WHEN the history of the present Mount Isa struggle is written, the role played by women members of their Auxiliary of the Mount Isa Trades & Labour Council deserves a special chapter. These are only some of the instances of devotion and loyalty: Women members of the Auxiliary are working at pay-out points distrib uting the money to men eligible for relief. _ Two women delegates have been elected to the Mount Isa Trades & Labour Council with equal voting rights with the men. A Prices Control Committee has been formed which will continue after the dispute is settled. A Finance Committee is organising ways of raising money. The women called a meeting to which they invited parents, school teachers, bus-drivers, and the ques tions of the waiving of school uni forms and the cost of bus fares and school books to be met either by the State Government or Trades & Lab our Council, were discussed. One young mother travelled to Bris bane (with her baby) as member of a collecting team. Wives of the Bris bane Metal Trades Federation mem bers took care of her baby so that she could travel around freely ad dressing meetings. 