 Dixon warns of 'collision course with Asians' SYDNEY : The Menzies Government's decision to send combat troops to the Vietnam war placed Aus- v« o collision cmirso. licuxa uii with the Asian peoples. Mr R. Dixon, president of the Communist Party of Australia, .said this in an address to the Central Committee last weekend. Mr Dixon said that all through history Australia's ruling circles feared the Asian people and fostered hostility towards them. "They established the racialist White Australia policy and by mass immigration from Britain and Europe strove to make Australia a bastion of white supremacy and domination in South-East Asia." But, said Mr. Dixon, the demand for freedom and independence swept across Asia and the whole colonial world. Paternalism - in Aircfrnlian ruling OUIUV PCUPAC XXA o class circles saw the urgent need for a new approach to Asia. Lord Casey advocated a paternalist policy intended to keep for the imperialists their interests and influence in Asia. Various intellectuals welcomed the changes in Asia and urged a policy of friendship with the new nations, of support for national capitalist elements. Somewhat similar ideas were found in the Labor Party. "Sir Robert Menzies, however, was not in this company. A spokes man for the biggest monopoly in terests, he had no time for those advocating a new approach to Asia. "He is a last-ditch defender of colonialism. He opposed' Indonesian and Egyptian independence and the nationalisation of the Suez Canal. He cut a shameful figure at the UN meeting in 1960, defending colonial ism." White supremacist ideas had pre dominated in the Menzies Government policies towards Asia and the decision to send combat troops to South-East Asia was a continuation of this. As colonialism was swept away and British power waned in the region, the Australian ruling class turned towards the US and shaped its policy to correspond with the US. The trend found its most complete expression in the foreign policy of the spokesman of the Australian monopoly capitalist concerns,. Sir Robert Menzies. "Today we face the new Asia," saitl Mr. Bixon, "where the peoples have won, or are winning, inde- pendence. Gunboat diplomacy is no iisc here. Colonialism is finished. White supremacist ideas only create a dirty image of Australia in Asia. "The despatch of Australian troops to South-East Asia brands us as an aggressor, an enemy of Asian peoples' independence. "The great and vital national in terests of Australia are bound up with the way she responds to the Asian peoples' demand and struggles for independence, democracy and equality. "The Communist Party gives full recognition to this and always has. We oppose imperialism and colonial ism. We recognise the right of all peoples to independence and demo cracy." Many Australians, said Mr. Dixon, opposed the Menzies line and accepted the need for a new approach to Asia. They differed widely on how this should be achieved, "but the mood for change exists." The Communists should do more to reach out and influence this develop ment, carefully explaining our posi tion, insistently combating colonialist and white supremacist ideas. "We must explain that we cannot dictate to these peoples the regime or social system they must have or impose on them by military force governments they do not want." Mr. Dixon said the despatch' of Australian troops was an act of aggression against Vietnam, in viola tion of the 1954 Geneva agreements, which expressly forbade the sending of foreign troops there. Trying to meet criticism, Menzies had claimed that the decision was made under SEATO and South Viet nam had asked for the troops. But at the May meeting of SEATO in Paris, the US had been unable to get endorsement from the big powers on its Vietnam aggression. The South Vietnam Government had been created by the USA and simnlv did what it was told. US desperate At the beginning of 1965 the USA's position in South Vietnam had been desperate and because of this the US had decided to escalate the war by bombing North Vietnam. This had created a new situation, said Mr. Dixon. The elements of civil war were now receding and "the conflict quite clearly assumes the form of open and naked US aggression against South and North Vietnam." The US imperialists wanted things to appear as they had in Korea, when | the UN was used to cover their | aggression. But in Vietnam the UN j did not support the US, Secretary- ! General U Thant being openly critical. I The Menzies Government's decision | on troops was announced in the US | before it was released in Australia. i Mr. Dixon showed that talk of 1 "Communist aggression" had become I a stock argument in justifying im- j perialist crimes against other peoples. \ This "time-besmirched method" of US imperialism was being used in j Vietnam also. I The real purpose was to make the I region a US neo-colonialist depen- 1 dency. The so-called "domino" theory, I which suggested that all South-East i Asia would fall under Chinese domina- | tion if the US left Vietnam, also fitted this propaganda pattern. Mr. Dixon po'ntcd ort thf C'i'"" 1 ' no troops outside its own ® .orders. "China does not seek to dominate South-East Asia, and if it tried it would fail," said Mr. Dixon. "The peop1 there want independence and will oppose any country that seeks to dominate them. "South-East Asian countries will be most friendly to those countries that support their independence fight and most opposed to those who seek to crush their struggle. The Menzies interventionist policy will do grave damage to Australia in South-East Asia." Mr. Dixon said that while opposing the sending to troops to Vietnam, Opposition leader Calwell had shown a lack of understanding and had joined in the attack on Communists. He had urged that Australia should support nationalism in South-East Asia as a "barrier against Commu nism." But what else was the South Viet namese people's struggle against US intervention but a great national struggle? The so-called "Vietcong" movement was in fact the South Vietnam Na tional Liberation Front, consisting of, and supported by, Buddhists and various other religious groups, na tionalist leaders and organisations, trade unions, peasant organisation leaders and Communists. "This movement genuinely ex presses the will and aspirations of the majority of South Vietnam people and is the only legitimate representa tive of their interests," said Mr. Dixon. The movement aimed not at a Socialist or Communist regime, but at (in their own words) "the indepen dence of South Vietnam, democracy and peace." They proposed to estab lish not a Communist, hut a "national democratic coalition government," including all sections of the national front. Its policy will be "independence and neutrality in full conformity with the 1954 Geneva Agreements." Whether they would go on to Socialism after winning and consoli dating independence remained to bo seen. "In all probability they will take this path. But it is for them to decide and no other country can decide it for them." In South Vietnam, said Mr. Dixon, the national liberation forces were dealing heavy blows and the US-con- trolled Government forces were being defeated. The U.S.-backed Saigon administration might collapse at any rime. "Opposition to the US policy has r'evrio".e:l ir' :> a prreat v/orld-wii!'.' movant." said Mr. Dixon. 1 "At the head of the forces opposing US aggression in Vietnam is the strong Soviet Union and the socialist world. "In the third world — Asia, Africa and Latin America — governments and people alike demand an end to US aggression and a peaceful settlement. "In the US there is deep division. Powerful forces condemn Johnson's policies and criticism of his Adminis tration is growing. "These are good signs. They reveal the mighty strength of the world-wide f-vnos for peace. They carry the con- fT--s wi1! khe v.- " be defeated and peace be preserved."- MR. R. DIXON 