 ' CYDNEY: The NSW Teachers' Federation this week sharp ly criticised the Federal Gov ernment for its failure to imple- ment the recommendations on Teacher Training made by the Martin Report. Mr. D. Broadfoot, Publicity Officer for the New South Wales Teachers Federation said this week: "We consider that Teacher Training is an extremely important aspect ot education, a pivot around which the educatipn structure moves. "The Commonwealth has refused to undertake any attempt to implement the recommendations ( on Teacher Training by the Martin Report. "In our Teacher Training facilities we lag behind other progressive coun tries. We've tended to neglect Teacher Training, perhaps been forced to neglect Teacher Training in order to provide for primary and secondary education under pressure from the needs of tertiary education. "Our Teacher Training course is long overdue for revision in order to meet modern needs. "It needs to be lengthened with a view to moving to our ultimate goal of four year trained teachers. We believe, and a lot of people agree with us that all teachers should be graduates. "This shouldn't happen in one fell swoop. We should first extend the Teacher Training course to three years. To do this we need two new training col leges immediately to accommodate the students. The Department probably has land available for these colleges but can not find the money, to build. "This story of Teacher Training neglect in New South Wales is also an indication of the problems in other states. "The Martin Report was drawn up by a committee of responsible men. It merely recommends that the Com monwealth assist the States for teacher training, and to provide the funds necessary to re-shape the Teach er Training course in line with the standards of modern countries. "We feel also the danger is that in order to get maximum Commonwealth assistance the States will be tempted to emphasise tertiary education at the expense of primary and secondary education. "The Prime Minister has elected to reject proposals of a Committee of responsible men which it is fair to say is a serious blow to a vital sec tion of the education system in this country. "According to 'The Australian' of last Friday Mr. Peter Sellers, educa tion vice-president of the National Union of Australian University Stud ents, described the 1000 extra Com monwealth scholarships, 1000 extra technical scholarships and 250 extra / later-year awards as just a sop. "They are only one quarter or less than the number of scholarships re commended by the Martin Report," v he said. Dr. Sol Encel, lecturer in political science at the Australian National University and secretary of a commit tee convened by the Federation ot Aus tralian University Staff Associations was reported as saying that the Gov ernment's neglect of the Martin re commendations was deplorable. He said teacher training was the whole crux of the education problem. The estimated number of teachers required in government schools is ex pected to increase from 72,500 this ' year to 90,900 in 1970 and 116,400 in 1975. The Martin Report says: "The com mittee is convinced that both the in- ' crease in the supply of teachers and the improvement in the quality of their professional preparation are matters of urgency ... in the interests ... of the whole of the -nation's educa tional structure." One of the main recommendations of the committee was that the Federal Government assist State teacher train ing programs. It was rejected by the Government. The first two volumes, presented to the Government last August recom mend a total expenditure of £209 mil lion on tertiary education by 1975. A third volume is yet to be sub mitted. 