 FIRE HAZARD IN MINE yOLLONGONG: About two hours before the inquiry into the Old Bulli mine disaster . opened at Bulli yesterday (Tues- _ day) a pit-top protest meeting was being held at the mine be-, cause of suspected' manipulation with the ventilation system dur ing an inspection by. the Inquiry Judge, Mr. Justice Uorman, At the mine owned by the BHP four men lost their lives in a fire on Nov ember 19. The ventilation system will be a contentious issue in submissions to the Inquiry. Mr. Lee, appearing for the Minister for Mines at the inquiry, said that his submissions would show that certain " features of procedures adopted in sec tion 8 where the fire occurred, "creat- .ed, a substantial hazard of fire to the employees in . that section." Objectionable features were in fact the ultimate reason beyond the igni tion which set off the fire. Created danger "This set of circumstances . should not have been permitted to exist because of danger of fire and dan ger to life created by them," he said. He added that there was still a show ing of methane gas in . the mine last Wednesday. . Mr. -Lee said the Mines Department had made these interpretations of the fire: 1) Inflammable gas in the ' niine. ; 2) A drop in air pressure allowed likely movement ' pf gas ' in " the . mine." , ......... "This was an ideal situation for a fire, all that was needed ,was a spark. "It was not clear why the gas was not detected earlier. .Maybe it was. a vagary of fate, maybe it was a drop in air pressure, maybe it was not recoenised." Small quantities of gas could not always be recognised by some check inspectors not used to measuring it in small quantities with the oil lamps used for the purpose, he said. But there was a device called a methano- ; meter for measuring gas in small quantities. There was sound reason for its use, he said. Mr. Lee said he would show that the danger was unnecessary and V contrary to good mining practice . , and to the practice of the company. . The company had not sought the - permission of the Mines Department to .set up the fans in use in the dis aster section of the mine and had they sought it, it would not have been granted, he said. 