 d ' 'be t | i I J , JJ 4 c CANBERRA; If the United States would not agree to a cease-fire in Vietnam, the "Australian Government and Parliament should seriously consider withdrawing Austra lian troops from Vietnam", a Labor Member said in Fed eral Parliament in the debate on foreign policy. Strong protests against America's Jhorror-war in Vietnam came from a number of Labor Party speakers. Mr. W. G. Hayden, of Queensland, said the use of napalm and phos phorus was "disgraceful and inhuman". Mr. P. G. Gaivin, South Australia, said the announcement that gas had been used had "shocked the world". It could have a "great psychological . A nr. - ' Vtn An irl tf A no«f uu aaxu, xi naiauo believed that we were prepared to .use gas on. Asians but not on others. "If this gas is what the Americans claim it is, all the diplomatic skill of the western powers will be needed to get our Asian neighbours to under stand it." Mr. Gaivin added. Mr. A. W. James. N.S.W.: "While Government members remain silent, innocent women and children are suf fering from the use by the U.S. of phosphorus bombs and gas warfare in Vietnam. People are being burnt alive day after day. It is probably happening at this very moment." Deputy Opposition leader Whitlam said: "Let us tell America that she did wrong in using gas." "RevuSsfon Senate Opposition leader McKenna said: "The news presented on Mon day about phosphorus bombs and gases and the way it was presented aroused in me a terrific revulsion against the use of both." Senator J. L. Cavanagh. South Aus tralia: "If America wants to engage in South Vietnam in a war against children and wants to use phosphorus bombs and poison gas, cannot the Australian Government give an assur ance that we will not identify our selves with America's action? "We must realise that no matter what horrors may result from the war in South Vietnam, we are compelled to endorse and condone them. "Surely our foreign policy has sunk to a very low level if we have reached the stage where we have no say in the kind of war that will be waged." Mr. Hayden said that the success of the "Vietcong" in South Vietnam was based essentially on friendly rela tions with the people and on being able to mix with them freely. "How else could you explain thai over two-thirds of South Vietnam is: under their control? How else could you explain the success of this group, which is deplorably under-armed and has had to rely for 80 per cent of its arms on captures rrom the Gov ernment forces?" Mr. Hayden said he had read a press article "suggesting very strongly that the behaviour of the Vietcong has been more commendable than that of the U.S. -advised Government troops. ,r Atr&csties" "But perhaps one of the major reasons why the U.S.-advised govern ment forces are losing ground is be cause of the barbarous atrocities for which they are responsible." Mr. Hayden then read from the Dallas (Texas. U.S.A.) Morning News of January 1. 1963. concerning action taken by the pro-U.S. forces in South Vietnam. The extract said that in Kien- Tuong province, "seven villagers were led to the town square. Their stomachs were slashed, their livers extracted and put on display. "These victims were women and children. In another village a dozen mothers were decapitated before the eyes of their compatriots. In still another village expectant mothers were invited to the square by govern ment forces to be honored. Their stomachs were ripped and unborn babies removed." Mr. Hayden commented: "Surely that is not the type of thing we are going to endorse." According to Roger Hillsman. for mer adviser to President Kennedy. Mr Hayden continued, one reason for the government's failures "is. its repeated habit of strafing and machine-gunning villages of 2.000 or 3.000 peasants where it is suspected that two or three or perhaps half i\ dozen Vietcong are in hiding. "There has been a press article in the last 48 hours saying that over 1.000 peopie lost their lives in one of these raids where a phosphorus bomb was dropped . . "in today's issue of the Canberra 'Times' there is mention of the 'lazv dog' bomb, which has effects like those of an atom bomb." The article, said Mr Hayden. stated: "It explodes. 30 feet above ground, spitting out tens of thousands of razor-sharp steel slivers, which slice through walls, roof's and human beings. It makes mincemeat of every thing. Nothing "lives after it goes off." "Won't be iitfsmidafed'1 Mr. Hayden said escalation of the war would not intimidate the "Viet cong" forces. "I think Dien Bien Phu established that these peopie are not going to be intimidated by a show of force. Rather than create an atmosphere for negotiation, we will have an international-conflict on our hands more costly than Korea." Mr. James said that Australian boys were committed to participate in the undeclared wars in Malaysia and South Vietnam. If things that occurred were per mitted to continue, "many more Aus tralian boys will die or return home maimed for life". Reports of the U.S. war in Vietnam had shocked decent thinking Aus tralians. Phosphorus bombs had been used "Phosphorus, on making con tact with human flesh, eats to the very bones Is this type of war noi against all the conventions of war?" If the U.S. would not agree to eeasc fire in Vietnam, "the Govern ment and the Parliament should seriously consider withdrawing Aus tralian troops from Vietnam." Mr. N. L. Beaton. Labor. Victoria, said South Vietnam was a classic example of corruption, reluctance to institute reforms, give land to farmers and answer other pressing problems. Referring to External Affairs Minis ter Hasluck's attack on China. Mr. E. J. Harrison. Labor. N.S.W.. said: "Let me sa> in respect of China that i do not think we can solve our problem in Asia by continuing to build up an atmosphere of hatred . . We- must either work out a plan for co-existence between the nations or destroy humanity." Mr. G. WHITLAM 