 : y;:V; IMG people aren't backward after all, are thy .Mr. Barnes While the Minister for Territories, Mr. Barnes, last Friday was assuring the Melbourne meeting, of the Junior Chamber of Commerce that it could be up to 20 years before Papua-New Guinea achieved . self-government, New Guinea's political leaders were putting the final touches to their new political party. pRESIDED over by Mr. Oala Rarua, it includes most of the New Guinean members of the House of Assembly. Mr. Zure Zurecnuoc is parliament ary leader. It appears that it will be a parallel party to the Australian Labor Party, from which it received much of its guidance. It has a- declared socialist objective. ' The setting up of the New Guinea United National Party must have shocked the Minister, as the main grounds for his declaration was that New Guinea's fledgling politicians lacked cohesion and their parochial loyalties tended to prevent them from approaching problems in a national way. He relied also on the backwardness and illiteracy of. the electorate, a condition which the Administration has fostered over the years and under Mr. Barnes gives every indica tion of perpetuating. The Sydney ! Morning Herald criti cises the Minister for not having learn?a„the lessons of the post-war era of decolonisation— that is that the prime aim of the administering Power must be to hand over the reins in good time to moderate politicians be fore delays lead to ousting of the moderates by the extremists. On this basis the SMH welcomes the forma tion of this party. However the formation of this Un ited Nationalist Party will be wel comed by all well-wishers of the New Guinea people, not on the basis that moderates may try to retain the in vestments of the exploiting colonial ists, but on the sound grounds that the establishment of political parties provides' the basis of drawing the people together around their immedi ate needs and national aspirations. We can expect that this party will early in its political life seek to change the present policy of inhibit ing the establishment of co-operatives; will want a wide extension of the Agricultural Services to train farmers in cash cropping; the - expansion of education to all children of school age and adequate system of adult educa tion; and a new-look program. 'Mr. Barne's attitude is in line with the Government's policy on all colon ial questions, including all New Guinea and Asian independence. move ments. 