 I The cries of hungry children mingled with 1 anthems for dead heroes I . I ! liiipiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii | DENIS KEVANS continues S his story of Gallipol? — the I manipulation of "brave I reckless, generous" young I men. how they "strolled fe casually" into battle I and of the battles back home I for a feed, and against any 1 further sacrifice of young | blood. | lUllIllltlllllllllllllllllllllll' iltlllllllllllllllllllltlllllllll'IIIIH i IN 1889 Henry Lawson, look- i ' ing on a ..world of unem- 1 ployment and fierce class H battles, dreamed of a vast 3 ragged army; "Despairs con- scripted army", marching m "with the red flags over all 1 to take Australia for their r class. 1 in England. Scotland, !re- ; land, America, France, Ger- I many, Italy, Hungary and S Russia the same army was B gathering its. forces. On the jf eve of 1914 organised and if unorganised, masses, were pres- II sing against the bonds of if class oppression — - from the if savagery of the czarist auto- jp cracy to the baton? of a I "benign" English monarchy. H But like master magicians, waving II their hands of sceptres, crooks, and III national flags, the stock exchange || chiefs of staff headed off these lH . armies of despair. S They led them to no man's land || in France and elsewhere, practically -If walled them off from the> rest of the ijja , world and paid them to destroy each 4s uiner, 11 Many soldiers woke. The niutinies, m strikes, jack-lips, and opposition to JS the war" by the soldiers has never 11 fully been told. II There were 23,000 Trade Unionists III in the first contingent of the Austra- 11 lian Imperial Force. Ill ' With neither red, flag nor beat of J® angry feet, they sailed away singing 111 "Australia . Will be There to be ff|| drained through- the slowing arteries Wm of the British High Command— a III . moribund Staff Corps which signed 111 its resignation papers with the blood till f millions. lH Rolling their "last Australians 111 : "strolled casually" into battle follow- ||i ; ing the barrage, but were left many Iml f'mes "casually hanging" on the wire |9 in front of the German trenches. HI The mateship distilled in them by j|l| years of observation of this working III class necessity— immortalised by the 1|| writers of Australia, the courage 19 which they possessed long before III they ever got into khaki, courage |1 moulded at the coal face, in sweating 9 pens, stoking railway engines, fight- 9 ing bush fires— all that was dissolved 9 in a flash of cordite and wished goodbye with a service medal. 9 ( H. w. Pryce's poems, Mann's novel 9 "Flesh in Armour", and little more 9 remains as an honest testimony to 9 the human tragedy of these brave, 9 reckless, generous dead men. 9 Do I exaggerate? if .K only that were so I would listen 9 , " calm to tire post-dated eulogies |g of my uncles and their mates. If 9 r a ithafc were true 1 ooo" swallow H reaauy the facile conclusions and concise histqries of the war provid ers who use this vacuous glory only to feed the present cannon. ? "TAKE the battle of the Neck, Gallipoli, August 7, 1915., The Turks had charged across the Neck on May 19 and were mowed down. j The . Australians were to "feint" here and at Lone Pine while the second British offensive got under way. The attacking force were dismount ed Light Horse regiments,, the 8th Victorian, and 10th West Australian. The Light Horse were in a deep trench. Pegs had been driven into the wall for the men to hold and niches cut for their feet so that when the signal came they could spring out in a flash. The Turks expecting an attack were three-tiered in their trench, machine- gun and rifle-men. The first wave, Victorians, leapt out and were cut. down, before .going six yards "as if the men's limbs had become string". The second line leapt out and got a few more yards— one soldier is sup posed to have thrown the regiment's red and yellow flag into the Turkish trench. Colonel Brazier, in charge of the third line, saw the coming suicide and went to the commander, Colonel Antill who said: "I have seen the regimental colours in the enemy's trenches, those men must be given support." Mate having said goodbye to mate, the third line took up their position. They too were gunned down. The fourth line waiting for A reversal of the order, was sent for ward by another officer who hap pened to come, along. "With that regiment went the. flower of the youth of Western Australia, sons of the old pioneer ing families, youngsters— in some cases two and three from the same home — who had flocked to Perth at the outbreak of the war with their own horses and saddlery in order to secure enlistment in a- mounted regiment of the AIF, Men. known and. popular, the best loved leaders in sport and work in the West tlien rushed to their death." (Bean). The attack was unsuccessful and the Australian front line stayed were it was. "Such was the result for which the Light Horse gave themselves. "During the long hours of that . day the summit of the Neck could be seen crowded with their bodies. At first here and there, a man raised his arm to the sky, or tried to drink from his waterbottle. "But as the sun of that burning day climbed higher, such move ment ceased. "Over the whole summit the figures lay still in the quivering heat." (Bean). No-one wants to dwell on this story, but the perpetrators of it have forgotten it, so we won't forget it. At home recruits were begged to join their brother Anzacs who were "fighting desperately against huge odds." , Little children were photoed hold ing their soldier-fathers' hands and saying "I want to 'till the Taiser', too, Daddy". The war providors, almost hyster-. ical with the war boom, made and broke pledges hourly. "Again still keeping patriotism to the fore . . . Every million put down by a bank means £45,000 pro fit for the year. Our sons are earn ing a deathless name for their country and we are proud of them. Shall we not give them the oppor tunity to be proud of us?" (Bank ing Review on War Loans.) . The cost of living exploded. An AWU report from South Australia says: "Work is very scarce throughout the State, and the hunger war is acute here. We are distributing 800 loaves of bread weekly to the dis tressed of city and suburbs ..." Workers in Melbourne were "sell ing their tools". This was economic conscription in action. Henry Boote, editor of the Austra lian Worker, published a sensational memo by Labour apostate Holman. Premier of New South Wales. The memo "intended solely for my parliamentary colleagues" suggests, the need "to create a new atmo sphere". Single men of military age were to be dismissed from their jobs. Employers of the State were to dis cuss how far they could be replaced by married men, men over military age, -by young men, boys and women. On this basis the employers could "as far as possible, dispense with men who ought to be defending their country." The memo wants sport and enter tainment cut, and only war news printed in the papers. All anti-war papers to be banned. It "takes for granted that the pub lic men of the Commonwealth would, from day to day, make state ments of the nature of exhortations which could appear under this scheme in the press urging a cheer ful acceptance of the sacrifice in volved." . Boote. one of the leaders of the anti-conscription fight printed the memo. Holman's rejoinder was "the docu ment must have been stolen, which was an example of the general un- scrupulousness of the anti-conscrip tion campaign." The working class fought back and crushingly defeated conscription in October 1916 and December 1917. The Coal Strike of 1916 was another vic tory. In 1917 came the Transport Strike over the American time and motion study system, "the Taylor system". It became a general strike. Scabs were used everywhere. GPS schoolboys were put into the mines, country labour onto the wharves. The strike was defeated. Scabs got seniority. Thousands could not go back. The cries of hungry children mingl ed with the anthems for dead sol diers. Strike fund collectors could only raise £3,500 on the street (War col lections had raised £23,000 and £45,000). During the strike a man suggested there should be a Card System all round. "Let every man who has made a fortune or possesses one fill in a card and explain how they made or came by it." A lot of gilt names in France would like to have known too. And so would a lot of people now who fear that the slow-moving arteries of the nuclear- High Com mands, moribund as they are, still have the power to make the rest of the world, the billion of us, instant aneously moribund with them. 