 New moves in Tasmania aqainst Vietnam war LAUNCESTON: Representatives from a wide variety of organisations met last week in the Trades Hall and formed a committee to organise activity in opposition to the war in Vietnam. meeting was addressed by Mr. G. W. Duthie. MHR, who criticised the major press and other new media for its failure to report the full facts on the Vietnam war. He compared this biased reporting with the distorted way the recent ALP Conference had been reported by the Press generally. Mr. Duthie said that if there was a Labor Government one of the first tilings they would do would be to withdraw Australian troops from Vietnam. The Committee which was elected consists of the following members; Rev. Williams, Mr. G. Duthie MHR, Mrs. D. Bartlett, Mr. S. Wattleworth. The meeting gave the Committee power to co-opt members and to co operate closely with the local Trades Hall Council which has already ex pressed full opposition to the Men kes Government's policy in Viet nam. Newcastle JEWCASTLE: Hundreds of peo- n u commemrated Hiroshima 5!y, a clty march and then a reach-in». debate on Vietnam The march went through Hunter treet to Civic Park, where the Rev. P. Page, (Methodist, Toronto) .spoke. Many of the marchers then went to the "Teach-in" at the University of Newcastle (organised by that Un iversity and Sydney University Dept. of Adult Education). Main speakers were Professor Fitz gerald and Mr. Fairbairn of the Nat ional University, Canberra and Dr. J. Bach of Newcastle University. About 200 people In the P. D. Hid den Lecture Theatre listened in tently from 10.30 a.m. to 4 p.m., when questions and discussions began. BRISBANE RALLY BRISBANE: Over 500 people attend ed an Albert Hall meeting on Monday of last week, under the slogans "No More Hiroshimas," and "Peace in Vietnam." Speakers included: Mrs. E. B. Gale (NSW President, Women's Internation al League for Peace and Freedom), and Messrs. A. W. James MHR, P. O' Brien (WWF), F. Nolan (Qld. T. and L.C.), Dr. M. Kay (Qld. University lec turer and US citizen) and Canon D. Thawley. DLP attempts at disruption failed. I 