 ACTU renews call I to oppose Govt. wharf legislation MELBOURNE: The Australian Council of Trade Unions executive last week renewed its call for all sections of the trade union movement "to solidly sup- norf the ACTU and the Waterside Workers' Federa- tion" in opposition to Federal Government's wharf leaishtion. "THIS call is continuing to be backed by more and more sections of the labor move ment. Last week the Federal Council of the Miscellaneous Workers' Union pledged full- support for the WWF, as did the Plasterers' Union in NSW and Queensland. The Barrier Industrial Council at Broken Hill and Trades and Labor Councils at Orange, Lithgow and Dubbo have also backed the wharf ies. Telegrams continue to flood the Federation from unions, workshops and building jobs throughout Sydney. The ACTU Executive declared it "will strongly resist any action taken under the provisions of the Steve doring Industry Act to deregister the WWF on account of industrial action taken and authorised in accordance with ACTU rules and procedures." A resolution said "the ACTU will not tolerate the introduction of non union 'labor on the Australian water front." The officers were directed to im mediately call a meeting of the Executive in the event of any move to deregister the WWF. The Executive said it strongly opposed deregistration, registration or re-registration of unions being in the hands of the Commonwealth Govern ment. Particularly so as the Trade Union Movement had readily become in volved in disputes with the Govern ment acting in its role as an em ployer. The Executive stated "that the question of registration or continued registration of a union shall be the matter to be determined by an inde pendent tribunal and should not be subject to conditions which may be imposed by the Government." These views of the ACTU will be put forward at the all-in conference with the Government, employers and unions to take place next Tuesday in Melbourne. A further conference is to be held later in the week to discuss the re cruitment of waterfront labor. The Federal Council of the WWF said the Union will fully co-operate in the proposed conferences in an effort to obtain justice for waterside workers. "However, our willingness to co operate must be matched by a similar gtenuine willingness on the part of the shipowners and the Government to ensure that agreement will arise front the negotiations. "Should no genuine desire be present to conciliate the Federation claims in a just way the conferences would fail and no accord be estab lished on the waterfront," Council said. Stopwork meetings of waterside workers throughout Australia are being held this week to endorse the Federation attending the conferences. A resolution being put to the meetings declares that the WWF will continue to use the avenues open to it within the framework of the Trade Union and Labor Movement to bring about the repeal of the 1965 amendments to the SIA Act and all other sections ol the Act that are repugnant to all workers: "Only a Government of the charac ter and aims of the Menzies Admini stration would foist such anti-worker legislation on to a union and the community at large. f "Only a Government of this charac ter would set out to protect and ; advance the interests of overseas shipowners and other employers at 2 the cost of Australians' conditions and welfare," the Federation said. 