 YOUTH v/as well represented in last Sunday's Sydney peace I march (see Page 12). MARCHES AND RALLIES AGAINST VIETNAM WAR SYDNEY: Public action and criticism of the Government's policy on Viet nam had shown that "the long night cf apathy is broken", said Professor E. Wheelwright at a 1700-strong Hiroshima Commemoration rally at the Tro- cadero last Sunday. PROFESSOR YVHEE L YV RI G H T ; (Sydney University) skid it was proved that there was "no consensus of opinion in Australia for making war on our Asian neighbors." He said that Asian nations have the right to choose their own social systems— "by revolution, if' this is the only way, and it often is." . The rally followed a city march by about 1,000 people, including unionists, students and suburban peace groups. Similar marches were held in Mel bourne and Adelaide, and a Hiro shima Day . meeting was held in Brisbane on Monday night with alto gether over 5,000 Australians taking part. " Miss Myra Roper, a Melbourne educationist, said she had challenged Liberal MHR Chipp, after a recent TV session, to produce evidence of Chinese aggression against Australia but he had been unable to do so. Mr. George Slater, Federal secretary of . the Australian Postal Workers' Union, praised the clerics and aca demics who had organised the "teach-ins." It is now up to the trade union movement to - organise a teach- in, he said. Mrs. P. Latona alco spoke (see story, page 1). Bishop Moyes, in closing the meet ing, said the Vietnam intervention had given Australia "an evil image" in Asia, which .would ba her close neighbor for all time. "We must not allow- our fears to interfere- with the freedom, independence and - integrity of Asia," he said. Melbourne MELBOURNE: More than 1,500 people, finished the now traditional 26-mile march from Frankston to Melbourne on Sunday. The twd-day march set off from Frankston at ,12.30 on Saturday and wound up at Earl's Court for a public, rally at 2 p.m. on Sunday. Chairman of the ANZ Congress, the Rev. A. M. Dickie, -opening the rally, said: . "Stop Vietnam conflict before there comes on the world ain even greater Hiroshima." Federal Labor MP for Wills (Vic.), Mr: Gordon Bryant, told the rally: "The question of Vietnam has stirred the people of Australia more than any other issue for years. "In the conflict between Power and People, our country must come down on the side of the interests of the people." ANZ Congress secretary, Mr. Sam Goldbloom, just back from the world 1 "ce congress in Helsinki, said that calls for negotiations on Vietnam could only be useful if there was an understanding of what was to be' negotiated about. . The only basis for negotiations was a -return to the- -Geneva- Agreements, which recognised the unity, independ ence and territorial integrity of Viet nam, and which forbade the stationing of foreign troops on Vietnamese soil. Adelaide ADELAIDE: One thousand people took part in Sunday's peace march through Adelaide, including trade unionists, women, young people, Christian church members, and national groups. Slogans called for peaceful settlement of the Vietnam war, and opposition to conscription. At the subsequent meeting, Mr. W. Hayden, MHR, strongly criticised the Vietnam policies of the US md Aus tralian Governments. HOBART: Leaflets handed out last Friday in the central city streets of Hobart gave the facts about the Vietnam war and called for with drawal of Australian troops and all foreign troops from Vietnam, nego tiations based on the Geneva Agree ment, and Australian friendship and trade with neighboring countries. It was authorised by a number of women's and trade union organisa tions, supported by Bishop Crans- wick. 