 , : — — — Sharkey's work has been i fundamental t By R. DIXON, President, Communist Party of Australia. JHE decision to accept Comrade L. L. Shark ey's resignation due to health reasons is regret- table yet unavoidable. Fortunately, he will be able to continue to share in the leadership of the party. Lance Sharkey already has contributed very much to all fields of party activity. His contribution has been funda mental, particularly in the realm of theoretical clarification and the analysis of Australian reality from the standpoint of Marxism-Leninism. This has been tremendously im portant, for it has made the road ahead much clearer to all of us. . Lance Sharkey who became Chair man of the Party before World War II, was elected general secretary in 1948, at the retirement of J. B. Miles, who had been general secretary since 1931. v ' ? - Lance Sharkey was born on a farm near Orange,, NSW, in. August 1898. Of Irish, descent, he inherited a strong anti-imperialist tradition from both parents and grandparents. The Sharkeys were poor and Lance had to leave school at 14 'o help support his family as well as he could from his pay as' coach- maker's apprentice and general lab orer on the farms and in the bush Distributing "NO" leaflets in the first world war conscription refer endum was his first political activity Coming to Sydney as a young man, he made contact with the Industrial Workers of the World and joined the Communist Party soon after it was formed. He worked as a lift-driver, was vice-president of the Miscellaneous Workers' Union and represented it on the Labor Council. Frequent periods of unemployment were used for study and he quickly mastered Marxist theory. He was in the thick of the un employed struggles that followed the first world war, helping to organ ise unemployed protest marches and demonstrations in the teeth of police repression. Perhaps his first big service to the Party was to assist to defeat the Rightwing line the party leadership was developing in the "prosperous" years of 1924 to 1929. With J. B. Miles and others he successfully fought this, and was elected to the new Central Committee by the Party Congress in 1929. ' His leadership contributed greatly to the Communist Party's big gain in membership during the stormy depression years, when the workers were attacked with wage-cuts and mass lockouts, especially on the coal fields. With other comrades of the Cen tral Committee he steered the Party successfully through the period of illegality imposed by Menzies from 1940 to 1943, when the illegal party press never stopped appearing and party membership trebled. ? In 1935 he attended the Seventh Congress of the Communist Inter national in Moscow and was elected ' to its Executive Committee. He held the position till the International was dissolved in 1943. In 1948 comrade Sharkey attended a conference of the Indian Com munist Party in /Calcutta. A frame-up in which the Daily . Telegraph played a despicable part put him in jail for some 18 months, but he was out in time to lead the Party once again in the crucial and victorious struggle to defeat Men zies attempt to outlaw the Commun ist Party in the referendum of 1951. As one of the world repercussions of the Hungarian counter-revolution and the exposure of the cult oi Stalin's personality (both in 1956) the Party faced the threat of divi sion. Once again Sharkey fought successfully to preserve unity. In 1957 he attended the internation al meeting of Communist parties in Moscow which adopted the famous declaration setting out the basic line of the world's parties in the new period. ' He helped frame the 81 parties' statement at the end of 1960 arid has ever since fought hard for the unity of the Party around that statement, especially when leaders in China and Albania developed further their dog- ':|| matic position and came out against the line of that statement. Efforts li of a small group of adherents to ll the wrong views of the Chinese lead- i|| ers have failed to divide the Party. !|| That the Communist Party of Aus- || tralia has emerged strong and united m from all the onslaughts waged on it, || from without and within, during the || past 40 years is due not a little to m the comrade who for almost all that || time has held one ' or another of i its most responsible positions. i Throughout these years Sharkey's , f writings have had a tremendous in- ' fluence on Communist and working ! class . thinking in Australia. He was one of the first editors of the Work ers' Weekly. His book "The Trades Unions" and others on building unit ed action in- the labor movemeiit j have achieved world-wide circula tion. \ Comrade L. i AARONS | Comrade Laurie Aarons, who is !| 47, has already a long and important J record of service, to the party and -M the working class movement. || He joined the Young Communist || League in 1932 and -the Communist f| Party in 1936. A bootmaker by trade, Jg he became a member of the NSW ||| State Management Committee of the Boot Trades Union. . |1| He has worked in the Communist f||| Party organisations in Adelaide, Syd- |||| ney and Newcastle. He. was elected plj to the. central committee, became |||j NSW state secretary and then, in ||j| > 1954, a member of the Central Com- ||| mittee secretariat. Ifff He was elected vice chairman oi w the Party at the 19th National Con- Hi gress in 1961. Ig Laurie Aarons has -in recent years || represented the Party in a number m of important international" meetings |H and discussions with other parties SB and, with Comrade Sharkey, parti- |H cipated in the Consultative Meeting j|| of the Communist and Workers |1B Parties in Moscow in March 1965 SB Among his numerous writings of |1S importance to the Australian work- J9 ing class and Labor Movement are || "Labor Movement at-the Crossroads |g and "Party of the Working Class. pi 1 