 The Dinkum Truth A short story in two parts by TOM DORAN K1EWS travels " rapidly in a State where there are thousands . of unemployed. The news of the start of a channel at Mulwala caught up to Jack Dennis and me as we were finishing off a ring- barking and scrubbing job on a station north of . Hay. Next morning we rolled, our swags, picked up our cheques and headed for Mulwala. A few nights later found us making our way along the Murray River at Mulwala. We were making for a good camping spot on the bend of the river that Jack knew. "I wouldn't be a bit surprised if Bluey Flack was here ahead of us," said Jack as he stepped over a log. And then, through the trees, we caught the glimmer of the bagmen's fires. "Are you one of us" asked a bagman, as he looked up from the black pot he was holding over the fire. "Yes," I replied, "we both belong to the same association.' Could you tell us if a chap named Bluey Flack is camped here?" "That's 'is fire over there on th' river bank," he answed; " 'e's camped, in a 'oiler log." Bluey- Flack had moved into the hollow log- some weeks before the channel was to start at Mulwala. The start of the channel was not the reason why Bluey had elected to reside in that district. He had made enquiries and had written in his little black book, "Poultry- raising district." Bluey was a notorious fowl thief. He was quoted as once saying, "I've . given the depression away. I've got me own standard of livin', an' I defy eny guvmint ter lower me standard." He had selected the hollow log, which was the burnt-out trunk of a gum-tree, for many reasons. It was .on the bank of the Murray, giving Bluey an adequate water supply, and within sight of a thriving poultry run. Biuey had come across the hollow log by accident. He had been out checking over the area on the outskirts of the town, taking notes in his little black book, as to how many fowl-houses were on each run, the lay of the land, fences, barb or plain, etc., when he had run slap-bang into the hollow log. On the hollow log was nailed a notice— "VACANT ... TO LET.". "Very thoughtful of the . last - tenant," said Bluey to himself, as he , entered. "Should suit me down ter th' ground," he mused, as he eyed, off the "built-in furniture." "There's a clause in th' Landlord and Tenant Act forbiddin' th' tenant from re moving' eny built-in furniture from - th' 'ouse. Landlords must be per- tected' yer know! Plenty o' room -in it, must be easily twelve foot- long be eighteen foot round. I like this kinda 'ouse, w'en th' floor gits dirty yer jist 'ave ter roll 'er around a bit, an' yer gotta clean floor. "Ah, that's 'andy, I can 'ang me 'at on that nail. Now fer a look at th' kitchen. Open air, o'. course. Good job I took a course o 'Domes tic Science in me young days! ' I - like open-air kitchens. If eny thin' goes wrong yer can git outer th' road. That's why so many 'ouse- wives git scalded— not enough room in th' kitchen! "That range looks all right ter me. A new back in it, an' the sides built up a bit, that's all it wants. "That's a beaut sofa, too. Could roll that log around a bit. in front o' th' fire, an' I'd be as snug as a bug in a rug. Might even let th' front room overlookin' th' river. Wot more could a tenant want?" . So Bluey had moved into the hollow log, made the necessary renovations, and carried out his first raid. "Well, I never!" exclaimed Bluey, as he gripped our hands as we stepped into the light of his fire, "if it's not Jack and Tom. Stay an' 'ave tea with me. . I 'ave a lovely cold chook. I bought two up th' town yesterdee. Would 'ave 'ad" a blancmenge, only I run outer suet." Bluey had a roaring fire going. Along the top of the fireplace ran an angle-iron from the side of an old bed, on which hung half a dozen kero tins that had been cut to : various sizes. "What are you doing, running a boarding house, Blue?" "No, Tom, I was first 'ere an' I : like ter 'ave sumtin'. cookin' fer th' boys w'en they turn up. They put on thirty yesterdee." "Did you get a start, Blue?" enquired Jack. "No, I didn't bother 'em," said Blue, as he threw some wood on the fire. "I'm a kinda remittance man. Th' guvmint : pays me five bob a week. "I don't like bargin' in w'en another bloke can do th' job. 'Ere, give us a 'and ter pull this 'ere sofer over ter th' fire. There'll be a mob o' blokes over 'ere soon. They alwus comes ter me 'ouse in the evenin'." It was easily seen that Bluey's fire was popular. In no time a dozen or so men were occupying Blue's "sofa" and barracking him as to how many chooks he had in the tins. "Do yer mind sittin' on th' sofer fer dinner?" asked Blue, as he handed Jack and me a tin plate with a leg of chook and some spuds on it. "Th' Mayor o' Mulwala is in me front room, with two frienc'-. They claim that our suburb is t.owin' an' needs representation. They 'ave asked me ter nominate fer th' Shire Elections. I've jest paid 'em me rates, ter make it all legal like. , Sorry! -'Ow fergitful 'o me. I'll nick inter me laundry an' git you boys a serviette." "Don't bother," said Jack, "we don't mind doing without them occa sionally." ' "Wot a pity," continued Blue, as he came back with two sheets of newspaper, "that I sent me pianner ter be tuned terdee, we could'er give ; Jack 'and Tom a real 'ouse welcome ter night." , - "Why don't yer try a bit o' turkey, Blue?" chided Spike Smith. "I don't like turkeys, Spike. I adder very unpleasant experience with a turkey once." "Come on, tell us about it Blue," said "Never-Agin" JimRyan. Jim was a military medal winner. If . you asked Jim to tell you some thing about the war, he never got any further than/ "Never agin!" "Jest a minit, boys," replied Bluey. "Ain't yer got no manners? Can't yer see I 'ave two distin guished gentlemen fer dinner? I 'av'nt finished waitin' on 'em. Stayin' ternite, boys, I 'ope. 'ere, 'ave a bit more chook an' some punkin. I've a nice open-air sleep- out on me ground floor, if yer fall outer bed yer won't break yer necks. I'll jest slip inter me orfis an' book yer in. Don't wanter contravene the' Landlord an' Tenant Act and git evicted!" " 'Ave yer 'ad eny more fights, Jack?" asked "Never-Agin" Jim Ryan. "No, Jim, Sharman sent word out tp the station that I could join his tent, but I don't want to earn a living bashing in the faces of the unemployed. "I want the right to earn a living in a decent way. You can't live by . bread alone." "Buggered if I know about that, Jack," put in "Goanna" Mick. "I've been livin' on it fer th' last three years, an' stale at that." (To be concluded next week.) MAGAZINE PEOPLE 