 Some impressions . .r 7 of Nairobi IT'S recognised as possibly the finest city in all independ ent Africa. Sheer, modern Mocks of govern- ment offices; spacious tree - lined, one-way laned roads; a sleek, tall spire of an ultra-modern chapel, still inspiring awe of God despite its contemporaneity ; the best that SHEIL -nd AMPOL, have to oer architecturally; shops full of Paris lingerie, English linen continental pottery or Us cars. You name it, Nairobi's got it. And here too the so-convenient supermarket has taken over. There you buy your. English jams, of course KELLOGG 'S breakfast foods, BEATLES stockings, Swiss chocolate or anything else you might fancy. What's more tlnv is a "City of Eternal Spring" — literally. Mostly the sun shines with a clear equatorial light. But delicate En glish skins need never sweat; the five thousand foot altitude sees to that. Outside the supermarket two ladies stand. Theirs is the most usual conversation of all; heard at every cocktail party, in any beauty salon, at every afternoon tea served in the sitting room. It concerns the "houseboy". This term perhaps is misleading to you, because a "boy" here can be from 6 to 66 and ov— or under. You see, it has nothing to do with actual age out here, but the shad of one's complexion. Strange how words tend to change their meaning given specific circum stances. No point quoting the ladies' chat verbatim. Suffice it to say it covers the laziness, inefficency inevitable wastefulness of serv ants. On the other side of the street, but down a bit further — the Army Recruiting Centre. Day in day out the open space in front is crowded listlessly. All the wooden forms are taken up by ragged men waiting. Others stand and wait or sit on the ground. Eyes follow an extremely attrac tive office girl as she' passes along the pavement, in straight skirt . -d spiked heels. The bright colours she wears go well with her dark skin. 7 A few paces behind — a Kikuyu grandmother — with earlobes cut and stretched in the traditional manner. She carries her things in the customary woven basket sup ported by a leather strap across the top of her forehead. She must bend forward to balance the weight at her back. A couple of schoolboys walk by. Rather more serious than those we're used to. They're two of the lucky ones; their parents are able to pay the school fees. They're in uniform — bright green shorts and shirt — bare feet. And then another group of schoolboys. But they must go to a different school — straw boaters, Striped ties, leather briefcases. Enough of the city centre. What's on the perimeter? It depends on which direction you care to take. Let's try Westlands first. Jolly comfortable. Tucked behind trees far back in gardens, solid struct ures of local grey stone blocks. Servants' quarters detached. Down River Road way there are areas where Nairobi's many Indians live. Some parts look rather like I imagine Calcutta to be like. Mind you, there are Indian-type man sions in the suburb of Parklands. . Or would you rather take " a look at Eastleigh? That's different again, and any description might sound like a stream1 of cliches. Crowded unsanitary hovels is pit ting it mildly. A little further out of town, admittedly newer areas, are the "African locations" of Ofafa Jer icho and Ofafa Jerusalem. They're mostly flats, better described as barracks. Two small rooms for family with kitchen, though bath room, toilet and all washing fac ilities shared — 103/- a month. Average wage — 180/- per month. So you see 'it depends on where you go, or where you care or dare to look. You can get many im pression of Nairobi. S. M. 