 NO THREAT TO W.A. ! WHALING STATION | pERTH: There was no dan- | ger of the Albany-Cheyne | Beach whaling station closing i down in the near future be- | cause of the Russian whaling activities near the area, an Australian worker with 10 years experience in the whal ing industry told Tribune. But the whole future of the world whaling industry was uncertain, he said, and depended on quotas and » bans on catching certain types of whales. I The ban on the hump-back whale | (to save it from extinction) had I closed the Nor'West Whaling Co. sta- I tion near Carnarvon. The hump-back jwas a migratory whale, the sperm I whale was not. | The sperm whale fed off the con- | tinental shelf and as the shelf was !too far away from the factory, sev eral hundred thousand pounds' worth | "f equipment now iiv idle it the I forrrer station tw.-y The continental shelf was only one j and a half mile out from Albany and i was therefore ideally situated to I catch the sperm whale. j Russians were quite within the j law, catching whales off Albany, he j said but he felt they would be un- j ethical or unwise to catch them so ! close to a shore-based station. j He explained that because a whale j had to be processed within 32 hours j of being caught, whalers operating j without a factory ship were limited I in the distance they could travel j from the shore factory. j In his opinion, the daily press did j not seem as interested in getting a I clear picture of the event as in play- j ing it up because the catchers were j Russians. I (Australia has asked the Soviet ! Union to cut back its whaling where j it might affect established operators j off the west coast. A Soviet Embassy j representative stated that Russian I whaling fleets had instructions to j operate strictly within the Interna- j tional Whaling Agreement. Any res- 1 ponse to the Australian request | would rest solely on goodwill.) j in — iwtinm-TirrinwTiinr i — run — iirnn — n — n — uM One if the fleet's whale-chasers on location in the Antarctic. 