 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman EIGHT national trade union leaders in Sydney have ,v sent a joint letter to Acting Minister for Immigration (Mr. Bury) asking that the Government's "policy" be stated for refusing visas to a Soviet youth delegation. They were invited by the Eureka Youth League. ". . . refusing visas to re presentatives of the Soyiet Union can only bring this country into disrespect", the letter said. Even the Government's own press friends turned against it on this ques tion. The Sydney Morning Herald and the Melbourne Herald both protested editorially, as did also the columnist 3f the Australian. The ban backfired oadly on its perpetrators. ? UX)OD prices in Sydney as reported recently in the "Sun" newspaper, "staggered officials of the State Marketing Bureau." Some examples: Fillet steak, up to 15/- lb, rump, up to 10/-, lamb chops, up to 6/6, potatoes at 1/9 a lb, were the dearest for 10 years and are ex pected to rise to 2/-. The "Sun" did not record how "staggered" were housewives, trying to make inadequate wages cover min imum family needs! ? A CCORDING to reports from the Vietnam Teachers' Union, United States forces killed 45 "South Viet namese children and wounded many others when they bombed a school in a village 'only seven miles from the Da-Nang US base. On March 18, when parents and vil lagers demonstrated against this crime, US troops snatched the bodies of the dead out of their parents hands in the hope of removing all evidence. .. ; Can the Archbishop of Sydney, Dr. dough, give a moral and Christian ex planation to justify this crime— par ticularly since he has now given , his public support to the sending of Aus tralian troops to Vietnam! ? AN. American- economist, Professor j Galbraith, told the International' Congress of Human Relations in Mel bourne that with automation we need J o be thinking about working less to T irovide our needs with minimum ef fort. Prime Minister Menzies said tech nological advances need not threaten employment . . . but he did not sug gest Shorter Hours! .Minister for Labor, McMahon, provided the solution . . . employ- nent bureaus should be provided, un employment benefits should be paid etc., etc. - Just think — automation can create i. new industries under capitalispi; Em- rtoyment Bureaus- and Dole Pay Centres . . . This could provide work or thousands! Prinrec. ano nubhsheb by D 6 'oune ! Dn Strpe' Sydney at 21 Ros Street, Forest Lodge 