 1965 TRIBUNE SELLER CONTESTS The Tribune national popular seller com petition for 1965 will be launched on June 1. "|"HIS competition, through which Tribune readers and supporters in the various dis tricts and industries through out Australia contribute large sums to the upkeep of the working people's newspaper, has proved an increasing suc- | cess in recent years. 8 Not only have large sums of money I been' raised, but significant new reg- I ular sales, including half-yearly and | annual postal subscriptions, have been I gained. I In 1964, for example, £1690 was I raised- in cash, 350 annual subscrip- tions, 581 new consolidated readers, | and 32 new regular sellers were I gained. I Organisations of groups of Tri- I bune supporters nominate their 1 Popular Seller candidate, and proceed 1 to raise money and gain sales, gain- I ing penny votes in accordance with I the rules (below). | Nominations are now called for, I and should he addressed to TRI BUNE POPULAR SELLER COMPETI- TION, 168 Day Street, Sydney, with out delay. Those who nominate and make a start by June 1 are able to take full advantage of the full time available for the competition. This year, because of the success of the contest in recent years, it has been decided to extend the duration to approximately 3& months. Winners will be announced and awards made at the Tribune Ball, to be held in Sydney at a date in mid- September which will be announced as soon as possible. RULES 1. For very penny raised, one vote. 2. For each yearly subscription gained 1,000 votes. 3. For each half-yearly subscriptirai 500 votes. 4. For every single consolidated ex tra sale, 250 votes. 5. For each new seller who sells 5 or more papers regularly (this means on a stand, hotel run, door delivery or factory), 1,000 votes. 6 All nominations to he accompa nied with not less than one pound already raised so that each can didate will start with not less than 240 votes. 7. National campaign to conclude at a date to be announced, in September. 