 Askin helps the "Escalation tO( economic ruin" I ; — ! "In Australia we send LOGO young Australians 6,000 miles from j our shores to squander their lives and money on a futile , unjust war i while a real enemy of the nation—the worst drought in 20 years | ' — goes neglected right here at home," said Mr. W. J. Brown to the j : Communist Party s Central Committee last weekend. " MR- BROWN, NSW secretary of the Party, called for maximum united action of all Communist and ALP members and supporters against the Meh- zies-Askin policy in Vietnam "which spells not only escala tion to military disaster but escalation to economic disaster for Australia". "This mis-spending of millions on military action in Asia will harm not help Australian security. "It will serve only to inflame a generation of hatred against Australia while money is simply 'not available' for urgent immediate Australian needs like drought relief, education, health, roads and other pressing State and national requirments." Mr. Brown said that in its first five weeks of office - the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Govern ment has emerged as a direct gov ernment of big business that has al ready a record of anti-democratic and pro-monopoly measures. Proof of this can be seen in recent moves by the Government, includ ing:— - O The handing over the Dubbo air route to the Ansett air mono poly in the Government's first week in office. Interference with the right of free speech in rejecting an ACTU AL? application to use amplifiers at a recent official ACTU rally . against sending Australian troops to Vietnam. Plans to gerrymander the forth coming Sydney City Council elec tions by giving extra voting rights to big business houses, retail firms and insurance companies in City wards. ® Moves foreshadowed by the chairman of the Australian Coal Association (Sir Edward Warren, Liberal MLC) to "examine the pos sibility" of the State Government selling its profitable mines to pri vate enterprise. © New stand-over legislation to regain outstanding hire purchase debts. This will strike mainly at struggling working class families. © Abolishing the jury system in industrial compensation cases will benefit the insurance companies. This will follow the proposed aboli tion of juries in motor vehicle com pensation cases. "Apparently Premier Askin means to implement his slogan 'action with Askin' with action in favor of big business and against the people of N.S.W.," said Mr. Brown. But railworkers, public servants and other sections of N.S.W. working people were determined to fight for wage improvements he said. After posing as the champion who will win more State finance, Premier Askin tamely accepted the Menzies Government's policy of denying ade quate finance for public needs. Askin fully accepted Menzies' excuse that Federal expenditure on military action in Vietnam and elsewhere in Asia would rise by £300 million in three years. . 