 [?] USSR implements Viet aid promise MOSCOW: Air-raSds ©n the Democratic Republic of (Horfh) Vietnam were one more example of how international agreements and international law were being trampled on by the US. COVIET Premier Kosygin said this in a report to the nation on his recent visit to the Asian socialist countries. He demanded that the USA and the other powers concerned abide by thie Geneva Agree ments of 1 954. Stressing that it was the duty of all peaceable countries to resolutely., defend the rights and sovereignty of the Democratic Republic of Viet nam, he said: "If rebuff is not given to the im perialist policy of using military force against people that are de fending their independence, if facts of imperialist aggression are ignored, the independence of any of the young States of Asia, Africa and Latin America would be under con stant threat. "An end must be put to the en croachments of imperialism on the rights of the neonles." Few people now doubted, he said, that. if the US imperialists continued their aggression against socialist Vietnam, the conflict in this part of the world would inevitably tran scend its original boundaries. "We told our Vietnamese friends that the Soviet Union would not re main indifferent to the fate of a fraternal Socialist Republic and would render her the necessary as sistance. From our joint statement you know that agreement was reached on measures that will be taken to safeguard the security and strengthen their defence potential. Now this agreement is being implemented. May no one delude himself into thinking that aggression against People's Vietnam could go unpun ished." Laos, Cambodia Kosygin said that they also dis cussed the situation in Laos and Cambodia. Provocations are being undertaken against the independence and neutrality of Cambodia and Ame rican interference in Laos compli cates the already tense situation there. His statements on the Soviet-Kor ean Treaty of mutual friendship, assistance ahd co-opieration (must also be regarded as a warning to the imnorl oliofe This treaty, he said, is permeated with the spirit of proletarian inter nationalism. Ensivaging mutual mili tary assistance in case of armed at tack on the Soviet Union or Socialist Korea, it serves as an important in strument of safeguarding peace and security in the Far East. The most important results of the talks was the resolution of the Soviet Union, the Vietnam and Korean People's Republics to make every effort to defend, develop and strengthen the fraternal friendship and cohesion between the countries of the Socialist camp, to strengthen the united front against imperial ism. China Turning "to talks with the Chinese leaders held in stop-overs at Peking, he said the Communist Party of the Soviet Union attaches great signifi cance to unity and fraternal solidar ity of the socialist States, to devel- . opment of Party and State relations among them. , "We believe the meetings and talks with Chinese leaders were useful. They helped to clarify the possibili ties of further developing our re lations. "Naturally, the difficulties . and differences which have developed in the world Communist movement can not be resolved right away. We are aware that there also are such dif ferences of opinion which are con nected With certain specific features of the historic development of the countries, the specific character of development in various stages. "One cannot disregard these dif ferences that flow from the concrete historical situation in each country, national specific features and na tional distinction." However, lie said, the strength of Marxism -Leninism lies in the com bination of these specific features in the great principle of proletarian in ternationalism. He declared that the united strength of the socialist countries is invincible. "no one should doubt that the socialist states are united and solid in face of the imperialist threat. They have the real means to cut short any encroachment of imperialist aggressors on their secur ity. The Soviet Union will do every thing to strengthen unity of the soc ialist countries, but at the same time our policy is not directed against any country or nation." "Together with all peoples of the world, including the peoples of the United States, Britain, France and other countries, we are prepared to continue our struggle for easing in ternational tensions, for general dis armament, peace and the security of the peoples. The peace-loving forces of the earth must rally to gether to remove all dangers, over come all obstacles on the road to peace and social progress of man kind." HANOI: Demonstrators protesting against US raids on North Vietnam and interference into the affairs of South Vietnam. 