 End rackets in land, housing and rents By JIM SHARROCK, Candidate for Redfern. WIDESPREAD specu lation in land deals is filling the pockets of a minority with fortunes that are paid for in the end by tenants and home- builders. Here is a typi cal case: — A chap bought a block of land ' in a Sydney suburb for £5000 with a view to resale at a profit. Then he found that the local muni cipal council would not allow multi storey buildings. So he was forced ( to hold on for some few months. j Then along came someone who offered to buy and asked him to | "name his price". The owner smelled a rat and asked £11,000. &lt; The would-be buyer asked for I some time to consider. The owner j did a little research and found out j that the local council was going \ to allow multi-storey. | In three weeks' time the would- j be buyer came back prepared to ! buy, but the owner jumped the | price up to £13,000. ' j The other man bought at this price. Later the chap that grabbed I the £13,000 heard on -the grapevine j that the buyer had been prepared to j go to £16,000. | The buyer built a block of units j and sold them at a very good pro- j fit. ! Its no 64 dollar question to know | who will finally foot the bill for all j of this fancy bit of high finance. ! And it will not worry these spec- j ulating gentlemen if he be a pros- j pective home buyer or tenant; they j have the medicine for either. j The only real immediate answer j to all this is Communist Party : policy of strict price control on all land and building, materials. | Rent control j Section 5A of the Landlord and j Tenant Act is that section which excludes and exempts from rent control — ® New premists built since 1954. ® Premises vacant at, or vacated after, April 1958. For these premises, landlords can charge what they like, and evict the tenant if it suits them, after the lease expires. A fair estimate of overcharging on the 130,000 premises in NSW j under 5A leases is that £25 million per year is extracted from tenants OllU dUUVC IttU XUIitS. As secretary of the "Organising Committee for the repeal of Sec tion 5A of the NSW Landlords and Tenants' Act", in the last half of 1964, with other people I inter viewed many members of the NSW \ State Parliament and most of them admitted that 5A was unjust and I should be repealed. But when the Bill came up for amendments not ONE voice was raised for its repeal; j The most effective way that ten ants suffering under these unjust rents can voice their protest is to vote for Communist candidates on May l. Then a voice will be , raised in Parliament for the repeal of Sec tion 5A. Before Christmas 1964 the High Court found a loophole in the Land lord and Tenant Act, and gave a judgement that current values could be taken into consideration when iixmg the fair rent of premises. It is estimated that if and when this comes into effect it will double w protected rents. The Govern- 22 ' ». block this move, "froze" ts . this is only a temporary Continued on Page 4 [?] Continued from Page 3 measure and is subject to court action. . So sure are the speculators that the judgment will become an actual fact, that they are moving in and buying premises, mostly in the innpr city area, informing tenants that they are applying under the new law for an increase in rents. These same people are of course involved in the legal battle taking place at the moment. There can only be one answer to these moves: State Parliament must amend clauses in Section 32 of the Act that allowed this judge ment. Will this Parliament, which re fused to raise ONE single voice against Section 5A permitting over charges four or five times, be ex pected to object when another 160,000 tenants have their rents doubled? The voice that can be relied on to speak in Parliament, if elected, on behalf of tenants and not land lords, is the Communist voice. NOTE: Liberal leader Askin's policy on tenancy, while speaking of "protection" for both landlord and tenant, in fact envisages de velopment right away from . rent control, and freeing landlords to. fix their own rents. 