 \A vote for Askin is a vote for Ansett : H — " minimi wnrrniHi — — — — j Ansett flew in 1 on the grouter CJYDNEY ' The election slogan "A vote for Askin is a vote for Ansett" has come true with a ven- geance. Premier R. Askin's first step as soon as he assumed office was to restore the Dubbo air route licence to Airlines of NSW, which is controlled by the Ansett transport monopoly. This is alleged to he a temporary arrangement pending discussion with the Commonwealth Government on the re-allocation of intrastate air routes in N.S.W. Knowing that Reg Ansett is one of the most favoured sons of the Menzies Government, it is a safe bet that in any re-allocation of New South Wales air routes by Menzies and Askin the profitable ones will .be left in the hands of Reg Ansett. A glance at some of the Ministers in the new Cabinet is sufficient to show that the policies of the Askin ! Government will favor big business as against the interests of the N.S.W. people. The Minister for Labor is Mr. Eric Willis, described recently by the secretary of the Plasterers' Union, Mr. Kevin Miller,, as the worst enemy in N.S.W. of fibrous plaster workers. The Assistant-Director for Educa tion, Mr. W. C. Fife, is a director of a produce company in Wagga. The Deputy Premier arid Minister for Education, Mr. C. B. Cutler, has country business connections. . The Minister for Decentralisation, Mr. J. B. Fuller, has wide grazing interests. The Minister for Local Govern ment, Mr. P. H. Morton, is a com pany director. As well as being now the Deputy Leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party, Mr. Willis held three jbbs all representing the Fibrous Plasters' Association, a front for the Aus tralian Plasters' Industry which con trols the plaster industry in Aus tralia. Following the announcement that Mr. A. D. Bridges would he Minister for Transport (on the financial side), Child Welfare and Social Services, Mr. Bridges said that "it is a fact that I will give up all my 65 director- ships in private and public com panies." State transport workers, public servants and other workers develop- 1 -ing their campaigns for just wages | and other demands will undoubtedly E initiate widespread united re- | sistance to the attacks on living I standards that this Government will I assist the Federal Government to im- I plement this year. I 