 BATTLE IS RAGING AGAINST WAR TOYS ! yyiLL Santa Glaus || come down the chim- « ney as usual this year or gg bomb his way through n the front door? 8 This is a question women's || and trade; union organisations' ! and worried individuals are now pursuing with a round of delegations and protests to big and small stores selling and displaying war toys of all kinds. 1 Miss Enid. Hampson, NSW Sec- | retary of the ' Union of Australian g Women, said this week that two big | stores had already agreed not to | | display or actively promote the war | j toys on sale in their stores. | ! "The stores gave our point of | i view fair consideration and a good | j hearing," Miss Hampson said. 1 ! However the toys, most of. which | are manufactured in Australia, and 1 j some in Japan and Hong Kong, are | | still on sale. I I Protests of women recently elimin- I j ated a TV advertisement- for the 1 i toys- I f "War toys that are so realistic I | can only do harm to the mental I | health of our children," Miss Hamp- J ! ton said. 'j "Once you place a gun in a kid- 1 die's hand you are getting him used | j to the idea of war and violence." I ? The Union of Australian Women | has interested a number of womens' | organisations in the campaign to | have a war-free Christmas. A "Mothers' Committee for Crea- 1 tive Toys" has been formed. A pro- ) test letter has been sent to churches, j A "War Is Not Child's Play" leaf- ! let is now available from the UAW ) for people wishing to send a protest | to any store selling war toys. j Santa's union I Members of the Miscellaneous j Workers' union would call on Santa j Claus to enlist his aid this Christ- ! mas, the union's State organiser, | Mr. M. Nixon, said last week, j Mr. Nixon said that Santa Claus ! was a member of the M.W.U. j Members of the union and mem- | bers of women's organisations were j hoping to enlist his aid in suggesting I to children practical and educational I toys this year. = Mr. Nixon said the union had re- quested that Santa Claus adhere to j the Christmas slogan, "Peace, on j Earth, Goodwill to all Men." | In Albury (NSW) letters of pro- j test followed publication by the | "Border Morning Mail" of a big I photo of a little boy in helmet fir- | mg a "machine gun" toy. j . Mr. P. T. Skerry wrote: "I think I is time these .big companies are I stopped from selling toy arms and | distorting our children's minds." | Mrs. r. n. Summers wrote: "I am I prompted to appeal to parents not \ to buy war toys for their children j this Christmas." I A.UAIDE: The leading depart- t ment store, David Jones, agreed I Wlfndraw its window display of | r toys and cease its advertising u' u u mm of such toys following a deputation from the Union of Australian Wom en. In the Advertiser (2/11/65), there appeared an advertisement under the store's name depicting a small boy dressed in Australian jungle greens, holding a gun in each hand. Other illustrations showed a Mark 10 weapon with bayonet, gren ade launcher, anti-tank rocket, com bat gun, tommy gun, machine gun, grenades — camouflaged helmet and pistol set. A deputation from the UAW saw a director of David Jones and ex pressed its deep concern, says a press statement. The women referred to the Christ mas spirit of peace and goodwill. They quoted the United Nations Charter on the rights of the child: a child should be "brought up m 1 r spirit of understanding, tolerance and friendship among peoples, peace and universal brotherhood and a full consciousness that his energy and talents should be devoted to the ser- vice of his fellow man". . The deputation urged the store I to promote the sale of educational and constructive type toys. The director was told that Wool- worths in WA had been approached by the UAW on the question of war toys and the store had agreed to withdraw its display. A few hours after the Interview, the director rang the secretary of the UAW and said that the deputa tion's request had been agreed to and the store thanked the women for bringing the matter to its at tention. MELBOURNE: More than 100 women attended a meeting at Moorabbin Town Hall to discuss action against the sale of war toys. Methods discused included a consumer boycott on offending traders. Dr Irma Schnierer, a child psychologists, described how in her native Austria, a few years ago, war toys had been banned following a campaign which in cluded the public mass burning of war toys. This Sydney tot recently greeted Santa with a "No War j Toys" balloon. j 