 When the Duke had gone! i the wharfies moved in By JIM STEVENS j | CANBERRA: "Who ' t are those chaps?" 4 diplomats asked as f \ they stood on the top r j steps of Parliament s | House looking down 1 iij on a scene of 94 wat- l j erside workers who e ||j had waited patiently i Ij for a luncheon to |! finish. ( j - And wel I they might ask, 4jj for while these diplomats, |! royalty and Members were - ---j consuming their lobster 1- mornay and chicken d ' vR: | maryland — washed down -I with suitable assortments ,e 1 of liquids, the wharfies r, i wa,ited to take up matters 1 ,J of national importance. !e 1! r- % The waterside workers had d j come to Canberra last Tuesday i d I to lobby the Members in support j j of their Federation's campaign 'l for pensions, a mechanisation j | . fund and a national overseas ship- . p- ping line. ,i ' -J Most ports throughout Aus- j ' , .,1 tralia were represented to press Q H these demands. There were veterans, some with . J over 40 years' service, and young 7l members of the union with only Hi a few months' experience as it- d waterside, workers. 'ii Three cars brought 14 members a \j! from Brisbane to take part in iol-, £|J the deputation. »nt !,j Others came from Melbourne, tie | Prt Pirie, Hobart, Fremantle, ;el-- ' |! Sydney and Newcastle, se. ' \ j 3 _ i is year wait 1 At 11 a.m. most had arrived I an(l assembled on the lawns out- y « side Parliament. They were told ;| |ft a reception to the Duke and ;nd Duchess of Gloucester would ire. j delay lobbying until 4 p.m. that — m atternoon, After waiting 23 years i?", 1 without success for a non-contri- 1 "tdory pension scheme, what did A 1 a ew more hours matter! H ,u theY waited and at 4 p.m. H me scene in Kings Hall was a JJ sight to behold. v li 8niall talk or idle chatter H n,T „GrouPS of wharfies armed _f :I1 f1 racts and figures and a long I H „ls, ry, f industrial experience «cf II , !nto debate (sometimes e « . ,arP) with Members from both ires M sides of the House. ® SrouP of Brisbane wharfies I I ie ex, Placing to Mr. K. Cairns g. j (Liberal, Lilley, Qld.) a long list ;®i ni rfasons why the shipowners e| a . Pay Australian workers a nc. 111 Pension. 0s tT2f| &lt;;'r, , >py R,„s « e for example," one 1 frl- ,rw r said» "lhey charge £8 ; ai 'll a ie an&lt; the workers' cos are only 2/8." I a not.her group from Melbourne gwmg Mr. A. Buchanan it J (Liberal, McMillan, Vic.) a lively time. "The giant overseas shipping companies are paying industry pensions to New Zealand, British, European, Japanese and Ameri can watersiders. "Why then haven't the same companies paid industry pensions to Australian wharfies, tally clerks, watchmen and foremen?" he was asked. The Federation is proposing that the shipowners pay a 10 per cent surcharge on all wages paid to waterside workers. From this money 75 per cent should be used to provide an industry pension of £7 a week .on retirement or £1,000 death benefit. The other money would be used to provide protection and com pensation to waterside workers affected by the introduction of mechanical changes. 4 'This money," said the Federa tion, "can easily come from the huge profits the shipping com panies are making, estimated at upwards of £140 million a year." The Federation believes that the additional £2.4 million raised by the 10 per cent surcharge on wages would circulate in the local economy and as such be of gen eral benefit. Current fear is that Australia's overseas reserves may drop more than £250 million this year, "The loss to the Australian economy of £350 million in freight charges must be of serious concern." These arguments were pressed by the waterside workers in sup port of the trade union move ment's demand for a national overseas shipping line. Of the £450 million paid to shipping companies for freight only £80 million remains in Aus tralia. Wharfies say that one year's freight profit would be enough to establish Australians own national overseas fleet. The ALP Industrial Committee I met with a deputation, represent- | ing each State of the WWF, on j Tuesday morning. The Committee said it under- j stood the problems of the union's i pension campaign and was pre pared to assist to achieve this demand. On Wednesday a deputation led by tbe Federation's Federal Sec- I relary, Mr. C. Fitzgibbon, met j with the Industrial Committee of the Liberal Party. They listened I and asked questions and then closed the interview. ' Apple growers at Stanthorpe I and Tamworth gave the wharfies a friendly welcome when they came through from Brisbane. They could see that the wharfies' struggle was also theirs . . . and why wouldn't they, The freight cost of a case of apples to the UK is 15/2 against the wharfies' cost per case of less than 5d. A well organised campaign committee has been established in Sydney which is not only winning wide support among industrial workers but is also sending out teams of speakers to the country side. The NSW secretary and presi dent of _ the Primary Producers' Association when interviewed re cently, said they fully supported the Federation policy for control of overseas investments and for the urgent need of a national overseas shipping line. Won't agree At a meeting outside Parlia ment House, federal organiser of the Federation, Mr. M. Walling- ton, said that shipowners would not agree to pensions either con tributory or non-contributory. At a conference last week before Mr. Justice Gallagher, they asked the Federation to agree to: the Stevedoring authority to have the . power . to recruit labour, re- introduction of Section 52A of the Act (which provides for suspen sion of /appearance money), and to increase individual penalties against waterside workers. "They would not even agree to pensions even if the Federation accepted these conditions," Mr. Wallington said. The wharfies have no illusions that their demands will be met without struggle. It took a 50-day strike to win similar demands for American watersiders. Already national stoppages have taken place in Australia and with widespread calls for further stop- work action. Pat McKaig, a 22-year-old Sydney wharfie, was elected to come to Canberra and summed up the position in these words: ' "We younger members know that the conditions we now enjoy have only been won by- hard struggle of the older men." "Yes," said Terry Hickman, his 24-year-old mate, "we must play our part in this struggle even though a pension is not of imme diate concern for us." National Organiser M. Wallington briefs wharfie delegates outside Federal Parliament I One of the delegates' 