 . \ | TRIBUNE | A conference vital for peace UNITED STATES Government admission that nuclear weapons have already been given to the West German militarists gives more urgent significance to the South Pacific trade union con- ference beginning in Sydney next Monday week, December 6. The conference is being called by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the New Zealand Federation of Labor. It. will discuss opposition to all nuclear tests and an immediate call to the French Government to abandon its planned hydrogen bomb tests in the Pacific next year. Grim six-year secret The Sydney Morning Herald last Monday reported US officials as admitting that "for more than six years US nuclear warheads have been mounted secretly on planes and missiles of West Germany and other NATO allies". The US admission means that it has deceived the world and has secretly brought into being the essential feature of the NATO Multilateral Nuclear Force. Only last month the US delegate in the United Nations solemnly joined with the USSR in supporting a motion to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons — and this after it had, as now admitted, already "proliferated" them to West. Germany and other NATO allies! Last Saturday the Institute of Strategic Studies, in Lon don, issued a warning that if the atomic arms race is re sumed at full speed, without the check imposed by the 1 963 test ban treaty, then even the present non-nuclear powers could between them produce 1000 nuclear bombs a year. (The institute listed Australia among the countries which at present could not make these weapons, exposing claims by the Liberal extremists, the DLP, Professor E. W. Tit- terton and others who suggest that Australia could build nuclear weapons at "moderate" expense.) Actions for disarmament On the other hand, actions are developing among those determined to halt any return to the horror that was Hiro shima. The Soviet Government has placed before the United Nations a draft treaty to stop the spread of nuclear weapons to powers not at present possessing them. Many members of the Vatican Council are reported in support of a draft statement condemning all nuclear arma ment. lire Soviet Government has proposed a world disarmament conference in mid- 1966, not limited to members of the United Nations, but including also China and other non- members. This week, 22 Afro- Asian states moved in the UN to oppose the plan of the US and British Governments to take over the island of Diego Garcia, in the Indian Ocean, to make part of a chain of atomic war control bases. Policy of unions The December conlr-rence of trade union movements, although called on the issue of French tests in the Pacific, arose from the 1.963 Australia-New Zealand union agree ment to press jointly for the French Government to sign the 1963 partial test ban treaty, as a step towards general world agreement on total disarmement. The 1963 decision was in line with the policy endorsed bv the ACTU following the 1959 trade union peace confer ence in Melbourne, which favored complete and general disarmament and the immediate banning of nuclear weapons. It said that "experience shows that wars arise from condi tions created by the profit-making system." Against this sound trade union policy base and current background of widening opposition to the growing threat of nuclear armament and war, the December 6 conference in Sydney can be a major new rallying point towards nuclear disarmament and world peace. 