 g mi WELL UBffAffy // MS spreads 20 AUG 1966 "DEATH AND DESOLAT-fOti'J AT HOME AND ABROAD In Los Angeles, Chicago and other centres has erupted proof that, despite some gains in civil rights legislation, the Negro people remain in a terrible condition of economic inequality, exploita- tion and downtrodden misery. Their desperate rebellion in Los Angeles has been put down with brutal military ferocity comparable with that in South Vietnam, in the form of US extermination of all men,' women and children seen in villages. (1) Los Angeles THE violence, degradation and exploitation from which American Negroes have suffered for genera tions lie behind last week's events in Los Angeles. The city became a battlefield as 2000 white American troops fought "the enemy" — Negro American citi zens reacting against the intolerable conditions imposed on them by racial discrimination and segregation. As usual, everything possible has been and is being, done by the Aus tralian daily press to present the Los A /vnlnfi nn XTA/VM/\ i t M. xxiigcico cvcubd ao xvcgiu nuba y "hooliganism" and "looting". The real cause of these and similar outbreaks in Chicago and other cities has been concealed. However one Australian Broadcast ing -Commission report mentioned without stressing, that 60 per cent of the Negroes in the Los Angeles area concerned are unemployed. Origin of this and other Negro pro test actions yet to come can be found in a confidential US Department of Labor report, released four months ago, which warned that "the United States is approaching a new crisis in race relations". The report, quoted in US News week magazine on August 9 last, cen tres on what it calls the "crumbling" of the Negro family in what it admits are "urban ghettoes". "Desperate" plight But it admits that this is due in turn to the Jim Crow laws in the south and the high unemployment rate inflicted on the Negroes in the north. Discussing this, President Johnson himself admitted, says Newsweek, that for the Negro family breakdown "white America must accept responsi bility." Says Newsweek: "The Negro came to the city for factory work and found instead 'catastrophic' unemploy ment rates that have persisted, so the (Department of Labor) report notes, into the booming 1960s. "In 1963, for example, the non-white unemployment rate of 10.9 per cent was double the 5.1 figure for whites— and the over-all statistics tend to paper over the fact that nearly one- third of all Negro men were out of work at some time during the 'year, half of them for 15 weeks or more." In the Negro "ghettoes", says News week, again quoting the report "the unemployment rate among teen-agers is an appalling 29 per cent." About half the Negro community manages to escape the consequences of ghetto conditions. "However" ad mits the official report "the remain ing half is in desperate and deterior ating circumstances". (2) Vietnam "Feared and hated" '""HERE is little talk in Washington any more of winning over the Vietnamese people", admits US News- week's correspondent Lloyd Norman in the current issue of the paper. "The new attitude is 'we're out to kill the Vietcong and we're not wor ried about winning friends— although we'd like it if people want to be friendly.' " According to the London Times the np«r TTSJ Am'hncsnrJnr tn Rmifh Via. nam, Lodge, has said that the US would stay in Vietnam even if the Saigon government asked it to go. The Times reaffirms this despite Lodge's denial. The Times finds there is no longer any pretence in Washington "that South Vietnam is a viable state". The Manchester Guardian, in an editorial on the "Americanisation" of the Vietnam war, asks whether any country has the right to inflict on another the "death and desolation" - threatened for Vietnam in Johnson's speech of July 29. In pursuance of this "new" strategy, says Newsweek, US planes last week "spread devastation in north and south Vietnam alike. The marines "poured artillery shells" into Chau Son villages. The dead included a woman and four children. In Cam Ne which they had orders to burn to the ground, their rockets killed an infant and wounded three women. They burnt down an estimated 150 dwellings. According to a Pentagon colonel the marines drop grenades into caves or tunnels and "you can't always know there are some babies in them". Reporter Don Peterson wrote in the Daily Telegraph on August 16: "Twice I went by helicopter into bombed villages to find that in the wreckage were the bodies of incinerated women, toddlers and teenagers." It was in pursuance of US extermin ation policy and under US orders that Australian troops were involved in the shooting of a Vietnamese woman last week. According to The Australian on Friday "a wave of protests" hit Fed eral ministers after the report was published. Although the Australians are fight ing under American orders and in pursuance of American policy, obvi ously the resentment aroused by such incidents - will be shared by Australia. According to The Australian of Aug ust 2 what it calls "one of the most commonplace atrocities" is the mutil ation of bodies to gain evidence that a "Vietcong" has been killed. It says that south Vietnamese units "have frequently been known to cut off a finger or an ear, or even remove the liver from a VC body as evidence". 