 I Govt, plan to widen! I | attack on democracy! WHITE PAPER "THREAT TO ALL CRITICS" H The Federal Liberal Party's call for a "White Paper on | Communism" last week was strongly condemned by public B figures in Sydney as a threat to all who actively oppose the I government's policies in south-east Asia and on national I economic auetions. I "THE Communist Party of g ' Australia in a special _state- 1 ment (see page 2) this week B called for wide and rapid pro- B tests against this plan for a "major attack on the public right to criticise government policies." The hypocrisy of the move—report ed to be a prelude to Government action— was stressed by the Federal Labor Party Leader, Mr. A. Calwell, who said: "It is a hypocritical stunt. "The only interest the Liberal Party has ever shown in Communism has been when elections were in the offing." Challenge ducked (This week the NSW Liberal Party declined a challenge to debate pub licly on the Vietnam war, issued " y the Communist Party of Australia in Sydney.) Mr. K. Buckley who is secretary of the Council for Civil Liberties (Syd ney) and a university economic his tory lecturer said: "It is an unnecessary and political I inspired move which would appear I to be connected to the opposition of I many academics, churchmen and I others, to the government's policy on 1 Vietnam. I Thp farm nvnrinicnfiAn VIAC I an obvious meaning to those who a remember the McCarthyite period I in America." I The Rev. A. D. Brand, a promin- I ent official of the Association for I International Cooperation and Dis- armament, and of the NSW Methodist I I Church organisation, said: 1"Its purpose is not only aimed at the Communist Party, a legal poli tical party, but also at churchmen, intellectuals and other groups op posed to the Government's policy on' the Vietnam war." Mr. T. Wright, member of the Aus tralian Council of Trade Unions ex ecutive, said: "The call of the Liberals, backed by the D.L.P., for a 'White Paper on Communist activity', is closely linked with the Government's participation j m a war of aggression in Vietnam, I and the wages struggles of the trade j union movement. Crimes Act In the trade union fiqld, thestrug- f gainst the wage freezing policy the Arbitration - Courts and for over-award payments, is growing - ronger despite the harsh penal I a?es the Arbitration Acts. narTUt suh anti-Communist white I a form of McCarthyism, annot halt the growing movement of J. ® Progressive forces in the Austra- j nan Community." . I Waipi-cS' ?ocker- Industrial Officer il "Can? I® Workers' Federation, said: II the t i RSL top leadership, jj e National Civic Council and the Liberal Party for a government white paper on Communism form a blatant move to begin a propaganda cam paign against all progressive and democratic forces in Australia. "They and the Menzles Govern ment are anxious to start an offen sive against the iabor movement and particularly its more active and pro gressive sections, campaigning for higher wages and other improved conditions of work which, in the case of waterside workers, were extrava gantly branded as 'sabotage' of Aus tralian trade. "The Australian people have a proud tradition of fighting to preserve and extend our democratic rights. It appears that a new offensive against those rights must now be fought and defeated." Footnote: FRANK CHAMBER- LAIN, 2GB Canberra commentator, said: This could mean a political witch-hunt. Because I oppose it I'll be called a communist. There ought to be a White Paper on pro fiteering and high prices. (August 20). "THE AUSTRALIAN": The Liberal Party call for a Federal Government White Paper on Com munism in Australia is fraught with dangers." (August 24). 