 Gilmore Award to "Ringbolter" [?] "THE Mary Gilmore Award for 1 964 was presented last week to Frank Hardy for his play "The Ringbolter". The action of the play occurs on board an iron ship bound from Newcastle to Adelaide. The function was held at the Sydney Trade Union Club. Present were Professor Robert Quentin, Mr. John Clarke, who was a judge of the award, members of the Mary Gilmore Award com mittee. The Chairman Mr. J. Benson, an official of the Seamen's Union, said that the Mary Gilmore Award Com mittee, representing the Australian labour movement, was proud to be supporting and encouraging Austra lian plays like "The Ringbolter". He said that seamen knew the ringbolter tradition well.' Mr. Benson quoted the case of a ringbolter who stowed away in London and was not discovered- until the Great Australian Bight when he won the Monte Carlo at the ship's ball. Professor Quentin said the ex ample of Irish and American national theatre showed that only a playwright's theatre would be a real national theatre. . The best Australian plays written had been by men like Ray Lawler and Richard Beynon who could earn a living in the theatre other than by writing plays. Directors, producers, costumers and lightning experts could learn their trade inside the theatre, but there was no opportunity today for playwrights to learn their craft by being paid as "apprentice play wrights" in a theatre. There were broadly four catego ries of Australian drama. Historical plays like "The Out casts" which delved into history to find a national "ethos"; pastoral . plays like "Shipwreck"; comedies of manners" . like "The Multi coloured Umbrella" Highlighting typical or atypical idossyncrasies of Australian behaviour generally among the "monied classes" and plays like "Summer of the Seventeenth Doll" and "The One Day of the Year", which attracted the general public because they handled the national characteristic in a compassionate way. Many examples showed how Australians were still searching for a national identity and belief in its values. There was the woman in a Syd- ney Hospital who was asked if she would like a local anaesthetic. She replied that she would rather have an "overseas one." Frank Hardy said it was the proudest moment of his life to re ceive the Mary Gilmore Award and medallion. He said it had been easier to earn the £75 award with the pen than with a shovel. But playwrights in Australia had all earned much more with the shovel than with the pen. Mr. Hardy agreed with1 Professor Quentin about the training of play wrights, but said that if the mass audience within the labor mover ment could he attracted to the theatre by . good plays, then there would he a permanent audience and permanent work for play wrights. He feared that the theatre, in some respects, was "going eccen tric to attract attention to itself." "The Ringbolter" had been proved to be a good manuscript but though it had a successful read ing no theatre had yet decided to produce it professionally. Until theatres were ready to give plays with promise the chance of developing by taking them on coun try tours, etc., to find their weak nesses and then change and re write them, then the wealth of Aus tralian playwriting talent would continue to go to waste. 