 C-DAY PRICE RACKET LOOMS In its bid to extend profits, big business is already raising prices before the decimal currency change over, and when C-Day arrives, will raise prices again. "THE Sydney Morning Herald, announcing an increase in the price of 200 food items on September 29 stated: "Some of the prices would date from October 1, and had been ad justed to be directly convertible to decimal currency, to meet a request from the Decimal currency Board so that no further adjustment would be necessary on C-Day (February 14). "Prices which would increase from that date would take into account expected increases which would take effect by February 14" (our empha sis). MPs complain Federal Labor MPs are putting the Menzies' Government on a spot over the Decimal Currency Board's policy of encouraging price increases. Last week in the Senate, Senator McClelland asked Senator Henty (representing the Treasurer whether the Currency Board made such a request with the consent of the Government, "thus once again indi cating lack of concern on the part of the Government about the diffi culties Australian housewives are having in coping with excessive recent increases in the cost of living." A well-known Victorian trade union official, Mr. Colin Willman, this week warned about additional slugs that workers will face with the currency change-over, in 16 weeks' time. "Bread manufacturers in Victoria have announced a halfpenny rise in the price of bread to operate from Monday, October 4. The standard long loaf becomes 1/7 1. "However, 7£d. CANNOT be exactly converted to the adopted Australian decimal system. (Only amounts ending in 6d; (= 5c) and 1 /- (= 10c) are exactly convertible. The proposed cent equals 1.2d. There will be no half cent.) "After C-Day bread will probably become 17 cents (equal to 1/8.4), giving a further built-in rise of nearly a penny for a loaf of bread. "They could, of course, make the loaf 16 cents (equalling 1.7.2) and take nearly a halfpenny price cut, but few expect that kindness when employers can please ' themselves, with no Government price control. "If the standard loaf could be 16 cents on C-Day, why then the extra, halfpenny on the bread price now?" Mr. Willman pointed out that newspapers, at 4'd. today in Mel bourne, if priced atr- 4 Lcents would add 4/5ths of a penny to the pub lishers' revenue, netting an extra £1 million for the year's sales. Sydney newspapers have long increased their price to 6d. in an ticipation of the currency change over. Petrol Petrol re-sellers believe that 38 cents for standard and 40 cents super will be asked for a gallon for today's 3/7 and 3/10£. This would increase standard petrol by the equivalent of more than 2d. a gallon. In 1954, with less petrol sold than today, a halfpenny a gallon rise netted petrol companies £li million extra. Today, a halfpenny rise would bring in more than £3 million on gallonage sold. A glance at the newspaper adver tisements for grocery and other items shows that well over 65 per cent end in id. and few are priced at even shillings or with a 6d. that are xactly convertible. The A. & N.Z. Bank publication, "Notes on Decimals," has stated that a basket of average household needs will increase in price about 3/- per week. Other prices, not in the above weekly food basket, like beer, cigarettes, fares and children's sweets, must change and no one would expect price cuts. Continued, Page 12 / C-DAY PRICE RACKET From Page 1 Municipal rates and other taxes, now assessed at pence in the £, would have to become Id. in the dollar. But there is no |d. "Rounding-off" to cents in the dollar by authorities to "simplify" calculations will pro duce steep rises. Mr. Willman said: "Time is fast running out for action to protect the public from some solid price slug ging. Sixteen weeks to go and the Christmas break intervening requires positive action NOW for some urgent Price Control measures to stop some fancy decimal conversion swindling.' Last week the Australian Financial Review said that four out of every five companies reporting from June 30 to the end of September earned higher profits in 1964-65. One page of the Australian last Friday vividly expressed this m headlines such as "Shipowners profit at 90 year high"; "R- Miller's profit up ' 74 per ;cent. "Oliver J. Nilson best year yet. 