 | Protests mount at ! U.S. horror I war in Vietnam I Widespread new protests against American action 8 in Vietnam have arisen in Australia --as elsewhere in j the world — since revelations of use of gas, napalm i and phosphorus against the Vietnamese oeoole strua- I gling for independence. | IN Melbourne yesterday (Tues 1 ' day) 600 waterside workers 1 marched through the city and i held a meeting with other H unionists. .. St Thev condemned US attacks on the 1 Vietnamese people and demanded 'if withdrawal of all foreign forces from S Vietnam and all Australian support w for uS policy there. They called for widespread deputations to all MPs. $ $ in Sydney, more rolling (continuous) demonstrations by p peace supporters outside the U.S. consulate. . |i Demonstrators found an mcreas- if ingly friendly reception among the S public for their placards and leaf- m lets. Mi«. I 9 The N.S.W. Labor Council last J Thursday reaffirmed a previous re- solution demanding an end by nego- ? tiation to the Vietnam war. 3 Communist call ® A special delegation from the r'f Sydney Committee of the Com- v munist Party of Australia was jg among those who went to the Syd- ney U.S. Consulate last week, is A letter handed to a Consular of- i! ficial protested against American use of phosphorous, napalm and gas, and added: _ H "We condemn the American Gov- |! ernment's actions in . Vietnam as if direct aggression in an attempt to ""fj deny the Vietnamese people the basic 5«J human right of self-determination." «| It called on the " U.S. Government M to cease its aggression and nego- || tiate on the basis of the 1954 t|| Geneva Agreement, particularly res- pecting withdrawal of all foreign troops and national independence of I Vietnam. © Last Saturday in Wollongong, on the N.S.W. South1 Coast, about 100 trade unionists demonstrated, through the main street and called II for negotiations in Vietnam. j| Many members of. the public joined %jj the marchers in opposition to use of gas, napalm and phosphorus by the r|j United States in Vietnam. 1 Waterside workers who went to | Canberra last week in support of i union demands also sent a protest !j| deputation to" the U.S. Embassy. |p © The Newcastle Trades Hall tf unc again endorsed its policy |gj for a negotiated peace with with- Hf drawal 0f au foreign troops from Hi Vietnam. j Protest moves U The Council will call on the ACTU Wt to oragnise a national trade union Protest against the use of napalm, % Phosphorus and gas bombs in | Vietnam. :S| Waterside Workers sent a dele- 1 gation to Canberra last Wednesday j Continued on Page 12 PROTEST WAVE From Page 1 to protest to the U.S. Embassy. Protest letters or cables also went from the Western Australian branch of the Ships' Painters and Dockers' Union, and an East Syd ney meeting addressed by Mr. W. E. Gollan. King's Cross residents, in Syd ney, are taking up a protest peti tion. A letter to .Menzies circulated in Sydney's Waverley bus depot by the depot committe, demanding action for a just settlement in Vietnam, was signed by the nearly 50 men and women workers on hand at the de pot at the time. The protest movement surged up just as fiercely in other parts of the world, and not least in the U.S.A. The Washington Post said editori ally: "The use of napalm bombs and war gas has earned the U.S. the disapproval of the civilised world and lias disgraced the country." In Auckland, California, more than 100 young peace champions tried to break through into the military port and prevent the loading of a vessel bound for Vietnam. Soviet aid In a cable from Moscow Tribune correspondent Alf Watt says: The National Liberation Front of South Vietnam, which has been wag ing the war with captured American and home-made weapons,, has said that in the new conditions it is ready to accept any moral and material aid, including aid in weapons and military materials from socialist and other countries, as well as from peaceloving organisations and peoples of the whole world. Soviet Premier Brezhnev speak ing in the Red Square at the Mos cow welcome to the cosmanauts, warned aggressors that they were digging a pit for themselves from which they may not be able to . escape. " He said that Soviet central agen cies were receiving many applica tions from Soviet citizens who want to take part in South Vietnamese struggle, and the Government and Communist Party understood per fectly the sentiments of solidarity and socialist internationalism moti vating these applications. (Daily press reports are that highly advanced Soviet anti-aircraft missiles, accompanied by Soviet per sonnel to man the complicated wea pons, are already on their way to North Vietnam). The (North) Korean Government has announced that it will give the Vietnamese people all round material and moral assistance. Many Koreans are applying to go to Vietnam as voluteers and the Government will send them there whenever the South Vietnam Libera tion front asks this. A similar offer is reported from China. 