 Disgraceful SA Industrial Code Industrial legislation in South Australia lags behind other States and particularly favors employers . Here are the more im- portant of many provisions which are over - due for amendment in favor of the workers: 9 In general workers are not com pensated for injury received while travelling to or from work— unlike the position in other States The employer is not obliged to compensate a worker for accidental damage to his clothing, glasses, hear ing aid or othei effects unless he is injured at the same time There is no provision for com pensation for any permanent disability or disfigurement which does not in terfere with the worker doing his normal work. ® Employers can withhold all com pensation payments by denying liabil ity for the worker's injury until order ed to do so by Court decision This can cause very great hardship to in jured workers and their families Apprentices act 9 South Australia is the only State where apprentices (in most trades) are required to attend trades schools at night and in their own time. Employers are not required to conform to any Code or standard ot training. The Apprentices Board has no power to insist that apprentice s training should be improved. The way is wide open for using apprentices as cheap labour on repetitive work. 9 Apprentices, except under some Federal Awards, have very little secur ity against dismissals. Industrial code All strikes are illegal in S.A. Sec tion 100 of the Act says "No person or Association shall do any act or thing in the nature of a strike, con tinue any strike or take part in any strike. Penalty— up to £500 fine or 3 months imprisonment." A worker may be fined £10 for refusing to work with a non-unionist ® Employers are not obliged to abide by many of the main safety provisions UNLESS SPECIFICALLY ORDERED to do so IN WRITING. The Minister for Labour and Industry recently stated that he did not favour compulsion of employers on safety questions! ® There are no provisions for tem perature control, standards of light ing, adequate first aid equipment, or limits to the weights women over 19 years can be asked to lift. Scaffolding Act More workers are killed and injured in the building industry than any where else, because— ® No offence is committed by an employer unless a safety hazard has been reported to or noted by an inspector who orders the employer to take certain steps to remove the haz ard. In other words, the employer need do nothing until action by the workers or their union officials brings inspectors to the job. 