 Johnson has already lost PRESIDENT JOHNSON'S "death - and - desolation" speech of last Thursday, an- ! nouncing an intensified US - horror-war in Vietnam con tained a strikinq admission that the US has lost the poli tical struggle in Vistrrm. The US hfts now no political base left in South Vietnam, having tried all possible combinations to get a government that would work for it and at the same time get and keep any popular support. . Reports on Tuesday morning were that the latest and "toushest" of the ouppet-premiers, Air Marshal Ky, was running into, difficulties after only seven weeks in office. At the same time US Senator Richard Russell, a top political as sociate of Johnson, publicly admit ted that if the. South Vietnamese were given the chance to vote in a plebiscite, they would vote to "place themselves under Ho Ghi Minfa" This is an admission by the chair man of the Senate Armed Services Committee that the US is fighting to frustrate the will of. the. south Viet namese as it would be expressed ir a free election. General Nguyen Van Thieu, ' chair man of the Saigon military junta said last week that "50 per cent o? the people are siding with ! the Vie' cong". Full-scale war Whatever fragment of the sou'. Vietnamese people can now be cc erced into continuing the struggle Johnson's decision for full-seal? American war on the Asian mainlarx is an admission that the Saigor regime is no longer of any rea military value to the Americans. Tb Liberation forces are cutting road isolating cities and overrunnir "strongpoints" at will. The US military situation itsell : so insecure that its generals are nc openly talking of abandoning th central highland towns and retrea' ing to the coast in an attempt v hold bridgeheads for future action The aim now is to pour in furthf military forces to try to keep a foe i . hold in Asia and , escalate the ai war in a desperate bid to enforo he US will, even at the risk of wa rith China, or world war. The London New Statesman' 7ashington correspondent coir aents: "The loudest noise in Wast ngton this week is the sound t . yndon Johnson whistling in th ark. "His administ uilhnv as Wedne: lay's press conference made ver> plain, is on the brink of commit ting the country to that 'major land war in Asia' which everyone from General Eisenhower on ' down has ridiculed as the ultimate folly." ' Warning In America itself Johnson's speech led to new protests inside and out side Congress. According to the New York Herald- Tribune, Senator Mike Mansfield, Democratic leader in the Senate, publicly backed Johnson but priv ately warned him of the "welling up -if antagonism ... against the John- -on Vietnam policy." Mark Hatfield, leader of the' Republicans at a state governors' conference in Washington last week, condemned Johnson's escalation of he Vietnam war. The New York Times said the US' nood towards the 'new military luild-up in Vietnam was "resigna ion rather than enthusiasm" A nation-wide survey showed the umber endorsing Johnson's move all from 54 per cent to 46 per cent i six hours. Internationally the reception, was o warmer. Appeals for an end to he US bombing and a settlement 'ithin the Geneva terms (which ailed for withdrawal of foreign irees from Vietnam) came jointly om Premier Shastri of India and resident Tito of Yugoslavia. A milar joint call was issued by Em- cror Haile Selassie of Ethiopia and resident Kaunda of Zambia. A strong denunciation of US polic as added by Mr. Murumbi, the cnya foreign minister. Hostility at home and abroad tc. is policy has forced oh Johnson a gnificant: diplomatic switch from ci original no-negotiation stand ol abruary and even his "milder' ieech of April. He is now willing to talk aboul lplementing the Geneva agreement; a will discuss even the four-point lan of the Democratic Republic ol 'ietnam (based on total withdrawal £ foreign forces from Vietnam) .vhich he previously scorned; he has called on the United Nations to look for a solution. In this about-face Johnson has further undermined the "no negotia tions" stand of the Menzies Govern ment, which is again forced ignomin- ! iously to trail along behind John- j son. However all this camouflages, but does not conceal Johnson's real pol icy expressed in the threat: "We will persist, if persist we must, until death and desolation have led to the same conference table where others could now join us at so much smaller cost." :. This policy of bombing the Viet namese, until they agree to submit to an Americap overlordship of Viet nam has been; tried for six months now and shows no sign of succed- ing. Genuine terms Any genuine peace proposal must he based on the terms already pro posed both by the DRV in the north and the spukesman of the National Liberation Front, in the south. Speaking to Australian journalist Wilfred Burchett last year NLF pre sident Nguyen Huu Tho said the Front was prepared to negotiate with all parties, groups and sects "if we can bring about a peaceful solution based on national independ ence, democracy and neutrality. "But the internal affairs of soutn Vietnam should be settled by the outh Vietnamese themselves with out any foreign interference. "The basis of any eventual agree nent must be the withdrawal of a \merican troops, with all their ar and equipment. "The Front is not opposed to an "nternationgl conference to help I a solution, but the role of the i eign powers taking part shoul' limited to submitting PrPosa hp(j recording any agreement rea . by the south Vietnamese par" concerned and guaranteeing ixecution." - . t0 No Australian would be wihing discuss Australia's independen ternationally on. anything les .those terms. 