 Indian CP view on Kashmir [?] "|"HL accession of Kashmir to India was determined on by a democratic movement of the local oeoole. not bv-the Maharajah. This is stated in an article by Mr N. K. Krishnan, a member of the Indian Communist Party's national secretariat, in an article in the Party's paper "New Age". At the same time the Tribune has recei a letter from th Indian CP general secretary Mr. Rajeshwar Rao, criticising an article by Mr,-.R. Palme Dutt which the Tribune had reprinted from the London Daily Worker Mr. Rao says that Mr Krish- nan's article represents the views of the Indian CP. He also com mends an article in the Soviet Journal New Times (No. 41) whic is now available in Australia progressive bo "hops. In his New Age article Mr. Krishnan says that the validity of the integration of Kashmir with India does not rest on any paper signed by the former Maharajah Sir Hari Singh. "It rests on the popular an&lt; solemn verdict of the Constituent Assembly of the Kashmiri, peop'e, freely elected on the basis of suffrage and led by their anti- i -v . . ' V J feudal anti--'mperialist freedom movement, the Kashmir National Conference, whose leader in that very period was Sheikh Abdullah himself." Mr. Krishnan says that the historic "Quit Kashmir" popular revolt of 1846 against the Man- arajah and the British rule, led by the Kashmir National Confer ence. abolished princely rule i.r Kashmir. The Kashmir people "fought am. defeated by means of a people'; militia the desperate British effori to reimpose its hold over Kashmi: . through the barbarous tribal in vasi. h led by their creation, Pak istan and decided to exercise then right of self-determination, their urge to merge with India in 1947. "The Maharajah signed and sealed this accession in law ' in October 1947 only under the ir resistible pressure of the 'Quit Kashmir' movement from below. The Kashmir people's freedo - movement organised the elector, by adult suffrage of a Constituent Ask rmbly in 1951. . . "The Assembly recognised the accession of Kashmir to India" says the artire "It- abol'shed feudal ownership of land and. princely rule, which had - not been accomplished then in the - other princely states which had acceded .to India." - Mr. Krishnan says that Marx ;'sm recognises" Self- determination based on nationality but not on religion which is what India's. ; opponents are demanding for KAshmp. > . He records efforts by Us im . perialism to separate Kashmir- from India and give it a bogus independence wh'ch would allow , of its conversion into A US mi l itary base area. This is confirmed by the New . Times article, which recalls how from 1951 to 1953,. the US. worked to set up an "independent" pup pet government in Kashmir. . It recalls that the original ' iri- vasion of Kashmir by Pakistani ribesmen in 1947 was led by an American, Russel K Haight, who posed "-as a Pathan . The New Times article calls" for . % peaceful settlement'' of the dis pute, pointing out that continued enmity would smooth., the way fo/ foreign interference in both India and Pakistan. 