 [?] AFRICANS MOVE TO END U.K. STALLING I From RUPERT LOCKWOOD in Moscow, / 1 line British Government is seeking to set up m Zambia a military cordon to frustrate ' direct African aid to four million Africans under Ean Smith's Hhodesian terror. THE Sun, London, claims the despatch of British planes will give Britain operative con trol . over Zambian airfields, making it difficult for African States to bring in troops by air. The Daily /Mail says the main aim in sending symbolic troops is not to allow military inter vention on the part of other countries- — not even on the part of the United Nations. Although there is no civil disorder -in Zambia the Daily/ Mail says British troops will help "to maintain domestic order in Zambia." Smith approves The Daily Worker contends that British troops are being sent to avert any action against Smith. Ian Smith welcomed the decision to despatch British troops, saying Rhodesia would have no apprenhen- sion as to "frontier incidents." The , blowing up of a pylon on -Zambian territory near the Kariba -dam induced Zambia's President Kaunda to ask for British protec tion, but when he realised the impli cations of conditions that no other -troops hut British would he allowed entry and that British troops would not cross the Rhodesian frontier, and received appeals from other African countries, he changed his mind. Smith has threatened to blow up dhe Kariba power station which sup plies the Zambia copper belt from the Rhodesian side of the river and obviously British troops would not in tervene. The organisation of African unity and; its military experts, who have been meeting behind closed doors at Addis Ababa to plan military aid to the Africa people of Rhodesia (Zim- babwe) aire understood to have dis cussed the composition, strength and financing of a combined army. The Addis Ababa correspondent of Tass newsagency understands that Algeria, the Sudan, the United Arab Republic, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Ghana and a number of other States; would make substantial contributions. ' One problem that Commonwealth members face is that they still have British standard equipment and Lon don would cut off , munitions and parts. OAU general Secretary Diallo Telli said, "The time for talking has passed. We must act now." uiuum uvicgatiuu wauvi IWUUJU i Botsio said Britain was "interested j more in paralysing Africa's freedom J of action than in crushing the Smith | regime." j Oil still flows Botsio added Ghana responded well j to President Nkrumah's call for mobi- | lisation of the people's militia and 8 over 4000 had already joined.- i The Ethiopian Parliament unani- 8 mously authorised the Government j to take any action needed to free | Africans in Rhodesia. j The British-controlled Beira pipe- | line is still pumping, oil into 8 Rhodesia at full steam. I While Portugal and South Africa ! step up supplies to Smith, the South j Rhodesian regime has; according to j the African press, placed a £5 mil- j lion arms order in West Germany. 8 The war criminal Alfred Krupp von | Bohlen is visiting South Africa. I According to Izvestia, Krupp's visit j is connected, with plans for the nuc- g lear arming of the Verwoerd Gov- 8 cmment. ! Siemens has already provided elec- | tronic equipment "of great importance I for the nuclear rocket program of 1 the Verwoerd Government." 8 I — ' ; ' 1 1 IIIIMIWIIMI m.tuiMHsamvMWf::.' President Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia is shown "here with Kenyan President Jomo Kenyatta dur ing the formers recent visit to Nairobi (Kenya). 