 GOVERNMENT PLANS NEW WAGE FREEZE POLICY The Federal Minister for Labor (Mr. McMahon) wants an anti-communist "revival" to open the way for the imposition of a wages freeze policy. MR- L- AARONS, general sec- retary of the Communist Party of Australia, said this at a recent meeting of the Central Committee of the party. "As in the past, anti-Communism will fail to prevent the Australian working class fighting for better conditions." - "This will be seen as the workers swing into"- action to support the current ACTU claim for a basic wage increase plus increases in mar gins." No matter what other differences . the Menzics Government has with the Vernon Report, it certainly accepts its ideas on wages and prices. . The Vernon Report spelt out in detail the virtually unanimous views ot the Establishment: wages must be controlled and profits left unlimited. For example: — On over-award pay ments: ". . . these agreements . . . introduce elements of -inequity into the wage structure, by making it more favorable to workers in strong and militant unions and less favorable to those whose weaker bargaining position leaves them more dependent on arbitration. One of the notable gains from arbitration is therefore forfeited. Partly for these reasons, but also because it would reduce the effective control of the Arbitra tion Commission over the general level of wages, the Commission would not welcome any .substantial exten sion of direct negotiation." On cost of living: "We agree with Mr. Justice Gallagher and Mr. Justice Nimmo that increases in the cost of living are only one factor to. he taken into account." Mr. Aarons said: "If anyone can find in this report any argument for wage rises, or conditions in which a wage rise would not be inflationary, or any concept ot - wages justice, he . is pretty good. | "The main consideration is to be I 'price stability,' for which workers must be penalised. - The Report I examines the : role of profits, saying: "Stability of prices in a growing j economy requires that other incomes I as well as wages should he limited ; to the growth of productivity; and it is sometimes suggested that this I requires some form of official con trol of prices and profits. In our opinion this would raise acute ' problems for . the efficient Operation of a free enterprise system, in which the flexible movement of resources on which much produc tivity &lt; improvement depends is guided by the relative movements of 'prices." Mr. Aarons continued: "So no control of profits and prices; only j iron control of wages, so that 'free j enterprise' may flourish. So nice, except that free enterprise' is no j longer a true description of the Australian economy. Indeed, any un- ; biased observer must agree with l economics, writer Maxwell . Newton i when he says: ' "The surprising- fact is that the myth of "free enterprise" . ... still commands" such support outside academic circles.. A more accurate description of the . actual arrange- ment of the Australian economy — in manufacturing industry, money and ! banking and communications — would be that it is a system of "monopoly capitalism."" The same goes for mining" ' (Australian : Society; A I iSocialogicar introductoin.) 