 S.A. workers put | urgent needs to j new Labor Govt i ADELAIDE: A meeting of officials of South Australian building \ trades unions and a mass meeting of workers at the abattoirs j have extended warmest congratulations to the Labor Party upon ! its election to office as State Government ! "THE building unions' officials carried the following reso lution: meeting of build ing union officials extends its warmest congratulations to the Labor Party on its too- long -de- y layed return to the Treasury benches in SA, and expresses our confidence that Labor in power will vigorously and expe ditiously proceed to correct the anomalies perpetuated by the Playford administration. "We believe that there is need tor a crash program of democratisation in the sphere of electoral reform. So that building workers in particular may know the benefits of a working class Government administration we call for: 1. Recasting of the industrial code 1. Rephrasing of the Scaffolding Acv so that breaches are sucn when com mitter and not, as at present, only when notified by an inspector, and more vigorous policing of the Act. 3. Long service leave for casual workers based on service to the in dustry. 4. Adequate financial assistance to the trade union movement to erect its own building. 5. Greatly improved workmen's com pensation. 6. Attention to the demands of em ployees in the Public Building Depart ment, including service increments. i 7. Appointment of a minister of j housing to control effectively the ! building industry, including a Housing I Trust day labor work force and regis- j tration of contractors and sub-contrac- j tors and preference to unionists." j Electoral reform The mass meeting of abattoirs work ers pledged support to the new Gov ernment for immediate action to re form the present undemocratic elec toral system, including abolition of j the Upper House, thus enabling the SA people to have an equal say in I who shall represent them in parlia- j ments of the future. j The Prospect branch of the Amalga- J mated Engineering Union has also j forwarded its congratulations and : pledged full support to the new Labor j Government in implementing its pro- : gressive policy. ! Tha Union of Australian Women has j also declared its agreement with Lab- j or's policy on education, equal pay, ! medical facilities and electoral reform ! and pledged any assistance it can give j in giving effect to this policy. 