 TRADE UNION CONGRESS IN POLAND y\BOUT 150 million trade unionists from 98 coun tries are represented at the 6th World Trade Union Con gress now being held in War- saw, Poland. The Congress, being held between October 8-22, coincides with the 20th anniversary of the formation o! the World Federation of Trade Un ions. Three Australian trade union lead ers; Messrs. E. V. Elliott (federal secretary, Seamen's Union), T Chard (Building Workers Industrial Union organiser in Queensland) and R. Miller (Newcastle secretary Boil ermakers' Society) are attending the Congress as observers. The Congress is discussing the steps needed to strengthen unity, solidarity and 'international trade union relations. Detailed attention will also he giv en to the development of internation al trade union solidarity with the struggles of the workers and peo ples of the colonial and newly liber ated countries. The WFTU was established at a conference in Paris in September 1945 and formally commenced func tioning in October of that year. The first President was Sir Walter Citrine, then .Chairman of the Brit ish Trade Union Congress (TUC). The Australian Council of Trade Unions was represented by a delega tion which included Mr. A. Monk who was then Secretary and now President of the ACTU. The ACTU was a founding member of the WFTU' and withdrew in 1949 after the American and British trade union bodies had withdrawn. The 1963 Congress of the ACTU formally recognised the sending of observers from Australian unions to WFTU gatherings. There has been an Australian trade union delegation present at every WFTU World Trade Union Congress since its formation. In 'addition various Australian trade unions have maintained con tact with and have sent observers to international conferences of the WFTU trade departments. These in clude metal and building unions, Miners' Federation, Australian Rail ways Union, Seamen's Union, Water side Workers' Federation and the Teachers' Federation. Warsaw was chosen for the Con gress and 20th anniversary because this city is the European capital which suffered most from nazi devastation during World War 2. As the WFTU was established at the conclusion of the 2nd World War, the Congress is a homage being paid to this city, and a tribute to the million trade unionists of Poland. 