 "BITTER FEELINGS" j OVER W.G. STRIKES By JIM COOPER - The complacency of Australian exploiters of New Guinean labor has been : j shattered by the wave of strikes that started in August and has continued to I disturb the industrial scene. j THAT this will continue was indicated last , week by Mr. Albert Maori Kiki, vice-presi dent of the Port Moresby Work ers'. Association, who praised the brave struggles of workers and spoke of their "bitter feel ings" over poor working ; and living conditions.- The strikes occurring in the last , three- months- (during which more 1 man-hours were lost than in all 1964), j continued into November with the workers employed by the Common wealth Department of Works at the Four Mile Camp, Port Moresby, refus ing .to start work arising .from . illegal deductions . from their pay, A . number of other disputes avoided an actual stoppage by the employers agreeing to negotiate. Male curses On November 16 the male nurses . at Port Moresby hospital took direct . action to correct a number ot griev- ances they had with the Director " of Public Health, Dr. Scragg. When the male nurses decided to march oh Konedobu (Administration offices) to seek redress for- their claims, the ambulance drivers wanted to join them. The drivers claimed tliey are owed considerable sums in over time, payment for which is long over due. They returned to work when the. Ambulance Service Senior Officer undertook to take up .-then problem, with the Treasurer. - 7 Before , student -teachers attending' Port Moresby Teachers College ;went on, holidays they held meetings at which they comp'ained about condi tions. They were persuaded to wait until the local officers wage hearing in the Arbitration Court, was deter mined! _ It is evident that the New Guinean "public servants-- amongst them' the ; teachers— are becoming impatient- with" the delays in the Court which' was adjourned early in November to Dec ember 13, and will probably vrise -then k for the Christmas period. The Public Service Association pre- S sident, obviously sitting on the powder | keg," made an urgent appeal to the! Territories Department secretary, Mr. | Warwick Smith, urging him to take ! action to prevent a new flare-up of j industrial trouble in Port Moresby. | It is becoming vfery evident that | the dream of big Australian investors | of uninterrupted exploitation of thej labor of the New Guinean people, is j only a -dream and- the New Guineans j are taking their place among the mili- 1 tant. workers, of the. world in their j resistance to oppression and poverty. | Wage basis laid j The struggle of the Port Moresby | workeis?has established a basis onj which wage rates throughout Papua 1 are being based: It is reported that | the talks between the Milne Bay! Workers' Association and the Employ- S ers Federation of Papua-New Guinea ( will probably adopt the . base rates j applying in Port Moresby. j The workers' weekly base rate of! £3.10.0 is indescribably low and. would j need to be quadrupled before it even j approached, a reasonable base wgiv ! 