 [?] By EILEEN ALLISON "IJECISiON" (Channel 2, Sundays at 8 pm) is a new documentary program made in America by Screen Gems, and introduced by for mer US President 'Harry Tru man, who talks about deci sions which he made during his term of office. The first program, on February 14, told of his early life in Independence, . Missouri, and how he became presi dent. The second program, on February 21, told of his decision to send Ameri can troops to Greece in 1946 when British troops and arms were with drawn. He openly declared that Am erica had decided to support the reactionary Greek right wing Govern ment against the revolutionary demo cratic forces. The third program last Sunday gave an account of the Berlin airlift of 1948. Truman used the Goebbels tech nique of lies and distortions to justify the provocative aggression in Berlin by the US and West Germany. It is incredible that Truman could calmly state that the East Germans tried to cripple the West Berlin econ omy by devaluing their currency. Any student of history knows that the reverse was the truth. In fact the , West devalued the East German cur rency to one quarter of its true value. This series is an excuse for Truman and his sponsors to indulge in an anti-Soviet crusade. There are 23 episodes to go and on present indica tions they will continue in the same vein. Together with its bad content, the film is badly made. It has none of the strength of "The Great War", its predecessor in this time slot. The vast sum of money which the ABC paid for this series was ill-spent. # # # MHEN it first appeared to wards the end of 1964 The Mavis Bramston Show gave pro mise of being first-class satir- : ical entertainment. i It was an important breakthrough j for Australian television production ' and now, as a national show, could I be even more important. j However the 1965 series so far is : disappointing because it lacks the bril- j l;ant and biting comment we were j promised. : Some of the material is second-rate ! and often tinged with the smutty j humor of schoolboy jokes. The talents j of these gifted performers should be ! served by better material, with 1 pertinent observation on the local j scene, if Mr. Gordon Chater and Co. ' are to maintain their former rating. I 