 [?] With Tribunes Industrial Roundsman CYDNEY wharfies say how's this for profiteering, In 1954 the Commonwealth Gov- eminent Committee of Inquiry was not allowed to look at the overseas shipowners' books, but they dug up figures of a "specimen" vessel on a round trip between Australia and the UK/Continent. For each £100 earned from freight charges — £8.1 paid to Australian wharfies; £54.1 for all other running and servicing costs (Aust. and overseas); £5.1 depreciation. £67.5, leaving £32.5 profit. Since that time freight rates have Increased more than labor costs in Australia. ... SO WHAT MUST THEY BE COPPING TODAY1 ? HPHE Miscellaneous Workers' Union, whose members are wharf watch men, have nailed as "deliberate dis tortion" a Sunday Telegraph "smear" that wharfies are thieves. One of the Sydney lads tells a story of two four-ton crates of car parts which "disappeared" from the out side paddock at No. 2 Glebe Island a couple of weeks ago. Was this put down to a "wrong dispatch," or did some wharfie have bag big enough to carry the loot? ? MO, I'm not a member of the ALP," Ivo Barrett (Sydney wharf ie's assistant secretary) told two waterside workers who debated with two DLPers, one of whom was its secretary, J. Kane. "I was expelled from the ALP by Kane because I refused to vote for a person in the union who absconded with £8,000 of the Federation's money," he said. ? TyiTHOUT going into the issues of last week's strike at the New castle State Dockyard, there is one sidelight that takes the cake. The dockyard industrial officer, Mr. S. Carney, said the strike began apparently without reference to union officers. Newcastle secretary of the Feder ated Ironworkers' Association, Mr. L. Schofield, said the union was not told the men intended going on strike because the management failed to answer a job delegate's request for permission to telephone the union. ? CTATE Labor Minister Willis, replying to a question in the NSW Parliament, said prices are only increasing because of the drought. Interjection from Renshaw: What about the price of "Wheat Bix"! (Wholesale price went up 41 per cent, on the small and 9 per cent, large.) Willis: If Leader of Opposition doesn't know these are made from wheat he doesn't deserve to be Member for Castlereagh. Rensiiaw: The price of wheat is fixed! Willis: (No comment.) 