 [?] with NOEL COUNIHAN A COUPLE of quotes on which to end up for 1965. First, from Alexander Watt, 30 years resident in Paris and cur- rent . correspondent for Studio International; "Action painting and Pop Art are no longer of any interest in Paris". ' Second, Elwynn Lynn, abstract- onist art critic . for "The Austra lian": " . . I think we are about ;to experience . a wave of anti-abstraction." (27/11/65). | ; Changes have taken place with in Australian abstraction, reflect ing, changes in USA where Action, pain ting, whose masters were , Pollock, Kline and Gorky, : and which expressed the brutality of American life artd the alienation of the artist; is a thing of. the past, : ' . ; Pop and Op enjoy the limelight today, even in the former home of the' Action painters, the Syd ney Janis Gallery, New. York. ' It. is not surprising then that . the 1965 £1000 Mirror- Waratah Festival. Prize in NSW was wen . liy an Op man, young Syd Ball from SA, just returned from i studying in. the USA. Op, I feel will prove the most Ephemeral of the latest fashions despite its immediate appeal to novelty minded youth. ; Among the Pop painters one of the more thoughtful and with something to say was Sydney's Mike Kitching with his satires on War and militarism. # Among the most interesting shows during the year were those by figuratuve painters, Friend", Nolan, Boyd, Jacqueline Hick of Adelaide, Brack, Armstrong, Per ceval and Dickerscn, aud the Fainveather retrospective. Of special interest was the in creased realistic element within the novStalgic Australian landscapes shown in Sydney and the Antarc tica landscapes in Melbourne by Sydney Nolan, causing Herald critic MeCuiloeh to term him "a great doenmentary artist." Kia explorer figures were less convincing to me. ; # The impact of the vigorous Interstate Realist Gvcup show at the V.A.S. Galleries, Melbourne, in August induced the same critic to describe it as "a rallying to realist standards" by artists re acting against the recent spate of mediocre imitations of overseas fashions. "# ' ' Art is big business in the USA. According to Jean Clay in "Realities", a leading French magazine, the 35 galleries in New York in 1945 expanded to 400 in '65. Americans spend on art a sum equal to one-eighth of an entire French budget. Companies big and small shout of their contribution to the nat ional culture, seeing themselves in the role of the merchant ban ker patrons of 14th century Italy ; Art purchases lighten tax bui - : dens, attract crowds into enter .prises, have enormous prestige ; value. The newly rich achieve X, j i social .tatus with am abstract on their walls. 