 What the new Soviet space success means j; From A. WATT MOSCOW: Congratu lations are pouring in from everywhere on the fantastic flight of Vosk- hod II. Leonov's 20 minutes out side the space ship , have be come 20 minutes that shook the world. The Soviet people are jubilant, but a bit flabbergasted and at a loss for words; for a Russian, that is saying something. , Cuba's deputy prime minister Raoul Castro summed up the world wide feeling when he told the cos monauts: "All the world's people, particularly working people and com munists, are proud of you and the Soviet science and engineering which always serves mankind." United States papers/ which even after last year's three-manned flight were still trying to prove that the Soviet lead in space would soon be abolished, are so rocked by this latest achievement that they, admit Soviet superiority. Indeed it is impossible to deny the record. Space 'firsts' The first sputnik was followed by 63 others. The USSR was the first to hit the moon, first to photograph the»other side of the moon, the first to probe other planets, the first to put a man into space. It launched the first paired flight, put the first woman into space in a paired flight and sent up the first space-ship with a three man crew. Now comes the first man to leave his space-ship which itself swung fprther from the earth than any previous ship. tfoskhod II is above all a victory for a social system that, devoted to the service of man, is able to call forth his hest and most creative ac tivities. This is not only in the sphere of space exploration, but in all spheres of human endeavour. Noting this, the message, of the central committee of the Communist Party of the USSR and the Govern ment to the cosmonauts said "What you have accomplished is beyond the most daring flights of imagin ation" and goes .on to emphasise that the feat "serves the goals of peace and the progress of man kind". . Not all have shared the USSR's deep conviction that outer % space should be preserved for peaceful purposes. When, six months after "sputnik I was launched, the USSR proposed that the UN should ban the use of outer space - for military purposes, US General Rutland said that Amer icans wanted to get into outer space because military operations on a . large scale could be effective there. ' Others repeated the same view. Only after much effort was an agreement reached prohibiting the placing of nuclear payloads into outer space and providing for an exchange of information and other elements of cooperation. As this latest fantastic Socialist feat was being performed, the US imperialists sent over 100 planes to bomb the peaceful Democratic Rep ublic of Vietnam. In that contrast there is also a earning, not for the great mass, of the people, who want peace, but for the small, powerful group who would push the world to war. There are significant pointers to the nature of Soviet society in .the origins and earlier occupations of the cosmonauts. I. .V Pavel Belyaev began life as a metal worker. Alexei Leonov, son of a miner exiled to Siberia after the 1905 revolution, also went from school to factory. Gagarin's father was a village car penter, Titov's was a village school teacher. Nikolaev is also the son of working people. Tereshkova was a textile worker, Popovich was a timber worker. Bykhovsky's father was a bookkeep er; Komarov's was a street cleaner. Feoktistov joined the army as a scout while still a hoy, when the nazis occupied his native town. Yegorov's father was a neurologist .?? and in capitalist society would be of !; a different social class to the work- ers, but in the USSR -he is of the ; | same class. t| His son had no more and no fewer f $ advantages than the daughter and nine sons of working people who were his' comrades in outer spaije. Writing in the Soviet press, biolo- "j gist Alexander Kuzin said the feat I was an entirely new stage in space | exploration. The experiment was particularly important for the con struction of interplanetary space sta tions which will have to be as- ,| . sembled by a man who has stepped out of his ship. The chief space ship designer said ) it was necessary for cosmonauts to be able to emerge from their ships. It might be necessary to repair |j something on the outside of the Jf ship, to weld something, for instance. | Or it might be necessary to render | aid frcm one ship to another. New type space suits, snow white in color, were supplied to these cosmonauts, protecting them against any exigencies. - This flight open$ up new possibili- ties, for instance,; for relieving the J - rews of orbital space stations, for supplying them with changeable f equipment and food, he said. " Their predecessors; H. Titov, B. Fegorov, Y. Gagarin, A. Nikolaev, V. Nikolaeva-Tereshkova, P. Popovich, V. Bykhovsky. V Kamarov and K. Feoktistov. I 