 COUNCIL TALKS WHILE FIRES BLAZE CYDNEY. — Nearly 300 people in the Sutherland School of Arts last Friday night strongly con demned the Sutherland Shire Council majority for neglect of the Bush Fire Fighting Services. The meeting requested the Minis ter for Local Government to conduct an 'urgent investigation. It expressed opposition to the ac tions of the Shire President; Coun cillor Bates, in advertising the posi tion of Bush Fire Co-ordinator. It demanded that the Council should implement its own 'decision of October, 1964, to appoint a full-time Fire Control Officer . and proceed with the building program recom mended by the Bush Fire Advisory Committee. The meeting was called by the Bush Fire Brigades of the Shire. Its importance was underlined by thTee fire trucks outside the hall and a group of soot-grimed men inside the hall. They had just returned from fight ing a bush fire which had been raging for days, through Heathcote National Park area. On Thursday the Chief Secretary promised a deputation a full investi gation and requested members of the Brigades who had resigned in protest at the Council's action to resume their duties (they have done so). Mr. A. Court, reporting to the meet ing, told about 18 months of neglect and frustration of this vital volun tary service. The building program, after 18 months, has not even commenced, al though money has been made avail able by the State Government. Valuable equipment, much of it financed from Sutherland citizens' donations is either kept in the open or in private citizens' homes. For 12 years Mr. Ray Watchorn has been performing the duties of group captain for the Sutherland Shire — virtually a full-time job for both him and his wife. Only over the last two years has he received any payment at all (now £650 per annum). The Bush Fire Advisory Com mittee has recommended to Coun cil that Mr. Watchorn should be appointed permanent Fire Control Officer at £1,700 per year. Despite the earlier decision of Council, the present Council majo rity has refused to act. A few weeks ago, officers and men of the Bush Fire Brigades begain resigning in protest. The Council majority led by Councillor Bate advertised for a co-ordinator — a position not al lowed for in the Bush Fire Act and one which would not be within the authority of any single shire council. Bush Fire Brigades' members consider this merely another delay ing tactic. The hall on Friday night was deco- urifVi fil Artn m r« iaii jl wibu oAugauo vuuiiuu vaio9 while fires burn." — CONTRIBU TED. 