 Battle is joined with NSW Liberal Govt. State Political Roundsman SYDNEY: The Askin Liberal Government last week had a black Thursday in bath New South Wales Houses of Parliament. IN the morning following question time, Premier Askin had to send his per sonal car to bring in Mr. Darby, Independent Member for Manly from a sick bed, to defeat by only one vote in the Lower House an Opposition motion of urgency for an in vestigation of pending new price increases. Wholesale prices of some essential food lines are to rise from 4 per cent to 30 per cent (see page 3); The air of excitement in Parlia ment House lasted all day for it was no .secret that the Government faced defeat when the Legislative Council met in the afternoon. The Labor Opposition in the Upper House, using its new majo rity, defeated by two votes a Gov ernment move to eliminate group ing of candidates in local govern ment elections. This was a test vote on legislation being debated in .the Legislative As sembly, to gerrymander lecal gov ernment elections. The Labor Opposition's vote was an important stimulus to the grow ing N:S.W. movement in defence, of democratic rights in local gov ernment. However, straight after the result of the vote was known, Mr. A. Landa, . Labor member for Bondi resigned i j his seat. j This was followed by Mr. Askin J calling a press conference where 1 he announced that Mr. Landa had j accepted the position of Agent- j General in London. \ The political significance of | Landa's resignation is, that without j it the Askin Government would have lost for certain a pending election J to fill a vacancy in the Upper I House which would have ensured a firm control on the Upper House j for Labor. j I Members of the Legislative Coun- J cil are elected by members of both Houses. The political significance for the I labor movement as a whole, is that j personal opportunism is a power- j ful element in certain Labor" right- j wing circles, for whom democracy, j and responsbility to their ALP rank ' and file and their electors are of | little importance. ! r Last week the Labor -member for i Wyong (Aid. H. Jensen) said in the j ; debate on the Bill to gerrymander : local government that every time the | ; Daily Telegraph had said something j i in an editorial the Government acted on it. ! I The Askin Government .are ruth- I lessly setting out to get their gerry- j mander legislation through. Sydney big business backers like Sir Frank Packer and the giant retail stores j : "have, cracked the whip and Askin is j responding. ! Already the secretary of the Retail i Traders' Association, Mr. J. B. Grif- j fin, has said that "retailers hoped .that with a Council which was repre- ; sentative of the .city, .lower rates would .follow." | They are anticipating bigger profits. ! .The situation is in flux at the I moment, with Askin . looking around j with offers of jobs for possible new j Labor rightwing defectors. I i 