 [?] [?] "COMMUNISTS fight to in- crease the standard jf living of the people in two ways", said Mr. W. Buckley, leader of the Communist team in the New South Wales elec tion. "They fight for higher wages to increase purchasing power and for the control and reduction of prices". Speaking in Sydney this week, Mr. Buckley, a prominent Sydney trade union official, said: "This struggle, waged particularly through the trade union movement, highlights the activity of members of the Communist Party." "It is a struggle that is in toe interests not only of the workers in the towns, but also of the farming- communities, who must market their produce regularly and buy necessary goods too. "The newspapers, representing as they do capital, always try to persu ade workers that wage increases are not in their best interests and must automatically be followed by price increases. "If this argument were correct, the proper thing for the trade unmn movement to do would be to request wage reductions, which no douot would be happily agreed to by tne employers. Liberal stand Mr. Buckley said that in the pre sent case around the basic wage, the representatives of private mono poly and its Federal Liberal-Country Party Government had come out in the Court to oppose any wage in crease to offset the rise in the cost of living since the last basic wage increase. "No doubt about whose side the Liberals are on," said Mr. Buckley. He added that serious economic difficulties were ahead. Increased productivity on the pro duction lines, due to improved tech niques meant that in most sections of industry the number of employ ees was being reduced considerably, while output was increasing rapidly. "The question of the preservation of jobs, the right to continued em ployment, will soon be on the agenda in a big way. "Communists therefore support the reduction of the working week from 40 hours to 35. "Communists in Parliament would be a big help in these struggles. "Communists in Parliament would carry the struggle now waged by the trade union field against the penal provisions of the Arbitration Acts into the Parliamentary arena. These propositions would benefit workers/small farmers, the smaller business man, the professional— everyone except the tycoon and the controllers of monopoly. "PUT COMMUNISTS IN PARLIA MENT!" ; Mr. W. BUCKLEY, candidate for Phillip, Communist team leader and well-known trade union organiser, seen in typical campaign action. 