 Launch and S fate skip greet visiting French warships: WA protests against French tests PERTH.— A launch carrying Ban-the-Bomb ban- ners greeted the French warships Jeanne D'arc and Victor Schoelcher when they reached Fremantle on January 25. A BIG slogan "No French Atom I Bomb. Tests" hung from the State ship Dulverton high up on the slips as the French carrier and destroyer entered the harbour. It remained there until the warships had passed, when it was spotted and hastily removed by police. The launch milled in the berthing position of the ships flying banners which read "Ban All Nuclear Tests" and "Protest against French Nuclear Tests". The floating placards, the Daily News reported, were organised by tht W.A. Campaign for Nuclear Disarma ment. - The Dulverton sign was described as "a real workers' welcome to the ship of death" by Ship Painters and Dockers' ; Secretary P. L. Troy at the annual meeting of the union that night. IITI. - !«... A mC am m. nn /«A tlt/t A ilC i.V>UC Ui. )\ui Ui 13 111C supreme business of this and every other union," he said. CALL TO ACTU QYDNEY: The Metal Trades Fcdera- tion of Unions' Federal Council last week in Sydney called for stronger trade union opposition to the planned French nuclear tests in the Pacific. Affiliated metal unions have been asked to raise this matter with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Last week's meeting discussed a pro posal from the Boilermakers Society, that metal unions place a ban on French shipping in protest against these tests. The A.C.T.U. will also be asked to call a conference of unions in the Pacific area to consider joint action to prevent the French Government from carrying out these tests. Mr. J. I-IefTernan, secretary of the Federation and Federal secretary of the Sheet Metal Workers' Union, said that his union has written to the A.C.T.U. requesting the executive to give serious consideration to these proposals. The idea for such a conference of Pacific unions was first proposed by the New Zealand rat ion of Labor &lt;11 113 COllI. CJ CI ICC 111 iVJuiy Jd3l yCcil. This matter was to be discussed with the' A.C.T.U. to establish the practica bility of such a conference. Since then, ., the Miners' Federation Federal council and the All Ports Con ference of the Waterside Workers' Federation have endorsed the call for Pacific Trade Union conference. 