 1 TU conference will fight against monopoly 1966 World trade , union conference ;1 gYDNEY : A world con- | ference of trade unions j has been planned early 1 in 1966 to discuss "in- ' ternational trade in the 1 interests of the world's j workers and the fight J against monopoly. . if"rHIS decision was made at a '4 ' conference of international trade union representatives held last December at Leipzig, ! Germany. _ . The Federal Secretary of the Sea men's Union of Australia, Mr. E. Elliott, attended at the direction of the. Union's national management com- Elliott said in Sydney List week that one of the subjects concerning the 1966 conference will be the ending of monopoly domination of the trans port of goods, particularly sea trans port. "This implies first of all respect of the principle of freedom of the seas. "It also means the ending of the use of the Maritime Line Confer ences by the monopolies to dictate freight rates and conditions on all the main seaways of the world," he added. The workers' struggle against domi nation by monopoly owners — and the need for a policy for international trade were two issues of vital impor tance to the Australian people. Seventy-three representatives from .41 countries attended the Leipzig confer ence, and elected a committee to pre pare for the trade conference, he said. "This conference will enable an ex change of experiences among trade unionists of every affiliation and create a firm basis to develop unity in action to solve international trade problems in the interests of the world's workers." In a report to the conference, Mr. L. Saillant (general secretary of the World Federation of Trade Unions) said, "examination of steps needed, in different circumstances, to ensure that trade expansion serves the interests of the workers is not an easy matter." "Monopoly and governments uphold theories of 'free trade' or 'protection' and 'organisation of markets' according to their special interests at a given period. "The lowering of tariff protection and removal of quota restrictions, etc., on monopoly terms, can lead to serious consequences for the workers particu larly in developing countries — such apparent freeing of trade on a 're ciprocal basis' can' lead merely to an increase in the power of the economi cally strong to dominate the weak," Mr. Saillant said. "The expansion of world trade based oh the principles of equality, mutual advantage and respect for national sovereignty, can make possible a gen eral raising of living standards and increased employment in all countries. But if the expansion of trade is to help to improve their condition, the workers must combat the monopolies' efforts to. use trade as a means of in creasing exploitation. "The normalisation of economic and tiade relations also plays an impor tant role in the development of under standing among peoples, in the relax-a tion of international tension and the promotion of peaceful co-existence be tween countries with different social systems," Mr. Saillant said. 