 [?] What is a family living wage? I By Tribune's Industrial Roundsman, Jim Stevens, and artist Herb McClin- toek. SYDNEY: the amount of money to he claimed as a minimum ' vage to provide for the reasonable needs of a married wage - c j-rner and his family was the big issue at last week's Australian Council of Trade Unions' Congress. SPEAKERS fought the issue in a debate that spread over two sessions; when the vote was taken Congress was almost equally divided. . The slim victory (276 votes to 259) went to a resolution sponsored by the ACTU Executive. No amount of money is mentioned in the resolution only a verbal state ment by ACTU advocate Mr. R. \ Hawke, that the basic wage should be not less than £17/2/- a week. - This is the figure also adopted by the ACTU Executive last August. Militant trade ui/on leaders de clared that workers would not be contented with such a small claim. Mr. P. Clancy (NfW secretary, Building Workers' Industrial Union) said: "Who here at the Congress would dare suggest to a housewife that £17/2/- be a family living wage?" "Time for action!" An amendment submitted by the Federal secretary of the Boiler makers' Society, Mr. J. Bevan, de clared "that the time has come for the long-standing policy of a family living wage as a basic wage to be acted upon." The Boilermakers called for a vigorous campaign to be initiated in support of this policy and that such a claim should be not less than £22 a week. The Executive recommendation, like the amendment, states that a basic wage "must provide as a mini mum for the reasonable needs of a married wage earner and his family; what are reasonable needs being - determined from time to time in the light of standards generally accepted in progressive communities and the social aspirations of the Australian people." . This is the already stated policy of the Trade Union Movement. The 1963 ACTU Congress, in line with this policy, called on the Execu tive to examine all practical steps for . initiating a statistical cost of living . survey of wage and salary earners to determine what consti tutes a minimum family living wage. This decision has not been imple mented. Investigation "The failure to carry out the re search and base a case on the results of' that research as proposed by . previous Congresses has assisted in the continuance of an inadequate basic wage and the robbery of the great mass of the working ?ople," the .. rUermakers said. The amendment sought to direct the Executive to immediately establish a committee under the direction of the ACTU research officer to undertake the necessary investigation and to obtain assistance for this work from affiliated unions. It also asked: That the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Association and the High Council of Common wealth Public Service Organisations be invited to join this project. That a basic wage claim be made early next year of an amount to be determined in the light of this com mittee's investigations. A further amendment sponsored by the Sheet Metal Workers' Union and moved by the NSW Secretary, Mr. T. Wright, supported the Boiler makers' proposals with an alteration that: "In the event of the committee's investigations not being sufficiently advanced at the time of the next basic wage application, such appli cation to be based upon the 1953 basic wage, adjusted to date for price increases, plus an amount in accordance with the increase in productivity, at the highest figure estimated by the ACTU." A claim based on this formula would be somewhere near £21 a week today. This was the amendment which finally challenged the Executive pro posal in a division of Congress. In adopting the Executive proposal, the Executive is committed . . . "to undertake all practical steps to secure the ascertainment and imple mentation" of minimum family wage standards. "Subject to this, the basic wage is to be assessed on 'the basis of the increasing productivity of the econ omy and to be the highest wage that the resources of the. community .,fuHy employed can provide." Congress also said that the basic wage should be maintained in real value by quarterly adjustments in accordance with a price index con sistent with trade .union policy. It was anticipated that a major case be submitted to the Arbitration 'mmission early in 1966. Congress called for a campaign of the whole Trade Union Movement in support. ot the application under direction and control of the ACTU and the State Trades and Labor Councils. Workers will be looking with close interest to see what amount of money such an ACTU investigation deter mines on. Trade union policy speaks about the minimum for the reasonable needs of a married wage earner and his family. Mr. H. Souter (ACTU secretary), while moving : the Executive resolu tion which reaffirms a needs basic wage, went to great pains to tell delegates "it would be impossible to. determine what these needs are." A pamphlet distributed to delegates by the Boilermakers' Society showed that these needs could be determined. Mr. Docker (Industrial Officer, Waterside Workers' Federation) sup ported the amendment and drew attention to the economic report which showed how wages had fallen while profits have increased. This report said that from the period 1952 to 1964 (the major por tion of the Menzies Government regime) the share of wages and salaries in the gross national product have fallen from 60.3 per cent, to 55.9 per cent, and gross profits have increased from 39.7 per cent, to 44.1 per cent. Mr. Clancy said that past Con gresses have demanded a famiiy living wage. The ACTU officials appear to seek arguments to satisfy judges, not the workers, he said. Mr. Souter evidently thinks that' £17/2/- is what the basic, wage should be. "We' want a real figure, not one that is fanciful . or helps fill some political or trade union journals," Mr. Souter said. Continued on Page 12 i\lr. A. MONK MR. A MACDONALD Mr. T. WRIGHT Mr. H. SOUTER LIVING WAGE Continued from Page 10 Mr. H. Hurrell (Federated Iron workers' Association) was even less subtle. He branded £22 as a "mythi cal figure sponsored by Tribune." Wage decision Mr. J. Heffernan (Federal secretary, Sheet Metal Workers' Union) and other speakers criticised the paltry increase handed out by the Arbitra tion Commission. "The reason why we didn't . change his decision was that eight of the ACTU Executive went to water and would not take action. "The policy of the ACTU is for a needs basic wage— the argument is what amount? "If you told most metal workers we are only going to claim 34/- they would laugh at you. Many have already won more than this in their struggles for over-award payments," he said. 