 ARMY WANTS FARMS FOR JUNGLE WARS ADELAIDE: The Menzies Government wants to take oyer 7000 acres of valuable farm land in the Burdett area, near Murray Bridge, for an army firing range to provide training for jrngle warfare. CARMERS, who have spent much time and money in developing the land, are strongly opposed to the move. Opposition has also been ex pressed in district council cir cles. The fact that this opposition has the sympathy of tbe general pub lic is revealed by the publication of an editorial by the conservative morning paper, "The Advertiser/ which is strongly critical of tbe Government's plan. The Minister for the Army (Di Forbes) has confirmed the plan in Parliament. He said the Army has 4,000 acres in the Burdett area and wanted another 7,000 acres. Already the Department fcr the Interior has written directly to the farmers asking them to nominate a price of sale. An Anny spokesman said that the firing range was needed to increase snap shooting accuracy, which was oj major importance in jungle fight ing. It can fee assumed hie had in mind such fighting as the present conflict in Vietnam. So Australian farmers are threat ened with loss of their land in order to provide facilities to continue unpopular wars in S.-E. Asia Chairman of the Mobilong District Council (Councillor N. M Green) said that the land the Army wanted has formerly been considered scrub land, but was now producing 8-10 bags of grain to the acre and running ,a lot of sheep. The proposed plan would more than double the non-ratable area of land held by the Army in his wai'd. He said he was considering calling a special meeting of the Council on the matter. One farmer, Mr. W. Porker, said: "I can't see why the Army needs to take land like this." The wife of another farmer said they had moved into a new house on their property only two years ago. In the past year, £1800 worth of new equipment had been installed, including a shearing shed first used this season and more than \ £600 worth of watering gear. She said the letter from the Depart ment of the Interior had "come as a terrible blow/' "The Advertiser" editorial said that the "Army is still trying to advance near Murray Bridge against farmers armed only with consciences which the State must back up . . . "Last year it had its eye on 40,000 acres in an area stretching from Mt. Pleasant to Rockleigh, about 20 miles from Murray Bridge. In the face of the outcry which- it eventually ran into, the Army puts its head down. PP The editorial said that the lower Murray and Hills area were sought because they were "convenient for the Army." It said that good farming areas should be put "off limits." SA farmlands were "all too small," as it was, and the Army should be "directed elsewhere." In the reports on the Army's land grab it was revealed that one fanner in the Burdett area had lost his legs when, he stood on a live shell fired during Army exercises. 