 i j &lt; & ' .if- 'I" .? . \ C - '' ;// ' J - " l": | By L. Aarons, V ice-Chairman, Commit sist Party of Australia, 1 who recently visited Ceylon. "pHE Ceyion elections result ed in a narrow victory for the rightwing parties. How ever. the main rightwing force, tne united National Parry, failed in its all-out bid to se cure a majority of seats. It will have to depend for its majority upon the Federal Party, the extreme-right communal party which preaches Tamil nationalism. The new Government will be unstable and new elections are possible -fairly soon. The right-wing success came after an unusually vicious campaign, in which domestic reaction closeh co operated with U.S. and British influences to defeat Mrs. Bandara- naike's Government. They engineered a split in the Sri Lanka Freedom Party, led by Mrs Bandaranaike. Communist oain The monopoly press waged a most unscrupulous campaign of personal innuendo against the world's first woman Prime Minister, fabricated a completely non-existent "Chinese threat" and stirred up religious and communal issues. The U.S. and British oil mono polies. which bitterly resented nationalisation of their assets, the British-owned tea firms, and the Cen tral Intelligence Agency were all active behind the scenes. Important features of the elections were the increased strength of the Ceylon Communist Party, and the huge majority won personally by Mts. ; Baaaranaike (whose majority was ..( 15,000, biggest in any electorate). j All the other left parties iost votes i and seats, except the Communist ! Party. It now holds four seats instead j of three previously, and went close j to victory in another. ! The most .bitterly contested elec torate in all Ceyion was Colombo Central. This is the biggest electorate in Ceyion. returning three members, one of whom is Pieter Keuneman, Gen eral Secretary of the Communist Party. All anti-communist forces concen trated in this electorate, spending huge sums of money on an all-out bid to defeat Keuneman. Shanmugathasan. leader of the group of splitters calling iiself the "Communist Party of Ceyion". nomi nated for this seat. He concentrated ali his campaign, which was lavishly financed, against the Party and Keuneman. This was a big neip to reaction, but the plot failed miserably. Keuneman was elected with over 44.00() votes, w'niie Shanmugathasan lost his deposit, getting only 2.400 votes. Voters in this electorate are mainly industrial and waterfront workers. The result shows beyond doubi the rejection and utter defeat of the Shanmugathasan group, already split in two. During the election campaign, the Communist Party's newspaper became a daily, to answer the unscrupulous campaign of the monopoly press. There was a huge demand for the paper. Because of technical problems, only 35.000 could be issued riai'rv. Every copy was sold, and there was a big unsatisfied demand. The Party will continue the aaiiy paper, an important achievement of the campaign. The Ceylon .Communist Parry will continue its policy of rallying the workers and peasants and building a united Left coalition. The United National Party and its overseas and domestic allies "will fail in efforts to change Ceylon's course of social advance, real national inde pendence. and opposition to neo colonialism. Their efforts to restore British and U.S. domination in Ceylon will be thwarted by unity of the Left forces. The workers, peasants and other democratic people will carry on their fight against the U.N.P.. whose policy cannot solve the problems of the Ceylonese people. 