 [?] "We were in bed at the time.. . talking about going to a later Mass than usual. . . when "pOLICE carrying search war rants entered my home at 6.30 on a recent Sunday morn ing," he said. "We were all in bed at the time — my wife and I were talking about going to a later Mass than usual, when police appeared at the door of our bedroom. "They demanded to know if I had any pistols. "We were herded together with the children v from the other rooms, into the lounge. My wife was not even allowed to dress herself. My son, who went to school here, tried to calm her but the police warned him that if he didn't stop speaking in Italian he would be taken to the Police Station. "Looking for pistols" "The three policemen in uniform and three in plain clothes turned the house upside down; 'looking for pistols," they said. "My son had an old slug-gun in the laundry, but they did not want that; instead they searched through drawers, envelopes and letters from my relatives in Italy, they looked behind picture frames of the Blessed Virgin Mary and they took an old snapshot from a frame with them. "My younger children were terri fied, but we couldn't speak to them. We were not allowed to move out of the room; when we asked per mission to use the telephone, it was refused. "While three searched outside the house the other three searched in side. Altogether they were there about two hours. "It was too late to go to Mass; anyway, we were too upset. "When they left, they took with them a large car ton of private letters, snapshots of the children, cheque butts, accounts from local firms, and good ness knows what." "We don't know whether we have "got all our things back or not. Per haps they are still trying to find some big secrets from my poor old brother in Italy— sometimes I can't read his writing myself and this might make trouble for them too. What. r>nn T fin? T am nnlw a farm labourer and I earn less than £20 a week. "Mot a criminal" "But I am not a criminal, I- have been in Australia for 15 years and I am naturalised; there isn't any evidence whatever to justify " this treatment. I've never had anything to . do with the police, nor has my family. "The newspapers said that- the police were searching for the Mafia, but this is good for selling news papers. "I remember the days of Musso lini, even then, my home wasn't searched, although we knew ones that were "Sometimes the police would bring some 'evidence' or a pistol OTirl than f (in nnnnln iirnul rl Itn fnlrAM MUU vllvtl WUIUU uc IIAIVCII B away. Always the Fascist police I had 'someone' they were looking 1 for; sometimes it was an escaped 8 prisoner-of-war, a partisan, or a suspected communist. Hitler's O.S. were looking for Jews, they had all the right documents, and the law on their side, too. "The whole world knows the re sult of that kind of law, the j .people paid a high price to defeat I Fascism and we must all make certain that it remains In the fust ' j where it belongs. | "We found out afterwards that I police went to other Italian homes j in Griffith, all at the same hour j Of course, we know these people— they are all very fine citizens. "None of us know why we have been treated like this. Someone should be made to disclose what I lies were told to the Magistrate who I signed the search warrants. "We Italian people remember how j fascism started with Mussolini, I and we warn the workers of Aus- | tralia — don't let it happen here!" j WHAT really . lies behind the recent police raids on Italian homes In N.S.W. and Victoria? Was it, as the police and press claim, a hunt for the Mafia? Despite the fact that some Italians were charged with being in possession of illegal weapons, NOT ONE SHRED OF EVIDENCE HAS BEEN PRODUCED SHOWING ANT LINK WITH THE MAFIA OR MAFIA-TYPE ORGANISA TIONS! A Sydney Stipendary Magistrate, Mr. N. C. Hawke, said there was no evidence to suggest that four Italians before him were in any way connected with Mafia-type organisations. Nor has there been a statement from police in either State claim ing to have discovered any signifi cant links with the Mafia. A sinister element of the raids was the fact that one of the leaders was Det.-Sgt. F. Longbottom, the chief of the N.S.W. Special Squad, who himself specialises in political police work in collaboration with Commonwealth Security. Was it a disguised hunt for "communist connections" among a national grouping that has a back ground of anti-fascist and working class struggle? Was it the beginning of explora tory raids at the instigation of the Security Sendee, to probe political affiliations of Italian, Greek and other migrant groupings with a fine record of participation in cam paigns of the Australian labor movement? This is not as far-fetched as may seem, since this is the main direc tion of the work of the Australian Security Service. Facts given in this first-hand report, printed below, by an Italian farm laborer in the N.S.W. town of Griffith seem to suggest that the last alternative may be the answer. A number of homes in Griffith and Canberra were raided on the same day. 