 guide to the... 1 il jj j|jjj : A vote in the New South Wales State elec tion on May 1 cannot solve oil your problems j —hut if can be used to good, or bad, effect, ! Todav. certain issues are worrying most working people of 1 town and country. They include, for example, the fast- growing cost of living, housing (rent or purchase) , cost of illness; and the threat of a big war. J A few, a very few, wealthy monopolist owners, financiers, J manufacturers and landlords are making huge fortunes out of i these very same "problems" right here in NSW. I The few take from the many. And, in the election, there S are those in certain parties who stand for the wealthy few — Sand others who stand with the people and fight against the S monopolies. 1 THE BEST VOTE 1 The Communists, in or out of elections, wage the battle against the millionaire monopolists— for higher wages, 35- hour week; for health, education and social services, free, to J the people; for heavier taxes on the rich and the big com- ; panies and control of profits and prices. J That is why, in this election in those 1 3 electorates where Communists are standing, the BEST USE FOR A VOTE is to support that consistent and growing fight waged by the Com- ; munists to unite working people in action for a better life, peace and socialism. 4 That is the only way to enable Communists to extend this (struggle into Parliament, as they are already extending it in the industrial and other public fields. At the other end of the scale are the Liberals who, with their allies the Country Party and the DLP, openly oppose the trade union demands for higher wages and shorter hours, and support the claims of the big owners for unrestricted profits, prices and rents. These parties stand fully behind the Federal Liberal Gov- ernmenf's disastrous policy of increased war against Asian nations who are seeking full independence and democracy. y. These are the parties that serve the Broken Hill Pty. steel monopoly, the millionaire graziers, General Motors and other foreign profiteers. J The Queensland Country-Liberal Government, for example, £ j recently served the American Mt. Isa monopoly so crudely, 1 jfwith police state legislation, that nation-wide anger forced it h t! into temporary retreat. V:3i however, jn Queensland, Victoria and especially the Federal :'fl sphere, such governments have proved how consistently they , flare deaf to the worker's voice, and how faithfully they serve >j. | the big employers. In South Australia, the Liberals, once in ; '! office, so rigged the electorate that it took a whole generation ; j of struggle to get them out again (this year) . Jj A NSW Liberal Government would greatly strengthen the ; i Menzies Government, . whose defeat has been sought by the '£ labor movement for many years. I I THEY HAVE A REASON ;iij ( I I That is the reason why, at this moment, the "Daily Tele- i r| graph" and "Herald" and the big private TV channels are i sparing neither money nor effort to get a Liberal Government e ; ln office. That is a significant fact that should not be lost u | onTany voter. r- 1 This is not to say that these same wealthy interests have ;; no done well under the present State Labor Government. n I ... fac' this Labor Government, by following rightwing s | policies, has served the interests of most of the biggest j BC0j5ems and their economic system quite "efficiently", to I . y on rare occasions, as in the airlines case, has it stood at|a9ainst a big monopoly. But if it had been a Liberal Govern- Ansett would certainly have got a monopoly of NSW H airlines. ; If 0 Labor Government in the past has introduced the 40-hpur ? increased holidays, long service leave, steps towards 5 |aual pay. . 7 a . 1 Continued on Page 4 M'i . &lt; ' How to use your vote Continued from Page I But only too often has it opposed, or fobbed off, the workers' demands for wage justice, removal of penal clauses, and other urgent needs, even though they are official demands of the whole trade union movement and ALP conferences. That is why thousands of working people have come to say — with the Communists— the policies of the Labor Government won't do! If allowed to pursue its extreme rightwing policies, it will neither serve the people nor remain in office. Faced with the alternatives of a Liberal-Country Govern ment (which would ALWAYS oppose the workers' interests) and such a Labor Government, the workers have only one course open — It is necessary, while using the vote to keep the Liberals out, to resort to greater and stronger united trade union, labor and public action and pressure, to force a change in the' Labor Government, to implement progressive policies based on the rank and file demands of the labor movement. This united pressure should be stepped up AT ONCE, with delegations demanding of every ALP candidate a pledge to fight for each of the main progressive demands, and making it plain that united, militant, mass action will continue and extend until the demands are satisfied. . It is on that basis that the Communists say — Where there is a Communist candidate, vote (1) Com munist, give your next preference to ALP, and put the Liberal last. Labor voters should give second preference to Commun ists. Where there is no Communist candidate, vote (1) ALP and put the Liberal or Country Party last. Use the remainder of the campaign in maximum united effort along these lines, at the same time buildina the member ship and finances of the Communist Party ana sales of Tri bune to strengthen the basic, continuing mass struggle against the policies or monopoly caDrtal. and for soft !&lt;&lt;? 