 [?] THE TRAVESTY OF THE U.S. LINE ON CHINA | By the Foreign Editor CHINA will come into the . United Nations sooner or or later, arid probably sooner, whatever results from this year's Assembly debate. Nothing the U.S. delegates have had to say could invalidate the basic points of the case for China's admis sion. By the same token, Australia should officially recognise that the Government of the Chinese , People's Republic is the only legi timate and only possible govern ment of China. For 16 years it has In fact gov erned the whole of China except for Taiwan (Formosa) which is; only one out of China's 35 pro vinces. "Ludicrous" Even among the Chiang Kai Shek's puppet group in Taiwan little expectation is held out that this, will ever be changed by anything they can do. The Sydney Morning Herald's special correspondent admitted last Friday that "as a purely mili tary undertaking, conquest of China from Taiwan is a ludicrous thought." Massive help from America would be necessary but "talk of 'unleashing Chiang Kai-shek' has long since passed from fashion even among the most muscular of American politicians." The Chinese People's Republic has come to stay; whether this is recognised by the U.S.A. in its 17th or 170th year won't alter the fact. U.S. Ambassador Goldberg does not seem to have claimed in his U.N. speeches that the CPR was in any danger of collapse. But he relied on an argument which was no less ridiculous: that China's "aggressive" policies made her unfit for membership. And this from a country which has foreign bases scattered round the world, whose warships and submarines roam the world's oceans and whose armed forces are occupying and trying to subjugate a democratic Asian country, without sanction by the U.N. or any country except itself! By contrast, China does not have a single soldier in any country but its own—not even in neighboring Vietnam where the U.S.A. has nearly 200,000 troops. So unaggressive is China that it does not attack the U.S. forces in Taiwan or even, except for an oc casional shelling, the. offshore main land islands of Quemoy and Matsu. The U.S. doesn't object to rub bing shoulders in the U.N. with fascist Spain or Portugal or fascist-racialist South Africa. It singles out for special exclu sion a socialist country where the workers and peasants now have liberties that were denied them for hundreds of centuries. Taiwan Main argument used against China's admission to the U.N. is that the People's Government, is making it a condition that the Chiang Kai-shek clique on Taiwan be excluded, and this is held to be an injustice to the 12 million Taiwan Chinese, who, it is claimed would' be denied representation. But China's claim to Taiwan is based on facts of . nationality and history; the Taiwan Chinese are just as Chinese as any "other. Taiwan has been Chinese since time immemorial. It was seized by Japan in 1895— an act recognised by all other countries as flagrant aggres sion. The Cairo Treaty -of 1943, signed by the U.S.A., Britain and Chiang Kai-shek, then president of China, solemnly declared that Taiwan would be returned to China, along with all other territories seized by Japan, at the end of the war. Nothing was said then about any special "rights" for the Taiwanese, and nobody suggested their interests and rights were being ignored by their intended re-incorporation in China. No elections However, when the discredited Chiang Kia-shek, ousted from China, fled to Taiwan and set up his Government there, it suddenly became a "crime" to return to Taiwan to China , and fulfill the Cairo treaty terms! Chiang continued to be recog nised by the U-S.A. and its majority on the U.N. ' as the "Government of China" and today his regime still functions . as one of the, five . Per- irianent Members of the U.N. Security Council, with a veto over its decisions. So far front representing the 650 or more millions or Chinese, he does not even represent the 12 millions on Taiwan. As the Herald writer admitted on Friday, Chiang has never held an election there. "Members of the Legislature are in office for life for all practical purposes on the ground that it is impossible to hold a national election while the Communists have military control of 34 of the 35 provinces." Two opposition parties are al lowed, says the writer, hut they .are "just about invisible." The Menzies Government is sup porting the U.S. in maintaining this travesty — and admits this is because of subservience to U.S. policies. Australia's own interests require recognition of and friendship with China, the biggest of our neigh- hours and an increasingly . important trading partner. But for a Canberra desire to please the U.S. administration, China would have had recognition long ago. When the People's Government was established, the Australian Labor Government would have fol lowed Britain in recognising it hut for the result of the Australian 1949 election, which was won by Men zies. - ' "Eventual" recognition .Trade Minister McEwen indicated in a public speech some time ago ttbat he recognised that Australia would "eventually"' have to recog nise .the Chinese People's Govern' ment... Soon afterwards Labor Minister McMahon indicated that fear of American reaction was the only bar to this. A jyear ago External Affairs Minis- -ter Hasluck said that world peace depended on the 'detente" prevailing .between the U.S.S.R." and the western powers and admitted that peace in Asia depended on working out "the same sort of detente" with China. The statement was welcomed by .the AJL.P. as conforming to its own view that China must be recognised —a view also supported by the Aus tralian Council of Trades Unions. _ The Communist Party of Austra lia has for years demanded Austra lian recognition of the People's Republic of China. Spreading know-how in the cotton mills 