 CHINA NO MENACE, SAYS MP CANBERRA: "You are pursuing a myth. You r»o hope of defeating Communist China", Mr. P T'. Pollard (Labor, Victoria) said in the Federal p- -i; — 'eiary debate on Vietnam, when he de plored the decision to send troops there. |;E . denied that China was a "world menace". While he disagreed with China's Ideology, said Mr. Pollard, he thought the Chinese Government had done something for the people which no previous government had done. "We can look to Red China to discover the real reason why the Australian wheatgrowers are waxing rich and fat. "In past years, when famines oc curred in China, the people were allowed to die in millions, but now the Chinese Government nourishes them with wheat bought from the wheatfarmers of Australia. ""Only recently the Australian Wool' Board at its Melbourne offices enter tained a deputation from Red China. "The Wool Board said in its annual report tnat a gooa time was naa oy all and that it hoped the sale of Australian wool to China would increase. "Members of the Australian Wheat Board also recently entertained dele gates from China. "Looking back I can vividly re member the horrors of floods that occurred from time to time in the Yangtse Valley. Millions drowned. T.iey do not drown any. longer in these floods." Mr. Pollard said he thought some thing was being done for the Chinese people. Because the Vietnamese thought the Chinese Government had done a good job, they naturally wanted the same for Vietnam. That was why the present revolu tion "or the present dirty civil war" was proceeding. All the last three Chinese revolu tions had resulted in some advance ment of the people's conditions "Having these things in mind, is it necessary to consider China as the great menace of the world?" Mr. Pollard asked. "Must we be so foolish as to adopt the US philosophy and say we must plunge young lives into a struggle to contain Commu nism?" Mr. Pollard, quoting a press report of 1957, said South Vietnam dictator Ngo Dinh Diem had been given a hero's welcome by Menzies on whose recommendation Diem had been given the GCMG by the Queen. Yet Melbourne Herald writer Denis Warner, on January 22 last, had said Diem's dictatorship was a tyranny guilty of indiscriminate terror. Warner had written: "The jails were full of political prisoners, held without charge. Today, six changes of government later, the jails are , still full, with six new crops of prisoners.". The position had riot substantially improved since Diem's fall, said Mr. Pollard. Condemning the use of force, he recalled that Menzies had been ready "at the drop of a hat" to enter the Suez war to stop the Egyptians nationalising the canal. Yet ships were now sailing through the canal at no greater comparative cost than before. Deputy Opposition leader -Whitlam and other Labor speakers freely quoted former US President Kennedy's admission on April 6, 1954, that the Vietnamese guerillas had "the sym pathy and covert support of the people." 