 [?] Ashe causes upset ! in tennis world 1 I K | Over the past few months a 22-year- 1 ! old Negro tennis star, Arthur Ashe, has! | emerged as one of the United States" best f | prospects to boost their Davis Cup pros- | pects next year . > SHE has helped to prove ! that, regardless of race, ! what measures ability, is | primarily opportunity. j In the first match of the Davis j Cup zone finals in Dallas last August, Ashe, considered an ! under-dog by some, thrashed j the Mexican veteran Rafael . I Osuna 6-2, 6-3, 9-7; acing him 15 times. A couple of days later, | Antonio Palafax was aced 12 | times and beaten 6-1, 6-4, 6-4. j Probably Ashe caused the big gest upset in the amateur tennis ! world — and biggest blow to Aus- j tralian. tennis — last September j when he defeated the' world's number one tennis player, Roy I Emerson, in the quarter-finals j of the US National Champion- j ships. ; Again, at the Queensland cham- j pionships a fortnight ago, Ashe j repeated his win over Emerson ! and also soundly defeated Aus- I ' tralia's' other top-notchers, Fred j Stolle and John Newcombe. : Stolle on this occasion received ' Ashe's ace treatment 21 times. Ashe's series of wins over Australia's top .players can no doubt be considered a very important factor contributing to the move of coach Harry Hop- man taking charge of the Davis Cup squad ahead of schedule. Although John Newcombe put a stop to Ashe's run of wins in the NSW Championships, and added some weight to the claim that the other Australians' losses were due to their poor form, conditions under which. Ashe lost should also be taken into consideration. It can then be realised that Ashe is indeed a future threat to Australian tennis supremacy. These factors taken into con sideration should leave the Australian tennis world with the realisation that Ashe is in deed a real threat to Australian tennis supremacy, in the future, and — also - a ' fine example of what Negroes in general could achieve provided they were given equal opportunity. Eddie MiBier: a criticism ETTER from Bill Smith, of Victoria, is critical of Tribune's coverage of boxing and says of the recent article, "Eddie Miller a Boxing Great": "I don't merely consider this is a waste of space, worse, I think it runs contrary to Communist principles and the good policy put forward by Tribune in re gards to other matters. "Boxing of any sort canno', be any good (although I have noted one or two examples given by you to vindicate boxing in the - Soviet Union), but professional boxing is one of the worst forms of exploitation there is. ... "Communists cannot justify boxing. All the changes in rules won't change the underlying MllWUMnMillMIUmiMIIMIIWUIMII-WitMiii viciousness of boxing. . When this |J is done it will be no longer || boxing, but tiggy touchwood. |I " fx TN reply to Bill Smith, Tribune would like to make clear that 1 it tries to see boxing as it really B exists today. Most people would jj| agree that boxing will be with |g» us, regardless of our wishes, for p a long time and certainly most l|;; probably after socialism. |l . Also, experience of the socialist ||. countries seems to prove that ||- | the dying ' out- of boxing will jg indeed take a long time and may J as suggested finish up as tiggy || touchwood. ft People have- 'many different j!-; sporting interests and letters to 1;, Tribune vary from requests for |: i no sports coverage at all to IS. giving ft a whole page. I; Probably the most consistent jgy requests for a wider sports j|- coverage come from readers who want a. racing commentary. »;.vj Many of our readers are keen . ..followers .of -boxing and racing, wj The article on Eddie Miller, we & &lt; felt, was a comment on the I ability and sportsmanship of a | J fine athlete rather than a boost |j/ P for boxing. II Miller's battle to reach the a i top would hardly enthuse young B sportsmen to . cast away their a tennis rackets and swimming M trunks to try and emulate him. Tribune has always opposed ! the negative aspects of any sport i anywhere and will- continue to j do so. . I. We thank Bill Smith for as j comments and hope that other jj readers will follow his examp -4 and give us their comments on . this column. J Arthur Ashe about to let || go one of his powerful || serves. || 