 Unmarried mothers are branded and employed by wealthy families By a Tribune Reporter About 14,000 unmarried young women will become mothers this year in Australia . During their pre-natal period f many will be exploited as "domestics" by wealthy families under the name of " charitv rROM time to time press pub- licity is given to this pro blem, but always the conclusion reached is that nothing can be done. The Sydney Morning Herald on May 14 featured a letter from one of these 14,000 unmarried girls who had a taste of the "charity" that these well-to-do people hand out. As a domestic she was required to work about 15 hours a day, seven days a week, and . was paid £3. Maternity hospitals have lists of private homes to which many of these girls are sent. As the abovementioned girl said: "When I suggested to the hospital almoner that this system was not so much charity as, perhaps, slave labor, she was quick to disagree. After all, with a girl in my position ... "I spent two years at Sydney Uni versity with the sons and, daughters of people like this woman on the North Shore (who paid £3 for 105 hours' work). Almost all of them regarded pre-marital intercourse as normal. "But a pregnant unmarried girl who chooses to have the baby, rather than an abortion, is considered peculiar and an outcast. It seems the sin is I not so much in the sexual act itself, but. in being found out," she said. She has also by her statement very simply pointed to much of the hypo crisy on morality under capitalism. It should also be added that the greatest form of immorality is the exploitation of a fellow human being. Miss L. G. Woodcock, president of I Sydney's United Associations of Women, does not agree that nothing I can he done to assist these girls, j "To say there is no solution to the I evil of the destitution of unmarried mothers is an indictment of our ; society. I "Somewhere there must he a man | (an aspect that . does not seem to i enter into consideration) who should face the responsibility of his actions and care for the mother to be, to prevent this added burden for the girl." "We have the Department of Child Welfare; why are these young mothers, citizens of the country, not cared for with financial assistance as are deserted wives? "A mother's need is no less because she is not married. In this age when we are supposed to be an enlightened society 'slave labor' should be finished with," Miss Woodcock said. The Union of Australian Women also disagrees that "nothing can be done." A statement issued by the organisa tion said: "We believe that these women cannot he allowed to he left mostly to the mercy of charity and open to exploitation. "Most of these women and young girls are obviously in a desperate situation and need help. "We believe it is the responsibility of the Government to assist them before and after the birth of their babies. They should be assisted in finding suitable work to be paid for at full award rates and where neces- | sary the Government should assist in , rehabilitation by providing training. | . "The Herald article said adoption f is the only solution at present, j "We believe that if more unmarried ' mothers could keep their babies it I could help to overcome mental prob- I lems which usually develop, j "Again, only the Government can ! assist by providing creches and kin- j dergartens. At present there are not j nearly enough of these facilities and | more must be provided," the UAW I said. | Mr. D. Howitt, . NSW secretary of | the Miscellaneous Workers' Union, ! believes these girls will continue to j I be subject to exploitation while ever | domestics in private homes are re- S fused the protection of an industrial I award. | He said it was only last year that il the union got an award to cover domestic workers in independent and | denominational schools. I "Some of these people were getting j as low as 4/- an hour." I I They are now covered by the basic wage and also receive a margin for J I skill. Mr. Howitt explained that the struggle to prevent exploitation of persons in "domestic service" has gone on since. 1901, when the first Industrial Act of NSW Was estab lished. "Over the years the courts have allowed a little at a time to be con ceded covering this employment. "We are now m.- an age when the Legislature should not condone any one having to work for 'slave wages,' not even those employed by a private person who is able to afford the 'luxury' of household help." The Union has also succeeded on several occasions in having the State Labor Party Conferences adopt a proposal to have the Industrial Arbi tration Act amended to . provide in dustrial protection for these workers. "No action has been taken on, these decisions." Those responsible for these amend ments would possibly be among those affected as employers of domestics. I "This could be part of the explana tion," Mr. Howitt said. 