 [?] Sharp talk about eggs By JOE BAILES pOULTRY farmers in confer- ' ence in Sydney last week called for a full-scale parlia mentary inquiry into The Aus- tralian egg industry. Delegates showed that with the new Commonwealth fowl tax to he administered by a statutory body in Canberra and the existing Australian Egg Board and seven State Egg Marketing Boards, egg producers are now forced by law to finance nine different organisations in the market ing of their eggs. A Poultry Levy Collection Act was rushed through the Federal Parlia ment last week. This Act now imposes on all keepers of over 20 hens over six months of age a tax of up to 10/- per bird. For the financial year commencing July it is stated that the amount of tax will commence at 7/- per bird, which means that — A person keeping 50 hens in his backyard will have the first 20 exempt hut for the remaining 30 will pay 7/- each— a tax of £10/10/- for the year. A small poultry farmer with an average flock of 3,000 hens will pay £1050 in tax to the Commonwealth fund. The amount of tax to be collected is estimated to be £4 million, which is to be used to compensate the State Boards for losses on exporting eggs and other needs. The Poultry Farmers' Conference severely criticised the Act and claimed that most of the politicians in all parties in the debate on the Act revealed a complete lack of understanding of the poultry indus try and the Government's position. Police state To administer the scheme a large team of Commonwealth inspectors will be appointed with powers to enter private homes and farms. : It provides a harvest for the bureaucrats and creates a new form of police state for all who keep poultry. The Poultry Farmers' State Confer ence called upon its executive to he constantly on guard and keep pro ducers informed of all regulations proposed to administer the Acts so that the necessary action could be taken by farmers. The Poultry Farmers' delegates at Conference endorsed a comprehen sive list of amendments that it will seek to have included in the Poultry- Industry Levy Act. 