 — . 1 1 1 " 1 — — » | ACTU Congress will discuss penal powers robbery of unions Hundreds of thousands of pounds are being robbed from workers' pay envelopes and further thousands plundered from union funds per medium of the Menzies Government's penal powers in the CopmB wealth Arbitration Act. yHESE facts will be before the ACTU Congress next month when It discussed penal powers and other as pects of trade union demo cratic rights. Waterside workers are cur rently feeling the main, weight of the penal powers. Faced with rejection by the em ployers of certain main claims arid a lack of power on the part of the Arbitration Commission to deal with these claims, the Waterside Workers' Federation launched a campaign of action in support of its demands In four months these actions, taken in accordance with official decisions of their union's leading body, have cost wharfies approximately £413,000 by way of cancelled attendance mon ey and £8,000 taken from the union's funds in fines. Attendance money is part - of the of ficial wage prescribed for wharfies in their arbitration award. Cancellation of this money is tantamount to with holding a part of wages. This enormous cost, exacted tnrougn penal sections of the Arbitration and Stevedoring Industry Acts, is now added to by Judge Gallagher's threat to withhold from waterside workers the general 14 per cent increase in margins already awarded to large sec tions of the work force ! But the ACTU Congress will not be concerned only with expressing sym pathy with and support for the whar fies and their Federation. The fight against the penal powers is today an inevitable and integral part of the fight to increase wages and improve living conditions, and it. is in this fight that the Congress will have to discuss the mounting use of penal powers by the employers and the Government. For example, the ACTU Executive has called for an extension of over- award payments as a means of over coming the decline in real wages resulting from the recent unsatisfac tory decision of the Arbitration Com mission. Everybody knows that over-award payments are won outside of the Arbitration system and the ACTU Ex ecutive decision acknowledge this Furthermore, and as is well kr» wn„ these payments are, in the main, the result of various, forms of direct ac tion and it is precisely to defeat such actions that the employers invoke the penal powers. So it is of. little use to adopt a wages policy which involves a struggle for over award payments if the em ployers' actions to defeat this strug. gle are not resisted and overoomp In repeated attacks upon penai pro visions directed against tire right i strike, the ACTU has lec'ared this right to be essential to defend and . improve- living, standards. These deci . stons have also declared the penal powers to be del"&ersfce'y refermcd to . g've the ertm'oyers an. advantage in jthe economic struggle. Recent developments have clearly merged the struggle to defend and improve living standards and thp ; struggle against, the penal powers into ia single and vital struggle. i This connection between the wages (Struggle and trade, union democratic ! rights is emphasised by other factors ' which will he before the ACTU Con gress.. Effective job organisation is now more than ever essential for success in defending and iinproving living standards'. This fact necessitates an. expansion of this form, of "grass-roots" organisa tion and its recognition as an adjunct to official union organisation. Associated with this is the need for an. extension of the rights and auth ority of job delegates and more ef fective protection for them, against victimisation. Added to this is the need for offi cial recognition of the right to hold meetings on the job and for unrestrict ed right of entry for union officials to all places; of employment. Resolutions have- already been sub mitted for the Congress Agenda ad- . vancing these points . as minimum demands, in. a, program, of trade union democratic rights. 