 What makes this BHP pension' scheme tick? | By an Industrial Correspondent | The announcement by the giant steel monopoly BHP of their I Intention to Introduce a "pension" scheme to cover employees In 1 steel Industry has met. a mixed reception. 1 k MESSRS. SHORT and Hur- I m relit secretary and presi- 1 dent of he Ironworkers' I Association with some 20,- i 000 members affected by the scheme, stated that, it was 1 the result of 10 years nego tiation, and enthusiastically I claimed that it was a "mile- f stone" in Australian indus- l trial relations. A \ "As with the introduction of long 1 service leave in N.S.W.," they said, i "the Ironworkers' Association has ionce again gained for wage earners g, major improvement without hav- b Jng to resort to costly strikes." (We Sj were unaware that Short and Hur- II rell were responsible for the Long I Service Leave Act.) V The scheme, which is known as 1 the BHP Employees' Retirment Plan, n requires a closer examination than that given by the wildly enthusiastic right-wing ETA officials. The scheme is not a pension scheme. It is a contributory super annuation fund which already oper ates in many industries. BHP con tributes to the fund on the basis of lh times the' amount contributed by the employees. The fund will be invested and the income earned from this investment will accumulate to provide the source of payments from the fund. This payment will amount to a lump sum at the age of retirement, in the event of death or of resigna tion from the company, employees will receive their own contributions plus interest at 4 per cent per an num. BHP benefits Much has been said by the Iron workers officials and BHP about the benefits that flow to the workers through this scheme, but what of the benefit to the BHP? Thp fina.np.in.l nf fVio Sv4npv Morning Herald (August 5) expressed it this way: "BHP as a company also stands to benefit from the sup erannuation fund, and the manage ment doubtless saw special reasons for creating it now." The SMH article goes on to cay that because of the number of work ers employed by BHP it cannot "af ford" to increase wages in an effort to compete for labor. The article further points out that "the location of BHP's productive units is in places remote from the metropolitan centres, the latest, Wyalla being the most remote — means that the average family suf fers penalties from the difficulty of the women members getting jobs . . . It is becoming more and more rele vant to the BHP labour turnover rate. Superannuation schemes are certainly not the full answer to it, but a partial offset." Seek stability In other words, the unsettling ef fect of low weekly wages being paid by this, giant monopoly and the in ability of steel workers' wives to find find employment in these areas to supplement the low wages earned by ! BHP workers has forced them to I take action to try & stabilise the j work force. ! Steel workers award wages are I among the lowest paid in Australia, j in an industry that shows the great- ! est prosperity, biggest profit (£43 million gross profit last year) and greatest expansion. Consequently, steel workers are more vitally concerned in what is in their pay envelope today and not in 20 to 30 years time, . when they are too old to enjoy it. The BHP's industrial relations, so lauded by Short and Hurrell, apar- : ently do not extend to the granting of the £5 industry allowance at pre sent being demanding by steel work- erS The 1964/65 net profit of BHP was in the vicinity of a record . £19 million. Payment of the £5 industry allowance to all workers in BHP Newcastle and A.I.S. Wollongong would cost at the maximum £61 million, still leaving £12J million profit. BHP won't pay The proposed Retirement Fund Scheme will cost BHP exactly noth ing. In fact, it will mean ever greater profit to the Company. The SMH financial editor esti mates that the combined contribut ions by the Company and the work ers might be between £1 million and £2 million and probably nearer the lower figure. This would involve BHP in an an nual cost of, say, £600,000 deductible for tax purposes; out of the £1 mil lion a year, £300,000 would have to be invested in Government Securi ties under the 30/20 rules: the rest —or a substantial portion of it — would be invested in B.H.P. stock and used as capital for the further expansion of BHP and consequently increase profit. So in essence, the workers will he contributing to a scheme which will provide capital for further expan sion of BHP profit. Any superannuation scheme for steel workers should be on a non- contributory basis; but the living standard of steel workers today is the immediate and pressing prob lem. Despite the clap-trap about ben evolent industrial relations, BHP can well afford to pay and must be made to disgorge some of its bloat ed profits for a £5 industry allow ance now. 