 i I TRIBUNE I J — IT he outlawing hf the NCC j "THE decision to ban the National Civic Council (NCC) J I made by the recent meeting of the Federal Executive j ! of the Australian Labor Party, means that Labor Party I j members must avoid association with this reactionary body. | I The declaration outlawing the NCC is the" culmination J point following months of intrigue by undercover agents in I | Labor Party ranks, together with persons like Senator Ken- j j nelly and Labor leader Hawke in West Australia who have i ! publicly supported association with the DLP. 1 j It was to be expected that the Federal ALP Executive I j would discipline them for their attempts to weaken tradi- j | tional ALP principles and policy. I | The character of Santamaria's Movement is that of a J j disruptive neo-fascist conspiratorial grouping,, so odious as to I | justify removal by the authorities of the Catholic Church, j j and to be indicted for its interference in the affairs of j | the trade union movement of Australia by the ACTU and j j the working class generally. I j At a time when the ALP is pursuing a correct policy j j in connection with the demand for the withdrawal of Aus- ? | tralian troops from illegal aggression against the people I j of Vietnam, it is natural that Men zies calls upon reaction- I ! ary groups such as th NCC/DLP to step up their sabotage \ ! within the labor movement, and to sharpen the attack on j democratic rights and civil liberties. j There is little doubt that NCC connections extend to I ! the Menzies secret police, strong monopoly groups and | | foreign reactionary, agencies, particularly those of the US j J State Department. j | It is these anti-Australian associations that lead it to j | proclaim policies in opposition to those adopted by the s | political and industrial wing of the labor movement. s | Mr. Short (Ironworkers' Secretary) who owes some f J debt to the Santamaria Movement, is siding with Menzies s | against the labor movement and is showing more clearly ! j to the workers the betraying role he performs against the . ! | working class interests. . j | The AWU rightwing leaders also are playing a "knock- I j ing" role against the Labor Party which compelled the J 1C Federal Executive to reject the view that these leaders occur I pied any privileged position in relation to the ALP. ; J | The Federal Executive also considered proposals affect- | 1 ing the government of the ALP itself. . These arose from ' I 2 attacks by the capitalist pres£ on the so-called "36 rfaceles? j j men". \ j | " In any haste to appease its critics; the ALP should be J | careful that it- doesn't depart from its traditional -elective 1 I methods to a position that could be less democratic and I S more removed from its main base, the affiliated trade j 1 unions. V .1 j The main decision's of the meeting reflect the deter- j I mination to stand more closely to fundamental labor policies I ! that accord to the interests of the people. _ To more boldly j 8 ' set out to unite its forces behind its policies also demands j j greater struggle for the isolation of the rightwing and in j j particular the anti- labor and anti-democratic NCC/DLP.; J a . I r MM II MM II MM 11 — n — fl — -TT1 T 