 USA hated i in Dominica "NT EVER has the US been more unpopular among the ordinary people" says the Melbourne Herald's New York correspondent describing' Dominica's reaction to the arrival of 32,000 US marnies. On the UN Security Council the US found itself in a minoNrity of one. All the other 10 states voted for a French resolution demanding a permanent cease-fire in Dominica. Although 14 Latin American states in the Organisation of . American states are backing US policy, most of them are pocket-handkerchief-sized and dominated by the US. Only Brazil and Argentina, of the bigger states, are going along. Dissentients include Mexico, Chile, Uruguay and Peru, while Venezuela has demanded recognition of the Gov ernment of Francisco Caamano, the legitimate president who was elected by the re-convened national parlia ment but is opposed by the US. The Soviet representative, Dr. Fedorenko, moved that US troops be withdrawn from Dominica. Fedorenko said the US was trying to impose on Dominica a new butcher who would be just as faith ful a flunkey to it as Trujillo had been. US actions in Dominica were only the latest links in the chain of US aggressive actions round the world. Aggressive policies were getting the upper hand in the White House. In a speech to the Council, Cuban Ambassador Tabio said that US forces had broken the UN and OAS charters in occupying 3, sovereign Latin Ameri can Renublic. Bolivia Tribune correspondent Rupert Lock- wood cables that Bolivia's economy is paralysed in the greatest general strike in the country's history which closed factories, mines, offices, banks, newspapers and oil installations. - Armed tin miners seized mines and beat hack police. Other strikers erect ed barricades against the Junta which, though critical of Washington over Dominica, didn't go nearly far enough to suit the Bolivians. Strikers and demonstrators demand ed not only resignation of the Junta but the immediate return of miners leader Juan Lechina (who was deport ed to Paraguay) and sweeping re forms. Colombia is also under martial law. Bogota police took seven hours to suppress a students pro-Dominica de monstration—sixty seven police and fifty students were injured. 1 