 22 i © 2 vote for f ronsDort stOn I COMPROMISE OFFER REJECTED BY UNIONS ' / SYDNEY: A conference of 24 rail end bus unions icssf Monday refected a "compromise offer" from the New South Wales Liberal Government for the unions to accept a 10/- a week increase, put I their wage claims (without prejudice) to arbitration and to ! abandon the 24-hour stoppage planned from midnight next Sun day . — ... .. THE conference by 22 votes to two rejected a motion to accept the offer and to ban overtime. The 24 hour stoppage of all NSW Government rail and bus workers, earlier decided by the unions and endorsed by the NSW Labor Council, will take place and a mass strike meeting will be held in Moore Park at 11 a.m. next Monday. Prior to Monday's conference, rumours were widespread that some union leaders were ; preparing "to dump" the struggle and accept the offer. Rank and file union delegates who packed the conference room at Trades Hall said that these rumours were causing "great anxiety among the workers." Government rail and bus work ers are demanding an increment scheme of 16/6 after one year's ser vice, 33/- after two and 49/6 after three years and for payments to be basec' on service, not skill or classi fication. Deputations to Labor and Liberal Premiers and rail and transport Com missioners have pressed for these demands since last December. An earlier wage offer was rejected by the unions and a 24-hour stop page was held on July 5. In Victoria, South Australia and Queensland government transport workers have won wage improve ments. £16 fake home Rail and bus workers in NSW are deriia.iding a higher pay for a 40 hour week and. to cut down the need, to work, in many cases, excessive over time. On the existing wage rates many railway workers have a take home pay of less than £16 a week (see story page 10) Since the July 5 stoppage, anti- strike clauses have been inserted in awards covering rail and bus unions. These unions now become liable to fines of up to £500 a day for hold ing a strike. Discrimination The NSW Labor Council a fortnight ago rejected the Government's ofier because:- - © It was well below the claims and increases won by the workers in Victoria and South Australia. It excluded important groups oi workers such as women who did not receive the male rate, juniors, ap prentices and construction workers © It discriminated between trades men and non-tradesmen. Mr. P. Ryan (State secretary of the ' Bus Employees Union) last Thursday told Labor Council that the railway and transport Commissioners were "misrepresenting the facts," as the wage figures they had given included a lot of- overtime. "My members are forced . to work on their days' off because the depart ment is short ot staff due to low wages," he said. "We will not be detered by 'blood money' in the form of fines." At .the ' conclusion of last Monday s conference, the. NSW secretary of the Australian Railways' Union (Dr. L. Ross) said: "Workers feel there s no advantage in going to court . We must battle on." Mr H. Hatfield (organiser Sheet Metal Workers' Union) said: 'The State Government couid find the money to grant the workers wage demands by ending the big freight concessions to the BHP, breweries and other monopolies." He said the oil companies which have squeezed .Australian coal out as the supplier of fuel for the railways, had now been given a 33 per cent freight discount on the cartage of distillates. Mr. Hatfield said the ACTU had condemned the Arbitration Commis sion's actions in the recent basic wage case. "In my view if we had accepted the recommendation to take the rail and bus workers claims to arbitration we would be completely ignoring the lessons which should now be clear to all trade unionists," he said. 