 'End the Vietnam war' : . | M«S&lt; 1 y0 j I main theme of 1 Australia's May Day A OpposifioBi to the Vietnam war and Australian participation in \ it was a central theme of May Day marches and rallies held in i Australian cities last weekend. I ALLIED to this was the fight I ' to lift Australian living I standards aftd promote the spe cial programs of individual unions. In Sydney and Melbourne some 5000 people marched with bands and banners in sparkling weather. Seventeen Aborigines carried slogans demanding their rights at the head of H fTr\ » tMAKAll i M Pertns Drlgntesw ivxcvy «L/ajr AAA years. Hobart's May Day rally passed a resolution condemning the Govern ment's troops-for-Vietnam decision. Bands, girls Apart from bands and marching- girl groups, about 5000 marchers from some 40 unions and several other or ganisations, including students, the New Theatre, the Realist Writers and | national migrant groups took part in i the Sydney march. 1 George Street was ablaze with color ; ) as flags, banners, balloons and bunt- Iing carried the message of peace and socialism to the spectators who num bered at least 50,000. The Building trade workers and the waterside workers shared first prize for the march. Full awards will be announced later. In the Domain Mr. N. Isaksen chaired a meeting with Mr. T. Wright secretary of the Sheet Metal Workers' Union as the main speaker. Mr. D. Kevans recited his poem The King Tide. Over 1,000 people, who attended the May Day Ball last Saturday at the Sydney Town Hall, warmly applaud ed the nine Queen candidates as they were presented to Sydney's Deputy j Lord Mayor, Alderman H. Burland. 1 This year's Queen is Mrs. Beverly nf Livingstone from the Sydney Trade Union Club who gained 10,679 votes. Miss Rhonda Baker, representing $ the Amalgamated Engineers was sec- (i ond with 9,170 votes, and Miss Fay Caldwell, Waterside Workers Federa- 4 v0n' third with 8,775 votes. Each shil- ''II collected was worth one vote. ,fj About 150 trade union officials at- tended the "Toast to May Day" last Friday at the Sydney Trades Hall. Mr. D. Thompson, secretary of the Commonwealth Professional Officers Association proposed the toast. "The fact that I am proposing this toast is an indication of the further growth in unity between the white collar and industrial workers," he said. Monk's message The following May Day Message from Mr. Monk, president of the Aus tralian Council of Trade Unions, was read to the meeting:— May Day, 1965, seems to have brought us no nearer peace in the South East Asian area than 1964. Events in South and North Vietnam are perturbing from the point of view of bringing about peace not only in the Asian, and South Pacific area but also the attempt to establish world peace. The A.C.T.U. has decided to convene a conference in September, 1965, in Sydney, of all South East Asian Trade Union Movements in an effort to prevent French nuclear testing in the Pacific. We must all strive through our in ternational Organisations and kindred bodies to prevail upon the French Government to abandon the testing of nuclear weapons in the Pacific. World peace will always be jeopard ised whilst the possibility of nuclear testing exists. Everybody must strive for its dis continuance, and a meaning declara tion by all countries for universal and lasting peace, and controlled dis armament. May Day, in addition to providing the opportunity for declaration for world peace, gives us the opportun ity to deplore the continuance of a capitalist state of society where it exists. We must fight for the maintenance of full employment, shorter hours of employment to meet the inroads of increasing automation, to end waste of the world's human material resources, especially in developing countries. Modern demands within the Trade Union Movement are for complete job security, material development for wage earners everywhere covering adequate and decent housing, proper standards of living for old age, sick ness and physical disabilities. People everywhere must demand greater security, higher living stand ards, and world peace. , ' 1 his banner headed the Communist Party contingent in last Sunday's May Day march in Sydney. 