 Aust Admin, pays New Guinea typists £2/10/- per week By JIM COOPER The wages policy of the Barnes Administration in New Guinea is rapidly losing friends for the Government. The latest criticisms come from the Young Women's Christian Association advisory sec retary, .Miss M. Fox, and editorially from the South Pacific Post. Miss Fox, in exposing the low wage policy in the Public Service, said: "Papuan and New Guinean girls employed as typists in the Admini stration were in moral jeopardy if they were being paid less than the urban cash wage. "They cannot live decently away from home until they are 21 on &lt;" £2/10/- per week." In reply to a question in the House, of Assembly, Administration Treasurer Mr. Newman admitted that girls who had completed the typewriting course arranged by the Administration were being paid below the urban cash wage. "No considera- tion would be given to a variation of their wage," he said. The wages paid to the girls while training ranged from £130 to £180 a year, plus a small living-away-from- home allowance. After graduation some girls are employed near home and are able to live at home. But girls employed in areas away from home are expected to live on £2/10/- per week. No living-away-from-home allowance is paid after graduation. Miss Fox outlined the steps neces sary to live on the wage: Cut down on food. Fall short of the accepted stan dards of cleanliness. . Cut out sports and cultural things. © Refuse, offers of friendship and hospitality. Supplement their income by casual after-hours work. Leave the Administration for better-paid jobs, where it is possible their training is wasted. Miss Fox aded: "We feel that this can place them in moral jeopardy, because they must increase their income and some of the easy ways to do this are unacceptable to the community and the development of sound family life." Dr. Gunther's explanation Dr. Gunther, Assistant Administra tor and Leader of the House, tried to explain the payment of wages lower than the Urban Cash Wage Agreement of £3/10/- per week by claiming that the Administration was not a party to the agreement. The Public Service Arbitrator fixed the wage in the Public Service and he had the case before him at the present time. Dr. Gunther did not volunteer any information as to when the Arbitrator is likely to deliver his judgment. The court was adjourned over a month ago. The South Pacific Post editorial (Dec. 6) stated: "It is surely wrong that these girls should he educated for positions demanding a certain standard of living and are then not paid a sufficient wage to maintain it." They also draw attention to the statement of Mr. Justice Frost, „q£. the Territory Supreme Court, when dealing with a theft charge, who said he could not see how a person, could live in Port Moresby on £3 a week. The Public Service Commissioner has the power to grant the typists an allowance which would bring them up to the Urban Cash Wage rate. The general wages struggle of the New Guinean workers is widening its support beyond the ranks of the workers. This is an important de velopment which should yield valuable gains in the future. 