 , Askin badly needs | Bondi and Oxley ! Much interest is being shown i n the November 6 by-elections for the NSW State seats of Bondi and Oxley. THIS is because the Askin Government now depends on the support of two inde pendents for their slender majority in the NSW Legis lative Assembly. They have a minority of two in the Legislative Council. A vigorous Labor Opposition in Parliament has forced the Askin Government on to a defensive position over their refusal to curb galloping prices and their weak attitude to the Menzies Government on drought relief. The Bondi seat covers Bondi, Waverley and Charing Cross. There are a little over 24,000 on the roll. Four candidates will contest the seat. They are Syd Enfield (ALP), John Barraclough. (Liberal), William Slowgrove (DLP) and A. E. Rietschel (Independent). A good swap! Bondi, a: traditional Labor: seat,' was held for 25. years by A.-; Landa. He agreed to resign his seat in return, for the position, of Agent-General in London. f ' Landa's majority In the 1965 elec tions was whittled to 1,600. Believing that Landa had a large personal vote, 'the Liberal Govern ment sees the chance of picking up an extra seat, particularly if they have the assistance of a DLP candi date, who would split the Labor vote. The DLP are contesting the seat for the first time. The opening Liberal Party rally last Thursday night was an at-home night for the Liberal famiiy, who made up most of the audience. The Liberal candidate, J. Barrac lough, is an estate agent in Bondi. His address contained little, if any, original thought and showed 1 his lack of knowledge of the prob lems facing the people in the electorate. Premier Askin in his address spent quite some time justifying his buying off of Landa; and indulged in blatant bribery of the electors. Earraclough will ' have the ear of the Parliament and the Government, Askin said. ' He said that you may never know when you will have difficulties. The only ' interpretation this ' can" have is that the Government or' the Ministers would not listen to the complaints of electors if they re-elect a Labor man. Askin, too, showed his ignorance of the local problems. The nearest he got was with a reference to the Eastern Suburbs , railway. He deliberately played it dowri. The ' Labor candidate, - Syd Enfield; will open his campaign with a rally on the Bondi Esplanade tomorrow night (Thursday). The Opposition Leader, Mr. Ren- shaw, wilt address the meeting, which will also be a rally protesting, against rising prices. This is a key issue in the Labor campaign. Other key points of Labor's policy will be the denying to tenants of protection under „fcte Landlord and Tenants Act, plans to jerrymander local government election, and the attack on the jury system. The ALP can hold Bondi if they take the issues to the people in the same vigorous manner in which the Opposition is fighting the issues out in Parliament. Oxley by-election The Oxley electorate, covering Taree, Port Macquarie, Kendall, Wauchope and Wingham, has, nearly 22,006 electors on the roll. It is an important dairy farm area within the milk zone.' The five candidates contesting the seat are: J. R. Andrews (Labor), J. H. Cord- ner (Independent), D. B. Cowan (Country Party), A. H. Denis (Liberal) and J. H. Martin (Independent). The Government has been in diffi culties with dairy farmers in Oxley. The farmers had called on the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. Chaff ey, to resign' after the Government had refused to grant them a Government Inquiry on milk prices. Saw the light ' As soon as a by-election became necessary the Government miracu lously saw the light and agreed to an inquiry. A special article in the local "The Manning River Times" on October 13 wrote: "Had Mr. Chaffey or the Govern ment continued with its no inquiry stand, the effects on the dairy . region of Oxley would have -been disastrous at the forthcoming by- election there. At the opening rally ; of. the ALP campaign in Taree last Thursday night, Mr. Renshaw strongly attacked the Askin Government over its . mis handling of the drought. He said that the Government was "timorous and unpractical" about the drought. Mr. Renshaw called for the New South Wales and Queensland Gov ernments to approach the Menzies Government for long-term, low- interest loans to drought-stricken farmers. Timorous attitude 'Political observers believe that although the Country Party will win the seat, the Labor Party will receive a very good hearing. I A spokesman for NSW Bureau of the Communist Party this week said that the Oxley and Bondi by-elections assume great importance in. the struggle to resist Askins' attempt to impose monopoly's policy on the people of NSW. Although it was not standing any candidates, the party called; on its supporters to work for the defeat of the Liberal-Country-DLP candi dates, and to support the election of Labor candidates. 