 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman I AST week Matt Munro (Syd ney Waterside Workers'. Vigilance Official) was crow ing that his team of wharf ies would knock the spots off any other union tug-o-war team at this Sunday's Tribune picnic. A special challenge was issued to Building Workers' Industrial Union secretary, Pat Clancy "to try his luck." Pat, playing it cautious, said a combined team of BWIU and Build ers Labourers "will clean up the wharfies." Mick McNamara (secretary, Build ers' Labourers) agreed that unity was important, but on this occasion "the builders labourers will do the wharfies on their own." ? Van salesmen for Streets Ice Cream who went on strike last Fri day in Sydney tell of a choice bit of intimidation by company officials. Some of the workers were told: "If you go on strike it is an act of treason, punishable under the Crimes Act." This company, controlled by the giant British Unilever soap mono poly, no doubt does think it is trpflsnnahlo fnr wnvlrpre fr» raaTj- a few extra bob. ? Recently in Canberra, the Tip Top Bakery sought court action against seven workers who were on strike over working conditions and the use of non-union labor. This was considered the first case in Australia where rank and file unionists faced fines under the Commonwealth Crimes Act. The case was ruled out because of an award technicality . . . but the lesson should be well learnt! ? About 150 wharfies, .tally clerks and watchmen last week at Glebe Island in Sydney protested against the huge "defence" contracts being given to US firms. Huge stacks of military equipment were in the sheds awaiting trans shipment to Australian military camps . . . this equipment consisted x of uniforms, overcoats and cartons of steel helmets, and was part of the £150 million military order from the US. As one wharf ie said: "So much for home defence — the material is made in. the USA, to be worn by young Australian conscripts in Viet nam and Malaysia". A . worker from Paddo in Sydney pld us that the bloke collecting for Churchill appeal last Sunday was also leaving dodgers in support of the Liberal candidate in the coming NSW elections. Printed and published by D. b Young, 168 Day Street, Sydney at 21 Ross Street. Forest Lodge 