 Anger in the Nor West It's hot, dry... and the cheques bounce! PERTH: The closing of wet canteens at the North-West Cape radio base construction camp last week was described by W A Trades and Labor Council secretary WV Coleman as an atro cious attack on the social conditions available for working men at the base . "THE State Licensing Court has withdrawn the wet canteen licence because a new hotel has opened about four miles from, the camp. Mr. Coleman said that the closure of the canteens could - lead to further dissatisfaction among the men, who, with the few amenties available were entitled to a. beer after a hard day's work. ; Though the two main contracrors at the site say the withdrawal of the licence is affecting the welfare of the men, they have not negotiated a new arrangement with the hotel which' would undoubtedly want a raxe-oft. Bungling of all kinds has dogged the heels of the "super-efficient" Ame rican firms and their "local" oft shoots connected with the contracts for the base. Supreme Court - writs are pouring out against the American firm Datronic Engineers Inc;, sub: contractor to joint venture contract ors Hardeman - Monier - Hutchinson; They total nearly £41,000, including wage claims by five workers totalling £26,000. , ; ; ' Early " in -November men building the towers at the Cape went on strike because their pay cheques from Dat ronics bounced at the bank. "There are not many men who want to work 1000ft in -the . air for bouncing cheques", said one worker. Principal of the joint venture was Hardeman, but when his company accrued heavy losses in 1964, Con crete Industries (Monier) Ltd it. ok over the management. They have now taken over administration of Datron- ics, who claim that; this , is illegal. The check made : on, ..the. financial standing of contracting firms is not nearly as stringent as the double sec urity: check (US .Navy and, Common wealth Security): on workers employed there.- The main H:M.H. construction camp was originally built . to house 350 men. With some sli'ght expansion, 700 men are in' it now. Dust makes open win-, dows intolerable : in . the 'poky rooms, heat makes closed windows insuffer able. Most rooms have fans but dust clogs them and with- worn bearings they . are. very noisy. Only the em ployers' quarters have ; air condition ing. ... - Most dissatisfaction is around the working' of night shift— because it is too hot to sleep in the day Labor turnover is high. In the opinion of . one dissatisfied worker, thousands of pounds a dayTs wasted in inelficient ' ' organisation of work by employers- money which could: be used in mak ing living and sleeping conditions tol erable for the workers. 