 [?] | Speak up, 1 j Mr Opperman! ; I By THE CHALLENGER Last week it was announced that the Germa I ! //Democratic Republic's (East Germany) tab! j tennis team would be allowed to enter Austral! M ' next year's Pentagon to? ! held m Melbourne in October. : - - f | "pHE conditions of entry, j however, are that the GDR is to promise not to j show its flag, wear its j badge, play its anthem or J say it is the GDR (East German) team. I Such action, apart from being | a disgraceful denial of demo- | cratic rights, is contrary "to the | International Olympic Com- S mittee's ruling of October 8, j which says that the German ! Democratic Republic is a sep arate state which can send its | own team of Olympic Games. | The Australian Minister for | Immigration, Mr. Opperman, I sai,d that the conditions were | imposed by the Allied Travel | Office in Berlin, which is in S control of the issuing of travel I permits. | Whatever this "Allied" Travel | Office is, the Australian Govern- ! ment should protest strongly, j and tell them quite clearly tha,t i the conditions of residence or I behavior in Australia — if they I were laid down— will be deter- S mined by Australia, j The Australian Government J has kow-towed to reaction many | times in the past. To let this | present action pass unchecked S would be to reach a new low I in reactionary political servitude. | Behind the j cheers I A.N ncon f the amount I of work that sportsmen and J women put into their efforts to | gain top honors can be realised from a recent Rumanian sports bulletin item. It stated that the well-known I . Rumanian weight-lifter, Silviu S Cazan (heavy), master of sport, I several; times champion and ! Rumania's . record holder, lifted during his 15-year sporting -career over 40 million kilograms. | This quantity is tantamount to ! 40 trains of 100 waggons each. Sportful Popular newspaper /(Rumania) : has published re- I cently an article in its column | "Sport and Health." - - . 1 The author of the article deals I with the link between health, | sport and longevity. He shows that certain rule i have to he observed in breathing ! physical condition, digestion anal physical life. . . | The author, Dr; Mircea Sucit;f Sibianu, stresses the positiv|| effects of open-air sport At he still works at a hospital i;l Codlea locality. j| ' "Tokyo I Olympiad" | By JACK MUNDEY - yHE recently - released fi « coverage of the 1964 Olia > Games held in Tokyo is a "nu for lovers of sport. One has to admire the brc; of sports covered as well as " objectivity of the film. The- was no favoritism as has son:. ' ; - times occurred (Berlin Olympic ; of 1936). > Some reviewers in the daily press have criticised the film for devoting too much attention & to the track and field events. : Surely these events have tl widest appeal and popular sv> port in most countries. ' The power, speed and mm-;, lar co-ordination, captured graphically in the final of l 100 metres which Bob Have brilliantly won, will be appre ciated by most if not all Cv.-.: people that view this film. Exciting finishes in cycling : swimming and hockey, si . ;- grinding marathon (26 milco, | 385 yards), the beauty and rhythm of gymnastics and a score of other sports receive : detailed scrutiny. Besides the friendiy spirit that pervades the Olympic Village and the "togetherness" of these competitors, the cream of the sporting world, must be a joy to see not only to sport fol lowers, but everybody interests in a peaceful future. ; PHOTO: The USSR so-eer champion of 1965 is the "Tor pedo" team, Moscow, (pi&lt;jia? «5. Although the present j champion team is not the same one that plap Australia its achievements sh©u.a still to a degree provide a gaure j for local soccer fans to assess overseas ability. 