 [?] With 1 ribune's Industrial Roundsman -jpHE NSW Industrial Court last week ruled that the Federal decision to increase margins by per cent was ground tor reopening cur rent State Awards. Paltry as the 5/- to 6/- Federal in creases were, employers in NSW and the State Public Service Board opposed these increases flowing to State Award workers. Mr. Justice Taylor in his judgment, admitted that according to the Con sumer Price Index, since last year workers "have in effect lost 14/- in purchasing power of the basic wage section of their wages, . "I think it is imperative that some compensation be given for this," he said. (He didn't mention the six months also lost since the Federal judgment was made). ; Workers say that more than ' 5/- to 6/- is needed as "compensation" against high: prices and profits. This is why the ACTU early next year will be seeking increases in the basic wage and margins totalling £4/14/- a week. . TV/PETAL and building maintenace workers at Unilever's 1 Balmain factory in Sydney have had several recent stoppages for' £2 a week wage increase. . ; . A "degrading system," carrying dif ferential wage rates, has beeri offered to and rejected by building, workers." Workers say this . company which . made £1,300,000 profit last year can well afford the increase. They also point out that the price ot Rinso has been 'increased Id. a packet while the content was reduced by six frees. : ? . ' 'jpHE Postal Workers' Union Federal . conference last week threatened, to cancel the affiliation of the union's NS.WV Branch with the "ALP, :!;. : : This move; followed . what confer ence said was "obvious : interfer ence" by N.S.W. officials of the ALP in the internal ' affairs of the union. Mr. Rochfort (NSW assistant secre tary of the union), an ALPer, moved for the expl'usion from "the ' ALP of Mr. Skelton (the union's organiser) because he stood on a so-called "unity ticket". It is reported . . that Mr.. Rochf ort told the union's conference he piaced allegiance to .'the ALP above the union which paid his wages. Conference called for his resigna tion and also expelled from the union the former federal secretary, Mr. Mc- Grane, who for years led the ex treme Right-wing in the union. 