 Artful Askin plays game with the electors SYDNEY: Vital public issues sucb as the price of milk and rent control are being made a political plaything for n arrow electoral purposes by the Askin Liberal Government in New South Wales. Crude switch on milk inquiry the State government's firm "no" for an official Inqui ry into the price of milk, changed to a sweet "yes" as soon as it became necessary to hold a by-election in Ox- ley. The Oxley electorate takes in an important section of dairy farmers. Previously, deputations to Mr. W. A. Chaffey, Minister for Agriculture, from the Dairymen's Relief commit tee in the milk zone, and the Milk Zone Dairymen's Council requesting an Inquiry had met with a flat refusal. Despite dairy farmers' meetings calling for the resignation of Mr. Chaffey, no decision for the Milk Board to hold an enquiry into the price of milk was made, until after it became necessary, to hold the by- election. More than that, it is strongly tip ped that following the enquiry, house wives will be footing an extra Id a pint for their milk. While consideration of the prob lems facing Dairyfarmers as a- result of the drought is essential, there can be no justification for an increase :'n the retail price of milk to the public. More assistance could be given to the farmers by cutting .back on the profits of the giant milk distributors for the Milk Board — Dairy Farmers and Fresh Food and Ice. Fresh Food and Ice are one of the Peters concerns. In 1960 they made, a profit of £254,089 and in 1964 they made £392,012 after allowing over £500,000 for taxation and depreciation. Dairy Fanners made a net profit in 1964 of £138,158 after allowing for depreciation of £462,213. Assistance could also be given by the price of basic requirements need ed in production such as fertilizers and farm machinery. Fears tenants in city electorate The Askin Government have pigeonholed their proposed early amendments to the Landlord and Tenants Act until after the Bondi by- election. One of the points that they intend ed to add to the Landlord and Ten ants Act was to make law which is now a regulation, the right of Land lords to investigate the fmanc position Tenants- The Bondi electorate covers a large number of tenants who now nave protection from the Landlords a Tenants Act. Their idea in buying off the former local Labor member for Bondi Mi- &lt; Landa, was not only to help wit difficult position they have in ,tn upper house, but also the .P # ity they might pick up the B seat. 