 DANGER IN U.S AIR RAIDS Big war would involve Australia Three times in two day i this week, the Un ited States has carried out acts of gross military aggres sion against a peaceful, socialist state in S.E. Asia. Hundreds — perhaps thousands — of men. wemen end children ©f the Democratic Re public ©f (North) Vietnam hove been slain in an unorovohed assault reminiscent ©f German and Japanese snecik nf fh war. The US action has again greatly sharpened the danger of a third world war in which Australia, committed by Men zies to the US "dirty war" in Vietnam, would immediately suffer. Ausralians, such as Mr. A. Calwell, Labor Party leader, are voicing their concern at Australia's drift to war at the moment that the Menzies Government has immediatelv declared full support of the US acts of aggression, and has senr combat troops to suppress the people of North Borneo (see Page 2) . The Central Committee of the Communist Party of Aus tralia last weekend declared that "it is absolutely essential for the security of Australia that an uncompromising struggle be waged against the Menzies Government's commitment of Australia to the disastrous and hopeless war in South Vietnam. It called on all progressive forces in Australia "to arouse the peoole to demand a peaceful settlement of the struggle, a peaceful settlement which is in the interests of the peoples of South-East Asia and Australia". "The Menzies Government is putting relations with our nei'qhbors at hazard, plunging us into .disastrous adventures in Asia, and endangering our security for generations to come", it said, "The United States air, attacks on North Vietnam, part of a policy of expanding the 'dirty war' in Vietnam, are fraught with grave dariqer for South-East Asia and all the world. '' Ai ' aII Australian support for US pol icy there, should be withdrawn immediately, before Australia is dragged into unjust 4tend hopeless wars of intervention in Asia, "There is urgent need to recon vene the Geneva Conference, so as to restore peace in South Vietnam and achieve the independence and neutrality of the Vietnamese people, in accordance with the 195 ' and 1962 Geneva agreements. "The complete withdrawal foreign military forces from South- East Asia is necessary -for peaceful soltion of the problems of the people of the area, on the basis ol national ' independence and self-de termination. "This means, firstly, withdrawal of the forces of U.S.A. and its allies, including Australia, from Vietnam. "It also means withdrawal of' British and Australian forces from Malaya, Singapore and North Borneo — territories now incorpora ted in Malaysia, a British creation aimed to perpetuate colonial domi nation. Malaysia ' "We support the struggle of the peoples of North Borneo and other Malaysian territories for complete independence and self-determina tion. "British hostility to, and inter ference in, Indonesia is of long standi.- 7 "The British established Malay sia, without giving the peoples in- Continued on Page 12 BIG WAR BANGER IN S.E. ASIA Continued from Page 1 coiporated the right of self-deter mination. "There is wide opposition in all . ' the constituent territories to Malay sia. "Huge British military forces there are a threat to Indonesia, which explains Indonesia's completely justi fied opposition to Malaysia. "It has also brought such In donesian reactions as the slogan "Crush Malaysia" and paratroop landings in lalaya, which our Pa. ... consic. r: do not assist the national liberation movement and have even assisted certain forces in Australia which have seized upon them to disrupt Indonesian-Austra- l?"n friendship. "We repeat our 1959 proposal for a pact of friendship and non- aggression between Australia and Indonesia. "Australia should support a peaceful settlement or the Malay sian issue on the basis of the Manila Agreements, and support the right of self-determination for all peoples in South-East Asia. "The Central Committee at its meeting declared its full support for the developing national move ment of the New Guinea and Papuan peoples. "It called for early independence tor New Guinea, and help for the people's demands for the land, against wage and other racial dis crimination and for trade union ism." . \ The new American aggression has naturally aroused concern all round the world and even in the U.S.A. The USSR has branded the raids as "gross and barbaric acts of aggression," warned that their continuation will have serious results and solemnly declared they would act to safeguard North Vietnam. The New China newsagency con demned the air strike as an extre mely serious provocation by the U.S. aimed at extending the war." 