 Rhodesia , prison of black people I If the white-racist Smith Government in southern Rhodesia declares 1 unilateral independence from British rule, the African people in | Zimbabwe "are determined to take power," said James Chikcrema, I acting president of the Zimbabwe African People's Union last week. S Here is some background to this important struggle . . . By ALF WATT AFRICANS will not be satisfied with economic sanctions as a reply to a unilateral declaration of independence by the Southern Rhodesian Government. I This was made clear to us recently in many talks with different people in the East African States. Nor are they satisfied with the sugar coated promises of "unimpeded progress towards majority rule" made by the last Commonwealth Premiers' Con ference. Zimbabwe (Southern Rho desia) Africans want the simple democratic right of votes for all and majority rule NOW, and triey are prepared to shed their blood I for it. "It is our belief that the next Commonwealth Premiers Confer ence will not discuss the consti tutional development of Zimbab we but a different situation alto gether," the Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU) said last July. - In this resolve they have the support of the Liberation Com mittee (of nine countries) set up by the Organisation of African Unity to help the armed struggles of the African libera tion movements. A unilateral declaration of in dependence by the white racist government may precipitate this armed struggle. ZAPU has declared that it would be met by the formation of a People's Government under the leadership of its President, Johsua Nkomo. The only thing that will pre vent armed struggle is a demo cratic constitution providing votes for all. The present Constitution, en dorsed by the Brtish Conserva tive Government in 1961, pro vides for a House of 15 Africans and 50 Europeans representing 4,210,000 Africans and 217,000 white settlers. Voters are - divided into two rolls, "A" and "B", with pro perty qualificatnons that ensures the former will be white and the latter black. Qualification for the "A" roll is an income of £720 per year, immovable property valued at £1,500, plus literacy. For the "B" roll it is an in come ofg £250 per year (or £5 a , week) and immovable property worth £450. Yet over half the African wage earners' receive less than £5 a month, and the 217,000 white settlers have grabbed 41 million acres of the best farm land. Abrogation of this undemo cratic constitution (a screen for white settler dictatorship) was promised by the Labor Party leader, Mr. Gaitslcell, when it was decided in the Commons in 1961. Terror, heating, rape Zimbabwe Africans are strug gling against this dictatorship. Even as we were speaking to Mr. P. Nehwati, a ZAPU leader, in Dar Es Salaam, 24 men were in the death cells in Salisbury gaol awaiting execution on poli tical charges. Fifty six had been sentenced to death for political offences since March, 1963, the Minister for Law and Order, Lardner Burke, has told Parliament, but ZAPU says at least 100 had dis appeared from their homes, and many must have been murdered in cold blood. ZAPU is outlawed in Southen Rhodesia, and all political meet ings are banned,, Mr. Nehwati told us. The trade unions are beheaded right down to shop steward level, but organisation continues, and strikes and demonstrations are held. A state of emergency has been imposed by the Smith Govern ment over a large area of the north and south. There is terror, including the beating of men and the raping a of women. In these areas there is a wide spread refusal by the Africans to pay taxes, as well as acts oi sabotage like destruction ol bridges and burning of farm houses. There are 15,000 freedom fight ers in Smith's prisons, and thou sands more, including Joshua I Nkomo have been confined to remote restriction and detention camps. The gaols cannot hold all the prisoners, and dilapidated, aban doned mines are being used as prisons. "Many ople have had their p — rvit out, their hrmds cut ofi and their toes flattened by the hammer," ZAPU charges. "Many have been drugged in order to make them lose their senses and admit to crimes they have never committed." Smith has powerful military forces at -his disposal. The armed forces of the Cen tral African Federation were transferred to Southern Rhode sia when it broke up under African resistance. He has 10,000 well-armed troops, 19,000 reservists and spe cial constables, and 10,000 con stables of the British Africa police. Yet all these forces are under oath of allegiance to the Queen of England, and if they disobey British orders and obey those oi the white settler dictatorship, they, and the Government, will be in a state of mutiny. Talk of economic sanctions to put down, such a rebellion is in striking contrast to the ruth less use of armed force to sup press revolts of indigenous people in Aden, Malaysia and elsewhere. The crisis facing British im perialism is accentuated by the fact that Portugal's Salazar and South Africa's Verwoerd support Smith in any war against the lfrican people, and in any stanc against economic sanctions. Smith will also be able t&lt; reply to sanctions by stoppinr the transit to the coast of coppei from the huge British owner Zambia mines. On the other hand, the Ziir babwe people will not be fight ng alone. Their struggle can merge vith the struggles in the Portu rese rotnnips pnri in Sot.it r 