 — — _ — — , — ' Communist meeting in Moscow: I t Communists call for support of Vietnamese people From ALF WATT MOSCOW: The meeting here of the Communist and Workers' Parties of 19 countries last week called for world-wide public action to support the people of Vietnam in their struggle against United States acts of aggression. THE statement said:. Repre sentatives of Communist and Workers' Parties who met in Moscow for consultations on questions of mutual, interest draw the attention of all pro gressive and peace - loving forces, of the popular masses, to the dangerous situation that has been created by the exten sion of United States military intervention in South Vietnam and by aggressive acts of the US against the Democratic Re public of Vietnam. "Having suffered defeat in its at tempts to strangle the liberation movement of South Vietnamese pat riots, US imperialism luas under taker. open aggression against the DRV." "Flouting elementary standards of international law, the US milit ary are pursuing a colonialist pol icy in its most flagrant and undis guised form. Barbarous bombings of inhabited localities on the ter ritory of Socialist Vietnam are creating in South East Asia a new emergency fraught with grave con sequences for the whole internat ional situation." "In addition to threatening the territorial integrity and sovereignity of the independent states in that region, US armed interference in the affairs of the peoples of Indo China seiiously impairs the cause of con solidating peace." "This is further testimony to the fact that imperialist reaction is be coming more active and trying to aggravate the situation in various regions of the world by undertaking aggressive acts against Socialist countries and countries that have liberated themselves from . colon ialism, and against the national liberation movement." "The actions of US imperialism in Vietnam are sternly condemned by all revolutionary, democratic and peaceloving forces." "The people who have shaken off colonial oppression and are working to consolidate their independence justifiably assess these actions as an attempt to suppress the national liberation movement by force, as an -undisguised encroachment upon the sacred rights of each people to dec ide its own destiny." "Hie representatives of the Com munists and Workers' parties ex press international solidarity with the fraternal people of the DRV, with the heroic Working Peoples Party of Vietnam, and with the national liberation front of of South Vietnam, who are waging a courageous struggle agains't imper ialist aggression." "Marxist-Leninist parties consider it their internationalist duty to sec ure joint action by all progressive and democratic forces in order to give determined support for the her oic struggle of the Vietnamese peo ple for their freedom and indepen dence. We demand the immediate withdrawal from South Vietnam of the US armed forces and their satellites and cessation of armed attacks on the DRV." "Representatives of Communist and Workers Parties who met li Moscow appeal to all Communis Parties and Socialist countries, ti all forces of national liberation 'anj working class movements, to even one who upholds the cause of pea« and progress to strengthen unity o| action and solidarity in the activt struggle against imperialist aggres sion, for national independence aiK peace and security of the peoples; 