 Menzies still has this fascist in snooker From ROGER MILLIS KALEVI-Liiva, . some 30 miles from Tallinn in Estonia, is a quiet and peace ful place. Around it is a thick forest of tall pines. Nearby a tractor chugs along ploughing a chocolate- brown field. A few miles away is the Soviet-Finnish border. Only a simple stone monument and the two pits now filled in with sand and surrounded by a low green railing serve to indicate that this was where 6000 people, mostly Jews from Eastern Europe, were exterminated during the Nazi occupation of Soviet Estonia only twenty years ago. And there's a man they want m Estonia in connection with the Kalevi- Liiva mass-murders, a man whom the Australian Government is consciously shielding from punishment for his monstrous crimes and whose guilt has been established a thousand times over — Ervin Richard Adolf Viks. ' We drove out to Kalevi-Liiva with Ervin Martinson, an Eston ian journalist who has made a de tailed study of the Viks case and who is the co-author if two books on the trials of Estonian fascist collaborators and war-criminals. Our car stopped 50 yeards from the first of the sand-filled pits. Here, says Martinson, is where the Jews were brought by bus from a rail-siding three miles away after . travelling by train from such transit camps and ghettoes as Terezin in Czechoslovakia. Up to this stage they did not definitely know wha was in store for them. They had been told they were being taken for baths and fumigation. It was only when they saw the squad of armed SS men awaiting them and perhaps heard the sounds of shooting from the pits that they realised the truth. In terror they were dragged from the buses. They were ordered to un dress and if they hesitated the clothes were ripped forcibly from their bodies. A soldier stood holding an open suit case in which their valuables — rings, necklaces and watches — were dumped. Then they were forced to run a gauntlet of SS men, helped on by blows and kicks as they stumbled. In the pit two or three fascists were waiting, armed with automatic pistols. Victim after victim was thrust down into the pit. They were made to kneel on the bodies of those who had pre ceded them and dispatched with a single shot in the back of the head — women, children and old people alike. Babes-in-arms were hung by the foot or thrown in the air and shot for sport. If anybody still showed signs of life, an officer waded through the bodies and delivered a coup de grace. Six thousand people. Wiped out in two batches — one in 1942 and the other, in 1944— for no other reason than that they were Jewish. Look at this tree, says Martinson: see the bullet holes in it. And this lead from a bullet, and this particle of porom pummice-like material— a fragment of burnt bone belonging to what was once a human being. He kneels and scoops up a handful of soil: take this saind from Kalevi-Liiva, he says, and re- member those who died here. ? What was Viks' role in the Kal- evi-Liiva massacre? Viks, says Martinson, was a kind of "Eston ian Eichmann": he had headed a tribunal which drew up lists of people to be executed, conducted "interrogations" and arranged for echelons of victims to be sent to the murder-site itself. He was a career-man in the SS. As soon as the Nazis invaded Estonia, he had volunteered for the political police and was given a responsible position at the death camp at Tartu, an old university town 200 kilometres south of Tallinn, where he personally parti cipated in the actual shooting of the 12,000 people Who were killed there. # His efficiency and conscientiousness in Tartu attracted attention. Late in 1941 he was appointed chief of the poliical police in Tallinn and head of the Estonian security police. In this capacity he carried out his Kalevi- Liiva activities. Assuming the orderliness of his Ger- man masters, Viks signed hundreds of documents authorizing the executions of individual Jews at Kalevi-Liiva. Most of these documents speak for them selves. The first page, headed "Act", gives the person's name, the dates of the commencement and completion of the investigations — invariably the same day-— and a few lines of Viks' hand writing, with the word "Jew" signi ficantly underlined. t The second page is fuller. The vic tim's name — Aronovitsch, Katz or Brenner— is followed by "Jewish na tionality" and the authorisation of his or her execution, for "communist ac tivities". A simple and inexorable logic: being of Jewish nationality constitutes communist activities. Automatic penalty: death. But. German orderliness proved the undoing of this Estonian traitor. The rapid advance of the Red Army left the retreating Nazis no time to destroy the official evidence of their atrociies and, along with „ other, these docu ments bearing Viks' signature fell into Soviet hands. "Finally, in 1961, he was tried in absentia for his crimes and sentenced to death. . There is no need to go into great detail as to why Viks was tried in absentia. The Menzies Government, as might be expected, refused to deliver this mass-murderer who had taken refuge in Australia. It gave as its reasons that no official' agreement existed between the U.S.S.R. and Australia for extra dition and that international agree ments covering the handing over o t war criminals did not apply ,nc case, even claiming that the Sovie Government had no right in interna tional law -to- depiand his deportation. On May 8 next the West German Government will cease launching fresh prosecutions against war criminals, according to its present plans — Hitler himself, if he should prove not to have died after all in the storming of Berlin by the Soviet Army, could safely reappear in public and take his place in the life of the nation with full citic rights. . Among those who will escape 1 scot free under the West German de cision would be the thousands of nazi storm troopers and their aides from occupied countries who man. aged to flee abroad when Hitler's war was lost. In some of the countries seized the nazis managed to recruit a small fifth column to serve in their armies and execution squads. Their crimes were at least as black as those of the nazis themselves. One of these was Erwin Viks. MAGAZINE TOM 