 with Noel Counihan His charm — J & a rare tolerance I FIND it impossible to j commence this column (without reference to the death of that remarkable j man Brian Fitzpatrick. ! The qualities which made him j a legend in his own lifetime have j been acknowledged in the many I tributes paid him by people from I all walks of life and in the j Guardian obituary of Septem- | ber 9. I I met him in my middle-teens | as I was emerging from total I ignorance into some awareness j of the realities of life and, like !so many others, I drank, sang, talked and debated with him ! , over a span of many years. IOne of his most personal qual ities was a rare tolerance, a marked reluctance to sit in moral judgement on his fellow . J men. I At the same .time he obstin- I ately refused to conform intellec- | tually in an era when conform- ! ism was the rule rather than the j exception. | Brian, an amusingly tuneless I man, loved music first among | the arts, but he was also inter- j ested in painting and numbered many artists, from Max Mel- | drum onwards, amongst his ! friends. | Life here is poorer and less I colorful for the loss of. Brian j Fitzpatrick. | | The catalogue of the 2nd In- ternational Graphic Art Exhibi tion held in association with the Leipzig Exhibition of the Art of the Book, has come to hand. Held during July-August under the title of Graphic Art from Five Continents, it contained work- from nearly 300 artists and the catalogue reproductions alone provide ample evidence of an Impressive exhibition, on a much higher artistic level than that of 1959. The overall theme was the Fraternity of Peoples and the exhibition was a powerful ex pression of the will of artists all over the world for Peace. Western contributors included Picasso, Pignon, Apfel, Topolski, Herman, Masereel, Dix, White, Refregier and Gropper. Within a week or so and with J considerable pomp and circum- I stance Sydney Nolan's latest ex- j hibition of travel - pictures, Ant- J arctica, will be opened to the j public at the Australian Gal- f leries Collingwood. j A notable feature of the paint- j ings Is this artist's refusal to sue- | cumb to the abstractionism of i the International Style, and his continued evolution towards a | personal brand of realism. | These are suave, facile paint- I ings in which are juxtapeeed, at I times vividly, the mythical and j . the realistic in the one image. The human element, the Ex plorer, is wrapped in a mystical ' obscurity, but the landscape emerges with surprising clarity. 