 USA: The world's most unpopular policeman JL — « JL «1 Willi— ; A grave warning 'to the ! American people as to - ; their isolation fro m t A sian and world opinion through their Vietnam policy has come f rom .1 famous U.S. columnist i Walter Lippmann. He says that the US has no mandate from anyone for what it is doing and has not the support of any great power-.- . He denies that the US' vital interests are at stake, says she cannot be world policeman and refutes the famous "domino" theory. In doing all this, Lippmann blasts - to pieces the stock arguments on which the Australian Government relies in sending soldiers to fight in Vietnam. The article was published by the Melbourne Age on July 30, but has not yet appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald, which has often used Lippmann's articles. In his article Mr. Lippmann says, in part: We are about to pit Americans against Asians on the continent of Asia. Except for the diminishing and disinegrating South Vietnamese army, we have only token or verbal suoport from any Asian country. ( No mandate No great Asian Power, Japan, India or Pakistan, is aligned with us. None of our European allies is contributing anything beyond scat tered verbal support. We have no mandate from the United Nations as we had in Korea, none from NATO, none from the nations of this hemisphere. The situation in which we find ourselves is unprecedented, and the best the Administration has been able to achieve by way of approval and support from our own people is a reluctant and depressed acquie scence. For there has been no proof, not even a real attempt to prove that the security of the United States is vitally threatened in this war, as it was, for example, when Hitler was in sight of the conquest of Bri tain. . . . It is the lack of an "American vital interest which explains the current mood of depression and anxiety. . . . i The two reasons 'mere are in truth two main reasons why we are becoming ever more deeply involved in Vietnam. The first, much the more powerful of the two, is a proud refusal to admit a mistake, to admit the failure of an attempt, begun 10 years, ago, to make South Vietnam a pro-American and anti-Chinese State. More than anything else we are fighting to avoid admitting a failure — to put it bluntly, we are fighting to save face. There is a second reason .which weighs heavily with many con scientious people. It is a respectable reason. As stated by the "New York Herald Tribune" on Sunday: "We're in Vietnam at the express invitation of the Vietnamese Gov ernment; we're fighting there for the Vietnamese people. But we're fighting also for the millions of people in the other threatened lands beyond, people who haven't the power to defend themselves from the Chinese colossus, and whose lives, safety and freedom depend on the strong arm of the policeman —which only we can provide." The United States is quite unable- to police the world, and it is dan gerous to profess and pretend that we can be the policeman of the world. How many more Dominican Republics can the United States police in this hemisphere? How many Vietnams can the United States defend in Asia? The believers in America as the world policeman get around these practical difficulties by making an assumption— that what happens in Vietnam will determine what hap pens elsewhere in Asia, that what happens in the Dominican Republic will determine what happens all over Latin America. This notion of the decisive test is a fallacy. The Korean war, in which we sucessfully defended South Korea, did not determine the "" outcome in Indo-China. What we have done in the Dominican Repub lic will not protect any other Latin- American country from the threat of revolution. „ Revolutionary wars are indeed dangerous to order and it is baffling to know how to deal with them. But we may be sure that the phenomenon of revolutionary wars, which is latent in all of the under- developed regions of the world, cannot be dealt with by American military intervention whenever dis order threatens to overwhelm the constituted authority. On the contrary, it is more likely that in making Vietnam the test of our ability to protect Asia, we shall, in fact, provide revolutionary China with just the enemy it needs in order to focus popular hatred against us — a white, rich, capitalistic great Power. We are allowing ourselves to be cast in the role of the enemy of the miserable and unhappy masses of the emerging nations. SOLDIERS of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam on the move near Hanoi. 