 It may have been done in the old Queen's day ! By a Special Correspondent Announcement by the Rhodesian racialist Premier Ian Smith that "the door S is always open' to Sir- Robert Menzies to visit his police state is the sort of « "compliment'' Australia doesn't want. MR- SMITH made the state- ment in response to a pro posal by. British Prime Minister Wilson that a British Cbmmon- wealth mission should visit Rhodesia to try to persuade Smith not to declare "inde pendence". In welcoming Menzies as "an Old friend", Smith pointedly added - that other heads of Commonwealth coun tries — particularly Africans — were "enemies" of his government and would not he welcome. Smith, in fact, went out of his way to spotlight Menzies as about the only friend he has got, inside the Commonwealth, or outside it. Bptb have a mid-Victorian imperialist in stinct. - . When we consider that next to South Africa's Premier Verwoerd, Smith is the most hated prime min ister on the African continent— recog nised by Asians, Africans and indeed all progressive people as an outstand ing enmey of freedom and justice— we can see just what discredit such a statement could bring to our nation al reputation in Africa and Asia. Most people would consider them selves insulted if a man like Smith, now occupied in trying by police- state methods, to perpetuate the rule of 220,000 whites over 4,000,000 Afri cans, called them "friend". However there is no evidence that Menzies feels insulted. Why should he be? He has already . done what he could to save Smith's slave state in Rhodesia. Before going to the last Common wealth Prime Ministers' conference in London he declared in advance that he was opposed to Rhodesia being dis cussed there unless Smith also came along. The Afro- Asian majority at the con ference overruled Menzies. They not only discussed Rhodesia in spite of him but carried a resolution declar ing for majority rule there. On this question, as also on Viet nam, Menzies proved to be the odd- man-out in the Commonwealth, a situ ation he virtually admitted when he returned home to complain that some African prime ministers were follow ing the "Communist line". If he now goes to Rhodesia, either alone or as head of some sort of a "mission", to appease Smith with some sort of a formula that would enable his terror-reign, to continue under another name, the reaction amongst Asians and Africans might finally disintegrate the Common wealth. . Africans would be only too likely, to rank Menzies as their enemy along with Smith and some of the odium could not hut fall on Australia. Mr. Gordon Bryant, Labor MHR, was no doubt thinkihg of this when he demanded last week in Parliament tha,t Menzies should consult Parlia ment before he accepted any invita tion. to go to Rhodesia and undertake not to adopt the " same attitude to Smith as he had done formerly to wards Verwoerd, when he "caused Australia a great deal of embarrass ment both internationally and at home". IMJW1UMI.LMIIM milllJIIUIIJUilJIJIIMHPIIHIIMII.ll.ll— Many people besides Mr. Brvant will recall the general disgust when Menzies' refused to condemn Ver woerd's massacre of 62 Africans in 1960 at Sharpeville and later tried bv every means to save Verwoerd's South Africa from expulsion from the Com mon wealth! His arrogant but futile attempts to talk Egypt's Colonel Nasser out of nationalising the Suez Canal in 1956 also have not been forgotten, in Aus- tralia as well as in Africa. Most Australians, like most other people, are sick of the deference be ing shown in London as well as Can berra to Smith. They feel, with the Africans, that (as the US magazine Newsweek puts it) "if the rebellious Rhodesians were anything but white, Britain would very quickly suspend the constitution with the use of troops and assume the Government itself". That was what the British Govern ment did, promptly enough, in Aden when its colored peoples sought to declare themselves independent. The only mission that should go to Rhodesia is one which tells Smith and his fellow racialists that they must set the Africans free or take the con sequences. That was the policy supported by 95 members of the United Nations General Assembly (with only two against) when the issue was discussed there a few days ago. It is the policy the people of Aus tralia also should support. Uhi-IU WJWK.IUW3MWlBBiWWf.il JBIM m 