 The blundering foreign policy of Menzies (By BRIAN FITZPATRICK, in the last issue of his Labor News Letter, which reached subscribers last Friday, on the same day as news of his death.) "|"HE Menzies Government, hearing theend of its 16th year, and spreading greater ruin than the newspapers care to observe, has not only com mitted us, since April, to a war of aggressionr— the Sec ond Hundred Years' War, it looks like being — rwhile suc cessive generations of ''Viet Cong", or most of the people of Vietnam, appear, strike and disappear. Not only that, but at home the Government has quietly put into ef fect what seems to be a deliberate assault on : workers' standards of living. It is not alone the Federal Government that has this Operation rrio-htpn-vmir-"Rplt&lt;; nrnnppriinp' hut. at least three State Governments, the anti-Labor administrations in N.S.W., Victoria and Queensland. Besides the Industrial Court that rocks repeated fines of £500 into striking unions— do they think work ers with their HP bills to meet stop for fun? And besides that, State trib unals, whether the Victorian body that awarded a few pence a week extra pay to underpaid schoolteach ers, or the N.S.W. authorities . . # # # Living standards are under assaulf The Commission's June 29 3:2 ' majority judgment against a basic wage increase, their ruling instead for 1£ p.c. contemptuous (at any rate, contemptible) increase in mar gins-pay, was given when the cost, of living was mounting. Moreover, the "principle" of the judgment was a quite unexpected complete departure from that which J had been determined' on only four years ago: periodical review of the basic wage, in the light of changes in productivity, and in cost of liv ing. How was, how is Bob Hawke, economist and advocate for the un ions, to prepare a case on ground A, when, unbeknown to him, the ; wage fixing authority has decided : to move to a ground B, and con sider the situation from a new angle? In such preposterous circum stances, unionists and other sen sible people suspect an "attitude on the part of the authority which is not concerned, at all to conciliate and arbitrate, but rather to keep wages down, while profits, and cost, of living, go up. It is up to the A.C.T.U., and the A.L.P., to come out strongly, and let government and wage-fixers know that what they are fixing is thoroughly understood and resented, and will be opposed. The deterioration of Australia under Menzies' guidance is not con fined, either, to these deplorable affairs: the Second Hundred Years Wars, and the lowering of workers' standards of living. The blundering, heartless, short sighted, sycophantic foreign, policy of the Menzies-Casey, and M.-Bar- wick and M.-Hasluck regimes has also fallen apart. For years Australian servicemen " have been stationed, sometimes fight ing, in the Malaya area, lately to see that "Malaysia" survives. But after only two years Malaysia is falling to bits. The Tunku in his unwisdom has cast Singapore out of Malaysia, and now threatens the other two self-governing constituent States, Sarawak and Sabah, that if they try to get out they will be treated as rebels and traitors. 