 THE EMPRESS IS A LONELY LADY SYDNEY: The campaign team working with Mr. H. Black, Communist candidate for Balmain in Saturday's NSW elec tions, have shown initiative in issuing a circular letter to passengers on the "Empress of Australia" as it arrives and departs at the Balmain terminal of the service to Tasmania. T»e letter points out that Bal main people are proud of the "Empress" because she was built for the National Shipping Line at the Cockatoo Dock, Balmain, many of her builders being Balmain men. It then asks — "How many Aust ralian ships carry the products of our land from our shores to over seas buyers. How many Australian ships bring the fertilizers for our farms or the essential" raw materials for our factories-" It answers "NONE"- and adds, 'Australia, one' of ten great trad, mg nations of the world; has no ships of her own to carry, her over seas trade and even her interstate coastal traffic is dominated by for eign owned vessels." At their mercy This makes Australia unique among e world's trading nations and puts toe whole of the Australian econ- nSI at the mercy of foreign; ship, wners who carry out trade,, the letter says. Other points the letter makes are— n Australia relys absolutely on markets and exports more 3 onately per head than most hfr countries, therefore freight tes form an unusually large part i selling costs. , ennHcu11 exported: manufactured a double height charge v,-arri\ orl raw materials, and out- on the finished product. ged bv nvS"63 the total freieht char- of uhir?. shlPowners was £430 only £80 million- was- re. w m Australia. shippmea nnttl0nally. Pwned overseas 1 p g llne' a substantial part ol this £35o million would be retained iii. Australia. Australia once had a national shipping line- plying, between Aust ralia and Europe;. It was sold oy the Bruce-Page Tory Government in the 1920's. Sir Robert Menzies and the pres ent Liberal Government are dead against Australia's own . national liije. Their interests lie with . the over seas shipowners. The letter says — "If you have a vote in the Balmain electorate in the forthcoming NSW elections, you can lay the foundation for a nation al shipping line for Australia by vot ing for the Communist' Party can didate, Mr. H. Black. H. Black 