 Hay den at Adelaide peace rally j 1Bmir—r— — — i — | i»|ll III I I Bill 1 1 lllllll I — — | "U.S. war hawks out ! i to escalate war by j provoking China" j ADELAIDE: The 1965 Hiroshima Day peace ! march was an outstanding success. j COME reports estimated the number of participants as being more than 1 ,000. The march was organised by the SA Committee for International Cooper ation and Disarmament. Amongst those organisations taking part were: Metal Trades Federation, Boilermakers' Society, Amalgamated Engineering Union, Union of Austra lian Women, Save Our Sons, Greek Workers' Club Platon, Society of i Friends and the Women's Christian Temperance Union. Slogans warned of the danger of nuclear war and called for a peaceful settlement of the war in Vietnam, an! end to the US-Menzies policy of escal- j ating the war, the recall of Australian ! troops, internationally controlled dis- > armament, a nuclear free Southern ! Hemisphere and an end to all A-bomh ' testing.. They expressed opposition to con scription, supported the right of self- i determination by the people of SE : Asia and the principle of negotiations to solve international problems. ' Many young marchers had already walked 25 miles from Gawler over 1 . the week-end. At the public meeting which fol lowed, Mr. W. Hayden MHR (Lab., , Qld), warned of the danger to world ; j peace posed by the alliance oi big ; ! business and the military in the USA. ) He criticised the subservience of - the Menzies' Government which "acts j on a message from Washington". i Those who made profit out of the war machine constitute a danger particularly when decisions are made about war without reference to the people, he said. The US and Australia had no right to be in Vietnam, and he described the Vietcong as being a popular move ment of the local people for social and economic progress, a movement j already victorious in three quarters of South Vietnam. Criticism of US policy in Vietnam ' was widespread, even coming from such newspapers as the "New York Times", he added. "I am convinced that at this moment ; the US does not seek peace, because ! the Goldwater policy has gained the upper hand", said Mr. Hayden. He called for wide and determined peace activity by the people. Such activity was essential. ' The "war hawks" of the US were = out to escalate war as far as provok- -j ing Communist China, he declared. j An alternative policy was needed, j one which sought to bring China into j UNO and to develop trade with her. I . Australia had to learn how to live j in peace, and friendship with the new- = ly emerging nations of Asia. People j who had been oppressed were deter- j mined to liberate themselves and this j was a reality we could not ignore. j Mr. Hayden said that certain people \ like Mr. Wentworth, Liberal MHR, \ were already moving to try and stop ; criticism of the Vietnam war and Menzies' policy. "The way to beat this attack was : to.be active and vocal now," he said. Secretary of the Gasworkers' Union (Mr. E. Crimes) chaired the meeting while Mr. R. Neilson, a school teacher, ! took up the collection which amount- | ed to £88. Mrs. Edna Hutchesson, from the LCD Committee, was also on the plat form. She had just arrived back from discussions with women from both : South and North Vietnam, held in Djakarta. 