 1 and Socialist goods on display l j THE Trade Fair exhibitions I by socialist countries show I clearly the positive results in a short space of time ach- li ieved by socialist planning ! and the enthusiasm of soc- ialist labour. ! Although Australian cold war | policies delayed good trading rela- | tions for years, today Australian £ and Western import agents are | taking advantage of the socialist \ trade bonanza. [?] IQID you ever dream of a beer without a built-in headache? Well, "Zywiec", a pale, bottled beer from Poland, might be the first. It certainly tasted well to two thirsty "Tribune" reporters at the Trade Fair last week. Mr. E. L. Wohlfarth Introduced us J to "Zywiec," which is actually only J & very small part of the enormous I range of goods of top Continental quality that Poland is now .selling to the rest of the world. Mr. Wohlfarth, a division manager of the Polish Chamber of Foreign Trade and member of the permanent Polish Trade Commission in Australia, began work with the Department before the war. "We had to build our industry anew after almost total war destruction," he told us. "We have no 'old' ma chinery or factories. This Is one of the advantages we have in reducing costs of production which we want to pass on in our export-import trade. "Our industrial production has doubled between 1955 and 1963. Foreign trade turnover in 1963 was 3,750 million U.S. dollars. We are Europe's second largest producer of coal and rank high in the production of electric power, steel, sulphuric acid and cement. "We buy 60 per cent, of our wool in Australia and sell you one-fifth of the machine tools you import. Last year we sold £15 million worth of goods to Australia and imported £8 million worth. We bought mainly wool and Groote Eylandt hides and skins for our leather- industry. "In March, 1965, a Polish Trade delegation visited Australia, and now the Australian Trade Department Secretary, Sir Alan Westerman, re cently visited Poland. "It is expected that a new trade agreement will be signed between Poland and Australia. "The new trade agreement will probably balance and expand the trade between our two countries. "In Poland we are able to continue to lower our costs of production by a thorough integration of science and industry. "There _ are over fifty science insti tutes which cater for new design and experimentation in industrial pro duction. "If a production team strikes a new problem they consult the insti tute concerned and begin to thrash out together new design for the job. "We also enjoy the co-operation of all other socialist countries— another factor in lowering costs. We are able to make use of new design, experimentation, etc., that are de veloped in other socialist countries." Mr. Wohlfarth, a man that im-' presses you with his energy and knowledge, summed up by saying: "Our task is to open up all avenues of international trade and meet the peoples of the world on their own terms. "We have found Australians friendly and co-operative." Mr. Wohlfarth would appreciate the value of this, for he spent World War II as a prisoner of the Nazis in Maidanek concentration camp. About those days, however, he didn't want to comment. HARMING Ursula Lange, of the Chamber of Foreign Trade of the German Demo cratic Republic, explained that thp Chamber wanted direct trade with Australia "to our mutual benefit". The German Democratic Repub lic does not yet have a permanent trade mission in Australia, though they have representatives and mis sions in 49 other countries. "We built everything with our own hands since the war," Ursula was proud to say. "I remember coming out of the air-raid shelters in 1945 as a child of 14 and looking over a devastated Germany." The estimated trade turnover of the GDR for 1965 will be 25,000 million marks (23,000 million in 1964). The GDR has economic relations on contract basis with about 50 coun tries and business relations with about 100 states. In 1963 the GDR exported among other things: 926 diesel engines for ships, 3.210 diesel engiens, 1,706 turn- . ing lathes, 1090 milling machines, 1334 hydraulic presses, 10,632 mac hines and apparatus for the foodstuff industry, 4211 polygraphic machines, 56 ship units, 106,955 electromoters, 30,795 motor-cycles, 2673 -railway coaches, 166 electric locomotives, 114,900 typewriters, 11,251 pianos and grand pianos, 667,000 wrist watches, 34,844,000 pairs of ladies' stockings and 13,593,000 metres of furnishing _ and curtain fabrics. "In these machines the highest precision is linked with full automa tion," Usula told us. "Over 70 countries -including: Australia have bought the POLY- trRAPH-Export printing and book binding machines," she said. The German Democratic Repub lic ranks third in the export of machine tools after the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany. . BULGARIA i yBOUT 30 years ago Bulgaria had no secondary industry. If they needed a 4in. nail they would have to import it. Today Bulgaria, after twenty years of socialist government, has become a highly developed industrial coun try. Bulgaria Is Europe's foremost pro ducer of electric trucks (fork lifts, etc.) and second only to the U.S. A. in the whole world. Many of the fork lifts in Sydney's factories were made by socialist labour. Bulgarian-made machine tools and metal working machines are export ed by MACHINOEXPORT to over forty countries. "Machinoexport"- can supply any thing from threshers and forage mills to overhead cranes and earth- moving equipment. Bulgaria exports more than 100 million litres of wine to 38 different countries. Young Giorgi Toromanov, a gradu ate of one of Bulgaria's special in stitutes for foreign languages, with another degree from the Institute for Higher Economics emphasised the value of Bulgarian imports of wool and meat from Australia for Australian trade. "We are looking forward to an x expanding trade with Australia," he said. "This will be good for both of us." I E.JL. WOHLFARTH, of the Polish Trade Commission in I Australia, holding a bottle of "Zywiec", the beer without the I headache. GEORGI TOROMANOU . . . is the assistant to the Bulgar ian commercial consul in Sydney. 