 I " Six priests attend commemoration for fascist leader MELBOURNE: Six Australian Catholic priests took part in a com memorative service at a Surry Hills I Sydney 1 church for the Croatian nazi quisiing and war criminal Ante Pavelic. KJEWS of the service, held in December, has just been reported in the Ustashi (Croatian nazi) journal Spremnost, pub lished in Sydney. The priests are not named in the report. The Ustashi are a .terrorist body pledged to the violent overthrow of the government of Yugoslavia, a country with which Australia has diplomatic relations. Despite ample evidence to the con trary, including the throwing of a bomb in Geelong as recently as last month, "the Menzies Government per sists in the official fiction that there are "no organised Ustashi activities in Australia." The Surry' Hills service for Pavelic was conducted in semi-military fash ion, with flags, a mock coffin, trum pet salutes and slow marches. The paper quotes one of the priests as describing Pavelic as "a symbol of the anti- communist world". He went on: "In 1941 the just de mand of the Croatian people was accomplished and an independent Croatian State as established". (This refers to Hitler's occupation of Yu goslavia in 1941 and the subsequent establishment of a fascist puppet State in Croatia under Pavelic.) The priest referred to the period of the Hitler occupation, during which the Pavelic State "fought against communism", and a "fight for the faith and the homeland". If the Spremnost report is correct, the priests who thus associated the Catholic Church with the Ustashi movement are doing a grave disser vice to their faith. Such actions certainly bear little relation to the letter and spirit of recent Vatican declarations concern ing relations with the socialist world, and with_jatti.fc.udes. . .Moptftl_hy-. .the. Australian hierarchy concerning the detachment of the church from poli tical movements. Ustashi leader Locokovic, speaking at the ceremony, called on "young Croats" to be ready to serve "like the Fuhrer, Ante Pavelic". Do tfftl i 3 n nrl 4vt THvomaa Cmaim 4m UiCU AAA AAttAlW JLJJL December 1956. Writing of the Ustashi in a letter to the Australian last October, Mel bourne University lecturer Dr. Frank Knopfelmacher, himself an active anti-communist publicist, said: "The Ustashi were fascists of the worst kind— an aggravated equivalent of the SS led by the Croat nazi Pavelic." . . "To talk about them as if they had been, ordinary nationalists (pre sumably some kind of Sinn Fein) is uniformed nonsense. "Their record . . r is one of the worst in Europe." They had committed unspeak able beastlalities towards their Jew ish fellow-citizens of Croatia. , 