 IT 1 — TRIBUNE _ Answer to guns before butter" "THE Menzias Government's "Guns Before Butter" policy prevailed at the Loan Council meeting in Canberra last week. Federal Treasurer Holt first proposed that the States should accept the same borrowing program as last year. After the usual haggling, led by NSW Premier Askin, the Comhnonwealth agreed to a paltry £5 million increase on last year's program. This will not result in any significant increase in the volume of State works and housing construction. Worse to come However, the Loan Council meeting is merely a pointer to what is to come — for the economic outlook of the Aus tralian nation under present policies is grim indeed. The Vietnam war commitment, added to the all-round upswing of military expenditure (at least £70 million extra for the coming 12 months and extending thereafter) means not only lives but higher taxes and higher prices, in a period of already advanced price inflation. That would be true even if Australia's economy were on an even keel. But in fact its basis is already quaking for other reasons. The level of take-out profits of foreign investors, onerous overseas shipping freights, the declining position of wool, trade restrictions by the United States on a number of export commodities — these are among the factors that comprise capitalist Australia's growing economic diffi culties. Discuss and act The burden of all such difficulties will fall, not on the Australian and foreign monopolies whose profits in the main are higher than ever, but on the working people. That is why the five-point program of immediate eco nomic demands (see Page 1 ) launched this week by the Communist Party of Australia has great importance to all the working people of hand and brain, town and country. These demands should form the basis of discussion and action throughout the coming period, in which the basic wage judgment will be announced, Labor Party conferences (State and national) will be held, and in particular the national congress of the trade union movement will take place (in mid-September) . Beginning next week, TRIBUNE will open one of its pages each week to the views, discussion and action of the workers around the major policy issues relating par ticularly to the trade union a:td labor movement. 