 | Spiking Menzies ' J i pet quotes on i &lt;= | Vietnam war I .1 .- I Review of VIETNAM BRIEFING , by John Gittings ah(F-Ajit'JSirfgh: Morgan Pub lications , Sydney. Price 2/-. VA/HEN Sir Robert Menzies returned in July from the Commonwealth Prime Minis ters' conference, he found something that must have shaken his patrician calm — the public argument and disagree ment with " his Vietnam war policy was just coming to the boil. Where before, as he . thought, it was hardly necessary to discuss that policy but just "bang away"; now he had to give some time to explain ing reasons for it. In' a major press conference in Canberra, he did his best. True, he could not restrain him self from jeering at a group of clergy who had written to him in protest against the war: And he devoted time to terror tales of a red Chinese flood sweeping to our Darwin doorstep. But, coming down to tintacks. Sir Robert also quoted from the British Foreign Secretary, a Labor man, Michael Stewart, who in his June 16 speech on Vietnam at the Oxford Union had said: ". ... . from. 1954 to '59, the two parts of Vietnam lived, uneasily indeed, but a least ' in .comparative peace / . . That went on until 1 959. Then immediately, af ter that came the call of/the Government of North Vietnam demanding that the Viet- cong activities in the South be stepped up to a full-scale attack on the Government of South Vietnam : When this attack began there were only 700 troops and civilian advisers in the .South . Distortion This was about the extent of the "documentation" adopted by Men zies to support his explanation but, next day, the Australian press gave lukewarm thanks that Menzies had . at last seen the necessity to explain Lis policy. Just how gross a distortion of history was practised by Stewart —and Menzies — In ' that quotation has now been laid bare in a new -booklet published in Sydney— VIETNAM BRIEFING. This excellent publication, a re print of a work by John Gittings and A jit Singh in Britain, prints in sections the full text of Michael Stewart's speech, and makes devas tating comment on it, point by point. This is what it says, in part, of Stewart's word on hte origins of the Vietnam war, as quoted above:— "View not shared" "Mr. Stewart- believes that the present war basically began with a decision in 1959 by North Vietnam to intervene. His view is dot shored by most Western ex perts on the subject, who affirm thot the guerilla movement in the South began in 1957 or even earlier. It started pri marily due to the following factors: "(a) the complete banning of all op-' position, communist or non-communist by the Diem regieme (in Saigon): ' "Diem's presidential Ordinance No 6 of January 11, 1956, provided foV the indefinite detention in concentration camps of anyone found to be. a 'danger to the State'. By a presidential decree of June, 1956, Diem abolished elected village councils and mayors," " The booklet quotes Philippe Devil- lers ("The Struggle for the Unifica tion of Vietnam", China Quarterly No. 9, 1962):— "In Morch 1957, the Diem regieme began to openly violate Article 14 (c) of the Geneva Agreement With regard to reprisals against former resistance, l.e, Vietminh members. On the theory thet wherever the Vietminh hed operated there were hound to be communists, traitors, spies etc., systematic and savage 'mopping up' operations were launched against hundreds of villages that had long been quiescent." It quotes Dr. B. S. N. Murti, who was from 1954 to 1957 Deputy Sec retary-General of the International Control Commission (set up under the Geneva Agreement) writing in his book "Vietnam Divided" (page 178):— "The mopping up operations and var ious repressive measures taken by ths Government against the former resistance workers drove them to the iungles and to guerilla tactics against the Govern- 1 ment." Diem to blame Further the pamphlet quotes well- known conservative Australian daily press correspondent Denis Warner . and then comments: — "To conclude, the present resistance movement in South Vietnam has its roots in the disaffection caused by Diem's social, economic and political policies from 1954 onwards. As Edgar Snow (fa mous American correspondent) sums it up: ''It was not North Vietnam, or even local communists, but Ngo Dinh Diem who finally drove the whole countryside into rebellion." (From Snow's book, 'The Other Side of the River.') The pamphlet further comments: "The origins of the present Vietnam crisis can be traced back to the faifure to hold free elections in 1956. All of this was, confirmed in Aus tralia earlier this year when no less than the South Vietnam (Saigon) Embassy, Canberra, issued a public condemnation of the "nine years" (1954-63) of "dictatorial and tyran nical policy" by the Diem regime. Free elections The new pamphlet deals m crusn- ing fashion with other major issues of the Vietnam question, showing that: The North wanted free elections (as laid down at Geneva) but the Saigon and Washington authorities refused them. The Geneva Agreement was specifically and extensively violated by the Saigon regime; the North very rarely violated the Agreement. It' sets out the offers of possible peace terms made by the North Viet nam Government and by the Nation al Liberation Front of South Viet nam. It comments "The eventual with drawal of US troops is one of the points which have to be recognised us the basis of a settlement; it does not have to be CARRIED OUT be fore negotiations can begin " These are merely a few samples of this valuable pamphlet. Active ...promotion ...of VIETNAM BRIEFING can do much to overturn the views on Vietnam expressed by Menzies, Santamaria and other lead inn exponents of war, against Asian independence movements.— A.R. 