 Marin© Act exemption endangers lives I pERTH: The Greek I freighter "Tanais" that struck the Leschenault Reef, 50 miles north of i Fremantle, on septemoer | 13, endangering the lives of her crew, who were strand ed aboard for three days, is a foreign-owned flag ship exempted from the provisions of the Marine Act. x She is on charter to Garrick Agnew Pty. Ltd. tai carry con struction material to north- I west ports. | Experienced seamen are puzzled as I to how the "Tanais" got into the posi- 1 tion she did. They are asking if the I steel deck cargo she carried affected I the compass? The usual navigational 1 practice is to check and adjust the I compass before leaving Fremantle. Be- I cause it was exempt from the provi- sions of the Marine Act, it was under no law to check and adjust the com- | pass before leaving Fremanlte. I Strong current I One of the ship's officers said 3 that they had encountered a very 9 strong current that forced them off- 1 course, and there1 are no lights to I warn shipping , how close they , were 1 to the reef. (The reef is charted anri I the navigation channel along the coast is many miles further seaward than that which would appear to have been followed by the "Tanais"). It was not until the Wednesday that the Greek seamen, were rescued and brought ashore, after having threat ened to riot, so it was said, if they were not taken off the ship straight away. It was veteran skipper R. Hugill who with superb seamanship and after many attempts in the 15ft. swell and breaking surf, finally brought his 3nft. crayboat "Sandra" alongside to rescue the. crew. The first seaman put ashore, Jim Iambros said: "We want to know who is making the trouble, keeping us three, days in the boat. Is it the Greek government, the Australian gov ernment or. the captain?" "Answer me one question," another seaman said bitterly, "do you people know the meaning of SOS?" Local fishermen said that a rescue could have been made early on Mon day morning, the day the ship struck, but they were told by the Department of Navigation that boats from Fre mantle were on their way to the scene. These boats, however, were hamper ed by a strong swell and gale-force winds and the attempt to take the seamen off was abandoned. Use could not be made of a helicopter standing by because it was not equipped with adequate rescue apparatus, Becauise of the strong seas breaking on the reef use of the ship's lifeboats could have' resulted in loss of life. The Marine Court of Enquiry that is sure to he held should ask some very searching questions. It could pave the way to improved land and sea rescue apparatus. The "Tanais" is one of the foreign- flag ships on charter for- the intra state coastal trade the Brand Govern ment has exempted from the provi sions of the Marine Act which lays down safety and other matters. Mari time unions in Fremantle have pro tested frequently about the setting aside of the Marine Act by the Brand Government for foreign flag ships. The whole history of the West Aus tralian coast and the recent experi ence of the "Tanais" adds weight to the Maritime Unions' demand for no interference with the Marine Act and for its stricter enforcement. 