 TRIBUNE I Tests and Bombs ""pHE second nuclear weapon test by the Chinese People's I Republic raises two issues that are far more important | than press headlines falsely attempting to paint it as a ! "new threat to world peace". - j There is only one sane course for the world—nuclear ! disarmament. j There is urgent need for new partial steps in that j general direction. | Atomic weapons were brought into the Asian-Pacific | renion (and the world) not by the Chinese but by the I Americans, first against Japanese cities in 1945, then at | Bikini in 1946, and by the British at Montebello Island | in 1952. 1 In past years the Americans have ringed East Asia j with bases for atomic warplanes, with submarines carrying | nuclear missiles and with aircraft carriers also capable of I attacking Asia with nuclear weapons. All this has had the warm approval of the Menzies j Government, now a vocal critic of China's nuclear test I program. | ! The real danger | I The American war on Vietnam is currently the source j of the greatest danger of nuclear war. 1 Recognising this, the Soviet Union recently gave to 2 the United States an open opportunity to cut off th3t i danger, when it called on all nuclear powers to pledge i they would not initiate use of these terrible weapons. | Both the Soviet Union and China have made such a | pledge— repeated again by China after its second test. 1 But the USA refuses point-blank to give any such guarantee. I Nuclear weapons tests have never been welcomed by I people genuinely interested in peace and the future of ! humanity. . I The Communist Party of Australia has expressed its J opposition to the continuation of nuclear weapons tests I by any nation. | The Party last October expressed its disagreement with I the decision of the Chinese Government to engage in nuclear I weapons testing as not in accord with the wishes of the ; peoples of the world, and not essential for the defence of the Socialist countries. It adhered to the policy of the world Communist move ment, stated in 1957 and I960 of struggling for abolition . of nuclear weapons testing and other partial measures along the path towards complete abolition of nuclear weapons, and to universal, general disarmament. Partial steps ! One step was the 1963 Moscow Test Ban Treaty, signed | by the overwhelming majority of the world's governments. |: Another the 1964 proposal by China, supported by the j. USSR and other socialist and Afro- Asian nations, for a j world conference to ban nuclear weapons, j The renewed Soviet call for pledges against first I use of these weapons, is another realistic step open to all I governments. j . The international conference to be sponsored in Sydney j next September by the Australian and New Zealand trade I unions to oppose French nuclear tests in the Pacific and j seek ways of abolishing nuclear weapons must be made I another milestone along the same road. ! The key to all of these steps, and to nuclear disarrna- J ment, is the active demand of the people of all countries, r Page 5, Conference against French tests. 