 1 - , 1 1 New stag© in the a ' e soviet economy "Y'HIS week's full meeting in Moscow of the cen- 1 tral committee of the I Communist Party of the ooviet union is aeaiing with economic and politic al questions th/af will affect the socialist countries, aid to the new Afro-Asian nations and the defence of | I world peace. Rupert Lockwood cables from Moscow that 'the meeting ushers in a new stage in the building of the Soviet society. The CC meeting and also the following session of the Supreme | Soviet (Parliament) will promote J not only accelerated growth of | 8 the economy, living standards, i science and technology under the 1966-1970 five year plan, but also the continued extension of demo cratic rights, uplift in moral attitude to labor and other pre requisites of transition to com munism. Democracy Pre-Plenum press conferences and public discussions and criticisms related to the new economic thinking and planning indicated that among points high on the Plenum agenda are: Significant reforms in managerial methods which have lagged behind the vast expansion of Soviet industrial apparatus. While democratic centralism will be consolidated, management will be granted more initiative and independence. The role of factory workers and their union organisations will be strengthened. Greater material, incentives — the need of which have not always been properly estimated in the past as current press debates ' have made clear- will be provided to improve quality as well as output and keep production costs lower and operations profitable. 1 Efficient cost accounting I will be insisted upon at all levels 1 and cybernetics will increasingly 8 aid economic planning and pro- 1 duetion. Price assessment prac- I tices wil be overhauled. I Heavier emphasis will -be | placed on consumer goods for the people the output of which will almost equal that of the means of production. Trade distribution to the public will be speedily improved by tackling current defects, bet tering the- quality of goods and stream-lining- supply from fac- | tories to shops. I | Some industries, in fact, are likely to have their own shops soon to eliminate transport, ware housing, buying agency and other delays. An article in. Pravada said: "There is no room for bureau cracy in administrative machinery," foreshadows sterner measures against bureaucrats characterised by Lenin as Pravda recalls as "the worst internal enemy." 