 [?] IF THE " TABLES WERE TURNED By a special co-respondent 1 fl £ANBERRA: A stunned House of Representatives heard the Minister for Labor and the Minister for Justice join in den- ouncing the legal profession. The 'Minister for Labor revealed that many lawyers mix with crimi nals and accept employment from them. The Minister for Justice explained that the legal profession is a closed shop, which cannot be tolerated in a democracy: — Lawyers train new lawyers, a lawyer accused of a crime is assisted by other lawyers, prosecuted by more lawyers and judged by former lawyers. "Hardly an unbiased group," he stated. Then, too, lawyers employ each other. "Having been approached by a criminal, one lawyer, a "solicitor", contacts another called a "barrister" and then they come to some arrange ment with a former lawyer, known as a "judge". "Watch how they bow and nod to each other," shouted the Minister at the climax of this speech. Government speakers revealed the serious results of the closed shop and the criminal atmosphere. Legal work had piled up every- | where. People could not obtain 1 divorces or other legal decisions with- I out waiting for years. This was a form 1 of strike against the national 1 interest. 1 And so the plan emerged: deregis- 1 tration of all lawyers. A new system I envisages the registration of a small 1 group, possibly from Pakistan, to I administer justice. Criminals will have | limbs removed on the spot at the I police station. I Police sergeants (and above) are | authorised to pay compensation out | of petty cash for those found to have K had limbs removed without due cause. 1 By the same token, divorces will 1 now be available at the Registrar I of Births, Deaths and Marriages for I the same fee as the marriage 1 certificate. However, lawyers are mounting a major campaign against the proposed legislation, supported from all sections of the population. A wharfte said: "We are all united in our desire to preserve the legal system. Almost everyone hopes Menzies will resume his legal career any day now and if this new law is passed, he may be tempted to stay on in parliament." I 