 Communist leader at teach-in: Remake Society to win freedom from hunger f CANBERRA: SaeiaS revolution,, the r.emakisig of social systems is the real answer to the problem of hunger,, Mr. L. Aaroas, gen eral secretory of the Communist Party of Australia told a Nation al University teach-in Bast week in Canberra. |»JjE supported Pope Paul's statement to the United Nations that the solution lay in "putting more bread on humanity's table". Mr. Aarons was addressing some 600 people, mainly students, at a Freedom from Hunger teach-in in the Childers Street, Hall, Australian National University. The teach-in began at 7.30 p.m. and it was not until about 11.45 that Mr. Aarons spoke. A number of students came into the hall to hear him. Afterwards his speech, on the theme Charity is Not Enough, received the greatest prominence in the Can berra's Times' report. He said the notion that world population would increase until people crushed each other to death was unlikely to be realised as society developed and the world became wiser. Food for 9,000 million "The problem lies in expanding food production and distribution. A simple calculation will show that by increasing the yields of food crops only to the present level of the most advanced countries, 9,000 million people could be adequately fed. Hitler and Tojo had advanced popu lation pressure and "living space" as pretexts for war, but the real causes lay in other economic and political forces— imperialist expansion, in short. "Today, both Germany and Japan support larger populations than pre war in smaller territories." Science and technology could solve all the problems of food production, transport and distribution, given even a modest share of socially use- Tocc armamonf ovn»nrirhiro Socialism There were no insurmountable ob stacles to water conservation and minimisation of effects of drought and flood in Australia, or elsewhere. The problem lay in rational de velopment of human society, inter nationally and within every nation. Despite all the massive problems, the world was moving to such solu tions. "By this I mean, to Socialism," he said. Hunger has its origin in social, economic and political causes, inter national as well as national. The solution lies in social revolu tion, the remaking of social sys tems and a profound change in international economic and pon.it:;U relationships, particularly between rich nations and poor, between the imperialist countries and neo-col- onialist or newly independent coun tries." Social revolcution was on the move in Asia, Africa, Latin America and in the United States. Hunger and poverty were but one of the causes. The effort to end foreign domina tion, exploitation and control of the economy, to raise living standards and end illiteracy were essential causes of the national liberation movement. Hunger not new "Hunger is not new, it is only more publicised. "In the second world war, over a t million people died in the Bengal famine. "British rule in India had done immense damage to agriculture and handicrafts. "In the 1.930's millions of Chinese died in famines; in 1959-62 they overcame worse natural disasters without such dire results. The essential steps were political independence and the breaking up of neo-colonialism, then agrarian reform and industrialisation. In Vietnam, the underlying reason for the unbending war of resistance against American material superiority was the complete commitment of the peasants to their right to the land. The Americans were supporting the landlord class because no one else would collaborate with them. "They are the class that provides the embezzlers, blackmarketeers and grafters who swallow up U.S. 'aid' like locusts." External reasons for the obstacles to industrial and agricultural advance in the hungry countries were the policies of the advanced capitalist countries, Mr. Aarons added. Most people in Latin America, for example, were poor almost beyond belief. Yet Latin America was potentially immensely rich and by no means overcrowded (220 million in a ter ritory twice as large as the U.S.A. with 190 million). In 1963, U.S. investment in Latin America was 19,961 million dollars, the 1964 return on this being 2,000 million dollars. CPA plan From Venezuelan oil, 1955-62, U.S. oil companies (mainly Standard Oil) made 6,000 million profit; while in Venezuela's population of 8 utuiiuii, &lt;uu,uuu are uiieniproyeu, 200,000 children arc homeless waifs and 300,000 peasant families are landless and starving. Other problems included unequal world trade, with the economies of developing countries in the grip of advanced capitalist countries, "eco- nomie aid" policies of capitalist nations interested mainly in quick, easy and fat profits through extract ing and taking away rich natural re sources. Australia's whole future was bound up in relations with Asia. Therefore Communists were seeking: — Greater effort, as individuals, organisations and nations, to assist the development of under-developed nations, including the Freedom from Hunger campaign. Allocation of more funds and resources for general scienitfic re search into practical problems of food production. "Hypocrisy" New deal in international trade so prices of primary products are kept at a firm level; and reduction of the high prices of manufactured goods, etc. Support for aid to develop an industrial base in every country with out political or military strings. Opposition to colonialism and neo-colonialism and support for all national revolutionary movements that alined at independence the end of feudalism and exploitation and at socialism. Most important of all, a decisive change in Australia's foreign policy. "We should ponder over the grisly hypocrisy of U.S. planes drop ping toys and sweets for the child ren of Vietnam occasionally while regularly devastating the country and killing children with high ex plosive and napalm. "That's not the sort of aid we want to associate with." Mr. Aarons advocated a change in foreign policy to one of peace, trade, support for national liberation, cul tural exchange and genuine friendship for our Asian neighbours. Catholic view The High Commissioner for Cey lon in Australia, Major-General Anton Muttukumaru, said Ceylon in future might be faced with under-nutrition. Ceylon had 11. million people, living on an island the size of Tasmania, which meant a population density of 400 a square mile. Land resources for growing food were inadequate, and two-thirds of the required food was imported. Speaking on Dependence Without Charity, the deputy chairman of the Canberra Community Hospital, Mrs. R. Inall, said, "We must change our attitude from one of giving, no matter how kindly, to one of sharing." Dr. O. H. Frankel, a member of the CSIRO, said 10 to 15 per cent of people in under-developed countries did not have enough energy foods, and almost a half suffered from malnutrition. Professor A. T. A. Learmouth, of the ANU's Department of Geography, gave details of the sickness result ing from lack of proper food. The Roman Catholic Church, in its attitude towards birth control, must remember that souls were people, not raw material of a scholastic abstraction, Dr. Mal colm Mackay, MHR said. Dr. Mackay, the Liberal Member for Evans, N.S.W., said he believed the only possible answer to utter disaster over the problem of world hunger lay in population control. Dr. J. C. Caldwell, Fellow in Demo graphy in the Institute of Advanced Studies, forecast a possible reduc tion in high fertility rates, through out the world within the next de cade. Speaking on population and birth control, Dr. Caldwell said it was now likely that even in Latin America . the Catholic Church would not oppose indefinitely government family planning clinics. Pakistan's problems Dr. D. P. Sinha, Research Fellow in Anthropology at the ANU, who was nominated by the Indian High Commissioner to speak at the teach-in, said freedom from hun ger could not he achieved unless people were free from ignorance, could understand their own situa tion in objective terms, and at tempt concertedly to forge ahead. Dr. A. S. M. Ahmed, Research Fellow in Demography in the ANU Institute of Advanced Studies, said that the gap in living standards of the richer and poorer, nations was increasing. The average American enjoyed a per capita income about 35 times higher than that of an average Indian. In Pakistan the threat of food shortages remained even through famine had been checked at a colossal cost. A high population growth rate threatened constantly to outstrip food production. Pakistan was not gaining ground in the race between population and food production. Mr. Beazley (Lab., W.A.) said: "The tragedy today is that eco nomic growth tends to make the rich richer, while population growth makes the poor poorer. 