 blames Company SYDNEY : An Associate Professor of Industrial Relations at Sydney University has charged the Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. with the main responsibility for die present industrial dispute. MR. KINGSLEY LAFFER was' speaking at a meeting earlier this month of the Economics Society, Macquarie Street, Syd ney. After a comprehensive analysis of the dispute, Mr. Laffer listed the main re sponsibilities for the .Mt. Isa dispute in what lie considered their order of importance. The conditions and isolation of Mt. I Isa will continue to cause unrest: "Here j the main responsibility lies with the management," he said. The second responsibility is the wcalc- I ness of the Australian Workers' Union j organisation. "The leaders needed to show better understanding. They could have sent a good man to explain the I situation or could have got right bc- , hind the miners . . . they did neither," I he said. j Parlisianship of the Queensland Gov ernment and its strong-ann methods and j the weakness of the arbitration niach- j incry to seek conciliation were also j listed as being responsible. I "Pat Mackic I put last," Mi. I, after said. "He is an effect not a cause." ! "You might have TB and also a j temperature. You could aim to get rid iof the temperature but you arc still left with the main problem." | Mr. Laffer said that conditions cause militant unionists and bad employers. ! Tracing the history of Mr. Mackic's I election, he said, "nobody particularly | wanted the job". Mr. Mackic was dismissed for missing a clay's work. !"Thc company did not want to deal with local trade union organisation." I "His dismissal and the refusal by the | company to rc-instate him indicates a I tough line. The company could have adopted more enlightened methods of industrial relations," Mr. Laffer said. S Speaking of the miners' insistence 011 Mr. Mackie's reinstatement, he said: "If | a man is a workers' representative he I must -be considered." | "Too much importance lias been | placed on this question by the com- | pany." " "In the situation at Mt. Isa, somc- | one like him must arise — his cliar.- i acter is not the issue — he is an rflcct rather than a cause," lie said. Mr. Laffer thought that Markic should be reinstated. He said: "The bitterness of the struggle suggests that a malady exists at Mt. Isa much deeper than the bonus issue." Dr. Lloyd Ross (NSW secretary of the Australian Railways Union) led the discussion on Mr. Laffer's paper. He placed the first blame on the Queensland Government. Dr. Ross said the QUI. Government was responsible for: The bonus legislation, which could only lower and not raise bonuses. Created the situation for the com pany and men to fight it out. Gave the company permission to lock out. the workers. He said he was pleased that Mr. I.affer also laid blame on the AWU leader- si li p. Speaking in, support of local trade union organisation, Dr. Ross said the main issue is the creation of democratic organisation in the union. 