 WHARFIES DECIDE ON CONTINUED ACTION TO WIN THEIR DEMANDS Wafersadle workers at 24-hour stopwork meetings throughout Australia Bast week overwheimi&igBy supported the continuation of natsonai protest action in support of their wage and other demands. "|"HE members decided to levy themselves £1 a man to pro vide finance for the costs of the campaign, meet the. heavy fines on the Waterside Work ers' Federation and to establish a bakery for the Torres Strait Islanders. Last week's stoppage was called by the Federal officers of the Federa tion as part of a program to resist "provocative attacks by . the Govern ment, employers and the Australian Stevedoring Authority against the union and to win worthwhile reforms and better conditions for waterside workers." Objective The Federation said its "efforts have been and will be designed to promote a better industry and in this respect have set up the following objectives: © Nationalisation of the Steve doring Industry for the good of Australia © Modernisation of Australian port complexes. © Security for all the workers in the industry— waterside workers, tally clerks, watchmen and fore men. To this end the Federation is seek ing: Non - contributory retirement pensions, a mechanisation fund, in creased wages, guaranteed wages by providing penalty -free attendance money increased to a realistic figure, increased meal money, long service leave provisions on the same bqsis as applied to other workers (three months for 15 years instead of . for 20). The Federation said "these are worthwhile and necessary objectives that can be met out of the profits of the overseas shipowners who carry our trade." A meeting of over 3,000 waterside workers in the Sydney Town Hall called on the Federal Labor Minister, Mr. McMahon, "to use his influence with the shipowners to meet us in direct negotiations on our claims." The meeting said it was gravely concerned at the serious threats of the Minister towards the Federation and with him "taking sides openly with the shipowners in opposition to our claims." "We protest that the shipowners should get this special protection from the Government when other employers are commonly prepared to meet above-award wage claims by workers." Penalties "The imposition of penalties as threatened by the Minister must inflame the waterfront situation which is already more burdened with penalties than any other in dustry," the Sydney men said. The meeting also unanimously endorsed the objection by the Federal officials of accepting the offer, of Justice Gallagher to arbitrate on their claims. In Fremantle over 1,000 waterside workers marched from their pick-up centre to a mass meeting in the Town Hall. YOUR ONLY CHANCE! Internationally noted authority on the Australian Aboriginal people, Pro fessor Fred. Rose (now of Berlin University) who stood up to Menzies' McCarthyism in the Petrov affair, will speak on the Aborigine people's strug gle for full democratic rights: 168 Day Street, Sydney, August 20. 