 "The Representative" —a surgical analysis DEGPLE seemed stunned at the first interval of the Old Tote Theatre's latest play "The Representative", by youna West German author Rolf Hochhuth. They had just witnessed the beninnings of an analysis, a surgical analysis of the think ina, policv and behavior of important and powerful men, includino leaders of the Holy Reman Church, duing World Wr II. The plav is not a personal attack on Pope Pius XII or even an ex pose of the worldliness of the Car- . dinal during war austerity. It is not a personal attack on any body or person. It is the evidence of history pre sented through certain characters like the young Jesuit, the Nazi, doc tor, the Cardinal and the unwilling Nazi officer Gerstein. Each character presents his argu ment and the reasons why he thinks and acts, or does not act. One of the questions is this: Why didn't his Holiness Pope Pius XII use his power and influence as the head of hundreds of millions of Catholics to expose the mass murder of Jews, Russians and other prisoners? He was a man of long diplomatic experience. He was present at. the signing of the Vatican Concordat with the Reich in 1933. His envoys kept him informed at all times of developments during the war. His personal influence was enor mous. Why then did he choose to remain silent about the atrocities? . Wasn't he the representative of Christ on earth? Could it have been only the Church's fear of "the Bolsheyiks"? Or would the ' Nazi government -really have taken reprisals against German Catholics if he renounced the Concordat? After all, the Nazis had been killing protesting Catholics, priests and nuns since 1933. The autnor is able to take the ordinary man and woman into the Papal chambers and see the most powerful man on earth at the time giving his reasons for remaining silent. i The audience witnesses the secret I events of yesterday that are still ) questions of life and death today. \ Can any man rem:. in neutral at a time of imminent danger to mil- lions of people, when homicidal maniacs, like the Doctor, are in charge of trie means of extermina tion? And if powerful men like the Pope remain silent then are they in any way implicated in the tragedy? "The Representative's" characters argue these questions desperately striving to resolve the contradictions of policy and reality that they are presented with. The young priest, is violently divi ded between his loyalty to his vows and his family, and his desire to help the Jews. Gerstein, who has the bills for Zyklon B gas from I. G. Farben's in his pocket, wants the world to know, and the bishops of Germany to act. The Cardinal argues that by sav ing thousands of Jews in Rome, the Church has done all that is in its power to do. The evidence and facts mount as the months go past and the cattle trains full of victims rumble across Europe. Nine thousand in one day, boasts the Doctor to the priest. What has your God got to say about this? he says. I have been killing Jews here for fifteen months and not so much as a sigh out of him? This is the Doctor's solution to the problems of mankind. The initial shock of the audience changed to a concentrated silence broken by "but if" and "that's amaz ing" and "who'd believe" as they left the theatre. How could anyone stay indifferent to the sufferings of mankind, or re fuse to take a personal decision to act after seeing such a powerful and brilliant play as "The Represen tative"? The Old Tote Theatre management, director and players have made a bold and justified step in introduc ing this play to the Australian public. — D.K. 