 Seamen reject police offer to turn pimp MELBOURNE: Two Mel bourne brothers, both i members of the Seamen's I Union, were approached j last month by security pol- f ice with invitations to be come paid pimps on their shipmates, j The men, Messrs. Bill and j Frank Dean', indignantly re- | jected the overtures and im- j mediately reported them to the union. Circumstances of the case clearly point to the fact that contents of letters written by one of the brothers, as a citizen and unionist to Govern ment Departments have been made known to Security. Assistant secretary of the Mel bourne Branch of the Seamen's Union, Mr. Roger Wilson, said last week his union was planning vigorous protest action against this invasion of the democratic rights of its members. Mr. Frank Dean works on tugs in Melbourne and his brother Bill on the phosphate ship, Triaster. Frank Dean was approached at his home just before Xmas. The visitor described himself as "from the Attorney-General's Depart ment." | Wondering. what it had to do with j him, Mr. Dean politely invited the ! man inside. I Once in the house, the visitor an- j nounced he was "from the Security side" of his Department, j When Mr. Dean asked him with j some heat to leave, the visitor play- ed for time by talking about the j "communist menace", and the "un- j patriotic" activities of Seamen's j Union leaders. ' But he soon found himself out of ! doors. j A day or two later, Frank Dean's j brother Bill arrived in Melbourne I on the Triaster from Nauru. | Less than an hour after his ship ; berthed, Mr. Bill Dean was approach- ' ed by a Security man. This time the Security man showed a remarkably close knowledge of letters written by Mr. Bill Dean to various Government Departments. Among letters written recently by Mr. Dean was one advocating, in line with Seamen's Union policy, the I creation of an Australian overseas j shipping fleet. Referring to Aus tralian wheat sales to China, the I letter said Australian wheat should j be carried to China in Australian : ships. ! The Security man's comment on j this? "You're causing people trouble," i he told Mr. Dean. In a statement on the affair pre pared for the Seamen's Journal, Mr. Dean said: "He then told me he knew all about my activities in th unioh, and what goes on, on board Triaster at meetings. "He then said it would be 'to my advantage' if I passed on informa tion about union and shipboard : activities . . . who said what, and ! who are the communists, and so on." i Mr. Dean added: "I cannot put down on paper what I said then He added: "I think this is a les son to every union member to be vigilant at all times, no matter I where they are when discussing j union business, as you can never be j sure when the Security police are | lurking. "I hope our experience may help other members to be clear on this matter, for the Security police are always ready to prey oh any sea man who has spoken — as my brother and I have done for 17 years — in defence of trade union interests." 