 1 1- In the Factory I - : .UORKING in very bad, I > crowded conditions in a | number of sweat-shop gar- I ' ment factories in the smog- j choked inner suburbs of Syd- | ney are many girls new to this | land — Greeks, Yugoslavs, I Maltese and Italians. ! They can't afford to '-'go crook". ( They usually have to wait until | tne Tjoss can't do without them | before they can jack up. I In one such factory, the girls I eat lunch on a table in the corner | of the factory and there are three toilets and one hand basin as the S "washroom". j In 1957 there were only small j orders, poor garments and five | machinists, this year there are 40 I working there, including 30 mach- | -inists, and the management has i bought another factory, j Garment styles change every week j but the piece rate, unless the girls | act, remains the same, i The management invariably low- ! ers the piece rate on styles which I have been worked the year be- | fore. | The girls, who do not understand S English, hut also understand less I the reason why they should pay | membership fees to a Union that I ignores them, will have to be I cajoled into paying the next ( quarter. I They are married, have big debts, S commitments in their families back | home, and small children. | In this factory; there are times | when the garments are not ready S for machining, and the girls must I sit and- wait. | They do not get paid one coin | for this "idle time, s In other words they are docked because of the Management's had planning and preparation. The girls work piece rates — other clothing factories work by bonus. After the basic wage rise the factory boss suggested that the girls reject the 15/- and take 1/2 in the £1, with no increase in piece rates. For good machinists it meant more money, but the average girl that is 25 out of the 30 machinists in the factor;-, must not only lose money, but lose it working piece rates. There have been strikes at the factory. . They were over the piece rate for difficult garments. The girls switched off their mac hines, folded their arms and talked while the forelady (dubbed "Stupid" by the girls) trotted up to get' the manager's "No!" to their request for an extra 2/- or 3/- in the rate. The girls kept talking for an hour or so, until the forelady started to plead with them to "please" start work again. Give us the 3/- and we will," they said. They got the 3/-. The machinist said that it was well known in the garment indus try that if anyone .showed promise as a unionist and spoke up at union meetings — not at the factory —but at the general meetings, then the manager would sack them. "How did he find out?" the girls want to know. Working piece rates in a hot, steamy Surry Hills garment factory is bad enough but when the Union does not enrol one girl for seven years then there is something really wrong, they say! 