 Self-determination the only solution to Kashmir problem I The United Nations Security Council's unanimous plea for a | cease-fire in Kashmir wifl find the same unanimous support from 1 the world's peaceful peoples . -the resolution to issue this call to India and Pakistan to stop fighting and with draw their troops behind the 1949 cease-fire line was sup ported by all sections on the Security Council — socialist, non-socialist and unaligned. Obviously the only ultimate solu tion is self-determination for the 4,000,000 Kashmiri people. In an article anticipating the pre sent fighting the Soviet journal Prav- da on August 24 warned that im perialism would be the only gainer from intensification of the war. "The conflict cannot benefit either side" said Pravda. "India and Paki stan are engaged in solving complex, mainly economic, domestic problems and this requires tremendous funds and efforts from both peoples. "The conflict is being exploited by reaction. It plays into the hands of American imperialists waging ag gressive war in Vietnam. "Our traditional friendship with India grows stronger from year to year. Striving for further development of relations with Pakistan the USSR believes that good-neighborly relations between our two states does not con flict with our friendship with any other country. "A settlement of the Kashmir dis pute is imperative. It would make a major contribution to peace in Asia. "Sincere friends of the Indian and Pakistani people have duty not to let imperialists divert the two peoples from the task of building a national economy and struggling for genuine independence, world peace and inter national security." Kashmir , was one of the many "time-bombs" left by British imper ialism in the hope of forming strife and contention In the country it was forced to leave. The feudal rulers were given the right to determine whether their states would join India or Pakistan. The Rajah of Kashmir, Sir Hari Singh, a Hindu opted for India even though 80 per cent of the people are Moslems and might have been expect ed to prefer Pakistan or complete independence. The situation led to a war which ended with the establishment of a cease-fire line supervised by UN ob servers. 