 [?] 1 1. Make up your mind about foreign policy SYDNEY: "it is up to the Australian citi zen to make up his mind on all matters of foreign policy — otherwise our democracy will suffer " Dr. J. F. Cairns . MHR I Labor! said in Sydney on Friday night . Dr. Cairns and Mr. T. Hughes, MHR (Liberal) were guest speakers on "Why Are We Fighting in Vietnam?" at the All Nations Club, Sydney. Over 150 people heard the discussion. Dr. Cairns said that the case of the Liberal Government for the war in Vietnam was a vast over-simplification, a cal culated deception. LA ANY officers of the External Affairs Department were aware of the true position but could say nothing. Dr. Cairns denied press reports that he had claimed "the communist side would win" in Vietnam. "Nobody can win. There should be a case-fire and negotiations to seek a representative government after the cease fire. At the same time the National Liberation Front must be represetned in that government." He critically analysed claims about "aggression from the North". In June, 1962, General Paul Hark- ness (United States) said, "all the weapons of the Vietcong have been captured from the government forces." "In 1964, Senator "Wayne Morse asked if there had been any Chinese found in South Vietnam. There were none! 1 "And in January, 1965, Mr. L. A. Crozier, adviser to the Australian Department of External Affairs said there were no Chinese in South Vietnam. "The war is not being fought in the U.S. or Australia. It is 6000 miles from America and 3500 miles from Australia in somebody else's country. "What would happen if there were 1500 Chinese troops in Mexico or California or New Guinea or Cape York Peninsula? Do you think the Australian or American governments would not attack them? "Yet we are fighting on the door step of China and not one Chinese has been found in Vietnam! Where then is the evidence of 'aggression from without'?" Dr. Cairns said that the war did not start in 1959 when some com munist in Hanoi or Peking or Mos cow was supposed to have pressed a button. It was a struggle with many national aspects that began as far back as 1907. "In 1913 there were 16,000 arrests ayd many executions. In 1921 and during the 20's and 30's the liberation movement grew and before World War II was effectively represented in Vietnam and Cambodia. "The resistance to the Japanese was not basically French. There was substantial French co-operation with the Japanese. The Vietnamese iQraon movement emerged in 1945 as an effective government, raecognised by the French. Then came the massacre at Haip hong when the French navy fired on the townspeople, and the war of from the French began. The French had overwhelming f,r®"Ppwer at Dien Bien Phu and yet h -«Sk could only have en if the Vietnamese had consider- e support from the people. trau' 111,81168 took the line that Aus- ® was bound to send troops to Vietnam under existing collective security alliances. "We can't expect to gain the bene fit from our alliances unless we dis charge the obligations that we have under those alliances," he said. Speaking of U.S. activity in Viet nam, he said: "The U.S. has dutifully reported every raid on North Viet nam to the United Nations." i HOT WORK: Dr. J. F. Cairns (Labor MHR) in action at Sydney's All Nations Club in the heat of last Friday night. The opposing speaker, Mr. T. Hughes (Liberal MHR) is on the extreme left facing the camera. 