 — i. .1 — — — — — — rn wmaminrira \ nrm f 1 «> The price of apathy in Australian theatre pUBLIC apathy towards Aus tralian plays was holding back the development of an indigenous theatre in Austra- lia, said Mr. M. Robertson, acting artistic director of Melbourne's Union Theatre Repertory Company. . He was addressing the annual "conference of New Theatre Australia, in' Melbourne recently. Thirty delegates from Melbourne, Sydney and Newcastle attended the conference. The advancement by New Theatre in Sydney, Melbourne and Newcastle was reported by the national secre tary (Marie Armstrong). Melbourne had gained new members, and in Sydney and Newcastle, where new members had also been gained, standards were rising and audiences were growing. The conference decided to send a letter supporting Australian author Morris .West's letter , to the Sydney Catholic Weekly, opposing the send ing of Australian troops to fight in Vietnam. The theatre felt that if art were to flourish, there must be a world at peace. Criticism of Marien Dreyer's play, "Bandicoot on a Burnt Ridge," which his company was currently presenting in Melbourne, had been extraordinary, Mr. Robertson said. "If you can't get people to come to see an Australian play, where are we goingV Mr. Robertson asked. "This play was not a 'world- shatterer,' but seemed well worth doing. Yet it was received with complete apathy. This affected the theatre's initiative in looking for Australian plays. The- tendency was to look for overseas successes instead. "It is over 10 years since the same company first put on 'The Summer of the Seventeenth . Doll," and I don't think that in these 10 years we have made any great pro gress in furthering an indigenous drama in this country," he said. "The responsibility is everyone's, from the repertory companies to the amateur theatre." If there was a much more vibrant attack in trying to find Australian plays at all levels in the Australian theatre, there would be a much more vibrant theatre at this 'moment. The promise of "The Summer of the Seventeenth Doll" has not come to fruition, and it was lying right at the feet of the theatre com panies. Mr. Robertson said the theatre was not fulfilling its mission until it found Australian plays and put them on, because it was only through these that theatre people could develop all their abilities. It was better to work with a script which had not been done before, because there was a great sense of achievement in bringing it alive for the first time. Australian plays had to come from people who ' really wanted to write them, produce - them, and act in them. "Until we contribute something to and have a voice in international theatre we will never do anything for Australian theatre," he said. "When we can take our work over seas there will be a great develop ment of understanding of interna tional trends." Mr. Robertson pointed out that some overseas play successes like "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" had attracted big audiencess, which had not stayed with the theatre, because, he thought, the public was not aware of the background of development of such plays. Mr. Robertson said he felt theatre critics had been wrong in failing to note that "Bandicoot on a Burnt Ridge" had to be put op with only three weeks for rehearsals. "In the USA they have two months for rehearsals and a season on the roads where miracles can happen," he said. "Here we open cold and we are 'critted' on the standards of a play that comes from overseas, that has an incubation period." He said he felt amateur theatres could help by putting on Australian plays before they were presented professionally. There was a great need for an experimental theatre. The. TV industry could help it, if there were a proper quota system making it obligatory to present a certain number of Australian plays. 