 [?] "STOP UNJUST IMMORAL WAR!" ® Public futures attack Govt. "The wear in Vietnam is an immoral and unjust war — a further attempt by the West to impose its way on an Asian land,1" said leading Sydney Methodist the Rev. Alan Walker last Saturday. PEAKING to a large audience over Sydney television in a 2\ hour "teach- in" on Viet nam, Mr. Walker demanded "disengagement" from the war. Tins and another "teach-in" at Melbourne's Monash University step ped up the great public debate on Vietnam policy that is moving through Australia, putting the Men- zies Government and its apologists on the defensive. Mr. Walker, Professor E. Wheel wright (Sydney University), Dr. J. F.- Cairns, MHR, Professor W. McMahon Ball and others in these two debates carried the discussion to the point of basic challenge to the whole, aim and nature of the American-Australian war policy. Indefensible Other points from speakers in cluded:-— Mr. Walker: "The war is indefen sible, like the Boer War and the invasion of Suez/ "It is appalling and immoral to ravage other lives, to treat Vietnamese people's bodies as a shield to protect Australian bodies?. For 25 years, they have been tortured, bombed, victims of napalm and their suffering is abysmal. "It's time we took a few risks for peace, instead of these inter minable, deadly risks of war. "The USA and Australia should offer to withdraw from Vietnam on certain conditions." Charnel house Professor E. L. Wheelwright (Sydney University): "The whole world knows that the South Vietnam Government is a puppet government that, wouldn't last a day without US support. They are a military dictatorship represent ing nobody but themselves. "The USA are there are at their own request. "Escalation could lead to a racial war of whites against the colored people - of South-East Asia. "Such a war couldn't be won without dropping atomic bombs. This would turn Asia into a charnel house. The West would then stink in Asia for :a hundred years. "The greatest myth ever spread is that if some country 2,000 miles away 'goes Communist' millions of yellow men will come down on Australia. "There will inevitably be some kind of national Communist regime in Asia in the future. The alternative is a- military crusade of the kind advocated by. Mr. Santamaria, which would involve us in a conflagration for 100 years and we would be worse . off than ever." Old struggle Dr. J. Cairns, MHR, who spoke at Monash and also in Sydney: "The "MehziOs Government is committing generations of Australians yet unborn into conflict ; with Asia, yet - doesn't care . enough about the Vietnamese people to haVe any come to Australia/'. tXu, tontiniied 2' Leading Sydney Methodist minis ter, the Rev. Alan Walker, seen speaking at the first "preach-in" on the Vietnam war, before 500 people at the State Theatre last Sunday. He condemned the "unjust" Vietnam war (see next column). Bishop J. Moyes (Anglican) said the Prime Minister was "quite wrong" in his attitude to the war. "UNJUST, IMMORAL WAR" Continued from Page 1 The Vietnamese national inde pendence movement had begun 70 years ago. The former South Vietnam president, Diem, had been to blame for the war which the USA was extending. Dr. Cairns said he could "ho longer go along with the belief that the US President's actions are in the interests of peace." Mr. B. A. San tarn aria opened his speech with a long attack on Dr. Cairns and made no reference to the views or sufferings of the Vietnamese people. Mr. Santamaria said Australia should intervene in any country within 3,000 miles of Australia to assist forces fighting Communism. Professor F. May (Sydney Univer sily), a conscientious objector in j World War II, said that "if we allow j the development of the Vietnam war, J spjneona .will make a decision ,tQ release nuclear war, on the basis of an ideal. "I don't believe it is better to be dead than Red or Blue. We have a right to remain human," he said. "Wc are condemning ourselves to nuclea: destruction." Professor W. McMahon Ball, at Monash: "External Affairs Ministei Hasluck ignored the viewpoint ot the Vietnamese people. "The fact that we don't know what the South Vietnamese people want doesn't entitle us to decide for them," he said. "If they prefer Communism, they should be allowed to choose it. It would be cowardice for Australians to retreat to the 19th jpentury policy of reliance on our Western friends "There is only one way forward- achieving good working relations not only with the West but also with 