 V / ' 7 / ;5BIi -!: 4;M/at;rfSi 1 1. ft;Hlll . > . : ' SiWI6BplilS88lBSIEI®SKSIl6li8illl®lS8ll8S®SiBlBlli8, ' ' - ' 7., . - "- "'" '" ; -'— '-- - .- i:---.---':.?' r--':-v.v.-..t.,i.-.,:x.>>l' -v— L jvUw:.je,-r;Sv:.w:.«.t. .-r,--..- A.u«.V :ir>i:.-.vti.I..,f.-=.;.'!_f;.. .v,V.->ji_.. Wo.t- :;.:-'C-">:":'!l.:,;;J;J--i!ft,Z-:-i 1 D.L.P. EXPOSED AS LIB. FRONT Five national leaders of the Democratic Labor Party have exposed, as never before, the fact that the DLP is no more than a Liberal Party front. This is the main significance of the letter sei?t last week to New South Wales Roman Catholic priests, brothers and nuns by DLP leaders Senator Cole, Senators - elect Gair (Queensland) and McManus (Victoria) t and NSW President Davis and Secretary Kane. The letter openly sought to organise a Catholic vote in support of State Liberal leader Askin's offer of State subsidies to Catholic and other private schools. IT also denounced the Labor Government's plan of aid to these schools, a policy which essentially violates traditional Labor policy. At the same time the letter has been immediately rebuffed by the NSW Catholic Church hierarchy, whose long-standing: policy the DLP leaders knowingly violated in their | desperate efforts to win votes for ! the Liberals. S Dr.W. Murray, of Sydney's Cathol- j ic Information Bureau, said this week j that Catholics should "follow their I own consciences" in voting. | The NSW Liberals themselves are j deeply split over the opportunist use I by Askin and Liberal Party top of- | ficials of the State aid issue as a j vote-catching bait. A secret rebel, group, the "Preserva- I tion of Liberal Rights Committee" in- j eluding MLAs and party executive » members last week circularised Lib- I eral party members throughout the j State and this week were reported to j be mass-leaf leting swinging seats. The . circular said that Askin's : j direct State-aid promise was oppos- i. . ed to Liberal Party policy, as laid down by its State Council, j This means that the DLP call for j support for the Liberals is not even based on established Liberal policy, |. but merely used the temporary State- j. aid issue as a pretext for. support of | the general, pro-monopoly Liberal I policy. - . . : S The DLP leaders' gamble throws harsh light on the role of the DLP | in the political field, and of its part-. | ner, the National Civic Council, which i sponsors candidates in trade union elections and other fields. Both organisations advance policies of nuclear armament, full support for j US aggressive war against Asian nations such as Vietnam, strengthen- ' ing of anti-union penal laws, and op position to higher wage demands. The DLP and NCC have posed as part of the labor movement, but now stand revealed as labor-splitting or gans, representing the Liberals and their monopoly backers. Exposed with them are such ALP extreme rightwingers as Senator P. Kennelly who, a few months ago, angered the labor movement by pub licly demanding negotiations for unity between the ALP and DLP. Kennelly, WA Labor leader Hawke, and others inside the ALP who openly or quietly supported such a move will now have to explain their own attitude to the Liberal Party. Meanwhile the movement against all forms of State subsidisation of private schools, already strongly sup ported by teachers' and other educa tion bodies, has been strengthened by formation by Sydney public figures of an Association for the Preservation of Public School Education. A Communist Party NSW spokes man said this week that the Party's view, and that of the Labor move ment traditionally, was that educa tion should be free, compulsory and secular, with religious instruction treated with respect as an individual question. Public funds can be spent only on the government school sec tor. 