 Keep Australia out ! Statement by the Political Committee, Communist Party of Australia. all patriotic Austra lians should act now to save the nation from a serious threat to its pre sent and future security. The crisis we face is not caused by outside aggression, but by the reckless decision to commit Australia completely to American imperialism's un just war against Vietnam. This decision has already aroused widespread public protests, criticism and opposition, which will grow into a mass movement. The labor movement has unanim ously opposed sending Australian troops. Many other public figures have voiced opposition, concern and doubts. Those who oppose the decision have diverse opinions on the nature, cause and solution of the Vietnam war, but there is common ground for action by all opponents of the Government's desperately dangerous action. This action, like the US interven tion it supports, is a flagrant breach of international law and morality, of solemn international agreements and of the United Nations Charter. It - exposes present and future genera tions of Australians to condemnation by Asian and world opinion for complicity in the 'American war against an Asian people ' by mass bombing, use of napalm, gas and chemical warfare. Not one important Asian nation supports the US war or Australian intervention. The few Asian govern ments which support US policy are either corrupt and undemocratic like those of Thailand and South Korea, or face near-unanimous public op position, as in Japan. Menzies' undeclared war against Vietnam condemns Australia to in ternational isolation. So far, Aus tralia is the only power even in the US-inspired SEATO to support US Vietnam policy to the hilt by com mitting its sons to the conflict. Two SEATO members, Prance and Pakis tan, are completely opposed to the US war. Even in the United States itself, public opinion is mOre and more swinging against Johnson. Australian troops in Vietnam can not alter the military situation. The Vietnamese people have al ready demonstrated that their cour- age and determination to be free are more than a match for the numerical and material military advantage of the United States forces and the South Vietnam puppet regime. The US Government tried to con fine its role to sending equipment and "advisers", but failed to make it a war of Asian against Asian. South Vietnamese puppet troops are playing a diminishing part In the war. American sources now admit "a Vietcong victory could come in a matter of weeks, or even days, with out the gigantic support now coming from Washington." (SMH, 5/5/65). The US Government claims it is fighting to "stop the Communists." In fact, it is now a colonial war against Asians, and Menzies would make Australia share the guilt and opprobrium. The people of South Vietnam are fighting against US ag gression for national independence and democracy. The Americans now threaten fur ther "escalation". For. years, South Vietnamese generals have been urg ing invasion of the North. This is now reported as imminent. ' Menzies' arguments for Australian intervention really boil down to one —that Australia must keep on-side with the United States, that the only possible foreign policy is "America, right or wrong." The Communist Party rejects this, advocating a completely opposite, genuinely Australian foreign policy, built on peace and friendship with Asia. On the crucial Vietnam issue, such a policy has as its main points: Australia to keep out of the un-. just -war in Vietnam. ® Australia to call for strict ob servance of the Geneva Agree ment and withdrawal of all for eign troops from Vietnam. Op pose bombings of the Democra tic Republic of Vietnam and moves to extend the war. Apply the principle of self-deter mination to Vietnam, allowing South Vietnamese people freely to choose their own government and create conditions for the unification of the artificially divided nation. All who oppose the Government's policy should consider all the im plications of the US alliance. The Labor Party's opposition to sending troops to Vietnam is a welcome and positive contribution. However, Mr. Calwell's continued acceptance of the basic elements of US policy in Asia weakens and limits this contribution. It leads to acceptance of lying American propa ganda about "aggression from the North," of the US "right" to be in Vietnam, and of US bombings. In the course of the continuing op position to intervention by Austra- i lian troops, the labor movement and other patriots will see more clearly the dangers arising from Australian endorsement of US policy, and reject American claims to act as the world's policeman. Events on two sides of the world, in Vietnam and the Dominican Repr ublic, show that world opposition is . growing to American arrogance. All Australians should seriously consider the effects of Australian intervention in Vietnam upon the domestic economic and political situation. Democratic rights are already threatened. Extremist, undemocratic elements in the Government parties are already calling for an "anti- Communist' witch-hunt and repres sive action, certainly not only aimed at- the Communist Party. The aim is to whip up a jingo atmosphere for an attack on the whole labor movement, on academic freedom, freedom of the press and free speech. This was the reason for the 1960 Crimes Act amendments, arming the Government with un precedented powers to suppress op position to its foreign policy. Conscription was introduced be cause the Government already plan ned this intervention, demanded three years ago when Dean Rusk visited Australia. Australian con scripts will very soon have to be sent to replace the inevitable casual ties. The deteriorating economic situa tion will be worsened' as the burden of paying for the Australian war against Vietnam is added to already increased war expenditure. ! In this hour of crisis, the Com- j munist Party calls for a vigorous movement of opposition to the Men zies Government. The campaign to oppose the sending of- Australian troops must continue until the deci- j sion is reversed. | Those who fight this decision are | acting for the progress, development s and security of Australia. They are | acting for peace and freedom. They | are acting for the independence of | all nations threatened by US im- 1 perialism, and above all for Austra- | lian independence. » | 