 There is more to the basic wage case than meets the eye eJ Tribune Industrial Correspondent ANY idea that the current basic wage claim of the ACTU is going to be easily ivon is. now dispelled. The extent of the employers' case against the unions' claim and in sup port of their own claim for a total wage and the vigor with which it is being argued has done this. When the Menzles Government adds its voice to the employers' opposition the dream of a "walk-over" win for the unions will be finally shattered. This dream and some dissatisfac tion amongst workers with the small amounts claimed by the ACTU — 9/- to 13/- a week increase — has so far retarded development of a cam paign in support of the ACTU claims. This state of affairs should be ended. Winning of 3 weeks' annual leave in 1963 and the £1 increase in the basic wage in 1964 were marked by a wide spread and vigorous campaign which clearly demonstrated support by the workers for the claims before the Arbitration Commission. I The same thing is required in re- j lation to the current claims, j The amounts claimed bv the ACTU I are well below the sum needed to j meet the workers' needs. But active ! and vigorous support for this claim ! does not in any way prevent workers j from making claims on their employ- | ers for larger amounts or restrict j activity in support of such larger j claims! | In fact, ail round the Cominon- | wealth this process is already going on. j Effect on margins I Failure now to demonstrate wide- spread support for the ACTU claims I at present before the Commission s could be taken as showing some in- | difference by workers to wa&lt;e | increases, hinder the development of j other claims and weaken a campaign I needed later this year in support of j a demand for general increases in ' margins. J In fact if the employers' total wage case succeeds, there will not be a margins case later this year. The current basic wage claim of the ACTU is deliberately limited to re storing the basic wage to the pur chasing power it had in June last year. This tactic was adopted for the following main reasons: Last year the Commission made a full review of the basic wage and in June, 1964, increased it by £1 per week. This was the first full review since 1961 and the first increase since then. There appeared no basis for further full review of the basic wage this year, and if the unions sought such a review it would not succeed. In fixing what it called a new "real wage" the Commission said it could be afforded until the next full review. © The Commission also said that "a lesser sum would not be just and reasonable" and "it would be inequit able ... to allow the basic wage to erode through price movements . . ." © Price movements since June, 1964, have eroded the basic wage by amounts ranging from 9/- to 13/- per week. This is a simple case based upon the Commission's own decision last June. Criticism, and there is plenty, of the small amounts claimed must be made in the light of these facts. But all the criticism cannot alter the fact that this is the unions' claim; it has called forth die full-throated oppo sition of the employers and Menzies Government. Small though the amounts, well based though tne claim, it will not be easily won. The employers have attacked the £1 increase, the reason for it being granted and the practise of the Commission of taking into consideration price ruoie- ments and industry's capacity to pay as shown by over-award payments. Main aims of this attack are to have the Commission revise previous ju g ments and adopt productivity a.> a >o e measure for determining wage lutes. Their "total wage" formula is J means of assisting advocacy of i)o wages — basic wage and marg:n> ' called "productivity". , -m be If their claim succeeds theic »i no further general awaid wng creases this year, neither basic margins, and the basm iwge - main at its present figiny j . juring of price rises since last Jun&lt;- the remainder of 1965. This certainly »«d 5 but end of wage campaign- ,:erence there is no good reason or .ml by workers towards such an he , ot the case at present before Commission. PIERRE'S response to the FA me. Minister's £100 offer for better evening wear 