 [?] thunder' "Black Thunder" by Arna Bontemps (Seven Seas, 7/-.) "THERE are few things in literature Qr in life, more inspiring than the struggle of the oppressed against their op- pressors.; And to no class of human beings does this apply rriore than to the chattel slave. Slavery is the most cruel and brutal form of tyranny ever exercis ed by man over man. Yet it played a progressive part in the evolution of human' society, enabling men to rise above the limitations of tribal society, and paving the way for the ultimate liberation of all mankind from the dual bondage imposed by nature and their fellowmen. The dream of such a liberation has inspired men of goodwill throughout history, and, in a gen eral way, it was this dream which infecting the minds of the masses, accounted for the success of the great French and American Revolu. tions. The latter freed the white Americans from English domina- ation but it allowed the Negro population to remain in chains. In the year 1800, a rebellion against their white masters was organised by the Negro slaves in the district around the town of Richmond, Virginia. The rebellion was abortive, because it could not be anything else in the circum stances, and the rebel slaves with many innocents who had not re belled, were slaughtered in the sadistic and self-righteous way typical of a frightened ruling class. Seven Seas publishers have re issued the novel, "Black Thunder" — based on this historical event— by American writer, Arna Bontemps The leader of the uprising is a big, powerfully built, illiterate slave called Gabriel. Significantly, he burns with the _ desire to free not only himself but all his fellow- slaves, showing that vision beyond self which is so vital for leadership. In spite of his ignorance, he con ceives a well-thought-out plan for the seizure of the town of Rich mond, with its 6,000 population, by some eleven hundred slaves. A first attempt is frustrated by un expected rain, and a second attempt is betrayed by a frightened and cowardly slave. The only chance of survival for the rebels is to escape to the north, but Gabriel, with his fierce pride and independence, and his con sciousness of being the "general" of the rebel army, refuses to run away. For some weeks he lives in a state of hunted freedom, and eventually surrenders rather than take his chance of escaping. The author makes it clear that the uprising was encouraged by the ideas and ideals of the French Jacobins, but most of all by the re bellion of the famous Toussaint in San Domingo. It is hardly to be expected that these ignorant and illiterate slaves would have known what to do when they had seized power, or would have realised that the combined force of the whole American state apparatus, if necessary, would have been set in motion to crush them. Nor does the author in any way suggest that the leaders had thought beyond the seizure of , power and the abstract idea of free- . dom. i —RAY WILLIAMS. [?] 