 UK Govt, reaps whirlwind "J"HE British Government's resort to a military dictator ship in Aden this week marks the rapid development of the British foreign policy crisis which the Wilson Labor Gov ernment has been unable to halt. Main reason is that it is follow ing the same policy as its Tory predecessors. In recent weeks this has led to disintegration of Malaysia and a crisis in relations with India and Pakistan. In Aden, one-man rule by a British official is a reversion to the vaked imperialism of the nineteenth entury. This is the Government's answei to Aden's objection to being forced into a "South Arabian Federation'' like the abortive "Central African Federation," the "West Indies Federation," which both collapsed before they got started, and the Malaysian Federation, which Singa pore left last month. In a South Arabian Federation the militantly anti-colonist Aden workers would be outvoted and subjugated by the surrounding Arabian sheikdoms, creatures of British colonialist intrigues. The Labor Government's "get tough" policy with Aden is accom paiiied by crawling subservience to the racialist rulers of Rhodesia who are openly threatening to cast ofl the last vestiges of British control by an illegal proclamation of theii "independence" — which means theii unrestricted apartheidist domination over the African majority in their country. While they brazenly thumb theii noses at Whitehall, the democratic Adenis who seek genuine independ ence are given the old gunboat treatment. Meanwhile , the Pakistan-India con flict marks the collapse of British imperialist influence in both coun tries. End of the Resj Says London New Statesman writer Victor Anant in the issue of September 17: "Perhaps the greatest tragedy is that Britain cannot exert the slightest influence in either country. September, 1965, not 1947, is the real end of the Raj." Only way of restoring, not the Raj," but a positive relationship, would be a return by the Labor Government to the policy of sup port for national independence, and - peaceful co-existence which was promised in Labor election cam paign in October 1964 