 [?] HEROIC STORY OF FREEDOM RIDE' f Tribune Special Correspondent When the full story is fold ©f the Sydney students' "Freedom Hide" ©gainst raee dis- crimination in Nlew South Wales ©©untry towns it will shake a lot ©f peaple« It will reveal shameful treatment of Aborigines by local RSL leaders and other "upper crust" groups, police, health authorities and government admin istrators. It will also arouse widespread pride m the courage and dignity with which the young students and the local Aboriginal people, young and old, have joined hands to expose racial oppression and hysteria. I met the students in Moree when they had already" become a national and international news-sensation, after the attempt by a young hooligan to wreck their bus at night on the Walgett-Moree road. I (jgarned .some of the things that have not always come out cleatly in the daily press. For example, when the 30 students set out from Sydney at midnight on February 12, Negro folk-song and dance per formers of the "Go Tell It on the Mountain" stage company farewelled them, leading the singing of "We Shall Overcome" — an anthem of the Negro civil rights movement in the United States. QNE of the main things about the students' expe dition has been that their visits have encouraged many of the Aboriginal people to stand up for their rights. They have also encouraged many among the white popu lation who want to get rid of discrimination, and have won more over to this viewpoint. This was demonstrated in the ex periences in both Walgett and Moree. In Walgett, where 900 of the 3,000 inhabitants are Aborigines,, hundreds of people, white and Aborigine, joined in discussion of the discrimination issue, during the seven-hour demon stration by the students outside the Returned Servicemen's Club (which refuses membership to Aborigines). In Moree, the students played an important part in a combined opera tion that has thrown a clear spot light on the activities of a powerful, bigoted minority in this town. Cover-up Events of the last few days have shown that this minority, like their counterparts in Walgett, have worked hard to cover up their own racism and dodge the publicity. For example, they have tried to soft- pedal the exclusion of Aboriginal chil dren from the Moree swimming pool, as laid down in a Moree Council Ordinance dated June 6, 1955, What is not public knowledge is that this offending color-bar Ordin ance, which the student demonstra tions challenged, was REAFFIRMED by the Council at its meeting last week, February 18. It is reported that the only member to oppose it was the Mayor, Alderman W. Lloyd. The Ordinance which applies also to the Council's Memorial Hall is worth quoting from the 1955 .minutes: "3. Patronage of Baths and Memorial Hail. "that no person, being a full-blooded or half-caste aboriginal native of Australia, _ or being a person appar ently having an admixture of abori ginal blood, shall use or occupy, or be present in or upon, or be allowed or permitted or invited to use or occupy or be present in or upon the premises of the Council known as the Memorial Hall, or in or upon any of the buildings or places ancillary there- Confinued on Page 12 ABOVE: Students demonstrate outside Moree Council Chamb ers last week against.Ordinance. barring Aborigines from use of its swimming pool and mem orial hall. Later they demon strated outside, the pool. Moree authorities claimed the law was to maintain hygiene. LOWER PICTURE of a group of typical Aborigine school children at Moree sharply .refutes such slanders. 'FREEDOM RIDE' Continued from Page 1 to, including the supper-room, kitchen scrvery, toilets and passages. "AND THAT no such person as afore said shall use or occupy, or be pre sent in or upon or be allowed or per mitted to use or occupy or be present in or upon the premises of the Coun. cil known as the Bore Baths, or in or upon any of the buildings or places enclosed therewith." Tnat Ordinance was Originally re- vf- commended by the 1955 Council Works Committee; and moved by Alderman Col. Robinson, seconded by Aid. T. Doyle (deceased) and carried unanim ously by: the Mayor (Aid. A. Sadlier) and Aid. W. T. Tait, J. Hawkins, A. D. Gildersleeve, A. Bulluss and J. K. Boland (deceased). Last, week, when the students arriv ed in Moree, they investigated condi tions of Aborigines at the segregated State Government "reserve" as they had done at other places of call- Wellington, Dubbo, Gulargambone and Walgett. Facts gained in these surveys, in cluding very bad housing, police brut ality and ill-treatment of Aboriginal children, will bear a lot of looking into. They made a check of the council regulations and had an interview with the Mayor, Mr. W. Lloyd, Alderman Jones and a council staff man, and learned of the ten year old Ordin ance. During that day, the students de monstrated at the . Council Chamber, then at the baths and were able to secure the entry of 31 Aboriginal chil dren into the baths. That night came a most important development for Moree. Several -hundred Moree citizens, with ex- alderman R. Brown prominent am ong them, held a public meeting which, after some disruption by. a segregationist minority, overwhelm-, ingly carried a motion calling for an end to the bath ban. Mr. Brown has consistently opposed the Council's policy on this issue. The students were present at the meeting, and their capable and cour ageous leader, Mr. Charles Perkins, was a speaker there, but basically it was a public meeting of Moree people. Violence Such developments far outweighed - the disgraceful attempts of a frenzied minority to copy the violence of the US Southern States so as to terrorise the students and local citizens, partic ularly the Aborigines. This was seen in Moree, last Satur day, when the students were pelted with rubbish and some suffered phy sical violence, from the mobsters dur ing the final demonstration at the swimming pool. But the demonstra tors won the day when they extracted the pledge from Mayor Lloyd to move to rescind the color-bar Ordinance. More serious was the attempted murder on the Walgett-Moree road which the chartered bus driver, Bill Pakenham, described to me this way: "We left Walgett at approximately 10 p.m. for Moree. About 3-4 miles out, we were overtaken by a truck travelling at high speed. It swung in front braking, causing me to swerve v the bus to the left to avoid a collision. "This was repeated twice more. On the third time, I was unable to avoid a collision and the bus and truck col lided. "The bus was forced over the em bankment. This was 3£ to 4 feet high on an angle of about 45 degrees. The bus could quite easily have rolled, and I had to steer down the embank ment to prevent that happening. The bus stopped about 100 yards further oh and about 30 yards off the road." Mr. Packenham said that they could quite easily have been killed and was surprised at the way the local news papers played the whole thing down. He might well have added surprise that most people feel that the police, after getting the full facts of the at tack, did not press charges against the culprit. 