 THE EVICTION WILLIAM McCHESNEY MARTIN JNR., chairman of the American Federal Reserve System, said in June that "we find disquieting similarities between our present prosperity and the fabulous '20's." He said that the boom could tumble into a 1929-type depression if the leaders of the US economy did not have a lot closer look at reality.. What was it like to live in Australia during the hungry '30's? . JIM HAWKINS, a Sydney writer, lived and fought through them with his family and fellow militants. He has written a series of articles entitled "Turning the Pages" . . . pen pictures of incidents and characters, the laughter and bitterness of those days. CLICKING over the pages of the past can be a very pleasurable pastime. Some times it can be a little sad, too. Especially when we come across a faded picture of some of the old gang that have passed on. Or have they passed on? I prefer to fancy that, like the 'old soldiers', they have just faded away. Now this page for instance. Dated around 1930— or there abouts. What a beauty!. An eviction fight in full swing. The law of the land has arrived at the decision that this poor bug ger — never mind his name — and his wife and kids must vacate the premises within fourteen days, be tween the hours Of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m That was the Law then. Later, of course, they streamlined i.t a bit and there were no specific hours or times — as long as you were chucked into the street. (Once the bloke and his missus and kids were on the foot-path, the same coppers that.bustied them out began bustling them about cluttering up a Public Street and being a Public nuisance. (Such unfortunates usually finish ed up in a place we called 'Happy Valley.') Remember? But as I stated, before, in the beginning there was this law with definite times for the coppers to operate — 9 a.m. till 4 p.m. for a specified 14 days as laid down by the 'Beak'. And that is the page we're look ing at now. ? This eviction is well under way. It is the tenth day of. the Court Order and the unemployed pickets are here in force. There are batches of tough-look ing blokes here and there mock ing around the place. The woman and her kids have been taken to, a neighbour's home. Therv are several big heaps of blue metal lying around' in handy places and a lot of nice pieces of 3 x 2 with leather bands to fit over a man's wrist. All the tough looking jokers are wearing hats with improvised chin- straps. If you see inside these hats you'd find in each several folds of motor- tube, or in some cases, a good thick copy of the evening paper. Both these articles had, by bitter experience, proved very efficient "shock absorbers". As one bloke dryly put it, "It didn't fully stop the "blow of the copper's baton — but it deadened the thud a bit." The adjacent neighbours were involved to no small extent in the eviction, too. Promptly, at about a quarter to nine each morning, they'd solemnly hang portable wooden shutters over their windows and glass doors. The pickets weren't too fussy about their aim when the cops showed up. AH in all though, the neighbours were a great lot of people. Some of them used to be pretty regular with . a big billy of tea— and sometimes a plate of scones or cake. I remember big Barney who was with my platoon. We were guard ing the rear of the house. We had plenty of barbed wire tangled around the place— and plenty of blue metal. A timid little woman next door fed us pretty regularly with scones and tea. Cripes, she could make scones al right! And scones were Barney's favourite fruit. Every day she asked the same nervous question. "Do you think they'll come to day?" To which Barn, his mouth full of hot scone, always replied. "Cripes, I hope not Missus." I. could never make out whether he was scared of ,the cops, or just worried that the supply of scones would cut out. But the allotted time was running out. . It was now the last day, the day the Court .Order had expired. And so, today's the day. , "Eash passing- minute brings closer the inevitable police rush. Scouts and "Cockatoos", report every sus picious move within a mile radius of the place. Veterans of several eviction struggles are repacking their "shock absorbers". The young, blokes, mostly on their first eviction, are naturally nervous and a bit jumpy. Big Barney, a veteran campaigner, is trying to instill some confidence into a new recruit. "No, not that way," as the kid tried to arrange his "shock- absorber". " 'Ere look." Barney removed his own hat and tightened the chin- strap. "Here," he handed the kid a piece of wood — "Give her a bump," he said. 'Show you what I mean— everything depends on the way you fold the motor tube." The kid was a bit dubious but he gave Barn a decent rap over the skull. Barney just grinned. "See what I mean?" he said, "nothin' — just a dull thud." "Here," he said his head invitingly towards, the young bloke. "Bump her again." The kid "bumped her" and Bar ney slid quietly to the ground. Slowly he stretched his legs as though he'd found his final resting place. ? It took a full ten minutes to re vive him. When at last his eyes opened and he realised where he was, he glared around and demanded, "What's up with that bastard, anyway? Who did he think I was, the chief of bloody police?" To make matters worse, the young bloke had taken fright, jumped the fence and left. . So we were playing a man short. It was getting close to 4p.m. and our thin, red line was very thin indeed. A lot of blokes had just faded away during the afternoon. No one blamed them really. They were mostly young, married fellows With kids and no job and less prospects. Tomorrow or next week it could be their own loved ones facing the eviction threat. They had enough trouble without risking a stretch in the "Peter". Some . of the neighbours began to take down the wooden shutters and everybody knew is was close to time. Close to victory, too. For fourteen long days the unem ployed had picketed a mate's home against the might of the law. For fourteen days they'd turned up on time and knocked off on time. They'd seen it through. Now it was over and everybody was breathing a bit easier. The woman and kids could come back now, for a while, anyway. But how were we to know they'd found some loophole in the law — that they would swoop within' the next few days and throw the woman and her kids on to the street. That they'd arrest her . husband and charge him with having in his possession quantities of barbed wire and blue metal reasonably believed to have been stolen . I MAGAZINE BACKGROUND 