 Australian troops to fight Malay patriots i I Arrests by the Rahman government of leading political oppon- | ents reveal more clearly than before that the Malaysian regime, ' which | the Menzies government is supporting, has been imposed on j the people. |N making the arrests, Premier Tunku Abdul Rahman ad mitted the existence of what he called "as sizeable fifth col umn", that is, a powerful op position. However in denouncing the Malayan Labor Party last week for proposing negotiations with Indonesia, Rahman made it plain that he regarded this proposition as "disloyal" and it may be his so-called "fifth columnists" are guilty of nothing worse. They are not hole-and-corner con spirators but political leaders of both the Left and Right who have important followings. Altogether seven opponents are now held by Rahman. Those arrested last Friday were the President of the (Rightwing) , Pan- Malayon Islamic Party (Dr Al-Hemi), the President of the National Concen- tion Party (Abdsl Aziz ben Ishak) and the former chairman of the (Leftwing) Socialist Front (Ishak Hadji Moham med). Arrested three days earlier were Dato Kamp Radjo, former state parliament arian in Selangor, Dato Rajo Hanifah, vice-president of the Pan Malayan Is lamic Party, Hussain Bin Yacok, journ alist on the important paper Utusan Melayu and Rais Ammar, a leading member of the Socialist Front (of which the Malayan Labor Party is the leading unit). - Nobody believes that these influential figures are really "traitors" who would assist an invader. They are the elected leaders of thousands of Malayans. At the same time Rahman announced the growth of what he oalled "sub version" in Kanowit (Sarawak) and ordered further suppresive measures there. To suppress patriots This concerns Australia, since Aus tralian troops are stationed in Sarawak and the Rahman Government, through Defence Minister Paltridge, is appar ently asking for more. According to an Indonesian news- agency report quoted by the Soviet TASS newsagency, the struggle for the independence of North Kalimantain (northern Borneo) which includes Sara wak "is growing daily". Almost every night, saye the report, Kalimantan . guerrillas raid the British troops' positions," capturing large quantities of arms. . Anti-Government leaflets urging an end to British rule in north Kaliman tan and the right to self-rule for the people appeared recently in Jessalton, Sabah, and other north Borneo towns, it adds. The British colonial administration is fighting back with terrorism. Patriots \ are being thrown into concentration J camps, says the report. \ London New Statesman expert on Far J Eastern affairs Dorothy Woodman calls | on the' British Labor Government to I stop propping iip Rahman and, instead j to "start talking" with Indonesia. | Rahman, she says "merely stands i for a feudal society, underpinned by I British financial and military | strength. t "The West has a long and unhappy f experience of supporting rulers who do | not represent the modern climate of Asian opinion. Has Whitehall learnt no- f thing from French experience with Bao | Dai or America disillusion about Syng- g man Rhee and a succession of Viet- I namese rulers?" | Neo-colonialist J A Labor Government, says Miss I Woodman, cannot really believe in a I Palmerstonian policy; "diplomacy by 2 V-bombers and helicopters and a vast ! concentration of naval strength — the \ greatest since the Korean war — must j appear to many Asians as a neo- &lt; colonialist trial of strength, utterly in- 1 congruous with the early liberation | policy of Labor in south east Asia." j A war. would be utterly disastrous, ! Miss Woodman adds. "It would com- j pletely destroy the image that Britain, j and especially Labor, has built up. ® "And whatever London decides, J Kuala Lumpur, which is in fact if not J in theory, wholly dependent on j Britain, is in no position to turn down." In an editorial headed "Indonesia is j not our Enemy" The Australian news- j paper says Australia is ' not arming I "merely in order to allow military pos turing to replace diplomatic activity and a genuine attempt to understand ! what is going on in Indonesia." . A new chance of negotiation was j offered by Indonesian foreign office spokesman Harsono who said in Bang- I kok on Sunday that "confrontation" of j Malaysia would stop as soon as British : forces pulled out of the area. j British imperialism remains the ob- j staile to setltement. Miss Woodman's j New Statesman article accuses the Tory j British Government of having sabo- j taged an agreement last July. : The Philippine president, she says. ! drew up a formula which appealed to I both Indonesia and Malaysia and the dispute would have been referred to an ! Afro-Asian conciliation commission "if | the Tunku, relying on British approval, j had not laid down impossible condi- ! tions". | Rahman is also, of course, relying on j Australian troops, a situation unwel- ' come to Australian peace supporters, I 1 ' ' ' A. I 