 1500 say "Stop the war !" YDNEY: A protest against the dispatch of Australian troops to Vietnam was the common theme of the five speakers and the chairman at last Sunday's Forum on Australia and Asia in the (lower) Sydney Town Hall. From 1000 to 1500 people attended the forum, after a march by 1000 through the city streets. Professor Frederick May, professor of Italian at Sydney University, said dispatch of the troops reflected the futility and failure of the government dispatching them. - If this was ' the way we treated Asians, there could be no accommoda tion between them and Australians. We should have the right to deter mine our own government and allow Asians the same right. The sending of m?rPS-Tvas a brutal way of imposing our will on them. "r>ocf-eSSOr May' who said he was a sSnerior paCflst'V said there were no. superior or. inferior races. - in theTac?" t?lat the western allies' he last war would have hesitated to drop on a. European country the A-bomb which was dropped on Japan. "Australia should realise that Viet namese people may want to adopt a way of life which would be unaccept able in this country" added Profes sor May. "We have to have the courage to live with other ideas, however offen sive they may be." Attacking materialism in Australia, Professor May said there was "an unfortunate link" between America's view of Australia and Australia's participation in the Vietnam war. He thought the need for radicalism was . "one of the most crying needs in Australia today". Conformity meant death — "a com munity needs a constant revolution from within". In the despatch of troops for Vietnam there was too much of the feeling that "Daddy knows best". Mr. Francis James, publisher of The .Anglican, said Vietnam had won in dependence in 939 AD and kept it, with an interval of a few years, till the French arrived in 1867. After. 1954 the French presence was followed by ah American- one. Diem, an American puppet, had been fol lowed by a series of comic-opera gen erals. These turned out to be dead ducks, none of whom would fly, so the US had- decided to run the country it self. Condemning the troops decision, Mr. James said: "We must not inter fere with the affairs of a sovereign state just because we don't like its politics". Mr. W. Leslie, assistant general sec retary of the Teachers' Federation, said the ACTU and the trades union movement opposed the troops deci sion, which damaged or destroyed the chance of building a, bridge between Australia and Asia. Menzies' talk about "barking dogs" showed his contempt for those who opposed him. It came from an elderly politician whose last act was to lead our young people to war against Asians. Mr. Leslie called on all trades uni ons and other community organisa tions to stand up and fight against conscription for overseas service. Miss Helen Palmer, editor of- Out look, said the troops for Vietnam deci- sion had been known in America for a fortnight before it was announced to Australians. Under section 24a" of the Crimes Act, criticism of America could be made punishable by life imprisonment. In America there was a tremendous wave of protest against the war. In Australia there was a growing num ber of very worried people. Discussion must not be ended with the dispatch of the troops, said Miss Palmer. We must continue the strug gle for better relations with Asia. The meeting sent a message of greet ings to Bishop Moyes, whose presence in the chair was prevented by illness. In a message to the meeting Bishop Moyes compared military action against Communism to the mediaeval Christian crusades against Islam, which had condemned Christianity to be almost overrun by Islam and guaranteed Islam a place in history. In Bishop Moyes' absence the chair was taken by Rev. Alan Brand, Methodist Home Mission secretary. A collection taken up by Mrs. Phyl lis Latona realised £372. Young people were very prominent in the march from Hyde Park. Cam- paign for Nuclear Disarmament mem bers were effective with their black unifbrm tunics and shouted slogans. Building workers and Waterside workers were prominent among the unionists and district peace commit tees included those from Canterbury and Manly-Warringah. For further Vietnam protest stories see page 12- Professor F. May 