 Wants to wreck waterfront talk The president of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, Mr. A. Monk, has accused the Federal Labor I Minister (Mr. McMahon) of trying to wreck the I official talks on waterfront problems. MR-. MONK reacted strong- j ly to utterances made I by Mr. McMahon at a rally 3 last Sunday (see story Page I 2) that "Communists on the I waterfront had collapsed" in | the face of the Government's | new wharf legislation. The waterfront conference be tween the unions, employers and j government began in Melbourne ' yes'erday (Tuesday). Mr. Monk said he strongly re-. ; sented Mr. McMahon's "political outpourings on the waterfront issue i n the eve of the all-in conference. | 'Anyone would think by his naive statement that he wanted to 'wreck the possibility of obtaining agreement n waterfront issues rather than see sucess. I n s no now any better equip- Pa to deal with industrial rela- ions than when he first became "Ulster for Labor. in achieved industrially „ ..many cases has to he done in aL-Ci rather than with his distance," Mr. Monk said. Wnv?er? Secretary of the Waterside bon i Fedei'ation Mr. C. Fitzgib- pro;nla:So warned McMahon not to Mr l,waferside workers. I joritv J glbbon said the great ma- I cmmunists ide Workel's /were not rkrfronT fl£iC1ei!ce of disputes on the 1 IU did stop after ihe ' introduction of the Federal legisla tion. "It stopped some weeks before that when ,the Federation sub mitted its claims to the ACTU and put these claims under ihe juris diction of the ACTU," he said. Three months ago Mr. McMahon saw "an international Communist copspiracy" behind the widespread union criticism of the Arbitration Commission's basic wage decision. Meanwhile, support for the WWF and opposition to the Gevernment's legislation continues to mount throughout the labor movement. "Won't handle blackmail" " The NSW Executive of the Amal gamated Postal Workers' Union will refuse to handle "black mail unload ed by renegade labor" on the Aus tralian waterfront. A resolution carried at _ a recent meeting of the Executive condemned the Federal Government's water front legislation "as the first step in a planned attack on the entire trade union movement and an attempt to shackle the campaigns for a higher standard of living." "We consider the Government's propaganda against the honesty of members of both the APWU and the Waterside Worker's Federation . as a contemptible and scurrilous at tempt to confuse the public as to the true facts. The Federal Executive of the Un- ion, in consultation with the ACTU is asked to authorise industrial act ion in the event of APWU members being asked to handle mail unloaded by "renegade labor." The NSW Branch of the Liquor Trades Union have produced a leaflet in opposition to the wharf legislation. "Let there he no doubt in the minds of any worker that if the Government is able to implement this vicious anti-union legislation at present directed against the WWF the way will be open for similar attacks on all unions," the leaflet said. The .union said the .concerted ef forts of all unions can and .will' ren- der: the legislation inoperative. 