 [?] WAGES: "NSW unions | should go into action"! I SYDNEY: Sir Richard Kirby's judgment last week , refusing the j unions' wage application „ "gives the Australian Council of Trade I Unions a pat on the back for going back to the Court and gives the j workers a kick in the pants on their wage demands." j "|T is a contemptuous rejec tion of the workers' de mands for increased wages", Mr. P. Clancy, NSW secretary of the Building Workers' In dustrial Union, said: Mr. Clancy was speaking at last Thursday's meeting of Labor Council in support of an amendment that Council declare itself in support of industrial pressure to win wage and salary justice. Three unions, (the BWITJ, Boiler makers' Society, and the Waterside Workers Federation) asked the Labor Council to propose to this week's special meeting of the ACTU that national, State -and/or regional stoppages foe held. The Public Service Association also stressed the need for urgent action to be taken to secure the reintroduc- tion of quarterly cost of living ad justments. A resolution proposed by Labor Council executive expressed strong condemnation of Sir Richard's judge ment- and said that the viewpoints expressed by the four unions be sent to the ACTU executive for con sideration. The amendment submitted by Mr. Clancy drew attention to the dec ision made by the Interstate Exec utive on July 8 which declared in part: "If this approach fails (new applic ation to the Commission), the trade union movement will have no alter native but to seek redress of these wage injustices outside the arbitrat ion system." The amendment sa.id this decis ion "now requires immediate imple mentation by the development of in dustrial action in a planned way by means of mass rallies of dele gates and unionists; national, State and/or regional stoppages of various durations, and other forms of in dustrial pressure." It further asked that Council call on the ACTU executive to prepare such a plan and to this end refers the proposals contained in the cor respondence from the unions to be considered by the ACTU executive. "Need clear-cut NSW lead" Mr. Clancy said the resolution did not meet the gravity of the situation. What is needed is a clear cut lead from this Council. Mr. J. Heffernan (federal secretary of the Metal Trades Federation of unions) supported the amendment. "Metal unions are in the front line of the fight and we have decid ed to press our wage claims with in dividual employers. "Eight unions covering 250,000 workers are absolutely united in this fight." Mr. J. Young (Sydney Branch president WWF) supporting the am endment said; "Nothing is ever won by the trade union movement with out struggle You cannot win by intrigue. The only way to win jus- lice for the working class is by struggle." J Mr J. Kenny (Labor Council secret- j ary and ACTU senior vice-jresident) i said the resolution was moved for j "procedual reasons", i He said "one of the worst things i that happened to us and Renshaw | tex-NSW Premier) was to take the | word of the Court." j The amendment was lest on a i show of hands by 79 votes to 98. / P. CLANCY j 