 India fights hard j aaainst famine i Bv RALPH GIBSON India has lately been involved in two wars— I the war with Pakistan and the war waged by masses of hungry people against starvation. Faced by widespread F drought, with agriculture j at a standstill in many j areas, hundreds of thous- ands of Indians have moved | into action heroically $ Against the hoarders who | control the food market j 1 and who have been charg- 1 i ing higher prices each 1 month. I They have faced the tear gas, lathis and bullets of State Gov- | ernment police, along with the | arrest of thousands in many 1 parts of India. | Famine conditions exist over | wide areas. In some areas | people are digging all day for roots and tubers to eat. About 80 per cent, of rural shops in some areas are without food- grains, and destitute people are flocking to the towns and cities. Reports from two widely separated States, Maharashtra (capital Bombay)' and Bihar' (capital Patna) paint a vivid picture. Dating from early September, the reports show that in Bihar the food struggle is led by the Communist Party of India (CPI ) and the Samyutka Socialist Party (SSP), with the support of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) and the "Marxist Com munist Party" (breakaway from the CPI). A general strike and student strike were held on August 9, with massive . demonstrations in front of government offices. Mass protests followed through out Bihar. Police opened fire on crowds in 14 towns and even called for police assistance from neighboring States. About 3,000 were arrested (mainly , leaders and workers of the CPI and SSP), and several hundred de tained under the "Defence of India Rules" (introduced in 1962 and since used widely to sup press opposition activity). 1 In Maharashtra there is an I "Anti-Starvation C o m m i 1 1 e e" j composed of representatives of the " Peasant Workers' Party, I CPI, SSP and RSP. I It called for a hartal (mOurn- | ing) and demonstration in Kohla- j pur city on August 19. Ten thousand people, including 3,000 | women, -marched to the office | of the "Collector" and were met I with police firing (which killed six) and mass arrests (which amounted to 1,200 by the end of August). Members of all Opposition parties had met in Bombay, | capital of Maharashtra State, on | August 7, and given out the | slogan "No More Starvation j Deaths in the State." On August I 9, 16 MPs started a hunger strike j . in the lounge leading to the two ! halls of the Legislature. Nego- I tiations took place with the I Chief Minister, but he was not prepared to introduce rationing I or guarantee minimum food I requirements to the people. The j MPs therefore continued their I hunger strike, and a hunger I strike was started also by Op- i position members of the City ! Council, while thousands of I textile and other workers march I ed on the Council Hall to present I their demands. I An all-in march on the Council I Hall was called for August 13, | and hundreds volunteered to I defy the police ban on proces- I sions. But the Government, 1 sensing the. public anger, ad- 2 journed Parliament a day early ! rather than face the crowds. The 16 MPs then ended their i hunger strike. The police repressions in India today, are the worst and the most widespread since the British left India 18 years ago. But the unity of the people's forces is greater than for a long time. In Kerala, for example, where the disunity caused by the Marxist Communist Party broke j up what could have been an overwhelming victory of the left forces in the recent State elec tions, there is now a strong united movement for the win- ' ning of three objectives: ade quate supply of food at cheap J prices, a better deal for Kerala | in India's economic planning, j and the release of all those de- S tained without trial under the I "Defence of India" rules. r Unity talks In August talks were held in j .Kerala between the CPI (led in j that State by Achutha Menon), j the Marxist Communist Party j (led by the former CPI general || secretary, E. M. S. Namboodi- || ripad, who is a Kerala citizen), j! the SSP and the RSP. S The CPI had led over 5,000 j people in a month-long hunger I' march and mass satyagrapha F (civil disobedience action) before !| government offices. The RSP j j had organised a demonstration | j of 1,000 people on August 15. || Then, on August 21, the detained j i prisoners (in Kerala these are I mainly Marxist Communist j j Party leaders) went on hunger j| strike. This hunger strike, back- I ed by all the left forces, lasted j six days and forced the granting | of many demands for better jai) | conditions. It was ended on the | joint call of Achutha Menon t Namboodiripad and other leh |g leaders. j| The left parties then Jointly U called a Kerala general strike m and hartal for September 28 and i| met in conference the next day, jg along with trade union an » peasant organisations, to P'a!1 | ,'urther united activity. | The program of the CPI calls -j for: — I All purchases of foodgrains I to be carried out by the Gov- crnment's "Food Corporation. | Pair, and reasonable prices to De fl paid to peasants. 8 Government to take ov \11 accumulated food stocks. n Rationing in all big town. H ,nd cities. . „ H Opening up of relief work m md fair prices shops in fam areas. _ jc 39 Distribution of fallow Ia5 | among laborers and P" » Rationalisation ohanl RALPH GIBSON 