 DLP boosts A-bomb danger and radiation menace to Australia /CANBERRA : The Australian Atomic Weapons Tests Advisory Committee, has re ported that the amount of poisonous radio-active .stron tium in Australia's food is rising and will go on rising for some years — even if no more atomic tests are held. This -varning comes at a time when: e The French Government is preparing 4 hold a new series of hydrogen bomb tests in the Pacific. Holy T&lt;och, Scotland, has been found to have become polluted with radioactivity by the US nuclear submarines using it as a base. © There is talk of basing British nuclear submarines in Darwin be cause of Singapore's withdrawal from Malaysia. © In West Germany the clamor for nuclear weapons with which to start a new war is rising to new heights during the federal election campaign. Hitler's heirs are not now satisfied with the US-sponsored "Multilateral Nuclear Force" and want their own bomb without any qualification or disguise. © In Australia the campaign by top-level scientists, militarists .and DLP politicians for Australia to have its own bomb and thus give new impetus to the atomic arms race continues. "Nuclear deterrent" Democratic T bor Party Senators Gair and McManus last week moved an amendment to the Budget which included a demand that Australia must develop a "nuclear deterrent" of its own. The Australian Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee is chaired by- Professor E. W. Titterton, . Pro fessor of Nuclear Physics at the Australian National University. He is one of those who wants Australia to prepare to make its own nuclear bombs — carrying out, . pre sumably,- the necessary tests for this. Yet his. Committee's report- admits that the amount of cancer-causing Strontium 90, due to atomic test fall-out, in Australia increased from 3.8 units in 1957 to 6.4 units in. 1963 in the Australian diet. For some unknown reason, ..says the report, Strontium 90 gets . into Australian food, particularly milk, twice at quickly as in Britain and the USA. The report has the usual assur ances about how . insignificant this amount really is. But the US Federal Radiation Council has stated: "It is virtually certain that genetic effects can be produced by even the lowest doses." (Quoted in Let There be a World, by Felix Greene.) "Don't know effects" As the London Daily Worker says, more and more scientists are admitting that they just do not know the full effects of radio activity. "The idea of a threshold or safe limit below which there is no danger from radiation is now at least open to doubt," it stated. The Daily Worker was commenting on an admission by the Ministry of Defence on August. 27 that patches of radio-activity from US nuclear submarines have been found on the tidal mudflats of Holy Loch, only 25 miles from Glasgow. The patches were first discovered last April, and have, increased, "more than would have been expected from past experience," the statement ad mitted. The radio-activity had been iden tified as coolant discharge from the submarines' reactor plants." US nuclear submarines have been in Sydney Harbor, and there' are always profuse assurances that nothing can go wrong with them. The Holy Loch admission shows the worth of these assurances. Geneva Meanwhile at Geneva the USSR continues the fight for a treaty to oV\rtlicVi nimlcor Tirnnrinnr o-nrl nnnlcor war, while blocking US -British plans to hand these weapons to the West Germans under a "multilateral nuclear force" schem-\ This is the fact misreported by some Australian dailies under the headline "Reds Reject Nuclear Ban," or something similarly misleading. In fact what is being rejected is a scheme to give ex-Nazi militarists access to horror-weapons in some sort of mixed force.' Suggestions that they will not have immediate and complete con trol of these weapons have led to a frenzied outburst by West German ex-Chancellor Adenauer, speaking for the West German militarists and ultra-Right. He claimed that the Germans .vere being "betrayed." The US' and British drafts for a 'non-proliferation" treaty leave tin ..-ay wide open for a NATO nuclea: orce (with the West Germans par icipating); but, as in the past, the rore Washington and London offer, re mor Bonn demands. Adenauer claimed that the US- .ilish draft treaties would produce st and secn-.d-eirss nr'r ns. He as even more livid over a Cana- dian suggestion at Geneva that Soviet security interests should be considered in planning a NATO nuclear force. Former West German Defence Minister Strauss followed this up by threatening that a new Hitler- style leader might "acquire" nuclear weapons for West Germany if it suffered "discrimination." What sort of war? The sort of war the modern atomaniacs are preparing for is well known but, with their eager help, tends to be forgotten. An ' official American estimate is that the first bombs to land in New York in a nuclear war would kill 6,098,000 people and injure 3,278,000. An exploding H-bomb gives off a flash quicker than an eye can blink. It could burn the eyes of people looking at it from 200 to 300 miles away. (The eyes of rabbits 300 miles away were burned from the flash of an H-bomb explosion in 1958.) The bomb burns people fatally or very badly 2 2miles away; starts- a vast number of fires 20 miles away. Even the relatively small A-bomb exploded at Hiroshima caused many women to give birth to stillborn or deformed children. The outbreak of a general H-bomb war would mean that survivors of the blasts would in effect be living for days or weeks in a radio-active oven. The final toll might be hun dreds of millions of cripples, idiots and invalids. Victims would include supporters of the Liberal Party,: the DLP and the Country Party, as well as of the ALP and the Communist Party— a point for consideration by Senators Gair and McManus. SENATOR V. GAIR (Old.) 