 Time to name a sum of money for a family wane , By L. J. McPHILLIPS The time has come to convert the trade unions' demand for a full family living wage as a basic wage info a specific demand for a sum of money and to organise a vigorous campaign in support of that demand . "THE basic wage case for 1965 has concluded. ACTU advo cate R. Hawke vigorously pre sented "a well-based case. The Judges have reserved their de cision. Certain aspects of the claim ad vocated for the unions in this case are worth noting. The amounts claimed are the low est increases sought by the ACTU during the past 30 years. If granted in full, these increases would do no more than restore . the purchasing power of the basic . wage to its June 1964 level. . This wage would still fall a long . . way short of a full family living wage. . Despite all this the ACTU claim was vigorously opposed by the combined forces of the employ ers and the Menzies Government. Thus the basic wage is inadequate and the combined anti-working class forces want to keep it that way. The opposition will be even greater to the demand for a full family living wage as a basic wage, which is the policy of the ACTU. Previous discussions on naming the sum of money necessary to meet this oft repeated demand have raised the objection that it would require too much work for unions to undertake. This is an excuse and an evasion of the responsibility to make the ACTU basic wage policy real. In the 1949-50 basic wage case the ACTU proposed to the Arbitration Court that the Court should investi gate, and determine a living wage for a family of five. This was an attempt to implement a decision of the 1945 ACTU Congress. The Court refused. Arbitration trib unals have never made such investi gations and it is useless to rely upon them doing so now. The job should be undertaken by the unions and they are capable of doing it. A leaflet issued jointly by the ACTU, Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the High Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations in the current basic wage campaign says:— "The basic wage is the basis of Australian living and economic activ ity. It should be given real value. Its purchasing power should be main tained. "The basic wage is the foundation wage on which the Australian stand ard of living is based." This leaflet also quotes the Com monwealth Conciliation and Arbitra tion Act as declaring the basic wage to be . . that wage or that part of a wage which is just and reasonable . . . without regard, to ... the prin ciples on which it is computed." Can a wage which the unions des cribe as "the basis of Australian living and economic activity" be "just and reasonable" if it falls short of a full family living wage? Of course not. And since the unions regard the basic wage as being so important, they should proceed without further delay to name the sum of money which they consider to be "just and reasonable" as a basic wage. Agenda Papers for the last three Congresses, 1959, 1961 and 1963, have contained resolutions from big unions calling for the necessary research to be undertaken for this purpose and for a campaign to win the claim for such a wage. The unions associated with the three national trade union bodies — ACTU, ACSPA and Commonwealth Public Service High Council — have Research Officers and others who could undertake this work. 'These three bodies could establish a joint committee' to' organise and lead this work and could obtain from affiliated unions the necessary staff. Cooperation, vital for such a task, would be ' readily given to such a committee by workers and their wives. Certain statistical material- al ready available could be used. The only cost of living investigation ever imdertaken — the Piddington Royal Commission— presented its main report less than twelve months after it commenced its investigation. In 1949 when the ACTU asked the Commonwealth Arbitration Court to conduct a cost of living investigation, its advocates anticipated that the task would take about twelve months. The Piddington Commission con ducted a public inquiry and the 1949 proposal of the ACTU would also have amounted to a public inquiry. The present proposal could be im plemented in much less than twelve months. 