 Owners disrupt Sydney port SYDNEY: Over 5000 waterside workers at an overflow sfopwork meeting in the Sydney Town 'Hall last Monday demanded the granting of their claims and called for the establishment of Australia's own overseas shipping industry. -"HE waterside workers say 1 that the present attacks, fines and sackings being car ried out by the shipowners and the Australian Stevedoring In dustry Authority is part of an attempt to deny the workers their just claims and to cover up the recently announced freight increases. I Last Monday's meeting resolved to I continue to publicly agitate to remove the Government - imposed legislative restrictions on Australia on provision of its own overseas shipping industry. "In no other way can a stop be put to Conference Line freight piracy pricing out of world markets our national export trade from which we . waterside workers derive our bread and butter," the meeting said Stoppage Monday's 24-hour stoppage was Called hv the Rvdnev "Rrnneh ef fho Waterside Workers' Federation fol lowing the widespread sacking and penalisation of waterside workers by the Authority. Up until Monday the Authority had imposed three working day suspen sion penalties on -3,200 waterside workers and 300 more men are still facing a similar penalty. Heavy fines and penalties fol lowed walkoffs in protest against the Authority's failure to insist that shipowners provide replacements, to allow ships to be worked by the normal number of men required. The working day suspensions are known throughout the waterfront as the "hostage system." This penalty means that those suspended for three days must remain on suspension without pay until the, port has been free of any dispute for three days. Owners disrupt Many of the suspended men have already been deprived of work by the Authority for a fortnight and it is the Imposition of these penalties that has disrupted the working of the port. The men say that if the ship owners and the Authority were really concerned about the disrup tion to shipping, why have they prevented more than half of the Sydney workforce from working? Last Monday's meeting is regarded as one of the biggest and the most united ever held on the Sydney waterfront. The men unanimously agreed to resume the next morning and that endeavors he made to have the Authority release immediately all the 'hostages" from their penalty. Demonstrations This was demanded by 800 "hostages" who marched to the A.S.I.A. offices yesterday. By refusing to do this, the ship owners and the ASIA revealed their intention to disrupt shipping until next Friday. Continued on Page 12 Wharf Action Continued from Page 1 The stopwork meeting described as a "scandalous fact" that . from 1955 to 1963 freight charges have increased from £200 million to £430 million. During the same period wages paid to waterside workers have decreased from £22.2 million to £20.8 million and the tonnage of cargo handled has increased by about seven million tons. Last Friday about 200 "hostages" marched to and demonstrated outside the offices of the NSW Woolgrowers and Graziers' Council in Sydney, in protest against the attack made on the Federation by an officer of the Council (W. Nicholas), who said the new freight increases could have been avoided but for the "unwar ranted and irresponsible behavior "of waterside workers." The wharfies then marched to the "Daily- Telegraph" to protest over statements published that day that "wharf leaders plot to paralyse the Australian waterfront." Last Thursday a crowd of wharfies also demonstrated outside the offices of the overseas shipowners. Freights A press statement by WWF federal officers, said freight rates charged on tramp shipping coming to Australia are now 15 per cent, lower than in 1954, while in the liner trade they are 41.5 per cent, higher. "Both types of ships are worked by waterside workers and subject to the same Australian factors. "The essential difference is that the freight rates on liner ships are deter mined by the overseas shipping com panies, which by "Commonwealth . legislation have a total monopoly of the basic export trades such as wool, meat and fruits, while the tramp ships are subject to world com petition." The Federation said the establish ment of a Commonwealth overseas shipping line could drastically reduce freight rates and improve services as the Commonwealth fleet did in the 1920's. Printed and published by D. B Young, 168 Day Street, Sydney, a: 21 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. 