 , i Criticism of Chinese outburst... Jl | WONT UNITE TO HELP VIETNAM PI From RUPERT LOCKWOOD . 1 MOSCOW: The unprecedented tone and content of recent H anti-Soviet articles in the Chinese Communist press renouncing H unity in action with other Communist Parties against imper- 1 ialism, have drawn a reply from the Pravda correspondent | in Peking. M DENMIN RIBAO, central organ of the Chinese Com munist Party, and the maga zine "Hongqi" both printed an editorial "Rebuttal to De clamations of CPSU Leader ship on 'Unity of Action'." Pravda says: "The article stands out even against the "background of other materials of this sort regularly published by the Chinese press" and "hears evidence to the fact that the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party is openly rejecting unity of action with the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and other Marxist- Leninist Parties in the struggle against imperialism, for peace and social progress of peoples in the struggle against American aggression in Vietnam". Pravda notes that the authors of the Chinese article declare that between the Communist Party of China and the CPSU "there are things which cV.sunite them and there is nothing that unites them, there are things which are anta gonistic and there is nothing that they have in common." The Chinese article continues that unity of action between the CPC and CPSU is impossible as the two Par- If ties stand on "diametrically opposite if positions." |J In reply to calls of the CPSU and i other Marxist-Leninist Parties to If overcome differences, the Chinese ft article proclaims the need for If "drawing political and organisation- | al boundaries between the CPC and II its supporters on the one hand and If the rest of the Communist and If Workers Parties on the other." 1 Pravda says "The entire article !' from beginning to end is saturated 1| with impermissible, utterly ground- W less slanderous provocative fabrica- ff tions, is pervaded with the spirit ol 1 hostility to the Soviet people, the 1 CPSU and its policy of rallying all 1 anti-imperialist progressive forces 1 of the world. I "Such a pronouncement without | question greatly damages the com- | mon cause of struggle against im- | perialism, for peace, the security of | the peoples, for national independ- | ence, democracy and socialism— the f cause for which the Communist jg Party of the Soviet Union and the | world community of socialist coun- | tries and the international Commun- | ist movement are- fighting selflessly." | . I 