 [?] Who opposed the elections ? J-HE American and Men zies Governments claim to be fighting in south Vietnam to give the Viet- namese freedom to choose their own future. Yet today, as in the past, they refuse to allow any tree election to be held in South Vietnam where this choice can be made. They refuse to allow elections, although they were prescribed by the 1954 Geneva conference, because they know the patriots would win them. Menzies told the Australian Parliament on August 5, 1954, that "we must not overlook the possibility that a free election may be an election which es tablishes a Communist adminis tration for the whole of Viet nam". That is the main reason why the election was never permit ted. The American White Paper called "Aggression from the North" admits that it was US policy to' stop the elections being held. (As recently quoted it described the elections as a "trap"). In US Newsweek magazine of June 28, author Emmet Hughes refers to "the perhaps fatal blur to US policy: while it pro claims only the selfless purpose of assuring the Vietnamese the ' freedom to choose their own destiny, it was also US policy to defer indefinitely the national elections promised by the Gen eva accord of 1954". The London Daily Worker re cently told the story of how elections were denied the south Vietnamese people: ? gOTH the United States and the south Viet nam Governments have consistently opposed the idea of elections. The North Vietnam Govern ment, in addition to having .held elections as early as January, 1946, throughout the entire "ter ritory of Vietnam, has repeat edly asked for the Geneva de cisions regarding elections to be carried out. As early as June 6, 1955, it :ssued a declaration stating "its readiness to hold the consulta tive conference with the compe tent representative authorities n south Vietnam from July 20, 955, onwards in order to dis- uss the organisation of free ' s-neral elections throughout j he country in July 1956 . . On July 16,1955, Saigon Radio i oadcast an official statement epudiating the Geneva Agree- I rents and refusing to respond o the invitation to discuss the -est ion of general elections. Joint letter On July 19, 1955, the Presi dent and Prime Minister of lorth Vietnam addressed a joint letter to the Government of south Vietnam once again urg ing a joint meeting to discuss the holding of elections. On August 9, .1955, Saigon Radio once again broadcast a statement rejecting the idea of consultations for the holding of elections. On March 3, 1956, the Soviet Foreign Minister wrote to the British Government stating that "the south Vietnam authorities are sabotaging the task of the national unification of the coun try by means of free general elections under the control of the International Commission, which, as is known, is the basic provision of that part of the Geneva Agreements concerning the political settlement in Viet nam. In connection with this they refuse to conduct consulta tions for the preparation of the elections provided for by the Geneva Agreements. ." (HMSO: Cmd. White Paper 9763, May 1956, p 5). In its 'reply the British Gov ernment admitted the justice of the north Vietnam complaint against the Saigon authorities, stating: "Her Majesty's Govern ment has always regarded it as desirable that these elections should be hfeld, and has ad vised the Government of the Republic of Vietnam to enter into consultations with the Vietminh authorities in order to ensure that all the necessary conditions obtain for a free expression of the national will as a preliminary to holding free general elections by secret bal lot" (p 9). Co-chairmasi In May 1956; the British and Soviet co-chairmen of the Gen eva conference requested north and south to meet to discuss preparations for a general elec tion in both teiritories. The north was willing, but the south once again declined— and has done so ever since. The Americans made no sec ret of their views regarding elections. C. L. ' Sulzberger (New York Times, r March 12, 1955) doubted whether elec tions would be held because ". . . the non-communist south cannot afford the slightest risk of defeat." On August 13, 1955, John Foster Dulles, then US Secre tary of State, told a news con ference that free elections to unite north and south Vietnam, were not possible at that time. Basis The basis of American ob jections .to elections was made clear later by former President Eisenhower : "I have never talked or cor responded with a person know ledgeable in Indo-Chinese af fairs who did not agree that had elections been held As of the time of the fighting, possibly 80 per cent of the population would have voted for the Com munist Ho Chi Minh." Mandate for Change: The White House Years 1953-55 (London, 1963: p. 372). 