 [?] [?] Years of persistent work by citizens of Cooks Hill, Newcastle, had won a breakthrough towards modern high-density housing near the city. COME six or more years ago it became apparent that working people were being forced out of the inner areas of Newcastle to outlying dis tricts because of the demoli tion of old homes and the inroads of industries. The Cook's Hill Branch of the Communist Party and the. Cook's Hill Progress Association .each in their own way called on the authorities to provide high density housing in the inner areas, particu- larly in Cook's Hill. It was uneconomic from the . nation's point of view to force the people out into areas that had little or no services, while proclaimed residential areas with all such services in existence were allowed to be taken for industry. For many years little or no atten tion was paid to the proposals of the Cook's Hill people, so they sought and obtained the support of the Trades Hall Council, the Council of Progress Associations and the Union of Australian Women. Eventually in June of this year the Chamber of Commerce, follow ing a further call by the Cook's Hill Progress Association for some action requested the Lord Mayor to call a conference pf interested organisa tions to discuss ways to expand retail trade, to simplify parking and to consider the need for high density housing. This conference of eight or so organisations decided on the need for high density housing and a sub-committee of five was requested to make a further examination. From a recommendation of this sub-committee the City Council set up an Advisory Committee. When this Advisory Committee met this month it was advised by the Town Clerk that the City Council had already started pur chasing available land in the Cook's "ill and Newcastle East areas for its eventual use for high density housing. The Cook's Hill Branch of the Communist Party has congratulated the City Council on this move, and ln trne with its active role through out the campaign has called on the tate Housing Commission and the ommonwealth Government t-> play jeir part in assisting the develop ent, the Commonwealth in par finance t0 SUpply the necessary The representative of Cook's Hil.' rogress Association in all of these activities has been Mr. M. P. Cop will be the Communis andidate for the City Ward in th Clty Council electionr ' Correspondent. Newcastle (NSV 