 | I RESIGNATION OF L. SHARKEY; CPA! II i I I ELECTS NEW SECRETARY i j Mr. L L. Sharkey has resigned far health reasons from the post j , j of general secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, which j J j he has filled for 17 years. Mr. L. Aarons, formerly viee-chair- | j man, has been elected the new general secretary. j I I MR- SHARKEY has been ! elected to the position | of vice-chairman. | The decisions " were taken I unanimously by the Central Com- I mittee of the party last week- j end, after members had paid , j| j many tributes to Mr. Sharkey's ; M | work and als0 to the capacity > M I of Mr. Aarons to carry out the II responsibilities of this leading | position. j Resolution | The committee's resolution, as j unanimously adopted, was: j "The Central Committee ac- e cepts with deep regret Comrade i l. l. Sharkey's resignation for | health reasons from the position | of general secretary which he ! has held since 1948. | "The Central Committee re- 1 cords its profound appreciation | of Comrade Sharkey's service to | the Australian and international | working class and the Communist j Party of Australia as general sec- | retar.y and in other leading j positions- for almost 40 years. | in this period, Lance Sharkey I nas made an immense contribu- I n "i -+0- the Party's theoretical, j growth Cal and organisational I „ Central Committee wel- the fact that Comrade I wntv 1S able to continue his j orK as a member of the Cen- tral Secretariat and other leading bodies of the party." Mr. Sharkey, who suffered a heart attack in 1963, told the Central Committee that during his recent visit to the Soviet Union he had suffered from heart trouble which had necessitated a period in hospital and a decision that he observe in the future certain precautions laid down by medical experts. I He therefore felt, in the in- j terests of the Party and the j working class movement, that the S time had come to hand over the I responsibilities of this position J to a younger man, and he nom- j inated Mr. L. Aarons. | "Laurie Aarons is now at the ! height of his abilities, has fully I matured politically and in this j sense his best work for the party ! and the working class lies before I him," Mr. Sharkey said. j Mr. Sharkey assured the meet- j ing: "It doesn't mean I am going i to sit hack. I will continue to g be. well and truly in the fight." j After all decisions had been ! taken the President (Mr. R. ( Dixon), who has been the closest j collaborator of Mr. Sharkey in g the leadership of the Party over j many years, paid tribute to his I work in the past. ' j He pointed out that the same j close teamwork characterising ! the wQrk of the Central Com- I mittee Secretariat would con: j tinue. j "The entire discussion of politi- j cal issues at the meeting, and j the unanimity of the decisions, ! have shown the unity that exists I among us," Mr. Dixon said amid j prolonged applause. j R. Dixon writes about j Lance Sharkey and Laurie Aarons — Page 2. : I L. L. SHARKEY L. AARONS ! 