 lv I TRIBUNE I i ' Time to grow up' A TIMELY article by the veteran American writer Walter I Lippmann in the current Newsweek magazine warns readers against "the all-purpose myth" being used to drum up support for Washington's unpopular policies in Vietnam or elsewhere. US officials claim, he says, that "all revolutionary dis- 1 orders are controlled, supported and directed from Red i China, with assistance from the Soviet Union". I - Lippmann adds: "This is a piece of mythology. The B essential fact about these disorders is that they ate at | bottom indigenous to the countries where the social order I is broken down ... we shall have to purge our minds 1 of the myths that we live by in wartime. . Surely it is time I : to grow up." I — ' ' That is a thought that must have occurred strongly to 1 ' anyone listening to Sir R. Menzies address the Melbourne B ' Young Liberals last Friday night. j Menzies claimed that Communist China had no use 1 for peaceful co-existence but was out for world domination, j What are the facts? China is not at war with any country and has peaceful, I diplomatic, trading and cultural relations with many of the B world's countries, including Britain and France. B China does not occupy territory that hasn't been Chinese for centuries. Foreign countries, by contrast, hold Chinese territory in Taiwan, Hongkong, Matsu and Quemoy, and Macao. Not China, but the USA is pouring scores of thousands of marines, with air and naval squadrons, into Vietnam to wage an aggressive war that is being opposed by the vast majority of Vietnamese people.' Dr. J. F. Cairns, MHR (Labor), speaking in Parliament on May 4, used the US White Paper itself to expose falsehoods about Chinese "infiltration". He said: "In 1962 theje were four rifles captured, in | 1963, 18 and in 1964 there were 91, giving a total to Feb- ; ruary 13, 1965, of 1 13 weapons that had, in the space of : four years, come from China and been discovered in South Vietnam. "China is only 500 miles away from Vietnam, yet not : one Chinese has been discovered in South Vietnam during \ these times and only 113 weapons from China have been ; discovered. "If this is an example of Chinese aggression and the ! threat that exists to Australia, there is not much aggression and not much threat". Of course China is right next door to Vietnam and : has every legitimate reason to be interested in what goes ; on there, just as Australia is concerned about New Guinea and New Zealand. . To "discover" in such interest or concern a "threat of world domination,/ must be set down as deliberate scare- ; mongering. This has long been part of the stock-in-trade of the Menzies Government, but its use to justify sending Austra lian troops into Vietnam makes it trebly dangerous. 1 ALP leaders err It is therefore ail the more to be regretted that some Labor Party leaders, while taking a very valuable and active stand in opposition to the sending of Australian troops to Vietnam, nevertheless persist in helping the spread of Menzies' anti-Chinese mythology. This practice weakens the force of their criticism of the Government's policy, invites attack by the pro-war forces and can only cause confusion in the labor movement. Last Sunday's nation-wide rallies called by the national trade union movement are a new demonstration of the spreading public opposition to the American war in Viet nam and the demand tc extract Australia from it. With clearcut policy based on the facts and not on ; myths, the Australian people can certainly be rallied to end the present dangerous policy, in the interests of Aus tralian security and well being. 