 GRAB BY S.A. TYCOONS WON'T, HELP FARMERS ADELAIDE: South Australian monopoly capit- 1 alists plan to strengthen their grip on the State's fertiliser industry. "THIS is the meaning of the proposal by Adelaide Chem- ical and Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fer tiliser to Cresco Fertiliser to join them in forming a joint enterprise. The three companies, along with BHP, are already associated in the exploitation of pyrites deposits. Fin ancial backing for this project origin ally came from the former State Gov ernment—the Liberal Party adminis- tiation under Sir Thomas Playford whose colleague in the Upper House, Sir Arthur Rymill, is chairman of directors of Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell. In recent weeks two US groups, Esso and Grace, have been competing to buy out Cresco. Now the two Adel aide-based companies have outbid the Americans with a £4 million proposi tion which, if accepted, will strengthen the grip of the Adelaide monopolists. Esso, however, has announced that it will provide Adelaide Chemicals and Wallaroo-Mt. I M with substantial fin ancial assistance in the plan to merge all SA - fertilisers interests. -Thus the Americans seek to enter by the back door. The ready response to Esso's plan by Rymill and Co. shatters any theory that a build-up of local mon opoly capitalism is a safeguard against foreign penetration. Australian monopoly wants to strengthen its own position but this does not rule out the constant danger of sell out to overseas interests when expediency so "determines. The grip of Adelaide monopolists o.i the fertiliser industry has not help ed the SA farmers with a cheaper supply of fertiliser or helped the SA workers with better standards. Even now the fertiliser workers are engag ed in struggle for higher wages. Nor does their grip benefit State finance but takes money away from the State in the form of assistance to monopolies as in the case of the pyrB ites project. jl A Communist Party spokesman thisg week said that the best way to bene | fit workers, farmers and the State r Treasury was for SA to establish a government-owned fertiliser industry. ;> i 