 New Theatre: j "You've Never had it so good"! EVERYONE'S using Nuclear, | The dirtiest wash of all — I Simply press the button S And watch the fall-out fall! j "THIS part of one of Syd- I ney's newest song lyrics I is far more than a takeoff j of one of TY's more nau- j _ seating soap-flake com- j mercials. j Coming just after the inter- j national trade union conference 1 against the French nuclear bomb I tests, the song could become a j I living part of the political cam- j j paign. J ; And -yet this song (words Pat | I Flower, music Tom Sterne) is j ' only one of several that put the I stamp of satirical bite, with-it | quality and professionalism on j New Theatre's revue, "You've g Never Had It So Good," which j ' opened on Saturday night. | I Team of writers I j There aren't many of today's j j challenging issues that escape I ; the fine net of the team of 17 j I local writers who scripted the ! j show, headed by Mona Brand I | (11 scripts) and Pat Flower (7 | I scripts). | 1 Vietnam, the pill, conscription, I J housing, war toys, race dis- I ! crimination, nuclear weapons, g I the ABC, the traffic, art com- ! mercialism, Royalty— these and j j many other themes are joined i J by devastating portraits of the | I Beatles, Santamaria, Menzies (of 1 course), Bob and Dolly Dyer, | Hasluck, Askin's Government j | and others. ! 2 There is a song by Mona I | Brand, sung by Marie Arm | J strong and Jenniffer Cullen that g I deserves to be sung all around J !s Australia. It's about B. A. Santa- maria . . . "dredged up" from | | the dark ages, the man who I | "serves up Frank Packer's line I j ..." and j | "Who daily sends a cry j I Northward to Colonel Spry I 5 'Find me a Russian spy' — 2 I Santamaria." I j Tight, fast direction by John j ! Armstrong is a basic ingredient | I in the show. I Young talent j j There is no serious uneven- | I ness in the cast of 12. What is j interesting is that, : in addition I Ito those like Marie Armstrong, i whose talents for revue have g long been established, there is ! I a crop of young people who I j reveal a notable potential in this I s light but difficult form— people j I like Jenniffer Cullen, Lionel Haft ! j (who also wrote the Beatles f | number), Alan Hardy, Tessa | t Mallos and Denny Tagg. . I I Jenniffer and Lionel will de- . j j light 'thousands (and not only'! | wharfies) with their version of J the wharfie and his wife (sung | to Uncle Tom Cobley) that has 1 a lot of relevence to the overseas I freight burdens on Australia — I "I read in the Tele -there's many a | crook, ! Ail-along, down-along, out-along- i wharf. ? They're speaking the truth If they'd I just take a look 2 At Blue Funnel, Burns Phifp, Cu- I nard and Orient, ' 2 Flotto Lauro and Sitmar ... And Uncle Bob's Cobbers end all." j Showing every Friday, Sat- urday and Sunday (except j _ Christmas weekend) at St. I Peter's Lane, East Sydney. I PHOTO: "There's lots of backing : for the Askin', from the rich of Sydney town," the; chorus line sings in one of the 38 numbers. " s.N-v-- i: - 