 Communist Party statement: Communists oppose any interference in the trade unions SYDNEY: The Communist Forty of Australia stated this week jhat it was opposed to attempts at domination of trade unions by any political party f and stood for the independence of the trade union movement A STATEMENT by the Party's political committee said: "The trade union movement is by far the largest organisa tion in Australia, with more than two million members. It plays a most important role in national affairs. Australian unions have always striven to unite workers of all political and religious views with in one trade union movement, avoiding the weakness arising from division of the trade unions into several movements formed along party-political or religious lines. The growing co-operation between the unions of industrial and "white 001134-" workers in Australia is adding new strength to the move, ment. This unity has enabled the trade union movement to represent, de fend and advance the interests of all workers. The trade union movement has always preserved its independence, resisting efforts to make it an . ap pendage of any political party, the government in office, or the arbi tration system. Experience has shown that united, independent political action by the unions is necessary to influence governiments to pass legislation in workers' interests, to defend dem ocratic rights attacked by govern ments (Crimes Act, penal clauses), to work for peace and a genuinely Australian foreign policy, and to advance the common cause of the labor rir-- ement in Australia. The Communist Party upholds the independence of the trade union movement. It opposes attempts at ' domination of the unions by any political party; it does not seek such control for itself. It states its views openly and publicly. Every political party in the coun try, r.ot to speak of employers' organisations and the' anti-labor newspapers state their views in regard to the trade unions and actively pro pagate them. Nor could it be otherwise in view of the importance of the trade unions in the life of the nation. Expression of views is certainly not interference in the internal affairs of the trade unions. Interference is the effort to im pose outside control on unions, to subordinate unionism to the sec tional interests of a particular poli tical party, and thus divide, accord ing to party labels, a movement whose strength derives from its unity based on the common industrial in terests of all workers, irrespective of political viewpoints. WANTED: Docile trade unions United, militant trade unionism is bitterly opposed by the employers, the wealthy companies which control press, radio and T.V., and the Liberal Government. They use every method, including penal clauses and other repressive measures to fight against it. They want a docile trade union movement, confined to arbitration. The National Civic Council and its political front, the DLP, also oppose militant unionism. These forces are currently waging a big propaganda campaign, trying to push the Labor Party into what would be a disruptive and abortive attempt to establish party-political control of the trade unions. All these forces are anti-labor., and their urging for ALP interference is certainly not motivated by any sym pathy for Labor Party aims or the well-being of unionism. One of their arguments is that ALP control of the unions is necessary d Labor governments are to be elected. In fact, such control would weaken united trade union action which is so essential to defeat of tory govern ments. ALP domination not wanted Another argument is that the Com munist Party seeks to subvert or control the Labor Party by dictating to Labor Party members who are delegates to ALP Conferences from unions in which there are Communist Party officials. The Communist Party is a definite political trend within the labor move ment. It does not want to control the Labor Party, but seeks to win Sup port for its own policy and organi sation among the Australian people. It favours united action for com mon objectives, in the course of .which the labor movement would be able to decide through democratic discussion the most effective way to advance the interests of the working people and reach the objective of socialism. This objective is stated as the aim of the Labor and Communist Parties and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Mr. E. G. Whitlam, M.H.R., recently advocated futher ALP interference in the trade unions. He demanded that unions elect all- ALP leaderships, on pain of disaffilia tion. He condemned as "men without honor or courage" ALP members who, in seeking to advance trade unionism, act in unity with Comihunists. This was an attack on trade union independence, an attempt to dictate which officials unionists should elect: Mr. Whitlam apparently does not understand the part played by the unions in the formation of the ALP or that affiliation does not give the Labor Party any right to dictate to the unions. The demand that trade unionists who are also members of the ALP should not associate with fellow trade unionists who are members of the Communist Party also constitutes interference in the trade unions, i In some of the stronger and best organised unions, workers' experience has given rise to broad representa tive leaderships, in which Labor, Communist and non-party unionists, are democratically elected to official positions. Experience has also proved that confining unionism exclusively to ar bitration advocacy would lead to . tame-cat unionism and lower living standards. This has been shown most recently by the Arbitration Commission's scandalous decision in the basic wage case. Industrial action, Including the strike, is essential for the use of union strength, so is direct negotia tion with employers. While the arbitration system exists, skilled arbitration advocacy will also be necessary. This is proved in the campaigns of recent years , which have won wide spread over-award payments, the three weeks' annual leave in 1963, (after its refusal 12 months before), the 10 per cent margins rise in 1963 and the £1 basic wage rise in 1964. The decisive factor in achieving workers' demands under capitalism has been and will, always remain strong trade unions, which use their strength in the unending contest with the employers, who seek to keep wages and conditions as low as possible. 