 Wharfies siop against heavy fines JfELBOURNE: The fining of Waterside Workers' Federa tion £2,000 plus costs last Friday 1 morning bv iKe fa" fcneh of the Commonwealth Arbitration Com mission in Melbourne received a hostile reception by waterside workers throughout Australia. In Melbourne, as soon as the court's decision became known, the men walked off in protest. ., i ' In Sydney five area stopwork meet ings last Friday morning were held in protest at the shipowners taking ».:t summonses against the federa tion. The meetings called on the court to dismiss the , application by the shipowners who were seeking a double penalty. Following the meetings the whole port stopped for the day as a mark of respect to Mr. rG. Fingleton (sec retary of the mechanical branch) who collapsed and died while addres sing the meeting at Glebe Island. Two penalties The fines imposed by the court for stoppages in four ports on June 8 and 9, means that the- -Federation and its members . have now been twice penalised for these stoppages. The shipowners asked for a maxi mum penalty of £500 each on each summons over a stoppage in Adel aide on June 8 and stoppages in Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle on June 9. Earlier the Stevedoring Industry Authority fined members of the union aoout £80,000 in the loss of attendance money payments for taking part in Me national stop- work meetings called by the federal officers of the federat'on. Watersiue workers at Port Kem- bla stopped work for 24 hours last Thursday and marched to and de monstrated outside the local A.SJ.A. .. Chairman's office. The men took this action in pro test agaiiist the imposition of three days suspension for taking part in the earlier stoppage. The Federation has asked for a meeting with the Australian Council of Trade Unions to dis cuss their demands and the at tacks being made on the union. This meeting is being held in Sydney today (Wednesday). At the last meeting of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council it was decided to give every assistance to the WWF and £150 was given to the icvration to assist fin ance its publicity. On the N.S.W. South Coast the Trades and Labor Council at its last meeting also pledged full support to the federation against these attacks. 