 -Determined' to win pay increases CYDNEY: A further 24- hour State-wide stoppage of NSW Government rail and bus workers will be held from midnight Sunday, Aug ust 29, in support of in creased wages. Last Thursday's Labor Council unanimously endorsed the stoppage which was earlier decided by a meeting of 20 unions covering these workers. Government rail and bus workers are demanding an increment scheme of 16/6 after one year's service, 33/- after two and 49/6 after three years and for payments to be based on service, not skill or classification. Depistatwns Deputations to Labor mad Liberal Premiers and rail and transport Commissioners have pressed for these demands since last December. An earlier wage offer was rejected by the unions and a 24-hour stop page was held on July 5. Following a 14-months struggle, Victorian Government transport : workers last October were granted wage increases. ! South Australian workers also rec- ; eived an increment scheme and in : Queensland, rail and bus workers ; receive marginal increases from 21/- to 42/- per week. As an example of - the low wages in NSW, a married fettler has a take home pay of £16 a week from a gross wage of £17/19/0. Sine© the July. 5 stoppage, anti- strike clauses have been inserted in seven awards covering rail and bus unions. These unions, now become liable to fines of up to £500 a day for hold ing a strike. Nm rr ©#er refected The new offer of the NSW Gov ernment early last week vm- — ' -M-' by the unions because: It was well below the claims and increases won by the workers in Victoria and South Australia. It excluded important groups of workers such as women who did not receive the male rate, juniors,, ap prentices and construction workers Mass meefissgs Meetings of railway workers throughout the State last week con demned the new offer. A mass meeting of 2,000 at Chul- lora workshops in Sydney called for a four-hour stoppage and a mass central rally of strikers. It was unanimously agreed ttat such a rally should call a 48-hQur stoppage. The enlarged steering committer which fixed the date of the stoppage has . proposed that a central raTy be held in , Moore Park and thr.t' sim ilar rallies. be held in all .the main country centres. 