 LIB. MINISTER IN HOT SPOT OVER CO. DEAL While Premier Askin is attempting to ride out a storm over past actions of the NSW Minister for Justice, Mr. J. C. Maddison, the Labor Opposition is preparing to launch new attacks. REPORT tabled in State Parliament last Tuesday identified Mr. Maddison as hav ing allegedly breached provi sions of the Company Act be fore be became an MLA. While the Premier is attempting to show a brave front about the impli cation of his Minister of Justice in the Inspector's report, it's no secret that Cabinet is extremely worried. There is talk in parliamentary circles that the tabling of the inves tigation into three companies in the one day may have been done to off set Mr. Maddison's connections with one of the companies. Other reports tabled were investi gations into the affairs of the Latec Company and the IVM Group. The report concerning the Minister was made by an inspector appointed by the previous government to examine the affairs of Collier Moat Ltd. arid associated companies. The report shows that Mr. Maddi son was a director of Freight Lines, and Construction Holdings Ltd., two of the group, between 1958 and December, 1961. He was made Chairman of another of their Companies Kwikasair Freight Lines Ltd. in 1958. In his report the inspector said that major adjustments were neces sary to the published accounts for 1958 of Collier Garland. A provision of £114,000 should have been rriade for loss on sale of certain vehicles of Collier Garland. The report says: "On June 26, 1958, a resolution was passed which had the effect of transferring at an in flated value ownership of certain dilapidated vehicles, ex gravel hauliers, to a newly-formed company, Kwikasair Freight Lines. "This transfer was merely a book transaction for the purpose of avoid ing the necessity to show in the 1958 accounts of Collier Garland a pro vision for loss of these vehicles, which on July 1, 1958, were trans-, ferred back to Collier Garland from Kwikasair Freight Lines." The effect of this transaction, con cerning the vehicles, with another was that Collier Garland was able to present a much more favorable financial position at June 30, 1958, - than would otherwise have been the case, the report adds. The report later states that a cer tificate dated August 21, 1961, signed by two directors of Kwikasair Freight Lines, was submitted to the trustees. The certificate stated that the covenants and conditions set out in clauses of the trust deed had been complied with. The certificate concerned the trans fer to. Freight Lines and Construction Holdings of stock valued at £55,000. One of the directors who signed this certificate, Mr. Maddison, ..stated that he did so without any knowledge of the transfers. The inspector states that the effect of the sale of "worthless shares" to Kwikasair Freight Lines shown in the returns for the year ended June 30, 1963, was that less assets were available to the company to pay its creditors, including its unsecured noteholders. The inspector referred to an exam ination fo Kwikasair Freight Lines minute book covering the period December 22, 1959, to June 25, 1962. This revealed three annual general meetings were held on December 22, 1959, April 4, 1961, and April 19, 1962. The report adds: "All of these minutes are unsigned notwithstanding that in the first and second instance the minutes of the subsequent meet ing show that the minutes have been confirmed and should of course have been signed by either the chairman of the meeting or of the next suc ceeding meeting. "In the case of the first and second meeting, Mr. Maddison was chair man. "This is a breach of section 100 of the Companies Act, 1936." Mr. Maddison told Parliament last Tuesday he had resigned because the acounts of the company for the year ended June 30, 1960, had not been submitted and the annual meeting had not at that time been called, despite pressure from him. Mr. Askin, who told Parliament last Thursday that Mr. Maddison had nothing to fear, declined to comment on whether action would be taken against Mr. Maddison for the alleged breaches against the Company Act, or if the report would be submitted to Crown Law Authorities for their legal opinion. 