 Lew Donald | COMRADE, LETN DONALD, for 30 years a Central Com mittee member and leading organiser of the Communist Party of Australia, died in Sydney Hospital on January 1 after a long illness. Len Donald was for many years widely known, >vell- loved as a supremely mod est man, and highly re spected for. his devotion to the cause of the work ing class and his rich ex perience especially in the fields of building the I strength, membership and influence of the Party. It was typical of him that, in spite of the burden of his illness, 1 he continued to the last to con cern himself with problems of improving the work of the Party to which he had devoted most of " his life, and with the welfare of its individual members. In tribute to such qualities, a large gathering of his friends and associates, representative of organisations of the Communist Party and the trade union movement, attended his funeral on January 4. Len joined the Party in 1927 as a 20-year-old building worker and was soon deeply involved in the big-scale class struggles which led up to the Creat De pression period, when capitalism . was in grave economic crisis, one-third of Australia's workers being out of work. He became known for unusual courage and boundless enthusiasm. In the early 'thirties, he was sent to Moscow where he exten sively studied Marxist-Leninist theory — the world Communist viewpoint on philosophy, history, economics and politics. At the same time, his love of people led 1 him to move widely and to get I to know Soviet people, learning I their language and even working 9 of soc1ict factories, including the famous Stalingrad tractor works. For some years after his return I to Australia, Len Donald worked in Melbourne in the leadership | of the Party, and it was there j he met his wife and .comrade in i a devoted life partnership, j June Donald. I In 1937 they came to Sydney, ! where L$n took up full-time . work in the Party's Central - Committee organisation. In the j prewar and wartime anti-fascist i struggles (including a period of | illegality for the Party) , he did ' important work, particularly in \ the expansion of the Party. I After the war, in a period of ' i increasing class struggle accom- j panied by sharpening attacks on j the Party; Len played an out- j standing part in the ccnsolida- f tion of the organisation and its work. - . " | He became well known j throughout the movement, in £ New South Wales particularly, \ as a cheerful and confident I leader incapable of selfishness, s who forever praised and en- j couraged the work of others while seeking no praise himself. His self-sacrifice in years of I exacting work undoubtedly \ contributed to ill-health . and I ultimatedly to an illness which j resisted treatment and brought his death at the early age of 57. 5 Tribune joins with the very is many people, Communist and j non-Communist alike, who are \ paying tribute to the life and \ memory of Len Donald, and i . offering sympathy, to his wife j and othT members of the > .family. I Len Donald 