 [?] Australian soccer By "CHALLENGER" "HE s Sydney Eleven v. Torpedo Moscow game last Saturday in which the home, team earned a draw did much to boost the stocks of Australian soccer. ; Newcomers initiated to the game out of curiosity and old fans alike were delighted by the bursts of scientific play put on by the Russians and also the g reat efforts of the Sydney Eleven. -There has been much said about the necessity for the Rus sians to acclimatize themselves, having come from subzero clim ate to the Australian summer heat; also their crowded social itinerary. These no doubt af fected their game. During the early stages of the game when condition wasn't telling, the Torpedoes ably de monstrated the science of the game. Their collective co-oper ation and individual ability, each serving to complement the other, produced delightful foot work and weaving patterns that drew applause from the crowd. The Russians failure to score more was not due to any tech nical inability, but was mainly the result of a very effective defence of the Sydney Eleven. After the game the manager of the Torpedoes, Kitaev Kons- tantin, gave high praise to the ability of Sydney players Trevor Edwards, Roy Blitz and Herbert Ninaus, saying that they were players "who could become great". Many of the estimated 30,000 fans are no doubt looking for ward to. the next rubber match scheduled to take place in Syd ney on March 13th. For this game the Russians will have' had an extra fortnight' to be come acclimatized and the Syd ney Eleven will have just that much more time to develop their team spirit and eo-ordina-' tion. It should be a game full of interest. ? Perth Contributed by H.p. Perth |N holding the Moscow Torpedoes to 2-0 the Australian Eleven playing here showed a solid de fence seldom seen against international visitors by a local team'. Unfortunately this concen tration on defence limited any real thrust in the Australian attack and the Russian defence was never ' in any real trouble and did not. demonstrate their ability to defend in depth. The Torpedoes superior mid- field play was not reproduced in front of the goal. Their ad vantage of speed was lost in short passing tactics and the Russians need to produce in Australia their ability to snap shot at goal. Undoubtedly the humid con ditions helped to prevent the Russians from producing their best. Some spectators felt that once they had scored the first goal, they eased off. However criticism on this score should be tempered by the fact that the Australian Eleven, particul- anx in ueienue, was tne oest yet seen in Perth. JUST as in America, the oppressed Negros are us ually the champion sports men, so in Moree the pro minent sportsman is an Aboriginal. He is Tom Cain Jnr. Tribune interviewed Tom Cain at his father's home on the Aborigine Reserve of Moree last week. Tom is a 22-year-old cyclist who has competed in cycle ra/ces in all the capital cities of the N Eastern States, including Tasmania. He has been riding for the past six years and in that per iod, has accumulated enough trophies to completely fill one room of his father's home — 127 in all. In the country titles in 1959, '60 and '61 Tom got two seconds and three thirds, and feels he can do much better. His pres ent aim is for condition, and he then hopes to make selection for the Mexico Olympics. To carry out his plans Tom intends moving to Sydney in October for the trapk season. Tom Cain also plays other sport, and at a well proportion ed eleven and a half stone fills in as hooker in the local foot ball competition. Just as other Aboriginal sportsmen, have gained much respect and admiration for their people, it looks as if Tom Cain Jnr. will further - do so. , We certainly hope so. MOSCOW TORPEDO draws first blood, whei Oleg Sergeev (No. 11) drives home - shot. 