 H-WMIIIIIII HliaillimiMll III Mil I MIIIMII INI lllllllll I "III I I I I WIN Mill Ml I III I I A "needs" basic wage? Let's talk about food! by KATH OLIVE [?] The recent Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress "discussed what basic wage . level .the -trade union movement should' fight for. The Boilermakers' Society, sup ported by nearly half the Congress, favoured at least £22 per week as a minimum family needs wage. Mr. Hurrell of the Ire orkers' Association was reported to ha . des cribed this claim as a "magical figure". I only ever heard of one person being hungry through having too much money, and that was King Midas of the ancient fable, who found himself dying of s arvation be- i . cause even his food turned to gold. Mere mortals usually,, find them- i selves hungry for the reverse reason — lack of cash! The moral of o|d King Midas' pre dicament . was "Don't be greedy", but if this" has any application V>day it must surely be applied to the profits of monopoly, not the workers. The figure of £22, far from be ing in any way greedy or unreal, when compared with .he millions made by BHP, CSR, GMH, ICI and so on, is iteself an. extremely "modest demand. v ' The immediate job for the trade 'union movement is to -win a share of the national product which will take the CORRECT ACCOUNT of today's needs and prices. The key words here are "correct account". The final Congress decision to base the campaign on price rises and productivity can easily be at variance with' another part of the adopted executive recommendation which' speaks of "standards accepted in progressive communities." Most Australians regard the United States as a progressive community. Yet over 17 mil lion of her citizens go. to bed hungry every night, according to the late President Kennedy. This figure takes no account of those malnourished through lack of essential protein and vitamin foods, but only the ac tually hungry— that is insuf ficient food of any description. We regard our own country as a progressive community. Yet our medical profession has to say that rickets (a bone deforma tion due to lack of calcium or Vita min D or both) and scurvy (due to lack of Vitamin C) are too pre valent for a country which has ample sunshine (Vit. D) and rates dairying (calcium) and fruit grow ing (Vit. C) among her major primary industries. How many families with two children under 12 years could af ford even on £17/2/- per week to buy a pint of milk daily for each child, and 1£ pints for mum if she hapens to be having a baby? Milk alone would cost this family 28/- a week. ; Yet these are the quantities spe cified by nutritionist for these categories of people. And what are we to think of the startling proportion of National Service 20-year-olds who have been found physically below standard? Any such random selection is a good pointer to the health status of a community of which nutrition is one important factor. An excellent handbook for doc tors called "Human Nutrition and Dietetics", by Sir Stanley David son, A. P. Meiklejohn and R. Pass- more, all of the Edinburgh Univer sity teaching staff, and sponsored by Lord Boyd Orr of the United Nations Food Agriculture Organisa tion (FAO) says: — "As a cause of underfeeding and malnutrition, the unequal distribu tion of food within a society is second only in importance to in sufficient production. "A variety of lactors is usually responsible for this unequal distri bution, but, of course, poverty is by far the most important." (Their emphasis). Lord Boyd Orr's survey of the nutrition of Great Britain's popu lation between 1930 and 1935 is still unchallenged in demonstrat- ; ing the relationship between food, health and income, showing that during a period , when the overall food supply available was more than adequate for everyone, 10 per cent of Britain's population were underfed because of the unequal distribution due to poverty. These facts should lend great weight to the demand by the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Cal- well) for an inquiry into poverty in Australia at the present time. Another interesting survey by McGonigle and Kirby in Stockton- on-Tees demonstrated the relation ship between food, health and money available in a startling fashion. An unhealthy slum was demolish ed, and the population moved to a modern housing estate, which was entirely satisfactory from the point of construction, piumbing, hygiene and so on. Yet the death rate unexpectedly rose compared with the figures for the same community before the move, and compared with a com- munity remaining in a neighbour ing slum. The rise was directly attributable to the fall in the amount of money available for food, due to higher rents in the new estate. Probably an enquiry as suggested by Mr. Calwell would uncover some equally startling situations here. Should one assume that slum conditions are more acceptable to a progressive community than good housing? Or must one not conclude that a progressive community requires its citizens to have a proportion of the national product adequate to cover all its aspects? Lack of leisure is an important cause of inadequate nutrition. Proper nutrition demands time to prepare meals (even in these days of canned, packaged and frozen foods), time to eat them with enjoyment, and time to digest them. Many factors in today's way of life contribute to inadequate nutri tion from this cause, and most of them are related to the basic wage level. Wage earners holding two jobs in order to lift their families' level to "acceptable standards in a progressive, community", wives and mothers working for the same reason, with practically.no facilities for doing so in the way of laundry services, child minding and so on long hours of travel, inadequate industrial canteens with cafe and restaurant meals out of reach of the workers' pockets; all these things militate -against a well-fed work force. Should we then accept a vastly lower living standard and have leisure to 'enjoy" an inadequate diet, -or should we not strive for a basic wage which will give us both food and the leisure to enjoy it? How should we define the "Reasonable needs of a married I wage-earner and his family?" As far as food is concerned, what is more reasonable than to accept the standards laid down by the scientific experts appointed by the Government to determine Australian Recommended Dietary Allowances? To reach these stanards requires more money even than the £22 basic wage proposed at the Congress. 