 [?] [?] SYMtUvJismr OP THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE SECRETARIAT, COMMUNIST PARTY OF AUSTRALIA. : £y|OT only millions of Com munists in Indonesia but also -trade unionists and other progresive and democratic people are at present suffer- ing from armed violence, intimidat'on and political bans by the top Indonesian Army leaders. This situation is a grave one for democracy in Indonesia. It is also a threat to Australian security and the general goal of peaceful relationships in south east Asia as a whole. For these reasons, Australian Communists extend their firm solidarity to the Indonesian Communists (PKI), struggling in defence of their democratic rights and the social an noli tical gains of all Indonesian working people. During the wartime and post war flowering of the Indonesian national revolution against the Dutch imperialists, the relations and active co-operation between Australian and Indone si an Communists, trade unionists and other democrats became friendly and close. In recent times there have been differences of views, be tween the Communist Parties of Australia and Indonesia. We have always recognised, how ever, the heroic and construct ive role of the PKI in the vic tory of the Indonesian people. Their massive support was achieved boc,".«e of their pro- gressive policies for democratic reforms and social advance and their consistent defence of the interests of the Indonesian ! people. j Now that the military clique j of generals, who have seized j control, are attacking the j achievements of the Indonesian ! Revolution, their main fire is j directed at the PKI. j Published evidence from var- j ious soqrces has made it clear I that, as early as last August, j the plan of the top generals for ! a militarist coup against the ! Sukarno Government and its | anti-imperialist policies was I known in Djarkarta political 1 circles. f ( Exactly what happened from | then until the events of Sep- j tember 30, when a clash oc- j curre.d between two elements of | the Army, is not yet known to ! the outside world. ? In an official -statement, the poli tical committee of the Communist Party of Indonesia on October S dis sociated the party .from the September 30 events, emphasising that these were an internal affair of the Army. That document also affirmed the Party's support for President Sukar no's call for stability and calm — one of a number of reports indicating that armed struggle and civil war were not. sought by the PKI but imposed by the Army leaders. If this assessment is correct, it con forms to the theoretical views of the Communist movement which has never relied on violence .or coup at tempts, but on mass political action, to achieve revolutionary social change The main trend, according to the latest press reports from Indonesia continues to be the stepping up r' pressure from the most rightwing. militarist and openly pro-American elements, in at attempt to force the President to place official bans oh all democratic organs of opposition to military dictatorship. Th,; democratic forces of the. Aus tralian labor movement and othe: ; circles who have traditionally len' the.&lt;r support to .the Indonesian pec pie's struggle for independence am democracy, against both Dutch anr American conspiracies in the past, caT be expected to oppose the prese? militarist . attempts to stifle the demc emtio forces of the young Indonesia; nation. i 