 || A-w-u- DISPUTE: AWU officials rejected bid for job unity BRISBANE: The Queensland Trades and Labor Council has issued a leaflet exposing the splitting role played by officials of the Australian Workers' Union during the Mt. Isa dispute. DISTRIBUTION of the leaflet last week at the Queensland Labor-in-Politics Convention in Townsville sparked off heated scenes between some delegates. Federal president of the AWU (Mr. E. Williams) was reported to have destroyed some of the leaflets in a fit of rage. The leaflet says: — "The great struggle of the Mt. Isa workers around their genuine claims won important wage and trade union demands. However, the program was not won in full because of the com bined opposition of the Mt. Isa Mines ; Ltd. monopoly, the Nicklin Govern- |. ment (whose orders and proclama- j tions allowed the company to sack, ! stand down and lock out workers) j and the A.W.U. officialdom, all of whom were assisted by a provocative anti-working class press. "The majority of trade unions in I Australia and the Trades and Labor j Council of Queensland did everything possible to rally support for the j heroic Mt. Isa workers. Such help j will never be forgotten. | Calls rejected j "In the critical final stages of the dispute repeated calls were made by j the Combined Craft Unions, the Trades and Labor Council of Queens land and the workers on the field for united opposition to the mining monopoly and the State Government's activities to break the solidarity of the Mt. Isa workers. These were rejected outright by the. AWU officialdom. "In this period the AWU leaders had ordered its members at Mt. Isa to return to work despite a rank and file decision carried by an over whelmingly majority that there be no return to work. All relief pay ments were then terminated by the AWU. "The Trades and Labor Council of Queensland undertook successfully the raising of the huge amount of money necessary to provide weekly relief payments for nearly 3000 men, women and children at Mt. Isa. "The A.W.U. officialdom reserved its heaviest blow for the picketing activi ties organised by the Combined Un ions in Mt. Isa when the company in mid-February tried to blackmail Mt. Isa workers back to work with out any settlement of their outstand ing demands. "Picketing is a cherished right of workers . in dispute or on strike. Picketing was essential in Mt. Isa and support of the A.W.U. leaders for the right of Mt. Isa workers to picket their jobs would have guaranteed vic tory." The leaflet drew attention to a state ment by an AWU leader which was reprinted in Hansard and quoted by the Premier of Queensland (Mr. Nick lin) when introducing his notorious anti-picketing legislation on March 17, 1965:— "The State President of the Aus tralian Workers' Union, Mr. G. G. Goding, criticised the Government for having allowed - picketing- to continue today. He said he hoped to have dis cussions with Mr. Bischof (Police Commissioner) when he would em phasise the inadequacy of the posi tion. "Mr. Goding said that action should De taken to prevent picketing and, if necessary, legislation should be in troduced to cope with the position." (Telegraph 16/3/65.) In contrast to the statement by the combined unions who sought an or ganised return to work of all employ ees irrespective of unions, Mr. Wil liams from the AWU issued the fol lowing statement: We have agreed in principle from the sub-conference to the terms as of 15th January, excepting that re employment of each A.W.U. member will be on an individual procedure and any differences will be subject to representation to the Company and/or to the Commission. On April 21, 1965 the Courier Mail carried the following report: "Forty-two men had been refused work by Mt. Isa Mines Ltd., the Labor Council Secretary (Mr. Bevan Foot) said yesterday. "They comprised 39 married and three single men with 306 years' ser vice with the company at Mt. Isa, he said. They had a total of 130 children. "We believe that the true position of the workers permanently refused em ployment has not been revealed to the public," he said. "It is a disgrace and a shocking indictment that the Australian Work ers' Union has not put forth a case for these families who have been victimised. "It could appear that the company and the A.W.U. are working in con cert to deliberately victimise and starve these people. "The longest serving worker denied employment has had 16 years' service and the largest number of children of victimised families is six." Summing up the Mt. Isa dispute the leaflet said: The struggle of the Mt. -Isa work ers will always occupy a proud place in the history of the Australian work ing class movement. The foreign-owned Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. has been shown as a cruel and heartless labor-hating monopoly pre pared to starve men, women and even children to achieve its aims so alien to the Australian way of life. The Nicklin Government has shown where it stands— with monopoly and against the workers. Workers will not forget the role of the A.W.U. leaders who sought anti-picketing legislation, can celled the distress fund payments to their members and whose actions are well known to all. It is certain that the workers at Mt. Isa will further strengthen their forces and their unity; equally certain that they will continue their struggle to achieve all their demands. In this, all who so generously assisted the Mt. Isa workers— all who admire their working class courage— will not be found wanting. 