 J Communist Party's 45th Anniversary . . . 1 Communism growing in Australia 1 SYDNEY : The 530 new members already won for the Communist 1 Party of Australia this year is a splendid way to celebrate the | 45th anniversary of the party", said the party's national presi- | dent (Mr. R. Dixonl this week. The anniversary falls on October 30. I LAR. DIXON said: "Re- !; cently the Minister for Labor and National Service (Mr. W. McMahon) made the absurd claim that his water front legislation had caused I communist activity to col- | lapse. 1 "In fact, the growth of Party mem- | bership reflects- the increased acti.v- ities, and worth of the Communist | Party and growth of socialist ideas I among the people. I "This is important because, of 'thc :1 present sharp offensive of the cm- 1 ployers and Government against m tie people. li'.lj "A stronger Communist Party and Ifl unity in struggle are both very urgent p ! , needs of the Australian people, to as- $ :j sist them to defend democratic liber- | , ties and living standards and to help y preserve peace," Mr. Dixon said. f1 New f !&lt;; Mrs. Gloria Rees, who" has three | . children aged 3, 11, and 15, said: "I t " joined the Communist Party recently i- because I believe it is the only Party that sincerely works for the working class In imnrnvfi wnrkincr nines livinj ; " standards; a Party that will truly | work to make Australia ' a better country for our children in the &lt; . future, a peaceful future free of wars l;'. and monopoly rule. y "At present in Australia, it is neces- | sary for both mother and father to I work to keep one's head just above I water, and this presents a problem 1 with the children. I Party's origins II government provides no free || facilities for a working mother to &-j have her children minded so that she £. can help to adequately provide for f, ( them. She has to find . some place for i em to be minded (if she's lucky) f and pay. "This situation also gives older chil li d5®n exta responsibilities. It is the /&lt; ; children of the working class who Hi er under capitalism," she said. til? : A foundation member of the. party, Mr. Norman Jeffrey, said this week: — "The Communist Party of Australia was established by . a liaison between members of the Australian Socialist Party, a group from the Trades Hall led by Jock Garden, Industrial Work ers of the World, members Peter Larkin and Tom Glynn, Arthur Thomas of the ARU and other indivi-. dual trade unionists. "A meeting was held on October 30, 1920, in the Australian Socialist Party Headquarters in Liverpool St. The building is still there. &lt; _ "BilT Earsman, a member of the ARU was elected the first general secretary. "The formation of the party filled a gap in the revolutionary movement left by the demise of the IWW. The IWW could not find correct solutions to the problems of working class leadership and organization. . "There was a tremendous wave of popular support for socialism because people knew that the workers had taken power in Russia. "The experience of the war and the double defeat of conscription had created an added militancy among some sections of the working class. " "The first mass organization in Aus tralia to send a telegram of greetings to Lenin and the victorious workers' revolution was the New South Wales Trades Hall Council. i "Socialism was so popular that Sir Henry Braddon, the general manager of Dalgety's readily accepted our in vitation to talk on the problems of Australian business. "Katherine Susannah Pritchard, well-known writer, became a founda tion member of the party. Her hus band Captain Hugo Throssel, the first West Australian VC winner, returned home to a civic welcome and (to thie horror of all dignitaries present) he condemned the war and capitalism. "Cleared my mind" Mr. Jeffrey said: "I personally felt inspired by the founding of the Com munist Party. I had, with a lot of others, read Lenin's "The State and Revolution" and. cleared my mind of confusion about the role of the State. The IWW considered that any State, whether it was a workers' or a capital- ist State apparatus, was an enemy. "Though there was a lot of confu sion on socialist ideas and a good deal of sectarianism we maintained firm contacts with members of trade un ions and mass organizations, parti cipating in the struggle for a 44 hour week." FOOTNOTE: Norman Jeffrey is now writing his memoirs which will be of great interest to all socialists, trade unionists and students of Australian history. The book is titled "Fifty-Five Years of a Busy Life." 