 [?] j Once again Tribune I publishes documented ! evidence — this time I collated by a broadly based American re- I search organisation— j that kicks the legs I from j zies Government's j "case" for in- i tervention in Viet- -c | nam. e- ! jhis Material has come to I hand at a moment of irony. |" The Menzies Government is re- I ported to be investigating the fact that Australian troops in Vietnam took part in official Saigon celebrations com memorating the violent overthrow of" the puppet dictator Ngo Dinh Diem in November, 1 963. The investigation is not ; surprising. The Menzies- Government, " has never disowned its former public praise- and support of the Diem regime; More than that — last July 13 at a Canberra press conference Menzies,- under heavy pressure to justify his dispatch of Australian troops to Viet nam with something:- better, than plati tudes, produced a remarkable myth stemming from hi9 support of Diem. THE MYTH: The Diem years ; (1954-63) were years of peace and tranquillity in . South Viet nam, which were ended by "armed interference from the North." which Australia now has to combat with arms. 2 Menzies claimed that in 1959 "the g . economy of South Vietnam was begin- | ning: to flourish and the country was S developing at that time a considerable stability." I Using as his only evidence a quote g _ from British Labor Foreign Secretary 1 Michael Stewart, Menzies alleged that I the "tranquillity" was ended by a call | by . the North Vietnam. Government for J a launching of guerilla, war in the | soutfc. I At that time, Menzies trumpeted 1 there were only 700 US troops there, I so no one could advance- US' military | interference as a. reason for the guer- | ilia: struggle- j j On. November 3, Tribune published j a. review of VIETNAM BRIEFING, I an English pamphlet by John Git- j tings and Ajit Singh (republished in I Sydney) a heavily documented refu- | tation. of the myth embraced by Stew- f art and Menzies. | 2 i » j 15 years of American intervention j j NOW, from the United States, 1 comes a l965 pamphlet, "How ! the United States Got Involved I Tn Vietnam" hv Robert Scheer. e ----- — - 7 — . / ! which finishes off the job of I. shattering the myth on which ! Menzies bases his Vietnam pol icy. | The pamphlet is published by the | US Centre for the Study of Democratic J Institutions which ranks among, its I directors and consultants such: noted I figures as Supreme Court Judge- Wil- ! liarn O. Douglas, Professor Robert M. IHutchens, A. A. Berle, Henry R. Luce (owner of Time and Life) and I theologian Reinhold Niebuhr. e | . Author Scheer notes that huge-scale U.S. i involvement in Vietnam began at least 15 T years ago— long before there was any talk of I a "Vietcong". j. On June 27, 1950, President Truman sent I a. military mission to help the- Frenoh | ' colonialists and the emperor Bao Dai who 1- were both trying to crush the Viet Minh I patriots who had led the struggle against T Japan in the second world war. I Between 1950 and 1954 the U.S. sent 2,600 I million dollars worth of military and econo- mic aid to the French (00 per cent of the \ cost of the war). I A joint French- American plan, "Operation I Vulture", called for the obliteration of the I Viet Minh patriots by means of U.S. carrier- 1 based aircraft. | "Two of the aircraft were rumoured at £ the time to be loaded with atomic bombs | . and Secretary Dulles is reported to have J hinted in Paris that the U.S. might launch | an atomic attack," says Scheer. | This was in 1954. U.S. President Eisen- S hower kept America out because he believed | that, as Mr. Scheer says, "a military victory | was not possible because of the political . ! situation." I Mr. Scheer quotes General Eisenhower's | well-known statement from his book, "Man- | date for Change", that 80 per cent of the | Vietnamese would have voted for Ho Chi | Minh in a free election. -y | Scheer records how the U.S. decided to ! undermine the Geneva accords of 1954 by I pouring in economic and military aid to its | puppet Premier of South Vietnam, Ngo Dinh | Diem. | In America a high pressure publicity cam- I paign spread the myth of "the miracle of j'. Vietnam", which is still given currency by ! Britain's Stewart and by Menzies, although. | long since exposed as false, j' Testimony in Scheer 's booklet, knock Jing out the Menzies-Sfewart story of a revolt that only began on instructions from th-: 1 North in 1959, includes: Philippe Devillers, French- authority; i . the - China Quarterly in January March, 193..,. m nrn n n rri itii rtin— mwi > mim said the southern rising began not on orders from Hanoi or Peking; but because of Diem's terror campaign. He adds: "The: insurrection existed before- the Com munists decided to take part . . . And even among -the Communists the initiative did not originate in. Hanoi but from the grassroots, where the people were literally driven to take up arms in self-defence." The New York Times of April 29, 1960, reported circulation of a petition by 18: Viet namese nobles (not "Communists") which said ..that "continual arrests had filled prisons to overflowing and a: . swollen government ' -bureaucracy was corrupt and inefficient." The petition warned Diem of "soaring waves of hatred and resentment of a terribly suf fering people." U.S. Time Magazine for November 21, 1960, quoted a south Vietnamese as. say ing; "All Diem has done in six - years of office is indulge in nepotism." Time itself added: "Pleading; the Communist threat,. Diem has ruled with rigged elections, a muzzled press and political re-education camps that now hold 30,000. His prosperous key advisers are four brothers and a pretty sister-in-law." This, then, was is the state that Menzies says was "flourishing" and "developing stabi lity." Australian daily press S.E. Asia specialist Denis Warner wrote in the U.S. Magazine THE REPORTER on October 10, 1963, that Ngo Dinh Nhu, Diem's brother and. police chief, "directed South Vietnam like a gang-; land, leader . . . Land reform, so widely acclaimed, was a ghastly flop . . . com pletely dicredited." The my th that i the: - "Vietcong" are - just , an ' m of North Vietnam is - also demolished by ;. "eer:. ''"'V -State : Department con- j - ceded; notes Scheer, that "the bulk- of the. I Vietcong. guerillas- were South Vietnamese- I peasants living, in their native villages." i The White Paper admitted further: "The- s weapons of the Viet Cong: are largely French, ! or . U.S;-made, or hand-made on . primitive f forges in the jungles ... The Communists - j have avoided any large scale introduction of . Soviet-bloc arms into South Vietnam ..." i The State Department -tried to explain all. | this away by saying the south Vietnamese I were- "coerced." I Blit another authority quoted in the pamph- | let— Robert Trumbull in the- New York | Times : Magazine for July 2,; 1961 — wrote: | x "It has.:been- difficult for the Army to obtain | the co-operation of the villagers in fighting | the Viet Cong . . . the Reds have succeeded j to. a. significant extent in creating a favor- I able image - of themselves in the countryside j . . . there is a great deal of support for j the . Communists among the peasants." I Time and Saturday Evening Post writer I Jerry Rose wrote in the New Republic of j October 12, 3963: "It. only takes one govern- j ment-oriented peasant to inform on the move- j ments of the Viet Cong, one peasant actively 1 supporting the Government. Incredible j though it is, that one active individual, is | lacking, in most areas of the -Mekong Delta." ! Such factual documentation leaves no -room t for doubt that the Menzies Government's dispatch of nearly 1500 Australian troops to Vietnam (soon to include conscripts) is utterly unjustifiable as is the American war of in tervention there. The - rising public movements in the U.S.A.- and Australia- for a peaceful settlement on the basis of the withdrawal of - the troops are. thus based on the -truth about Vietnam. FOOTNOTE: Publishers of the pamphlet are: Centre for the-. Study - of Democratic In-, stitutaons, Box 4068; -Santa Barbara, California, U.S:Ar i - " " i 