 Aborigines win new victory in Walgett | By henry McCarthy 1 SYDNEY: Last Saturday night two Aboriginal leaders broke a new passage through the color bar in the smpll north-western NSW country town of Walgett. i A TENSE crowd of over 300 gathered outside the town's Luxury Theatre as the two men joined a queue to buy tickets for the upstairs section of the theatre, previously barred to Aborigines. They reached the window, tendered their money, received their tickets and walked up the carpeted stairs to take their seats in the "white only" section. Then several other Aboriginal men and women were sold tickets with out incident and joined them. These men who had broken the ban were: Mr. Harry Hall, President of the Aborigines' Progressive Asso ciation in the district, and Mr. Edward Fields, Vice-president. Arrests On the previous Saturday night, two Aborigines and four university students had been arrested during a demonstration, after the Aborigines had been refused admission to the upstairs section. Three other young girls, Pattie and Lorna Hall and Marie Peters, were taken into custody for entering this section of the theatre, but were later released in the custody of their fathers because they were under 18 years of age. Pat is the daughter of Mr. Hall and Lorna is his niece. Following wide publicity of this incident, last Wednesday night the girls were admitted to the upstairs section with another part-Aboriginal girl, but Mr. Hall himself was still refused admission by the co-pro prietor, Mr J. Conomos. -A crowd of about 200 gathered out side the theatre but there was1 ho demonstration. . . On Saturday, Walgett was a town of tension, Aborigines stood in small group in the street, some business people stood in s'; op doorways and; watched. -. 1 Everyone knew that Harry Hall; would . try to buy a ticket for the ; "luxury" section of the Luxury ; Theatre, that night and they were . all ; waiting, on the outcome. . Following a meeting with the local sergeant of police and members of the Aborigines' Progressive . Association, the theatre management had issued: a statement which set- September I, as the deadline when Aborigines would be. admitted . to all parts, bf , the! theatre: ' ' ! Laying down a long, list of stipula tions for admission the management- said that they "reserved the right" to refuse entry to anyone. : Word reached Mr. Hall that he would still be refused entry. Asked by Sergeant Gleeson if there would be a demonstration, Mr. Hall said that this was a possibility if he was refused admission. The Sergeant said that if admission was refused he would instruct the theatre management to admit Mr. Hall. His intervention proved unneces sary. Mr. Hall said later that the police sergeant in his opinion had acted "like a gentleman" during the whole incident. "I have always kept my word to the police and they have kept their word to me," he said. "There are a lot of the townspeople on our , side, but there is a hard core of others against us. These people are influential in business circles" in the town. "The Conomos Brothers who own the' theatre are in business in a big way here. They own several shops and a property. "They bar my people from the posh section of the theatre, but not from the wine bar up the street that they also own," Mr. Hall said. "In a discussion I had with the theatre owners the other day, Mr. Conomos, denied there was discrimi nation against Aborigines. "When I asked him to give me another word for it he had none. 'Town policy' "He claimed that some Aborigines were dirty. I told him that this was a hollow argument and we had no objection to people being barred for these reasons. "I reminded him that there were white people who were also dirty." "He then said that it was not his policy, hut 'town policy'," Mr. Hall added. Mr. Hall said that the main thing about the action to break the ban placed on Aborigines by the theatre management, was that the Aboriginal people had played the leading part in it themselves, backed by univer sity students, trade unions and other organisations. The crowd outside . the theatre swelled again as time for the end of the show, neared. They : still thought something might happen and it did. . When he came out of the theatre Mr. HalL address ed, the crowd from the footpath. . He thanked the police for their co-operation and support, also the university .students the .unions ancl the people. : : : He said ! that there- had been, some Aboriginal people who . had feared for ..their . jobs if they . took part - in action, for their rights. ' , "But who else cian . they employ if they won't employ us?" he asked. Mr. Harry Hall with his daughter Miss Pattie Hall, and niece Miss Lorna Hall. 