 CIA implicated in 1964 Greek massacre The United States and its rightwing friends in Greece suffered a heavy reverse in the current Greek political crisis with the publication last week of a secret official document of the US Army Attache in Athens proving the active implication ot the US intelligence service in the bomb explosion at Gorgopotamos, Greece, in November last year. "THE explosion killed and maimed scores of people, including women and child ren, who were taking part in a mass ceremony commem orating an action by Greek anti-fascist fighters during the nazi occupation. The document also proves the meddling of the U.S. in the affairs of the Greek armed forces, and in the present crisis itself. Concerning the Gorgopotamos mas sacre,. the document says (point 2): "Regarding the last November affair in G., I can assure you that no leak age of information could have taken place in Greece. Those involved were throughly briefed and operated under the strict control of CIA (U.S. Central Intelligence Agency— G.) office. They had no contact with the local population or with their relatives, and were immediately transferred to a base in Germany. Besides the Ambas sador, Messrs. Anschuetz, Brewster and perhaps Parker know the details of the operation". Point 1 reflects U.S. concern over "the status of our friends in the Army and Navy" following the Gorgopo tamos massacre (referred to as "Oper ation Arrow-1") and proves U.S. col lusion with the Defence Minister Gar- oufalias. The present Greek crisis was touch ed off in June by the refusal of King Constantino to approve the dismissal of Garoufalias, who had earlier refus ed to carry out a decision of the Papandreou Government to dismiss right-wing elements in the armed ser vices. Point 3 says that those responsible for the Gorgopotamos massacre "deserve to be rewarded as they re quest", and point 4 suggests U.S. con cern at the proposed purge by the Papandreou government of right-wing army officers. The document was published in newspapers of- the Centre Union (Fapandreou's) Party. Greek newspapers have claimed that the U.S. has spent 100 million dollars in its efforts to secure the overthrow of the Papandreou Govern ment. Calls by Greek newspapers since the publication of the document for action against the Greeks and Ameri cans responsible for the crime at Gorgopotamos have been met instead with prosecutions against four papers which reprinted the secret U.S. docu ment. Greek democrats are demanding the lifting of sentences passed on com pletely innocent Resistance, veterans tried at Lamia in connection with the Gorgopotamos tragedy. 