 White Paper advocates >." ' . ' should learn the lessons of history rOURTEEN years ago next ' Wednesday (September 22) the: Australian people voted to defeat the Menzies Government's referendum to outlaw the Communist Party ana jail anybody it coutd claim to be a communist. It is timely to observe the occasion eince a similar aim is now proposed bv the Liberal Party Federal Council and other backers of the White-Faper- on-Communism proposal. ! The White Paper, they hope, will | stampede public opinion into accept ing a new plan to ban the Communist Party and gag all opponents of the i Government and its war on Vietnam. Timely warning In this connection Mr. W. Brown, Victorian ALP president, gave a time ly warning last Sunday when he warned against what he called the "opportunist and immoral use of anti- communism" in Australia, j He said it was impossible to "con- I duct a democracy in an atmosphere of j fear and hysteria." ! Millions of Labor movement sup porters took the same stand as Mr. . Brown did in the referendum of 14 years ago — and that settled its fate. Circumstances were more favorable for Menzies in 1951 than in 1965 for a drive to suppress the people s noer- ties. The Korean war was raging, giving full scope for a hate campaign against the Communist Party and the peace > movement. Members of the Democratic Labor Party— then known as "groupers"— were strongly entrenched in the lead ership of the Labor Party at both federal and state levels. - ALP opposition When the Bill was first submitted by Menzies in 1950, the ALP actually decided to support it in principle, and this support was reaffirmed later In the year, even though Menzies re fused to adopt the amendment the ALP had insisted on. Only when the High Court invalid ated the legislation after it had passed parliament did the ALP finally decide to oppose it. Even then active campaigning against the bill— and for a No vote in the referendum to legalise it— was left almost entirely to the Party leader, Dr. Evatt, to Mr. Ward, Senator Mc- Kenna and a few more. The Communist Party had to give the lead in- the fight which eventually succeeded, and it faced tremendous obstacles. In his book on the referendum en titled Communism and Democracy, Professor Leicester Webb noted that of the 54 Australian daily papers only one supported No and one other was impartial. The rest gave full support to Menzies. - The Sydney Morning Herald gave Menzies 10 per cent more space than Evatt for fewer meetings. Menzies "favorite" "In placing, Menzies was substanti ally favored" wrote Professor Webb. "Menzies was also favored in size of headlines. On the day before the poll the Yes case received twice the space and a third more reports and was favored in size of headlines and placing." The Herald also published 31 Yes letters and only 13 No letters from readers. In broadcasting time there was a similar bias. On July 9, 1951, a Gallup poll in dicated an 80 per cent vote for Men zies. Refusing to be intimidated, the mili tant workers went into action. Eroad No committees were set up in suburbs and workplaces, to organ ise meetings and prepare leaflets which were issued in hundreds of thousands. Posters and placards sprang up everywhere. Chalk and paint were freely used on walls, chim ney stacks, harborside rocks, railway bridges and other vantage points. Teams of workers toured the coun try to speak and distribute leaflets. PuhBk endorsement As the campaign drew more mass support it also gained the public en dorsement of leading ministers of reli gion such as Rev. Alan Walker, and Bishops Burgmann and Davidson and university men such as Professor John Anderson and P. H. Partridge. Rapidly the gap closed and by poll ing day the majority of the people had become convinced that the gov ernment's plan menaced not only Communism but the liberties of all The result staggered reaction — espe cially the Sydney Daily Telegraph, which had Yes victory posters print ed in advance saying "Bob's Your Uncle!" The margin was narrow— 2,370,000 for No and 2,317,927 for Yes. Three states — NSW, Victoria and SA— voted No, the others Yes. Today the margin would be wider. That a margin could be won for No at all in the conditions of 1951 was a tribute to the Australian people's love of democracy and their readiness to mobilise quickly when the need to defend it arises. The passing of 14 years has, if any thing, strengthened those qualities. 