 More on the ASU ban T SHOULD like to commend Stan Tapper for his letter in Tribune (17/3/65) regarding the ban on the four girl swimmers. I have had 15 -.1 ycais experience as an amateur offic ial, though I am not active at present. Sport cannot be organised without both competitors and officials, and both have rights and duties. The recognition of this fact will immediately dispel the clamour that competitors be given exaggerated im portance, which I believe is the case in the present swimming dispute. There are good and bad competi tors, good and bad officials. With regard to the present debate some relative facts are: (a) The. actions against the swim mers were taken at a duly constituted meeting of the A.S.U. some months after the incidents occurred, when per sonal upsets and prejudices have had time to cool. (b) The daily newspaper demands for details of misdemeanours would expose the girls to open debate, per haps causing them and their families much more pain than the present pen alties. (c) These team members were sel ected to represent Australia, and for a short period would have been more important ambassadors to the world than the usual representatives. Fur thermore, the Australian people in general supply the funds to provide the trips. Action should be taken by respect ive associations against any athlete ox- official who was guilty of serious mis behaviour at Tokyo, and the failure to do so. will be a disservice to Aus tralian sport. There should be no attack on ad ministration here for such action, un less the matter has been carefully in vestigated and injustice shown to be done. After all, it is much easier for officials to "forget" these incidents. It has happened before, but. one would hope that a Communist paper would not champion such conduct. Tribune has not always given a clear lead on the socialist objective in sport. Too often professional sport has been glamorised, yet in the socialist countries the right of all to partici pate to the fullest extent is made prac tical. This should be the goal, sport for all who are able and willing to in dulge, without the small number who excel making their participation a means of wealth. An extremist approach favouring either competitors or officials can only cause grave harm to the continuance of decent healthy sporting relations between them, and consequent loss to ' innrf itolf Socialist (Brisbane) 