 h'uim.iwmu A I S The arrow on this picture (reproduced from PIX maga- j I zine, January 23) points to a man stated to be ".the Aus- j j tralian skipper of a river craft used in the Stanleyville I | assault" (Congo) recently w'nen a Belgian-American | | invasion was staged. j | The caption says he is receiving instructions from | i paid killer "Mad Mick" Hoare (at right) . j j -JOARE, the ruth- I less leader of the (.mercenaries on j Tshombe's payroll, has ! the self - proclaimed I task of killing all Afri- | cans seeking an incle- | pendent Congo. | "The only way to beat j the rebels is to kill them I all", was the headline S over a Hoare article pub- f lished in The Australian j on January 7. j A picture with that I article showed a "rebel" | prisoner "cruelly bound— j then water is poured on | his bonds to tighten them" | (says the caption). ! On November 22 last the Syd- I ney Sun-Herald quoted one of Hoare's men — British mercen- j ary Geoffrey Munn — as having I said he had left Hoare's force sickened by the "murder, ! bloodshed and gangsterism" it j indulged in. j Time Magazine on December j 3 said that in seizing Stanley- ville the mercenaries "gave no ! quarter to any black resemb- ling a rebel." j Since then the world has j been sickened by accounts in j » the New York Times and else- ! where of how the Tshombe I regime's killers, installed by j the Belgians and Hoare in s Stanleyville, mowed down pat- ! riots by machine-gun after a i -mock "trial" in the sports jj stadium. | That any Australian helped in j this massacre comes as bitter j news. | Latest reports indicate, how- j ever, that Hoare's murderous | designs will never be achieved, 1 since African support is rally- I | ing to the Congo patriots. ( This week we find Time com- | plaining: "No doubt about it, | j Congolese rebel leader, Chris I I tophe is steadily gaining friends j in the rest of Africa. j ( "While his henchmen huddled j I m Cairo with Algerian and j I Egyptian officials, discussing | more- aid for the rebellion,' j | Gbenye himself turned up in 1 I Uganda with the rulers of three 5 I African republics." f I The African Premiers, Ken- j ( yatta (Kenya), Obote (Uganda), j j and Nyerere (Tanzania) "seem- \ I ed genuinely thrilled" to help I Gbenye and "western diplomats I j sensed a rising tide of anti- j | Americanism growing from the I meeting," Time added, j Meanwhile the former U.S.- I backed Congo Premier, Adoula. j I whom the U.S. decided to oust s J in favour of the "tougher" ! ( Tshombe, seemed to be plan- j | ning a come-back. j S In a press article he demands j I that a new government including J | the patriots and excluding I | Tshombe be set up in the \ ! Congo. J s Commenting on the assassins- I | tion of Pierre Ngendandumwe, I Premier of neighbouring Bur- j I undi Moscow Pravda says it is j I not the first . crime against ( I Burundi. Last August Tshombe's j j cut-throats gutted the Burundi j I Embassy in Leopoldville and j ( Tshombe troops were massed on j j the Burundi border. | 