 &lt;&lt; Parliamenf of Unions 1 2 BIG REBUFF TO TAME-CAT PLOT > i ' m ' SYDNEY: The Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress on Tuesday defeated by 288 votes to 260 a move initiated by the ex treme rightwing leaders of the Clerks' Union to amend the rules governing the election of the ACTU Executive. Congress delegates say this was a crushing rebuff to a long-prepared plot - by anti-working class groupings to try and exclude militants from the ACTU executive and turn the whole trade union movement to the Right. Not only the extremist National Civic Council paper "News Weekly" and "The Bulletin" but also millionaire daily newspapers had campaigned for the move to change the rules. After the vote, press wails revealed whose interests were involved. An agenda Item submitted by the Clerks sought .to amend the rules to provide that the six members of the executive elected 'to represent the yarious industry groups be elected by a vote of the whole congress. THE Clerks7 proposal was also ® supported by a majority de cision of a recent meeting of the. ACTU executive.1 Speakers supporting the move to change the method of elections were: Messrs. J. Riordan (Federal secretary Clerks' Union), J. Kenny (ACTU sen ior vice-president), H. Souter (ACTU secretary), M. Jordan (secretary Vic torian Trades Hall Council) and C. Holmes (Federal secretary Australas ian Rnfiptv nf Tnncnnp.firs'). Those in opposition were Messrs, G. Dawson (ACTU executive member representing the building trades), J. Heffernan (Federal secretary Sheet Metal Workers' Union), A. Horsburgh (president Amalgamated Engineering Union Commonwealth Council) and W. Evans (ACTU vice-president). Mr. Dawson said that Messrs. Rior dan and Kenny gave no reasons why a rule that has operated for eight years should be changed. "The claim that the present method is undemocratic does not hold water." Mr. Dawson pointed out that Mr. Riordan made no mention of the fact that the NSW Labor Council, with 750,000 affiliated members, has one delegate on the ACTU executive the same as Hohart with only 50,000 members. He said that of the six Clerks' Union delegates froip Queensland, five are members of the' Democratic Labor Party and the other a member of the State- executive of the Liberal Party. "Does Riordan want these dele gates to determine who should re present building workers on the ACTU Executive?" Mr. Heffernan was critical of the congress being asked to "waste time re-hashing previous decisions." vi?n rime noto1 Aloiicac! VVAiau aiJUUV w vauuuvu and other important matters affect ing the workers? What does the exe cutive think we came here for?" . Mr. Heffernan said that the Clerks' Union in 1961 failed to pay its affilia tion fees to the ACTU and even sought to form a breakaway trade union centre. "Now this Union comes out in the so-called role of defending democracy and the ACTU," he said. An earlier division by congress, by 307 votes to 236, defeated a recom mendation by the credentials com mittee that certain Postal Workers' Union delegates be excluded from the congress. Delegates said this was interference with the domestic affairs of a union. Address a shock HE Congress, which is meeting for five days, is being held I under an atmosphere of widespread I hostility by workers to the Arbi- I tration Commission's wage deci- J sion and the heavy taxation bur- J dens imposed on wage and salary I earners. I In this atmosphere, the president ial address by Mr. Monk came as a shock to many delegates at the op, eri- lnS of the Congress. r Most delegates expected Mr. Monk w set the tone of the congress by narply raising these matters of vital oncern to all Australian workers. Instead of launching an attack »amst the policies of the Menzies overnment and the employers, Mr. ?nk found time in his short . 15- fl1Lnute address attack union stew- us shop committees and the Com munist Party. I address received a very cool I Phon from the delegates. I tw6tan union leaders commented I ar1ri was the worst presidential 1 tn o ess, hey had ever heard delivered I w ACTU Congress. I Economic issues I -..The real issues faeinpr thp rnnorAss I'nomicLii included in the eco- I cutive su?mitted by the exe- I the unarnmously endorsed by I we delegates, yesterday. This report said that from the per iod 1952 to 1964 (the major portion of the Menzies Government regime) the share of wages and salaries in the gross national product have fal len from 60.3 per cent to 55.9 per cent and gross profits have increased from 39.7 per cent to 44.1 per cent. The economic program called for control of prices, profits, rents and interests; introduction of a capital gains tax; nationalisation of monop olies and essential services; for the Commonwealth Bank to compete at low interest rates in the general field of hire-purchase; land . to be made available to home builders at low cost and on a non profit basis from Crown lands and land acquired by State and local government author ities. Proposals Other proposals called for: An increased proportion of gross fixed capital expenditure be directed into the public investment field in cluding power production, transport Continued on Page 1 2 View of the opening session of the 1965 ACTU Congress on Monday, at Sydney's Pad- j dington Town Hall. ACTUS Congress Continued from Page 1 and communications, land develop ment, water and irrigation, roa Sj port facilities, health and hospi. facilities, education, housing, snip building and cultural facilities. Increasing the progression the rates of tax upon higher incomes and reducing the burden on io i incomes. Abolition of sales tax ! other forms of indirect taxation I esential commodities, j When Tribune went to press, oon j gres was debating its basic wage p i An amendment from the Jetted j makers' Society has been wbmrttefl ! as a challenge to an executive P t posal. ... a I The Boilermakers are calling i&lt;y ! vigorous campaign in support « | ! family living wage as a basic I j and that this amount be not i than £22 a week. I 