 Hiroshima, Nagasaki, the first blows in the cold, diplomatic war August 15 is the 20th anniversary of the Allied victory in the second world war. The democratic forces of the United Nat- ions crushed the fascist powers headed by the three major fascist dictatorships who signed the Anti-Comintern Pact of 1936. The first to surrender of these, powers, ' who used anti-Communism as their main slogan, was Mussolini's Italy, which on Oc tober 13, 1943, joined the Allies and de clared war on its former ally, Germany. On May 8, 1945 Hitler's Germany was knocked out, mainly by a great Soviet offen sive.. The defeat of Japan the remaining fascist great power, and of special concern to Aus tralia, was the work of many millions of peo- pie, besides Australians. Americans, Soviet citizens, Chinese (who were fighting imper ial Japan from 1931 onwards), Filipinos, Vietnamese and countless others played their part. This article deals with the share of the USA and the USSR in the victory. Later articles will tell of the role of the other allies and of Australia herself. On August 15,. 1945 the second world war ended, and with it ended a period of peril and suffering such as Aus tralia had never known be fore. " FoiJ the first time enemy bombs had landed on Australian soil, kill ing Australians. For the first time Australia had faced the imminent danger of in vasion — and by an appallingly ruth less fascist foe. That Australia came through this peril was a tribute first of all to the fighting qualities of her service men who shed their blood in every important theatre of the mighty struggle to defeat fascism's effort to take over the world. Supporting them to the full were the Australian workers — miners, metal and munition workers, water- siders and many more who toiled long hours and put up with many privations to supply the front. However nobody would claim that Australia by herself could have de feated the Japanese Empire. For this the efforts of our major allies were crucially important. What the U.S.A. did under the leadership of Franklin Roosevelt is well known. Long before Pearl Harbor Roose velt had come out strongly for col lective resistance to the fascist dic tatorships of the anti-Comintern pact of which fascist Japan was one. Roosevelt's fighting call to the world after Pearl Harbor encour aged all the Pacific peoples, includ ing Australians. So did the battle put up by the Americans, alongside the Filipinos, at Bataan; the resistance at Wake Island and America's naval victories, with Australian help, in the Pacific. However the achievements of the U.S. forces have been magnified out of all proportion since then to create the myth that "America won the war." On this the Liberal Party has erected another and very dangerous myth — that we must look to the U.S. to defend us in future and cannot do without such defence. Neither myth has any basis in fact. What really determined the defeat of Japan was the defeat of Hitler Germany in Europe, which became certain with the Soviet victory at Stalingrad in 1943. All Japan's plans for Pacific conquest had been based on the prospects of Hitler's . victory in Europe. But the Japanese decided to- con tinue to fight, encouraged by ' the lightness of the losses their land forces had suffered. The. Japanese million-strong "Kwantung Army" most powerful part of the Japanese war machine, was intact on the Soviet frontier in Manchuria. Not only were Japan's own war factories producing full blast, but the powerful war-industry centre built up by the Japanese in Man churia was still unscathed. Not one of them was hit by a U.S. bomb until the U.S.S.R. de clared war on Japan and moved into Manchuria. . The U.S. War' Department in 1945, was working on "plans for defeat ing Japan in 1947 or 1948. Churchill said that to conquer Japan' would need an effort "not surpassed in Europe" and no one could tell how long it would take. However, the .prospect of the U.S.S.R.'s entry into the war against Japan, promised at the Yalta conference, and due to take place in- August, 1945, altered the whole picture. It upset earlier calculations of the British and American generals as well as those of the Japanese. Ruling circles in both western countries had noted the brilliant final offensive against Hitler of the Soviet armed forces, which, as Churchill acknowledged, "tore the guts" out of . the German army. They could easily imagine what an offensive like that would do to Japan and the war industries in Manchuria. It could be more decisive than anything done by MacArthur's "is land hopping" campaign in the Pacific. It would lift still higher the pre- tige of the U.S.S.R., already high after the European victories. As several writers have pointed out, U.S. and British ruling circles, decided to do what they could to avert world attention from the Soviet entry into the Pacific war and minimise its contribution to victory. They found what they sought in the most horrible weapon, yet de vised by man — the atomic bomb. Not till July 16, 1945, was the first experimental A-bomb exploded in the U.S.A., but a secret deadline was set round about August 10, sche- duled date for the Sov?,et entry into the war, for production of the first operational bomb. Every scrap of uranium available was used to make the bomb, which was rushed across the Pacific and dropped on Hiroshima on August 6. All plutonium was used up in the second dropped on Nagasaki soon afterwards. The killing of about 247,000 civi lians in one -city and about 200,000 in the other didn't help the allies win the war. "In my opinion," wrote U.S. Admiral William D. Leahy, "the use of this barbarous weapon was of no material assistance in our war against Japan." Churchill says in his war his tory: "It would be a mistake to suppose that the fate of Japan was settled by the atomic bomb". Hanson W. Baldwin, New York Times military expert, said that "neither the people of Japan nor their leaders were as impressed with the atomic bomb as we were." U.S. General Arnold and T£S. Admiral Halsey also said the A-bomb massacres were unnecessary to win the war. The real reason for this crime, as for so many others, was anti- Communism. Thomas K. Finletter, later U.S. air secretary, wrote in the Saturday Re view of June 5, 1946, that the purpose of the atomic bomb was to knock out Japan before Russia entered the war, or a least demonstrated its participation. British Professor P. M. S. Blackett called the atomic massacres "not so much the last military act of the second world war as one of the first major operations of the cold diplomatic war with Russia." So it's not of the atom bomb we want to think when we are ap praising the U.S.A.'s contribution to victory in the past war.- We must not let its glare obscure our understanding of the real ser vices of those Americans who laid down their lives in the common struggle. Still less must we let it make us forget the value of the final crushing blow our Soviet ally was still able to deliver after all she had done and all she had lost, in the major European, theatre of the war. For, if the atom' bomb failed to impress the Japanese chieftains and gained no military advantage for the Allies, the same could not "be said of the Soviet offensive which began on August 9. The Soviet army attacked all along the front in Manchuria. The Soviet air force bombed Japanese naval bases, not an undefended city. In six days the Soviet army cut the crack Japanese Kwantung army to pieces but it took only one day to show Tokyo that its forces were outclassed. At 3 p.m. on August 10 the Japanese government anounced acceptance of the U.S. -British- Chinese Declaration of July 26, - 1945. After a few more days of mano euvres aimed to split the allies and reach a U.S.-Japanese alliance against the U.S.S.R., Japan finally 'gave in. Many Australian prisoners of war were liberated by Soviet army forces advancing through Japanese- held Korea. They weren't the only Australians to appreciate the value to Australia of friendship 'with the U.S.S.R. in any further Pacific crisis. SPLENDID service was given to the Allies in New Guinea by indigenes like these of the Papuan Infantry Battalion, seen below receiving instruction in the use of modern weapons during the war. RIGHT: Raising the wreck of one of the Japanese midget submarines which entered Sydney Harbour in 1942. The sole "success" was a ferry steamer. 