 RUGBY LEAGUE i By Ron Mackerras I And now for the first semi- | finals, with Souths to meet Par-. I ramatta in first grade. I I select Parramatta to win nar E rowly even with the return oi g Lisle and Morgan to Souths. Par- I ramatta 's forwards' strength I . should prevail in the second half I ' and Rayner's superiority as a hooker can he vital with both teams evenly matched otherwise Souths have a problem in who to drop to make way for Morgan I and Lisle. I My . choice would be to drop | young Simms and retain Bran- i ningan as a winger. He has re- I gained confidence and also has j 1 the speed to finish off a move- fl ment and can be switched to 9 centre if needed later in the 9 game. 9 Souths reserves also play on 9 Saturday, and as Bob McCarthy 9 is eligible to play reserve ; grade 9 and Powell is not, I believe I Souths . selectors will retain fl Powell at prop and choose Jim w Morgan in second row. i A weeks goal kicking practice HI should make Jngbottom as ac- t| curate as young Simms oi as || consistent as the inconsistent j II Arch Brown of Parramatta. I| Souths best chance of winning y a premiership lies with their Reserve -and Third grade sides and I believe Souths selectors will keep' this in mind wher ; "selecting their first and reseive grade sides for Saturday. Souths opposition in Reserve grade on Saturday have no tithe.' semi-final commitments and i. the last few matches have been able to strengthen their 'ow« grades and are now capacity o> - upsetting teams that have shm ed the lead throughout """ season. In spite of this, 1 select South' reserves to win their semi-nna and St George to win the thud grade semi-final. Balmain officials and their coach must accept some cr ticism for their first gra sides failure -by one Poin to make the semi's. Hov/ev Pagan's last minute inclusion first grade- paid off. His sma service from the scrum base > also as duriimy-half transform their backline. into a strong tacking machine that couid coped with any backline m competition. , nC.&lt; Parramatta must be Pleaa that they won vital po® against Balmain with Georg Piper not even half fit an i ' jfl now meeting a team tha t£r main have convincingly bea B on each occasion. B 