 | | TRIBUNE I 1 I Historic ride I ! over Australia tribute is now being paid to a cour- j J ageous group of Sydney University students who have » | become known as the "Freedom Riders". j I They could not be moved from their determination to J 1 carry out a survey of the conditions of Aborigines and to I arouse opposition to discrimination where they found it. j A most important tribute to their work has been the | I way they have won the confidence of many Aboriginal j | people, as seen by the way Aboriginal children at Moree | | demonstrated for entry into the baths after the students ! J left the town. 1 j The students as they carried out their activities have f t a's won many allies among the white people in the j I towns. j ! Theyshould also be congratulated /for their political | I skill and maturity in negotiating with police and council j ! representatives, and winning some badly needed concessions £ j for the Aboriginal people. S j The students' work is a lesson to those who, with a ! s superior air, are quick off the mark to disparage today's S | younger generation. J ! The Freedom Riders have brought right out into the I - ! open social- discrimination widely practised against Abori- j j gines, such as bans on entry to clubs, baths and halls. j I # | j "J"HE resultant wide public discussion in NSW will greatly j J help the already powerful development of a nation-wide I j movement for full rights for Aborigines. I | This' movement has been greatly stimulated by Abori- | J ginal advancement organisations and also by the mounting j | struggle of the trade unions nationally for equal pay and ! | other economic rights for Aborigines. j I 4-u Tht liberals can get cold comfort from any criticism 5 I the Labor Government is receiving for conditions of Abo- I ! rigines in NSW. j I There are Liberal and Country Party Governments in S j most States and they also control the Federal Government. ! J The conditions of Aborigines under their control are much ! j worse than those in NSW. . j I Aborigines employed by the Commonwealth Govern- S | ment in the Northern Territory receive only a fraction of I' I the wages paid to other employees. I I L U " suPPorf' should be given to the court cases now j f being conducted by the Australian Workers' Union and ! | the North Australian Workers' Union, who are correctly j | demanding equal pay for Aborigines in the Territory and I | pastoral industries. i | . - | i£>NE th.e most important Australian documents on this I i great issue is the Communist Draft Programme on - \ I the Aborigines, which recognises the right of the Aboriginal \ | people to full Australian citizenship, equal wages and other I j award conditions, together with such special aids as may ! j be needed to enable them to enjoy equal rights and also | j to exist and grow as a distinct national minority. | j Communists have in the past waged, and will continue I ' | to wage, a firm and consistent fight in support of the 1 j basic struggle of the Aboriginal people themselves, for ! j these aims. ' I 