 [?] I Children are not s I born heartless I S"THE crime at Easter in Sydney in which a man was burnt to death, alleg- j edly by boys, has shocked j the nation. Some young people may be I punished, but the real question I is: how do such things become I possible? Children are not born j savage and heartless. I The people responsible for | influencing young minds to- I wards violence today are get- I ting off scot-free in all such 1 cases. I What of the American gen- I erals and political leaders re- I sponsible for burning up thous- I ands of innocents with napalm | and phosphorus in Vietnam? | (and driving Buddhist priests I to desperate self-burning). | What of the constant TV pro- i grams openly demonstrating I horrible acts of violence night by night (contrary to the S Broadcasting Control Board's I rules)? What of the constant | featuring of violent crimes in ! the daily press? This is a social question that | calls for action by parents. | e I rTHE N.S.W. State Govern- I ment's flat-building projects in the heart of Sydney's inner S city suburbs like Redfern and I Waterloo deserve commenda- I tion. The new buildings with I their lawns and the trees S planted in the streets have ! given a visual and psychological | lift to these older suburbs, ! For all its many policy weak- I nesses, this Labor Government i has done a better job on hous- | ing than the various State Lib- 1 eral Governments. I j A FTER spending six months | in prison for contempt of Court for not revealing where | she had hidden £6,000 saved t from her housekeeping money = and sharing it with her hus- I band, a British housewife has g now been released to fight the g case. Sounds like something S from the Middle Ages. Such a I thing is quite impossible in a J socialist society, where women's g rights have been fully recog- ! nised. I « » | r\URING a TV discussion on g decimal currency last week | a dignified, middle-aged mau I made revealing comments on, g of all things, chocolate frogs- g The price of this favorite child- ren's sweet has not been de- | cided yet, he told us. If the j frog goes up to four cents, it g will he made slightly larger, | but should it remain at three | cents (it costs 3d now) it will | have to he reduced in size! j Manufacturers are making sure I they will not suffer any losses g in the change-over. Even the kids are caught in the currency grab. I —MARY, j 