 War, taxes, prkes..vbut — FIVE MUSTS' FOR BETTER LIVING ! Warning Australians against a worsening economic situation and the Government's plan for a Budget of heavier war taxation, the i Communist Party of Australia this week launched a 5-point cam- ! i paign to raise living standards and fight poverty:— I n © A £22 basic waae as a family livina wane, wifrh maraini adjusted in accordance with the 1947 standards. Control of prices. A 35-hour week. Equal pay without discrimination of. sex or race. Abolition of anti-union penal clauses. "T"HESE demands were endorsed by the CPA Central Com mittee last weekend following a report by the President (Mr. R. Dixon) . | Mr. Dixon said that the struggle against the Menzies Government's foreign policy was directly related I to the struggle to improve living j standards and to preserve demo- > cratic liberties. I "War in Vietnam, increased taxes j higher prices mean lower standards j for the workers. It follows from this that the fight for peace is essential to the fight against poverty in Aus- j tralia," he said. I Explaining that Australia was faced | with growing economic difficulties, I Mr. Dixon said that the trade balance 1 was running strongly against Aus- 1 tralia and it was expected that im- | ports this year would exceed exports | by an estimated £100 million. In the last ten months Australia's overseas currency reserves had fallen, by £130 million. Australia's balance of payments position would become worse. The country was now facing the most serious drought for 20 years and the position of farmers and some rural towns was serious. The drought would result in a considerable fall in Australia's export income. United States and British restric tions on the export of capital to Aus tralia would be a further blow. Mr. Dixon sharply condemned the Menzies Government's policies of reliance on the import of foreign capital to balance its payments, while handing over vast resources to foreign monopolies. "The economic progress and pros perity of Australia should not be at the mercy of US and British monopoly concerns," he said. WAGES Am PRECIS j "The Menzies Government's decision j to intervene in South-East Asia will j worsen our balance of payments j position. It will mean new burdens I on the working people, reduced living I standards and attacks oh democratic j liberties. The Government declared : that as a result of its South-East | Asian policy, Australian military ex- j -penditure is expected to rise to more than £400 million a year. j "Direct and indirect taxes are to be increased in the. forthcoming I budget. j "Inflationary processes are under | way in Australia. Prices aTe rising | and the cost of living is going up. I Almost daily new price increases are j announced. At the same time the I Federal Government is seeking a wage I freeze. I "Tbo nrnonnf nonifol niflne' ViocIa wage of £15/8/- has been correctly- described as a depression wage— it is impossible for a family to live on. The recent basic wage claim of the A.C.T.U. of 12/- was ridiculously inadequate and it aroused no interest amongst the workers. "Moreover, mechanisation of pro duction has developed on a big scale, automation is on the way, and the I productivity of the workers has in creased, the profits of the monopolies are higher. In these circumstances the working class movement should demand a new wage standard." This demand, of course, was not counterposed to demands already being waged for wage increases on an industry basis. Many claims for substantial wage increases had been raised so that workers were already pressing forward towards £22 mini mum wage, he said. "There is widespread and growing concern on price increases. We think, therefore, that it is best for the Party to launch a big drive through these industries and among house wives against rising prices and for the control of prices by State and - Federal Governments." Mr. Dixon urged that workers, housewives and others should more and more direct protests over price rises to the top men of the monopo lies themselves. He also announced that the Com munist Party's membership build ing drive had already by the end of May passed 50 per cent, of the year's target figures. 