 Time for a real . change in the medical "benefits" By a Special Correspondent The 13-odd years of the Menzies Government's so-called national health scheme have brought: higher payments to benefit societies, the threat to reduce the already inadequate payments by societies and government, and increased medical costs. "JHIS trend" will continue as long as the present hospital, medical and - pharmaceutical benefits schemes last, based as they are on wholly or partly on insurance. The recent announcement of in creased payments to benefit societ ies and increased medical fees has focussed attention on the medical scheme. In practice, these results are build ing up : — ® Provision for sickness becomes a more burdensome part of family budgets. © The gap between total benefit payments received and the cost of medical treatment is getting wider. Sickness inevitably brings more debt. Unless arrested, these processes must further undermine the stability of benefit societies, cause the bank ruptcy of some of them and. force workers to avoid seeking medical advice except in emergency. JLnis snuauun musu ob turesbeu by forceful action from Federal and State Governments. Australia needs to revert to a scheme financed by taxation and provide the people, without fur ther payment. With full-scale hospital and medical treatment and pre scribed pharmaceutical supplies. This was the scheme intended when, in 1947, the people voted by referendum to give the Common wealth Government power to legis late for social, services. It was clearly intended by the Par liamentary Committee whose reports and findings provided the basis for the Chifley Government's social ser vice legislation, including the Social Services Contribution Tax and the National Welfare Fund. (In the Socialist countries, hos pital, medical and pharmaceutical services are free and the people are rid forever of financial burdens as sociated with illness. This is not the only factor marking the super iority of such services under social ism over those in Australia.) The organised medical profession, through what was then the BMA, and subsequently the Menzies Gov ernment, set about deliberately dis rupting this scheme and ultimately brought into existence the present unsatisfactory schemes. A big fight will and must be waged against both these factors before a final solution of this problem is reached. Meantime some immediate and ur gent action is necessary. Spokesmen for the benefit societ ies say benefit payments are exceed ing dues received, because society members are seeking medical advice more frequently and doctors' fees have risen. But workers join these societies pre cisely so they can afford to have more frequent medical assistance. If this is 'undermining the scheme then the scheme cannotr fulfil its main purpose. A solution cannot be found by in creasing dues to benefit societies. Nor is there justification for any increase in medical fees. The in creases intended by the Australian Medical Association (AMA, formerly the BMA) should be prevented by government action. ' While doctors do not feature pro minently in lists of declared bank rupts, the cost of necessary medi cal assistance is putting an essential service into the class of a luxury. The Menzies scheme, initiated by the late Sir Earle Page, is and was intended to be a bonanza for the medical profession. One Australian authority, R. Men delsohn, writing on this subject in 1954, said: "The British Medical Association in Australia professes to see in a national health service a threat to standards of practice. Ne gotiation has, however, been almost exclusively about remuneration, and the doctors are probably satisfied their present excellent financial posi tion will not be disturbed by the Page proposals". Gin this basis the BMA backed the Page scheme. More recently the conservative "Fi nancial Review" commented: "The inherent contradiction of the present health scheme is that its soundness is completely at the mercy of a group over which the Govern ment has no control." If the Menzies Government -will not act, the State Governments should be compelled to use price control to prevent increases in doc tors' fees and to subject these to effective inquiry and future control. A full public inquiry should be made into the various benefit societ ies to ensure maximum benefits for minimum payments, reducing over head and administrative costs and ensuring full democratic control. There should be an increase in the amount of benefit paid by the Gov ernment, especially for the medical services most frequently sought by the people. 