 Court demosasfreifhM plemed : I Aboriginal pay I fight grows DARWIN: It is reported that Aborigine workers will demon- 1 strafe at the Court in support of equal pay when the Common- j wealth Arbitration Commission begins its hearings in Darwin | on July 13. I The 24 hour stoppage of all union- . ists throughout the Northern Territory planned for July 1 in support , of the demand has been deferred pending the outcome of the Court hearing. A recent general meeting of the North Australian Workers' Union had called the stoppage and asked the Australian Council of Trade Unions to support the campaign. The Queensland Trades and Labor Council also back ed the stoppage. In the Northern Territory the Award rate for adult male Aborigines working in the pastoral industry is u/ 8/3 a week plus keep cor £2/13/- in neu of keep). For adult females the e ls £1/5/3 and 16/6 in lieu of keep. The NAWU is pressing for the re moval of discrimination against Ab origines in the Cattle Station Indus try Award. The court will also hear, in Sydney on July 7, an application from the Australian Workers Union to end I wage discrimination against Abori- j gines in the pastoral industry. j The Federal Council for the Advance- I ment of Aborigines and Torres Strait J Islanders' has asked the Prime Min- | ister (R. G. Menzies); the leader of | the Australian Country Party (J. Mc- | Ewen) and the leader of the Austra- ! lian Labor Party (A. A. Calwell) to | use their influence for the removal of I Award discrimination against Abori- | gines. I Discrimination j i In a letter to Sir Richard Kirby j (President of the Arbitration Commis- S sion) the Council said: "Industrial I legislation which discriminates on the j basis of race, creed or color is con- | trary to the spirit of the brotherhood I of man." Another letter went to the j Australian Wool Growers and Graziers | Council. S The 8th' annual conference of the j Federal Council for the Advancement | of Aborigines held recently in Can- I berra called on the ACTU and State g Labor Councils to "use direct action | to end wage discrimination against j Aborigines." j Last year the Queensland Trade and | Labor Council unsuccessfully called j on the State Government to remove | ail dteriminution against the 5,000 f ! Aborigines working in the pastoral 2 ! industry in Queensland. j 'L 