 US clergy here expose Viet, war . SYDNEY : Straight back from South Vietnam, ; two American clergymen last week roundly denied 1 that there was any danger of a "Chinese sweep" through South-East Asia to Australia. ""THEY said they were going back to the United States to call for an end to the US bombing of North Vietnam and an end: to US military action in Vietnam as a whole. Both "declared there was no chance of a US victory, although the war was causing terrible suffering to the Vietnamese people. Both said that the best way Aus tralian. peace supporters could help the peace struggle in the U.S. was by continuing their campaigns to change the subservient ("ditto") policy of the Australian Government. They spoke to an enthusiastic meet ing of 600 people which had been convened by Sydney ministers at only a few days' notice after hearing that the US ministers would be passing through Sydney on their way : from Vietnam to the USA. Peace worker The ministers were welcomed by Rev.. G. Miller, Minister of the Scots' Church, where the meeting was held, , and Rev. Alan Walker, superintendent &lt; of the Central Methodist Mission, who presided. Bishop W. Crittenden, one of the visiting clergy, is Chairman of the Peace Advisory Committee of the jUS Episcopal Church Executive and vice-president of the National Council of Churches in the USA. He said that the Vietnamese had been involved in war for 25 years. The country was being used as a ; "testing ground" with no concern for the people themselves. Millions of , children and young people had known nothing but war all their lives. The Bishop said the churches must be peace-makers and should oppose armed forces and military might. The Vietnam war was of a kind nobody could win. "China not a threat" Answering a question by Bishop Moyes, former Bishop of Armidale, Bishop Crittenden said "China is not - r the threat she is. implied to be. The idea of China sweeping down through South-East Asia is not true. There is no evidence of Chinese being in the war at all." The Vietnamese opponents of the Americans, said the Bishop,, were getting more help from the USSR than from China. They did not want to be satellites of China and were !not taking orders from China. The second minister, Rev. James , Lawson, a Negro Methodist, from Memphis, Tennessee, said his main impressions- were that all moral Tightness was not on the Govern ment. side in Vietnam — nobody could say that. When the South Vietnam Govern ment spoke in terms of a military solution, this was hound' to lead to , disaster and tragedy. No prospect of victory American newspapermen they had met in Saigon had agreed that there was no prospect of victory by military means. One had said that if the US threw in its whole force it might, after 10 years, achieve a stalemate. But there would be no victory. The Vietnamese Christians with !whom they talked; Mr. Lawson said, mainly discussed the dangers of Communism, but the Buddhists (the majority in Vietnam) spoke of the ; agony of the people in the war and said it must stop so that the question of Communism could be properly . discussed. Mr. Lawson accused the US State Department of deceiving the American people. If they told the truth there would be a great outcry among the people—hence they withheld it. The State Department claimed the South Vietnamese were caught up in 'an anti-Communist crusade. "They're ' not/' said Mr. Lawson. Mr. Lawson said that the US was to be blamed for refusing to allow China to enter the UN. We should also recognise the democratic Repub lic of Vietnam and the South Vietnam National Liberation Front. No withdrawal He did not favor US "withdrawal," but "to continue our involvement we 'must first stop the war." Mr.. Lawson said that the "ditto" policy of the Australian Government i towards the US. "weakens us at - home," but. he would not protest to Menzies. "You do what you can, and we too," he said. ' Bishop Crittenden said that public : opinion did count in the USA. Negro : Civil Rights champion Martin Luther , King had called for an end to the war and this would broaden the liberal front Welcoming the visitors, Mr. Miller said that the right to express opposi- 1 tiorr to the Government was very precious. If it was not used it" might be lost by default. fiO'.'fi 