 | Five facts on Vietnam 1 &lt; — Trr'IIIIIWIIII IIIIIUHII j (A letter sent to the Sydney Morn- 1 Ing Herald, but not published so 3 far.) 1 THE SMH American correspond j ent, F. C. Brandt— "Five Facts L I about Vietnam" (May 27, 1965)— I wants to deal in facts and to "cut 1 / I through the emotional Issues." | Emotional decisions can be | reached by leaving out important | facts when considering a problem. | May I therefore add in five more I facts to the Vietnam picture? gj I America refused to sign the . ij Geneva Convention prohibiting :i gas warfare and has used gas 4 in Vietnam. ,ch ,1 A CBS report on Vietnam tele- he m cast recently in Sydney showed try M President Eisenhower (as he lei m was when filmed) explaining nd m hat America was in Vietnam H fr tungsten and tin. on J (3) The American idea of maintain- H mS what Mr. Brandt describes m' |g as the "free world" includes . 1 "position for years on South S1' 1 Vietnam of the infamous Ngo | inh Diem regime, followed by m a raPid succession of regimes 9 scarcely less unpopular with the on m Vietnamese. nd 1 Senator Wayne Morse said in the rn- I Vork Times (January 17, ia- 1 65): "ur refusing to sign the in- I accord of 1954 has always made ne H suspect our claim that we were ty, I enforcing it. In truth, our lly I enforcement' has taken the form ,he 1 violations far more massive I than any violations by North ,re Vietnam. Our jet airforce and im I aaas» our helicopter fleet and eav R 23,000 US military advisers are )ns I c violations of the 1954 accord, g So are they violations of section after section of the United 1 Nations Charter, under which nrcfi m pled£ed to seek peaceful fntS w to disputes and to lay bvl " UN those deputes we B u?a e to solve peacefully 1 through means of our own choosing. We have done neither in Vietnam." (5) The casuistry about "advisers" has now been dropped. Why use double talk at all, and how much more of this form of eyewash is there in American accounts of the Vietnam affair? — is .Li. (Mo sman, NSW). 