 I !!! Ill !! II 1 1 I III |ftli|""lu'llJ,""IL"LI-ILJIUI,ilull-IJ'JPJlllL1Jul-lL"lll"ll"j Youth Week I YDNEY: Meetings in tech nical colleges, workshops and factories are being held this week in Sydney in pre- paration for Trade Union Youth Week to take place throughout Australia starting next Monday. This is the second Youth Week sponsored by the Australian Coun cil of Trade Unions to publicise the unions' program for young workers and to join and activise new young members into the trade unions. In Sydney a Labor Council com mittee of 11 unions and a represen tative of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associa tions are planning the Youth Week activities. These include: — MONDAY, JULY 26 Workshop c'scussions by young people of their everyday problems. TUESDAY, JULY 27 Youth Variety Concert at the Australian Paper Mills' Hall, Mc- Cauley Street, Matraville, 8 p.m. Proceeds of the 4/- admission dona tion to go to the National Union of Students' Aboriginal Scholarship Fund. WEDNESDAY, JULY 28 A Civic Reception at the Sydney Town Hall by the Lord Mayor (Aid. H. Jensen) at noon. Concert of Stars at the Science Hall, University of N.S.W., Kensington 8 p.m. Program includes: Jimmy Little and his Trio, Fred Pares, Nat Caver's Jazz Men, Sharon O'Brien and Mar ion Henderson. Admission by 5/- donation. Pro ceeds to the Aboriginal Scholarship Fund. THURSDAY, JULY 29 Youth Forum to discuss: — Wages, salaries, allowances, working; and social conditions. Education, training, trvte courses, and opportunities for careers. The unions and young people and what union membership offers. ® Trade unions' peace policy, the TU and French nuclear tests, con scription, etc. A general session for discussion will be opened by Labor Council secretary (Mr. J. Kenny) at Trades Hall during the afternoon to be fol lowed by a function. FRIDAY, JULY 30 Youth Talent Quest. £180 in prizes. At- the Turner Hall, Sydney Tech nical College, 8 p.m. (organised by Jhe Department of Technical Educa- in and Labor Council). Proceeds o charity. 5/- donation. 