 Viet Cong j draws closer i to Saigon : LONDON: A fierce battle is developing round II the approaches to Saigon, matched within the city % by political struggles of mounting intensity, writes fi Wilfred Burchett. "THE famous Australian jour nalist has written a new ser ies of articles for the London Daily Worker after another visit to South Vietnam's libera tion forces. "The war in the countryside has al ready been lost by the American com- - mand-aad-4€3isi£lk .attempts ..are. Jlging made to draw a ring of steel around Saigon and other major cities," adds Burchett. "These attempts will fall. The US puppet regime, no matter what new personalities may push to the top in the endless series of coups' and counter-coups, is doomed". Outlining the great changes he says have taken place since his last visit, Burchett writes: "Most impressive -of all, the Liber ation Army has grown up. Guerilla bands that I met last time are now -! at - company strength and integrated . 3 into the regular army, their village 31 self-defence duties being taken over by girls. ;4 "Battalions that I visited then are M now regiments: highly disciplined, magnificently trained units perfectly 'm adapted for the type of war they have to wage." ... .One such.umit, .says ..Burchett, re cently inflicted on the US-Saigon com- mand what the western press called 31 the most crushing defeat it had yet suffered— at Binh Gia; a battle which 3 could he counted a most important I action in the battle for Saigon. 1 "Crack units of the so-called 'stra- 3 tegic reserve' were outfought in classic 3f daytime battles and two-and-a-half of i? the 11 'strategic reserve battalions 3 were completely wiped out, all their weapons captured." The battle was fought 30 miles east 1 of Saigon on the route linking Saieon to Cap St. Jacques, which, says Burch- ett, is being gradually turned into a ii funk-hole. "Certain key installations are being transferred there from Saigon because 3 the Americans fear being caught in a ; 3 'Dien Bien Phu' trap at Saigon." 3ff Burchett writes: hfj "Despite the 'ring of steel' . \ . the 33 liberation forces move ever closer to Saigon. ?|| "The 'strategic hamlet' of Tan \ Thanh Hay, about seven miles from : Saigon, which was in enemy hands 33 when I was smuggled into it last time, gf has since been liberated and the two \m military posts that 'protected it have been wiped out. - \ "While I was in Gia Dinh province 311 which surrounds Saigon posts were destroyed three miles and just over a >( mile from the city outskirts. 331 "A Liberation Army song and dance 3 ensemble gave a performance inside y: Saigon less than 500 yards from the. US Embassy. - «- . "Such incidents, like the infiltration % of a heavily armed unit through the :;3; most tightly-guarded defences that surrounded the Bien Hoa airfield ... 4% or the blowing up of The Brink ("US Only") officers' hotel in the very centre of Saigon, are only possible sj because the Liberation front has the total support of the population, in- p eluding many officially serving in the ftnpmv armv cariri arirmrnftfrafcifin" - vV Attempt to kill Burchett f Burchett says that, the presence, o! ; himself and other western journalists v was observed by the US forces and a . »| determined effort made to wipe them out.- - He says: "My bulk and greying hairs || probably showed up on the recon- J naissance photographs and before 1 dawn one morning the group of trees || in which our hammocks were slung ® for the night received the attentions | of four bombers which flew straight a to those trees, no circling, and damp i ed their bombs there, one after an- | other." Is The first blast "almost blew" the I party into air raid shelters dug tne J night before and "the mass of tp® i undergrowth absorbed most of j blast and flying metal. , 1 ' "A great victory for the US-run' 1 force, however, was that the bo: m | blew a little boy and his buffalo yg pieces. j : 