 [?] Isa men hove | acted according | to the law ! "jf HE plain facts of the long struggle of the Mt. Isa workers for sat isfaction of their just demands show how they have at all times acted within the terms of their legal award. It is the company, with its lock out, and the Government, with its attack on democracy, that have torn up the law. The solidarity of the Mt. Isa work ers has steadily grown since the Queensland Government legislated on bonus payments in 1961. Before that change in the Arbitra tion Act, the Court could increase or decrease bonus payments if it felt it was justified. But the new law . permitted the Court to DECREASE the bonus but not to INCREASE it unless the American owned company agreed! The year 1961 saw an 8 weeks' : lockout by the company in an. at tempt to smash the union organisa tion on the field and defeat the moves for a bonus increase. Since 1961 the company has re fused to negotiate with the unions on wage increases. So in the middle of 1964 further conferences were held on the field between the trade unions and the company. This again brought forth a rejec tion of the unions' claims by the company. The unions, last August, once again discussed the bonus issue and re solved to take some action to bring justice to the bonus demands. On August 24 the AWU workers decided not to breach the Mt. Isa Award but to revert from contract to day wages. (The Mt. Isa Award allows a choice of Day Rates — or Con tract). The craft unions immediately sup ported the AWU members. After 15 weeks the Government came to the aid of the mining com pany by issuing emergency regula tions demanding a return to con tract work. The Nicklin-Munro Liberal-Country Party Government then amended its Emergency Legislation giving the Mt. , Isa Company the right to sack or stand down any miner who refused to work contract. Lackouf This American monopoly then was free legally to shut its gates and lock the miners out. The standing down of tradesmen followed. The stood down workers immedia tely applied for Social Service. Their applications were rejected in January, approximately one month after being made. Miners had decided, as was their legal right, in terms of the Award, to work for wages instead of con tract. The Industrial Court declared that they were engaged in a "go slow strike", because they made this de cision "in concert" not one by one. This decision was challenged throughout Australia by unionists, as striking at the very basis of democratic trade unionism.. The Arbitration Court was direc ted by the Government to hold a compulsory conference between the Parties to settle the dispute. The Conference took place follow ing a Commission re-hearing of the Mt. Isa workers' claims for £4 in crease. The Court heard an appeal from the AWU against the Commission's refusal to grant the Claim, on the grounds of the State law debarring bonus hearings. Challenged The Court then ruled its Commis sioners erred, and a prosperity load ing could be granted. It criticised the legislation, saying the Commission had power. The Commission then granted a £3 loading. However, the Conference failed to agree on the other five points of the miners' claim (see below). Despite a Commission order for a further private discussion, Mr. J. W. Foots, general manager of Mt. Isa Mines Ltd., said flatly that the American-directed company would not negotiate further and rejected all demands. On January 15 a mass meeting in Mt. Isa decided to fight on for satis faction of the demands. The pattern is clear: The Govern ment CHANGED the law; the com pany has closed down the mine — but the men acted within the law firm stand in defence of leaders |N addition to the long-stand ing and just economic claims of the Mt. Isa men, a very im portant question of trade union principle is at stake in the struggle — the right of trade unionists to elect and be repre sented by their own leaders. In this case, the AWU workers in Mt. Isa, have elected leader, Mr. Pat Mackie, and also the combined trade- unipn movement there has its local Trades and Labor Council. Since the late twenties, the prac tice of the Mt. Isa employers has been to dismiss the leaders of every militiant movement of the workers and in one way or another to run those leaders out of the district. Today, the unity at Mt. Isa is so _ strong, and the outside trade union support so widespread, the the com pany has %een unable to achieve this. Now, the State Government is attempting to use police gangs to behead the union leadership. Mr. J. McMahon, president of the Mt. Isa T. and L.C., has been ruth lessly dragged off a plane in Bris bane and prevented from returning to Mt. Isa where his wife lives. MR. J, McMAHON, President of the Mt. Isa Trades and Labor Council. 