 Basic wage campaign grows: n" ' I — MMI. I ..IIIUJ 1U11U1IL— 1UHUW.UJM J Big push for ' wage rise SYDNEY : Job and factory meetings of workers - throughout New South Wales will be organised to press individual employers "to agree to the basic wage increases claimed by the unions and to dis- sociate themselves from the total wage claim of the employer organisations'. THE NSW Labor Council has called for the holding of these meetings in support of the application of the Austra lian Council of Trade Unions for an adjustment of the basic wage to compensate for the price increases since the basic wage was fixed in June 1964. These meetings have been asked to "condemn the application of the em ployers' organisations which again seeks to have the Arbitration Com mission combine the basic wage and margins, and the offer of an increase of one per cent." "This offer would result in varying increases up to about 4/-, while the 'Consumer Price Index' reveals that cost of living figures for New South Wales have increased by 10/- since June 1964." The Labor Council is asking these meetings to endorse a resolution that supports the trade union demand that purchasing power of wages be pro tected by general control over prices and profits by Commonwealth and State governments. - Increases from 9/- to 13/- are being sought to restore the purchasing power of the Federal basic wage to its June 1964 level. If these are granted it will not raise living standards but only assist to maintain them at the level determined by the Arbitration Commission last June. When granting £1 of the unions' claim for 52/- the Commission last year said: "... the state of the economy is such that we are prepared (1) to as sume that the capacity to pay the present real basic wage will continue until the next review and (2) prima facie to apply price movements each year ..." The next review of the basic wage > will take place about 1967. This means that £1 was granted and : a new "real" wage fixed at a level which the Commission said could be maintained for three years. A leaflet issued by seven building unions calls on workers everywhere to back the wage claim to the utmost, "Though the Federal MPs gave themselves an extra £1,000 a year last October, it is almost certain that the Menzies Government will join the employers to oppose the unions' basic wage claim. "This means that the fight must go on, both before the Commission and on the job. "Pressure must also be brought to ' bear on employers, members of parli aments and all others to support and not oppose the unions' claims," the building unions said. ' 