 HOW GREEN IS THEIR VALLEY? By JIM STEVENS Anyone wonting to know how young Aus tralian families are making out under pre sent-day "affluent conditions" should take a trip to Green Valley. CITUATED near Liverpool, some 26 miles from the centre of Sydney, it is the big gest Government housing pro ject ever undertaken in Aus tralia and is in the final stages of completion. Green Valley has been publicised many time before. Few people would deny that it is a worthwhile project, with the aim of providing accommoda tion for the homeless. When completed the project will consist of 6,000 attractive cottages situated in five villages with schools, churches, shopping centres, etc". The NSW Housing Commission can be commended for its efforts in trying to do away with the many "tempor ary" hostels which have existed., in and around Sydney for over 20 years. But the real story at Green Valley is not the number of bricks', super feet of timber or panes of glass; nor for that matter is it only a problem for the homeless, because people who have the necessary money can soon solve their housing problem individu ally. The human story Tribune found at Green Valley is centred around the problem which affects all young fami lies . . . the amount of money the bread-winner gets in his or her pay packet. Green Valley throws a bright light on the inadequacy of the basic wage, because there most families are forced to live on one wage. There are no two incomes to cloud the issue at Green Valley because the community is situated in a locality i where job opportunities are almost i non-existent and if mothers had tc travel all the way to Sydney for work, who would mind the children? There are no kindergartens avail able! The lack of job opportunities and the distance. - that the men have to travel for work is one very strong criticism voiced against the Housing Commission's choice of this site for such a project. A pre-condition for entitlement to a cottage at the Valley is to have at least one child, the average number of children is estimated at about three. Rents are about £4.15.6 a week for a three bedroomed cottage, which at today's prices could be considered reasonable.. Thelma, a mother of four children at school age, told Tribune she spent three years, one month and one day at Bradfield Park hostel. "Although my husband has a good job which pays a lot above the basic wage I find it very hard to make ends meet." "We were much better off financi ally at Bradfield Park as the rent was only £2 a week which also covered electricity." She said that about 40 families leave the Valley each week because of fin ance difficulties. "I have seen people being dumped ' out into the street because they i could not pay their rent," she said. How do young married people with children get along on one wage? s As one Green Valley mother said: ' "Sausages, margarine and mince steak ; —my standard of living cannot be i reduced much lower." Joan is the mother of five, the eld est daughter recently commenced work in the city. Her husband is a tradesman with a take home pay of £22 a week. Complaining about the lack of jobs in the area, she said that the Liver pool employment office is crowded with people young and old trying to find work. "Women can hardly find the bus fare to go to Liverpool let alone go to the city which would cost you about 10/-. . "All the children need dental atten tion but we just cannot afford to get it done," she said. Helen is the mother or three small children, one at school. Her husband, she said, "gets good money as a piece work bricklayer working six days a week." "When he was only getting £25 a week we couldn't make do, it was a struggle." "I know for a fact that it is impos sible for anyone to live on the basic wage," she said. She pointed out that some of the women in the Valley were trying to live on £20 a week and were having a tough time. She said there were about 300 des erted wives now in Green Valley. She was sour on any man who would walk out on his children, but thought it was part of the general problem that some families have in trying to cope with their financial difficulties. Ellen has an invalid husband, caused through an accident on the job. She was lucky to get a local job which pays about £14 a week Previ ously they were trying to live on their joint pensions of £8.15.0 a week. "Now my rent will go up ;from £1.9.0 to £4.18.0 a week and I think they will chop out both pensions", she said. She has one boy at school, another just started an apprenticeship and another lad who is living away from home to avoid excessive fares. "My biggest problem is money," she said. She was also concerned1 over a bill received for "excess" water. "This is over the fence; they expect you to make the homes look nice and then charge you for water on top of the rent." Two young mothers were walking down a street of their "green val. ley" with their respective children. One has four children, the other Their husbands, they said, re ceived not much more than the basic wage. "Are things tough trying to make ends meet?" "You can say that again" was their quick reply. As the national trade union cam paign for a basic wage increase swings into action, it is a good idea to keep in mind the struggle of' such young mothers — thousands of them, in the Green , Valleys of Australia in 1965. In their simple comments and their daily lives are wrapped up the whole meaning of the urgent economic cam paigns of the working class move ment. Mr. Ron Marriott, who is stand ing as a Communist candidate for Liverpool in the State elections, said "he felt that the interviews gave a fair picture of the situation in Green Valley". He has lived there with his fam ily for the past two and a half years. "There is a crying need for kin dergartens in| the area", he said. "The main thing, however, is an increase In the basic wage to im. prove the living standards for the families in Green Valley, and so allow them to meet their financial commitments." I International Women's Day, March 8, is ce le bra tecf all ove r I the world to mark the continuing struggle of women, not I only to win full and equal rights for themselves, hut also for I a better life for their families, in peace and security. ) Tribune went to a new Sydney suburb, Green Valley, to talk j | to the young married women — and found a story that is im- j | portant to all Australian working people. . . I | I L""" Year th0 Arbitra- j Hon Court granted a £1 I increase in the Federal I basic wage following a I vigorous campaign by the 1 trade unions. I Even with this increase, NSW has a basic wage of only / I £15/15/- a week, and It is less I in other States. Now the unions are claiming an extra 10/- to compensate for the unwarranted price increases following jthe wage rise. Many unions have demanded that a full "family living wage" be established on present day conditions. This has been esti mated at about £25 a week, which Is almost £10 higher than the present baslo wage. Some of the houses In Green Valley ONE of the many women interviewed by Tribune was Mrs. Joan Harrison, seen holding her youngest daughter, Kylie. 