 APM wages stoppage SYDNEY: About 650 maintenance and production workers at the Australian Paper Mills in Sydney held a 32-hour stoppage last week in support of a 12/- a week increase in the basic wage, plus increased margins. TTHE . stoppage was called by 13 of the 14 unions at the mills follow ing a rejection of the wage demands by the management. Under an APM agreement margin increases are based on movements in . ( the basic wage. ; This is because of an escalating clause in the -agreement which auto matically increases margins by about j 25 per cent of a basic wage rise. . ' The recent decision of the Arbitra tion Commission granting a small marginal increase and no increase in the basic' wage means that the paper ' workers will receive nothing. "EaftTieiri -all maintenance workers at. ' ' APM 'held a four-hour protest stop- page against the Commission's deci sion. A meeting of 400 strikers last week in Botany called on the Australian Council of Trade Unions to , open negotiations with the APM to secure these wage claims. The meeting condemned the Com mission's "total wage" decision which has the "effect of shattering the wage structure of the APM agreement". Unanimous support was given for a national campaign of action to reverse the Commission's decision and the ACTU was called on to initiate a campaign for price and profit control. The-' strikers coiled on- theCombined Unions' Committee at the; Mills to meet "Within 14 days to consider fur- ther action in support . of their demands. About 600 members of the Pulp and Paper Workers' Federation did not take part in last week's stoppage on the instruction of their federal sec retary (Mr. Brebner). Howeyer, production workers cov ered by the Australian Workers Un ion stopped work. Mr. T. Bull (Waterside Workers' Federation) addressed the strike meet ing, which unanimously pledged full moral and financial support for the .present struggle of the WWF. Over £20 was collected to assist the. suspended men on the SydHfey- water i front. \ Workers from APM after a meeting earlier this week. 