 - . # — > Arms won't develop the Empty North By SAM AARONS QEVELOPING Austra lia's empty North is a task about which there has been much talk but little action. The damming of the Ord River in the far north-east ot Western Australia, and pre parations to mine and export large quantities of iron-ore . from the vast deposits in the north-west underline the possi bilities that exist. A beginning has been made to con serve the waters of the 200-mile Ord River, which flows into the Timor Sea. The recent construction of a small diversion dam now provides irrigation for a few new farms. It confirms agri cultural scientists' statements that with water from the Ord, good crops of cotton, rice, sugar and safflower can be grown. The diversion dam was to be fol lowed by the construction of the main dam. This would confine an area of water larger than Sydney Harbour, and irrigate an additional 200,000 acres. Its estimated cost is £30 million and the Federal Government indicated its willingness to provide this sum over the next 15 years. Last week Prime Minister Menzies announced deferment of the project. He claimed the need for "more detailed information" about the pro fitability of cotton production, the ability of the farmers to control pets, etc. The true reason for this change was given earlier in Parliament by Defence Minister Paltridge, when he said: "The fact that defence expendi ture must necessarily have priority might well impose limitation on other expenditure and develop ment which up to this point of time we have regarded as just in the ordinary nature of things." In short, development conies after arms spending. The Prime Minister is under heavy fire in W.A. for the attitude of his Government. The "West Australian" editorially said: — "The pettiness of Canberra's quibbling over a . scheme that would cost £200,000 next year, and less than £2 million a year for 15 years afterwards is in credible." ine paper, recauing nis euiogy or the Ord Scheme when he opened the diversion dam wrote: "his words now have the ring of pblitical cynicism". Iron-ore Vast deposits of high-grade iron ore, estimated at thousands of millions of tons are attracting overseas and Aus tralian monopolies. These giants are attracted solely by the profits they hope to gain. The nation's interests mean nothing to them. Nevertheless, the mining, railing and shipping of more than 250 million tons in thenext 22 years will open up the area and bring in thousands of working people. Some 400 miles of railways, several towns and deep-water harbours must be constructed by the companies. For this an estimated 3,000 workers will be required. Some hundreds will be employed in mining and transporting the ore and to work the plant to pelletise about 30% of the ore. Australian capital has a very minor share in this huge venture. U.S. mono polies hold the controlling interest. Their total share is about 50%; Aus tralian (Colonial Sugar Refinery) 20%; British (Conzinc Rio Tinto) 20%; Japanese (Mitsui Trading Co.) 10%. The Government will receive in royalties for ore worth more than £1,140 million a mere £64 million between now and 1980, a substantial part of which must be spent to pro vide roads, schools, electricity and other facilities for workers and towns people. The fierce competition between the various groups to win contracts has enabled the Japanese steel cartel to beat prices down to at least 10/- a ton below the world price; this cuts royalty payments by £71 million. The Broken Hill Proprietary has j been excluded from this lucrative I Japanese market. Its chairman, Nlr. j York Syme, has threatened to increase the price of steel. I B.H.P. concern is all the greater j because Hammersley Iron, the com- j pany with the largest contract (100 j million tons), is obligated by its agree- j ment with tne Slate Government to j establish an integrated iron and steel i industry in Australia within 20 years \ from now. j At the moment, this inter-monopoly I struggle has been swept under the mat, j out of the gaze of tne common herd, j It is to be hoped that there is truth I in the adage "When thieves fall out, | honest men come into their own". j The obstacle i There can be no objection to the I export of this quantity of iron ore, j if the estimates of the size of these deposits is anywhere near correct, but j it does not constitute real industrial j development. j At the very best it could be- a start ing point. For instance, what if the rapidly expanding steel industry in Japan should run. into difficulties in the next 20 years — by no means an impossible happening — or if still cheaper sources of supply of ore be discovered elsewhere. W.A. has already too many ghost towns, but it could finish up with a few more. Then, too, U.S.A. and Britain, beset by chronic balance of payment diffi culties are cutting back the export of capital, and demanding a. bigger back- flow of profits from overseas invest ments. Their difficulties have their origin in the cold war, the ever-growing ex penditure on armaments, and in the so-called "aid" to under-developed countries — the cost of the planes and guns, napaim ana poisonous gases which bring death and destruction to the people of North and South Vietnam. While at first giance there '-may appear to be no connection between the Menzies Government's failure to find the £30 million needed to build the Ord River Dam and the limiting of the export of capital by the United States and Britain, both these spring from the same source — the aggressive aims of imperialism, and the Menzies Government's subservience to the U.S.A. Our north is rich in minerals and agricultural potential, given maximum conservation of the water of the many rivers now going to waste. This will cost a tot of money, the ability of scientists, the skill of workers aqd farmers over a long period. Real development needs an overall plan, which can be drawn up and brought to life only through State and Federal Governments making available the essential finance and scientific re sources required. Progressive governments could do much today, but the power of monor poly must be ended before Australia's vast potentialities can be developed to the full. Above all. it needs a government devoted to peace and progress for the people. ORD RIVER DIVERSION DAM 