 TOP BRASS WANT ATOM BOMBS HERE A high-pressure ©campaign t@ drag Am- frcslia inf© the nuclear arms race is gathering , pace. Last weekend the former Chief of the Australian General Staff, Sir Ragnar Garrett, threw his weight behind it, saying on TV : A nuclear weapon under joint control should be made available to Australia. Dr. T. B. Millar, leading civilian defence planner, agreed with Garrett. Earlier, The Bulletin (June 19) featured articles by Pro fessor E. W. Titterton, of the National University, and B. A. Santamaria, real leader of the DLP, advocating nuclear arma ment preparations by Australia. The Garrett-Millar statements followed immediately on the Prime Minister's press conference aimed at building an anti-Chinese -war phobia (see Page 2) . The statements indicate that top military authorities are not satisfied with involving Australia in a conventional war in Vietnam. These "experts" revealed themselves as indifferent to the fact that nuclear armament would trigger off a nuclear arms race in the South-East Asian and Pacific region and further dam age Australian-Asian relations. Public actions This development has laid stress on the importance of public actions against nuclear weapons which are being planned in mairi Australian centres from now through to the 20th anniversary of the A-bombing of Hiroshima, on August -5. Among the meetings announced by various organisations, including the Association for International Co: operation and Disarmament, and the Women for Peace, are: — Tonight, Wednesday,. July 21, 8 p.m.: The Reid Federal Council of the ALP is holding a public meeting at the Guildford School of Arts to support its policy of opposing the use of Australian troops in Vietnam. Speakers are Dr. J. Cairns, MHR, Mr. T. Uren, MHR, and Mr. L. J. Fer guson, MHR. Next Friday: A "Teach-in" (public discussion) on the Vietnam war will be staged at the Australian National university, Canberra. 4 Next Tuesday: Sydney's Women for eace will hold a luncheon and play a -iape recording of an interview with Catholic author Morris West, w opposes- Australian military intervention in Vietnam; rJ ?5dl,«day' July 28' 8 P-ra-: Civic 3%r re' Blacktown, Sydney. Speakers: -V Mrs. B. dale, Mr. T. Uren and Mr. G. R. Anderson. Friday, July 30, 8 p.m.: "The Facts on Vietnam." A public meeting of concern to all who oppose the escala tion of the war in Vietnam, to be held at the Punchhowl'Masonic Hall, Albert Street, Punchbowl, Sydney. Speakers: Professor J. Phillips, Mr. W. M. Rigby, Mrs. P. Ashcroft. Organised by the area peace committee. Friday, July 30, 8 p.m.: A public meeting will be held at the Dispen sary Hall, Manly, Sydney. Speakers: Mr. John Mackay Sim, Miss Helen Palmer, Mr. David Rees. Organised by the area peace committee. Wednesday, August 4: A "Teach-in" at Sydney University. Friday, August 13, 8 p.m.: A public meeting to be held at Parramatta Town Hall, organised by the area peace committee. City march On Sunday, August 8, there will be a Sydney city march and Trocadero panel discussion organised by the Hiroshima Commemoration Commit tee. Speakers will include Miss Myra Roper, Professor E. L. Wheelwright, Rev. W. Cowper and a trade union leader. This will be held in the Trocadero, George Street, at 2.30 p.m. after a march from Hyde Park, beginning at 2 p.m. Melbourne Meanwhile, in Melbourne a peace march from Frankston to a public rally at Earl's Court, St. Kilda, will be held on August 7 and 8. 