 I Who's getting a kick lout of the Palmer-MLC i electrical failure ? By ALF WATT In the collapse of H. G. Palmer it looks very much as if a lot of small investors are going to get their fingers burnt yet again . While the bankrupt company was a wholly owned subsidiary of the opulent and highly respected Mut- ual Life Company Ltd. it held over £21 million in debentures due for repayment in the next two years alone, and the receiver has indicated that he is not sure whether even the interest payments on these can be met. I A large proportion of debenture holders would be small people investing their savings, and no doubt impressed by the H. G. Palmer prospectus advertising of its MLC parentage. INHERE is also the plight of small shareholders in I MLC to be considered, for I the stock market price of I their holdings has fallen con- || siderably. I After the collapse of the Murray 1 Reid and other mushroom specula- I tive companies a few years ago there was much press talk of I legislative action to protect the ! small investor, but evidently little or nothing has been done. But why has the press been so gentle in its treatment of the con trollers of the latest bubble to burst? j It was much more scathing and in- | dignant over the other big bubbles. ! Is it because so many big names, fi all respectable and some knighted by j royalty, are associated with MLC? ' Was it OK to criticise mushroom speculative companies when they burst (but not before), and present them as an abberation of a stable B system whose recurrence could be £ prevented by legislation, while the j, same cannot be done when the MIX) is involved because the carefully cultivated image of "people's capi talism" would he tarnished? What steps will be taken to see that all concerned in the Company suffer equally with the small inves tor? Or will it he the same old story in which a few thrive irrespective of the economic weather? . H. G. Palmer's collapse points also to the instability existing at the very core of our economic set-up. Electric appliances, a few years ago, were a new industry with big prospects of growth and profits. So capital flooded into the industry and production soared. Taking the figures for 1961-62 to 1964-65 (and they are not the best span to show the increase), the pro duction of electric radiators and fires jumped from 455,000 to 744,000, refrigerators from 209,000 to 227,000, steam-type irons from 188,000 to 323,000, " radiograms from' 53,000 to 78,000, and TV sets by 21,000. The market became over-supplied, and devices like inbuilt mortality and planned obsolescence, accom panied by high prices and good trade-in allowances, which in turn were offset by high "never never" interest charges, could not shift the stock as quickly as it was made. Alongside of this went the erosion of the people's purchasing power through the wage freeze and rising cost of living. The spiralling of con sumer indebtedness and bad debts was the inevitable result, and H. G. Palmer went down for £4 million of the bad debts, with almost certainly more to follow. The national income and other official statistics of recent years have looked good, and there has been an abundance of that prized possession of capitalism, confidence. But all this has concealed the reality of the affluent society that is built on the exploitation of one class by another. 