 75,000 strike In NSW YDNEY: About 75,000 New South Wales Gov ernment rail and road trans port workers held a 24-hour strike from m'dafight Sun day in support of increased wages. The strike was called by a meeting of 21 transport unions and supported by the N.S.W. Labor Council last Thursday. Rail and State bus workers are demanding an increment of 16/6 after ne year's service, ' 33/- after two Jears and 49/6 after three years and payments to be based on service, not I or classification. " Deputations to Labor and Liberal lemiers and commissioners have pressed or these demands since De cember, made by the Byways' and > act Transport Commissioners were J,i by the unions 'as "inadequate" cuscriminating between trades men and non-tradesmen. Late move JnT6? TTf 10/" a week ( trades" nrnr,' non-radesmen, with lop.-jcmai increases for juniors "W apprentices. traiV3Port workers were of- ti-Ci similar increases on their ex- akne\mcremenis scheme, which was than 1 COver emPloyees with less oan one year's service. last5 Fiii?te mVe by the Government I offered thL' n"tradesmen were also me io/- a week increase. I Continued on Fage 12 Bus driver walks off job USW strike Continued from Page 1 Government transport workers in N.S.W. have become hostile at the long delays in meeting their claims. Following a 14 months' struggle VitoOrian transport workers last October were granted substantial increases. South Australian workers also re ceived an increment scheme and in Queensland, the transport workers received marginal increases from 21/- to 42/- a week. Dr. Lloyd Ross (N.S.W. secretary ARU) said that a guard, .a station assistant and other railway workers, in Victoria get at. least £1 a week more than their N.S.W. counterparts. "We should not only remove these anomalies but also lift the N.S.W. standards," he said. Backing The 'Transport Workers' Union (not involved in the stoppage) gave backing to the Government rail and bus workers by instructing members net to carry passengers on impro- ' vised' seat's on their vehicles. Striking workers point" out that they were . left, with no alternative but to take industrial action; They also say that newspapers attacking them over "public hard ship" do not show the same concern for the hardships . of transport workers trying to live, on low wages The Government has how moved to have bans and limitation clauses inserted in the awards covering rail and bus workers.;. . An application was made last Thursday to nave a bans, arid' limita lions clause apply ot all unions under, -he Road Transport Award. Previously this ' only applied ti the Amalgamated Engineering Union Next ' Thursday - in . Melbourne Commissioner Horan , will . also heai an api' 1 'cation to .. have, similar bans; inserted 'hi ' ayartis; flowering .Silw" workers. 