 Elphinston for by-election Sutherland citizens condemn Council ! . SYDNEY: A public meeting of about 700 ratepayers (see pic ture) in the Sutherland Shire last Sunday called for the immediate resignation of the Shire president (Mr. Bates) and his supporters in the council. ""HE meeting declared lack of confidence in Councillor Bates and His eight followers for their continued failure to heed public opinion in respect to: ® The suspension of the Shire En gineer (Mr. F. L. Wood). The refusal to appoint a Bush Fire Control officer. 9 The rezoning of Gibbs Street, Miranda, as a light industry area. -The shifting of the Jannali Rail way Station entrance. 9 The rezoning of Clubb Crescent, Miranda, to high density against the wishes of the residents. On Monday of last week a crowd of 700 irate residents stormed the Sutherland Council meeting at which the Shire Engineer was suspended. The suspension of the engineer" sparked off a protest stoppage of all but six of the Council's wage and sr ary staff. . ; - The employees have decided to donate a- half day's pay to provide a defence fund for Mr. Wood who was suspended on six charges. Counhior. A. Gietzelt (Labor) told last Sv ay's meeting, that no evid ence had been produced to substanti ate the charges against the Engineer. He explained that Mr. Wood had devoted 30 years to local government and was regarded by all who had association with the Sutherland Shire Council as an engineer of the highest standing. . The meeting called- for reinstate ment of the engineer. Remove Bates Other speakers at a crowded meet ing. in the School of. Arts included Labor Councillors Keane and Bend; Mr. A. Elphinston (Communist can didate in next Saturday's Cronulla rid ing by-election); Mr. S. Wade (Presi dent of Sutherland Council of Pro gress Associations); Mr; G. Dearing (secretary, Sutherland Branch Muni cipal Employees Union); Mr. L. John son (Labor MHR, Hughes); Mr. T. Dalton (State Labor Member' for Sutherland); and Mr. Grahame from the Sutherland District Hospital Board. Strong calls were made for the re moval of Councillor Bates and his supporters at the next council elec tions in December. , Mr. Elphinston told the meeting that the dismissal of the engineer goes much deeper than the denial of demo cratic rights of a citizen. He said that Mr. Wood was seen as an obstacle to the plans of the present ruling Citizens' Committee and "independent" group led by Coun cillor Bates. "Ever since this group took over the reins of Council it has continuous ly come to the notice of the public how more and more of the Council lors are compelled to leave council discussions because they have finan cial interests; in matters/ being dis cussed,!' Mr. Elphinston- said. Examples given by Mr. Elphinston included: f 9 Rezoning was delayed until after the purchase of a flat site in Miranda by Hooker Rex, depriving residents of £30,000 to £40,000. A Councillor had to leave the chambers on this occa sion. - ; Council support for the breaking down of a residential code in South Cronulla to allow flats to be built.' A Councillor (a well known property speculator) had to leave this discus sion.- " ' Mr. Elphinston urged people in Sutherland to support working class candidates in Saturday's by-election and the December council elections. FOOTNOTE: Mr. Elphinston has called for polling day helpers to come next Saturday to his cam paign table at Cronulla Public School, Burraneer Bay Road, near Cronulla Station. 