 AUSTRALIANS HAVE A WORD FOR IT 7/- (7/8 posted). gHORT stories by Frank Hardy Dor- othy Hewett, Alan Marshall, John Morrison and Katharine S prioh who are craftsmen in their Their stories express the Australian way of life of the near pasf anS the present day. The concept of "Mateship" is the theme upon which each of the authors has based his or her con tributions. SHORT STORIES AND NOVELS By A. P. Chekhov 7/6 (8/8 .posted). QHEKHOV is ranked among the greatest of the world's short story writers; his book, of 16 . short stories and novels is a sheer de light. Concerned mainly with inner conflicts and the contradictions of life as it is lived, Chekhov somehow con trives to imbue us with a feeling of the way life could be lived. We feel for his characters because we have become aware of the fact that they are what their surround ings have made them. Nobility of character can rise above circum stances, but it is clear that most of us are moulded by circum stances. His stories therefore have the stamp of reality. As Lev Tolstoi says "the merit of his books is that they are compre hensible and closely akin, not only to every Russian, but to every human being . . FOLLOWING THE SUN 7/- (7/11 posted) rpALES of Australia, India and South Africa. The Australian authors include Vance Palmer with "Jettisoned", Kathar ine Susannah Prichard "N'Goola", Frank Hardy "The Ten Shilling Note", Alan Marshal "How's Andy Coing?", Henry Lawson "The Un ion Buries Its Dead"— unforget table — and John Morrison with "The Fugitive". From India come many authors whom we may not know, but among them is included "The Liar" by Mulk Raj Anand. Those stories which come from South African authors are alive with her problems, but with some answers to those problems. An author's VTio's Who is included. IT WILL BE A LOVELY DAY By Heinrich Heine 7/6 (8/8 posted ) "T AY a sword on my bier, for I have been a good soldier in the wars of human liberation." These are the words of a man of letters who lived in u» period of Napoleon and the revolu tions of 1830 and 1848. His h >pe and belief in a better world for mankind is the constant tnerci of this book, and is summed up in the words— .. "It will be a lovely day ... a beau ful day! The sun of freedom win warm the earth." AN INTRODUCTION TO THE THEORY OF EVIDENCE .. By A. Trusov 7/- (8/2 Post® A LEXEI TRUSOV is a former juag nnd a lecturer on Soviet crimina procedure at a law school. This book covers the Soviet, law , evidence in its theoretical 1 practical application to the c al. case. Available from newworld 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 