 Strange feature in WA I doctor-baby case 1 pERTH : Withdrawal of the charge against Gnowangerup doctor Alec Robert Winrow of the manslaughter of an Aboriginal baby has laid Liberal Minister for Justice Griffith open to criticism. The Minister announced on September 9 that he had de cided not to file an indictment "after he had studied the re commendations' of several offi cers of the Crown Law Depart ment". He' denied that there had been pressure on him to drop the pro ceedings against Dr. Winrow, although he had received "numerous letters" about the case. Record Dr. Winrow has been in trouble before over Aboriginal deaths at Gnowangerup, a WA country town rife with racial discrimination. About five years ago, after the death of a native child at Gnowan gerup, Dr. Winrow was officially criticised for his conduct , and the Medical Board suspended him from practice for two months. Last October, after a native child had been taken to him for treatment but taken away because of what was described as a hostile reaction, the child died. Dr. Winrow was repri manded by the Medical Board for his conduct in this case. Out of an inquest into the death of the eight-week-old baby of Mrs. Ilse Roberts on March 22 this year, Dr. Winrow was committed for trial. The Coroner was told that this baby was taken to Gnowangerup Hospital on March 18, where the mother had much difficulty in getting it admitted. . Sick Aborigines at Gnowangerup have to attend a daily clinic at the hospital between 9.45 a.m. and 11 a.m., and those who fall sick "out of hours" have to wait until next day. Dr. Winrow was to have stood trial at an Albany Court sitting this month, and a number of influential anti-Aborigine Gnowan gerup people were reported to be organising a demonstration at the trial. People actively associated with the welfare of the 350 Aborigines in the town complain that Dr. Winrow re flects the general hostility of the whites towards the Aborigines. Until 1961, Aboriginal women in childbirth were not admitted to the hospital and the United Aborigines Mission did its best to look after them. Perth groups associated with Aboriginal welfare finally brought about a change in a situation that was well known, although the hos pital authorities blandly denied dis crimination. Inquest The case against Dr. Winrow over the death of. the Roberts baby rested chiefly on the evidence of the Perth Princess Margaret Hospital's medical superintendent, Dr. Godfrey. At the inquest, the Chief Crown Prosecutor told the Coroner "the standard expected of doctors by the criminal law was simple — reasonable i skill ana care m any acts aaminis- I tered to people they were treating. He said there appeared evidence, I if accepted , by the Coroner, to sup- port the view that Dr. Winrow had been "grossly negligent in his treat ment of the baby." In dropping the manslaughter charge, the Minister said he was acting on the recommendation of senior officers of the Crown Law Department, and that to sustain the charge the negligence would have to be gross or culpable. This indicates that senior officers of the Crown Law Department could not have been in complete agree ment. Inquiry needed Even the conservative "West Aus tralian" is upset by. the Liberal Minister's decision. Editorially ' it says on September 11: "On private information from Crown Law officers and the Public Health Commissioner, Dr. Davidson, the Minister has discounted Dr. God frey's evidence. - "Dr. Davidson's opinions should have been given to the Coroner to be weighed with other evidence. This would have avoided the situation in 1 which one doctor's evidence, given publicly in court on a subject in- which he is a specialist, has been set aside by another doctor's evidence given privately to a Minister. ... "Though he rejects Dr. Godfrey's opinion, Dr. Davidson has brought ' into question the Gnowangerup Hos pital's methods, saying that its ! records might not have been com plete. This demands further investi gation." Also in need of investigation is any kind of discrimination in medical services to Aborigines and the sud den quality of mercy in a Liberal uovernment wnicn snouia nave allowed the judicial process to decide; the merit of the evidence of each;, person concerned, ; . J. ; , ; 