 EDITORIAL — TTimi l II III I IIIIHT"" Dead silence reigns in the Cinque Ports |_ORD WARDEN of the Cin que Ports is an appropri ate position for someone whose main task is to press- gang men into serving in for eign wars-— notably Vietnam. The earliest Lord Wardens had an analgous job in providing most of the men and Ships for Eng land's Royal Navyw . ; However in those days, the threat of invasion from France or Spain was very often real, and it may be that the Wardens did not always have to draw numbers out of a barrel to fill the ranks. Records don't, show what they did or would have done, to an of ficer of the Cinque Ports fleet who, on the approach of the Frelich fleet or the Spanish Armada, re signed his position to seek a civ ilian career in law. In William the Conqueror's time, and right down to the 100 Years War, the Warden had a big job. Not so today. "His power was formerly of great extent, but he has now practically no important duty to exercise," says the Encyclopaedia Britannica. This must have been promin ently in the minds of those who made the appointment, and in fact largely explains it. It may well have been thought to guarantee unanimous approval of it, since even his political op ponents would not query Menzies' fitness for a post carrying no im portant duties. It is only when the question of his fitness to occupy positions that do carry Important duties arises that the nagging note of criticism c:.n be heard. The new Lord Warden of mod ern times is' so obviously a useless drone that the Sydney Morning Herald openly queries why Prime Minister Menzies wants the job. All he will seemingly get for it is a derelict castle and a lot of dead fish. However, Menzies is no stranger to stinking fish. The smell of his Port Kernbla- in tervention to force watersiders to load scrap for Australia's future enemies, the frightful stench of the Petrov fraud, of his vain 1956 ulti matum, to Egypt, of his defence of Verwoerd and Sharpeville, and of his current attempt to impose political police control of the Aus tralian waterfront will hang about him till the end. Behind this seemingly strange ap pointment is undoubtedly the Brit ish rulers' urgent desire to give the British Commonwealth a boost internationally and in Australia. With India, Pakistan, Tanzania, and other African states concern ed in the Rhodesia crisis. , all threatening for various reasons to get out, Whitehall must count itself lucky to find one Commonwealth Premier who held his job for 16 years while con- tinuing to show a wholehearted devotion to the British connection (mixed with an even greater sub servience to the USA). Menzies' childish love for all trap pings of British feudalism is well known. At the sight of the Que®"» he breaks into poetry. The d - parture of Governor General ue L'isle and Dudley makes him cry. There is scarcely a royal duke duchess, prince, princess, or princeling that he has not dragg but from England to parade rouna ; Australia at Australia's expe during his term of office because, as one paper puts it, he likes have such people around him. That he would £« s?.far..a® L rush for the job of official dispo er of the royal dead fish may s prise the Herald, but few fthe«. Still fewer, perhaps, would worry if British Royalty showed a co " responding desire to have Men continually around them, and m the necessary arrangements. Unfortunately for Australia, it appears that the Cinque Ports sinecure will require only one of Menzies' year. loce Significantly, the local poPc remain dead silent on the . business. Being maritime w people, they undoubtedly prefer a wharf ie! 