 Action for Aboriginal wages MELBOURNE: Demonstrations took place outside a Melbourne Court last week in support of an application by the North Australian Workers' Union for equal pay for Aborigines. THE claim is being opposed by the Northern Territory Cattle Producers' Council. The Federal Government and the Association of Architects, Engin- eei-s, Surveyors and Draughtsmen of Australia have requested leave to intervene in the case. An all-night vigil outside the Commission Building by 30 univer sity students was broken up by pol ice the night before the case. The students were told they could not camp on Commonwealth property. A demonstration supporting the union claim was held outside the court just before the case began. Several union leaders and Abori ginal Welfare Organisation repre sentative carried banners demand ing equal pay for Aborigines. The North Australian Workers' Union Advocate (Mr. A. T. Brod- ney) told the Commission on Friday that the union was seeking to re move from the Cattle Stations Award the present unsatisfactory definition of an Aborigine, which he said was a survival of many years ago. This definition, applied to pas toral workers in the Northern Ter ritory. disqualifies them from pay ment under the award. The union is seeking to have Aborigines and domestic workers included in the award, Mr. Brodney said. There should be no discrimina tion against workers on the basis of them being Aborigines, he added. The union said that because of the failure to solve economic pro blems of Aborigines, all other at tempts to do good for them are foredoomed to failure, Mr. Brodney said. The employers' advocate said that at present Aboriginal stock men in the Northern Territory re ceive 63/6 a week plus some addi tional payment in the . form of goods. If successful, the claim would increase their wages to an average of £11/2/6 a week. He submitted that the pastoral- ists' ability to meet the increases was limited by financial difficulties arising from poor weather condi tions. Commissioner Taylor said that he had received a large number of letters and communications con cerning the case from interested people and organisations. The application was adjourned for several days pending a decision on the employers' request that it be, heard by a higher panel of the Commission. 