 Spirit of American Negro — in dance I [?] JHE Alvin Alley American Dance Theatre brings - to | Australia for the second time a program that gives us a glimpse of exciting modern dance developments. Ten negro dancers, five men and five girls under the direction of Alviri Alley present the programmes I with Brother John Sellers folk | singer. The two programmes presented are based on dance interpretations of jazz, negro spirituals, the blues and I other foil: songs. 3 Expression ranges from the despair and protest of the frustrated lover in "See River" . and Backwater Blues" through the magnificent vitality of the men's dances in "Mean ol Frisco" and "Sinner Man" to the warm humour and portrayal of negro characters in "Sham". The technique of the dancers indi cates an easy mastery of their " medium whether it be the easy in- 1 formality and infectious spirit of 1 "Jump down spin around", the sus- I tained drama of the abstract works I such as "Rooms" — comment on I the loneliness of people living in 1 rooming .houies in modern cities— | to the fervour and depth of feeling I of the negro spirituals. J This technique relies on little in the way of stage properties — > a I ladder, chairs, stools or pieces of E material assist to transport the i audience from the depths of life in 1 a New Orleans Brothel to the fresh | purefying "Processional" and "Wad- | ing in the Water." 1 One is not .always aware of the | wonderful artistry of the lighting | design of this is by Nicholo Cerno- | vitch) which sustains and highlights | the movements of the dancers so | beautifully. g Perhaps the most significant aspect of the work of this company for those interested in the movement of the American Negroes for true emancipation is the spirit of the works choreographed by Ailey in the repertoire of the Company. In marked contrast to the abstract works by other choreographers in the programme — such as "The Road of the Phoebe Snow" by 1 Tally Beatty and "Rooms" by Anna | Sokolow — the works of Ailey him- 1 self have a quality that, in terms | of both' dance and feeling reach out g to the audience and illuminates for | them the magnificent spirit of the I American negro today. I — M.W. 