 Drought can he conquered, but a plan is needed I 'UllllllllHllllllllllllllllllllilllllll. Illlllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllll fcy Henry McCarthy illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll : llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll' DROUGHT, now eating the heart out of Australia's economy, like a dr,ead disease, can be conquered, but the cure is considered too costly by governments that meas ure "development" by the yardstick of profit and not the people's needs. The drought and the resultant suf-. fering are according to the law, "an act of God." This inay suit the big insurance companies, # as does the. ' same law when it applies to fire: and flopd. But advanced science and tech- ology applied in many lands shows that these three scourges .of " man kind can now he controlled and even eliminated. Control of. any one of the. three; is closely connected ; with ' the other two. It would, cost." many millions of pounds. ; ' The penalty for failure to develop a water conservation scheme has cost „ Australia uncountable millions of pounds. It has extended unnecessary misery1 and suffering to far too many of its hard working people. . The destruction by the present drought has not yet made itself felt on the economy generally but it will —and soon. In most parts , of the : country's food and stock-growing areas the drought is over a year, old— and it could be a long way from ending. If the essential rains in the right quantities arrived tomorrow, how long would it be before stock and fodder were replenished to mini mum requirements? In the cattle industry alone a meat industry inquiry in Queensland last October revealed that during the past 20 years more than 7£ million cattle had been lost in that State through drought. - ' While losses, like cattle, sheep and dairy herds may be counted, drought losses in. cereal, milk, fruit, vegetable and other crops will never be known. All '' told, the losses would surely run to billions— more than enough to give Australia an irrigation system that Would banish for ever major drought effects. The Menzips Government is to blame fair more than the proceeding governments for this wanton neglect. Menzies has consistently sacrificed national interests by giving priority in "development" to the handover of resources to big foreign Companies. He has also dipped into the public purse, to waste £3105 millon on "de fence" since 1949, without basically increasing Australia's real defence capacity. He .will a,dd a further £30 million to this figure this year,, at least £90 million of which arises from armed intervention in Vietnam and Malay sia. . He has done practically nothing to aid the farmers during the present drought, other than to express "sym pathy", and evade demands for cash grants. It ftas been announced that the Government was "closely watching" baiiking aspects having regard to the needs of the farmers and graziers. The Reserve Bank has been consult ing the trading banks to discover how much was available and how much was being sought. . Acting Prime Minister and. Country Party leader Mr. McEwen has charg ed that the Reserve Plank is inhibiting aid to' farmers. But .this hasn't helped needy far mers. Living proof that Australia can suc cessfully irrigate . and develop vast areas of land. is the giant Snowy River. . scheme, acclaimed throughout the- world as an outstanding feat of en gineering. . Maiiy years ago Dr. Bradfield gave us the Bradfield plan which gave a great stimulus to the concept of partly, diverting our great northern rivers, now. running waste into' the sea, hack into the dry inland. &lt; The late Sir Earle Page proposed a. plan to harness , the waters of the Clarence and northern New South Wales rivers to generate electricity and irrigate the northern coastal area. There was the Huddleston plan to, control the flood waters of the Hun ter River and store the waters in a series of dams and weirs. Other plans exist lor every State in Australia, based on definite proposals worked out by expert engineers. Of course there has been scientific challenges to aspects and even major concepts, of these plans, but full scale investigation backed by adequate fin ance and a real ..development policy would resolve all weaknesses. What is really lacking is the policy —and of course allocation of finance. In the Socialist Soviet Union, in China and in the Tennessee Valley scheme in the U.S., mighty water con-, servation and irrigation schemes have been constructed successfully. The program of the Communist Party of Australia, dealing with the need for a national plan says: — "We have the knowledge and ability to overcome these calamities but monopoly, and the governments it controls, stands in the way. "Workers and working farmers should combine to force State and Federal Governments to act against big companies and land owners who disregard existing laws designed to give protection against droughts, wind and water erosion, flood and fixe. "New legislation should be enacted to compel big landowners to contri- bute heavily to control and improve ment schemes. . y"- V "Together workers ; and farmers should force the Federal Government to . allot the necessary finance for a nation-wide scheme for afforestation, flood control and a vast national fodder conservation scheme to pre vent the waste caused through -drought." 