 DEMONSTRATION BY BUILDING WORKERS IN S.A. ADELAIDE: Building workers in Adelaide last week stopped work and more than 1000 demon strated outside the Master Builders' Association demanding wage justice. THE stopwork meeting was I called by the Trades and Labor Council disputes com mittee and was attended by several thousand building workers. Speakers from the different buil ding unions condemned the employ ers for their time wasting opposi tion to the men's claims and cal led for greater union and Job unity in continuing the campaign. The Secretary of the SA Trades and Labor Council, Mr. L. Johns, moved a resolution which proposed that the men return to work after four hours and that the campaign be continued in the form of work to regulation stoppages on the job. This resolution was finally carried overwhelmingly, despite some con fusion rising from the handling of the meeting. Chanted slogans A large body of the workers then marched to the offices of the Master Builders Association where the men demonstrated by chanting slogans for more pay and wage justice. Ban- ( ners were held aloft calling for over- ! award payment, a paid picnic day, long service leave and improved job conditions. The demonstration concluded with the workers again carrying the res olution proposed by the Trades and Labor Council, as one worker put it, " in the hearing of the Master Buil ders." The same da.y, (Tuesday, October 19) proved to be a day of widespread workers' activity in Adelaide. Government bus employeres were also on strike over the attempted | re-employment of a retired m- >' | Considerable dissatisfaction ha I been apparent in the industry for a j long time over poor wages rates, ex tended shifts and the speed-up of bus services. This attempt by the Metropolitan Tramway Trust to emyloy a worker at 65 years of age has been con demned as an attempt by the trust to solve the problem of the labor shortage by means other than treat ing the main cause — that of poor conditions. Mr. L. Johns, Secretary of the TLC said that the only way to solve the problem of bad industrial relations was to abolish- the MTT board and make public transport responsible to the Minister for Transport. At Port Adelaide 1,600 Waterside Workers at a stop-work meeting un animously supported the recommen dation of the ACTU for a conference with the Government and shipowners on the outstanding problems of the industry. Photo shows South Australian building workers preparing to march off in Hie demonstration. 