 — g. t ftuv »« UNIONS HIT BACK AT WAR BUDGET HHH The wave of price increases, triggered ©fiF fey last week's "guns and profit" budget, has reinforced in all States the unions' cam paigns for wage and salary increases and price control. NSW Labor Council branded the Budget "a deliberate attack on the living standards of wage and salary earners." A Communist Party spokesman in Sydney said that the Budget lent new importance to the party's major economic demands: £22 basic wage as a minimum family living wage with margins on 1947 adjustments; and price control k |SW State Labor Parliament- arians have indicated that they will use the first session of the new Parliament to de mand action by the Liberal Government to control prices, for which it has the necessary power. But last week's statement by the NSW Chief Secretary Willis that the Government opposed price con trol in principle, Is seen as giving the green light for big business to impose "price increases in a big range of commodities" already fore cast by Mr. J. Griffin, NSW Retail Traders' Association secretary. The Budget's increased direct and Indirect taxation on wage and salary earners Chut not on companies), add ed to an existing situation of price I inflation and wage freezing, has al- : ready been followed by: Price of smallgoods up by 10% j. to 13%. j Prediction of 21% rise in cost ! of home building within six months | (already £300 up in last 12 months); j and of dearer bread. ; O Increases announced or project- I ed in taxi fares and road cartage rates. Increases in premiums decided by some car insurance companies. © Pint of beer in NSW up 4d (2d excise and 2d extra profit to brewery- hotel interests). Whisky up by 4d a nip (excise increase was lid). Many of these will not affect com pany executives and directors on un taxed expense accounts. War shares up The "Sunday Telegraph" (Sydney) said: The budget proved an expected stimulant for thf sharo market" and mentioned as major beneficiaries Im perial Chemicals, Vickers and other major military contractors. Treasurer Holt's reply to challenges on his failure to tax companies extra was to say (on Melbourne TV): "I did not want to damage incentive by further increases in company tax". NSW Labor Council, condemning the policy of increasing the hardships of workers and pensioners through taxes and price increases, gave this reply to Holt: "The Government has excluded from tax increases companies whose profits continue to reach record levels, and who could well afford to meet the increases." Further back Council indicated that the effects ot the Budget would put workers further back than before the recent unsatis? factory Commonwealth wage judg ment. The 11 per cent increase in margins represented a £15/12/- per year in crease for a tradesman. The rise in prices together with direct taxation imposts have taken £14/12/- of the £15/12/-. Council estimated that on conserva tive figures indirect taxation would take an extra £7/7/- a year if a per son smokes half a packet of cigarettes a day, drinks 12 seven oz glasses of . beer per week and drives a car. Both the NSW and Melbourne Labor Councils declared that the burdens imposed by the Federal Budget on the Continued on Page 12 PiilCIS Continued from Page 1 workers would have the effect o: spurring the unions to further can- piaigns to increase over-award paj ments. Last; week's Budget papers revealec that while workers produced more they received a lower share foi con sumption purposes; meanwhile com pany incomes rose steeply. Here ore the figures: — Gross national product: 1962-63, £7, 98b million; 1964-65, £9,562 million (21% in crease). Company income: 1960-61, £718 mil lion; 1964-65, £968 million (increase C- £250 million or 35%). Personal consumption 1962-63, £5,04f million (62.3% of Gross National Pro duct); 196.4-65, £5,770 million (only 60.3% of GNP). As. employers' consumption would have risen, workers' must have dropped even more.. . .... .. 