 Auschwitz inmate No. 119254: Ex-POW protests at lenient treatment of Nazi killers ADELAIDE: A former in mate of Auschwitz con centration camp, now living in Adelaide, has written a letter to the daily press pro testing at the lenient treat ment of nazi mass murderers. He referred to a report that a West German court had sentenced six guards to life imprisonment, whila ten. others were given lighter sentences, some being, acquitted. . The former inmate, Mr. George , Goiny-Grabowski of New Mile. End, wrote: "As former political prisoner No-. 119254 of this concentration, camp, I can't help thinking what the word 'justice' means., "It took these and other criminals only 4i years to kill 3| million people in Auschwitz; and. it took the Ger man authorities 20 years to convict a few of these murderers. "Some of these criminals have spent nearly 17 years in. pre-trial arrest and meanwhile the death penalty was abolished. "Life-long imprisonment is in Germany a term of 20 years. 'The time the accused have spent in; pre-trial arrest will' be deducted from their sentences, and rrr the near future these mass murderers will be released. "The tens of thousands of maimed victims of Nazi concentration, camps,, many of them living in Australia, are still waiting for compensation payment from, the German authori ties for damages they suffered to their bodies and health through ill' treatment. "The. word 'justice' has to me a very strange meaning indeed." Mr. Groiny-Grabo.wski. is an assist ant engineer in the Municipal Tram ways? Trust in Adelaide. He comes fEom Poland,, but is- now a natura lised Australian. In. a press, interview, he said- he knew five of the six. Auschwitz guards given life, sentence. He said there were, more than 30 maimed. Auschwitz victims now living, in S.A. He helped them prepare their claims for damages which are in the hands of the German authorities : and still pending. . Mr. Goiny-Grabowski;, who spent 3$ years in Auschwitz, said that among those things that keep coming back to him today are the smell of gas,, the taste of potatoes and the sight of kerosene. Gas, because thousands went into the gas chambers; potatoes, because human ashes were used to fertilise the potates fed to prisoners; kero sene, because one Nazi sadist killed thousands by injecting it into their hearts. 