 BWSU starts campaign : HOUSES WANTED FOR 280,000 AUSTRALIANS SYDNEY: The Federal executive of the Building Workers Industrial Union meeting in Sydney decided to launch a trade union and public cam paign for increased housing. THIS move is in support of the Australian Council of Trade Unions housing program and is being taken in opposi tion to further restriction in housing construction by gov ernments and monopoly inter ests. Mr. F. Purse (federal secretary BWIU) said approved . applicants for Government housing, as separ ate from those who want loans to build their own homes, numbered 82,000 a year. The combined efforts of the National Capital Develop ment Commission and the State Housing Authorities have built an average of only 12,000 dwellings a year. This means that 70,000 approved applicants appeal to the govern ments in vain each, year to have their housing needs satisfied. "Taking the basis of four to a family, the 70,000 unsuccessful appli cants to the Housing Commission for homes each year represents 280,000 people," he said. The union's campaign will in clude approaches to all State and provincial Trades and Labor Councils and to all State and Fed eral MPs. Labor Council will be asked to establish, committees to publicly campaign for the ACTU policy and to enlist the support of housing societies and other interested organisations. Finance at low interest The recent ACTU Congress called on the Federal Government to :- Allocate sufficient finance at low interest rates to the State Housing Authorities to step up home building. Arrange through banks and housing co-operatives for more long term finance at low interest rates to enable people with low deposits to purchase their own home. Congress expressed concern at the continued failure of the Com monwealth and State Governments to curb the so-called developers in real estate and home building, their failure to control land prices, building materials and rents and their failure to reduce exorbitantly high interest rates. The union's campaign will also take up the Commonwealth-States Housing Agreement which is to be renewed in 1966. The ACTU Congress said it sup ported the principles of the 1945 Housing Agreement which provided for rental housing, a rental rebate system and low interest rates. Congress directed that a depu tation be sent to the Federal Gov ernment demanding that these principles be re-introduced in the new agreement. ©bate Labor Councils were also asked to demand the support of State Governments for these prin ciples. _ Congress called on the . ACTU, Labor Councils and unions to de mand and camnafen for a vigorous and expanded Government home building program designed to pro vide good housing at low cost for the people. 