 I Miners' Convention plans action to i win Log of Claims >' ' 1 SYDNEY: The national conveiiflon of the Miners' Federation de cided to press claims indydisig a 35-hoyr week, a £5 a week wage increase, five weeks1 annuel leave and increased penalty rates for i shiftwork. THE convention which met last week in Sydney was i held in conjunction with the I 50th anniversary celebrations I of the Federation. 1 A log of claims will be prepared I by the central executive of the Fed- 1 eration to be served on the colliery M proprietors. , . 3 The convention condemned the re- cent wage judgment of the Arbitra tion Commission as 'outrageous". "The Commissions decision clearly fits into the pattern of attacks upon the living standards " of the Australian working people and this position will become more clearly emphasised and the attack further developed in the forthcoming war budget," the miners said. £22 basic wage "It is clear that in the coming period the workers of this country will only hold their living standards and have the opportunity of improv ing them by abandoning any remain ing illusions about arbitration and relying upon their united industrial strength to improve their condi tions." It was declared that industrial strength must be directed towards winning a £22 a week basic wage as a minimum family living wage, a substantial increase in margins, price and profit control, reduced working hours, abolition of anti-union penal clauses for the Arbitration Acts, nationalisation of monopolies and a peaceful foreign policy. The Federation's delegates to the forthcoming A.C.T.U. Congress are directed to press for this policy. The convention surveyed the trends in the coal mining industry over the past ten years. "Stability in the industry and security for those employed in it depends entirely upon the imple mentation of the A.C.T.U. Mining Unions' program. "There is no other answer to cur rent problems, pending the achieve ment of the Federation's objective of Socialism which alone can solve our problems. The coal industry must be nationa lised to provide for the planned de velopment of its various sectors in the interests of the national economy," the convention said. The miners said it is an industry largely dominated by monopoly groups concerned with producing coal for maximum profit, irrespec tive of national consequences. "The coal reserves of the nation must be conserved for the use and benefit of the Australian people in stead of, as in some instances, "irres ponsibly wasted and/or destroyed by the monopoly groups who are be ing increasingly dominated by over seas and foreign interests." Members of the Federation are asked to endorse a campaign to achieve the following program: That the N.S.W. Parliamen tary Select Committee continue its investigation into the practiability of nationalising the industry. A 35-hour week. Conservation of our coal sys tem. Correct coal utilisation thus de veloping industries immediately asso ciated with coal production. The establishment of a National Fuel and Energy Board thus automa tically giving the coal industry pro tection from unfair competition' from oil fuel and natural gas. The establishment of a National Health Scheme. 