 has a unity lesson From RUPERT_LOCKWOOD, who visited France during the municipal election cam paign. HllriMi.tmlMIM,,,,,,. -IIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIllflllliillllllllllll!!!!! m j ""THE Communists emergec ' as principal victors in the 5 ' "French municipal elections7', : >V!red the Paris correspondent Ffkcr the London Daily. Tele- jagrcur.. 5 "The eiectorai map of s HlPa rss anc its surrounding , -Itown- and communes has been 1 ::;|maae aopreciably redder by a "kc'oDuia; alliance of Commun Asxi and Socialists", said the -"Ttme; Paris correspondent. e d Deer concern at "the substantial u ' ;k=growih of votes polled, by the Com- ; Scmuius: Partv" was expressed by the " dlrGauliis- Party CUnion of the New ! ; -kfiEtepublic or X7NR), M. Baumel. is Tn; anxiety of Gaullists and other ' Rightists and ultras is not merely 'l; i . rove: Communist voting increases in ie ' i;.r.tn-: municipal elections, but at the K ; irheav: blow dealt to those dedicated fitc keeping the French Left divided i'. ' hnnr z(- maintaining Gaullist per- Lessons'; power and policies. :/l Dramatic victories by the Demo- f i iscrauc Union of Communists, 3e ?£Bociaiist.r anc Left Republicans in kdrrumDer: o; French cities and com- : rSmune- were of deep international L . significance lc Aner the difficulties and setbacks r.o. tn; postwar eras of cold war, j!" kxSiali:. personality cult and its lsequei: Hungarian uprising and i'&CGauliis: nersonal rule, the .great advances through the Demo- i nfecrah" Union, liberally interpreted Lpsn the French press as a variant of he tne 1834-36 Popular Front, repre- jj. .;:TsEen; i break-through, a turning .p3om-. Tn; communist-Socialist unity &lt; fnteams eiectorial gains reinforced jSfne inspiration from Italy, the 'fcothe: Wes: European home of a ;f3raas5. Communist Party, where the ireigt c: the most bitter and sav- uple'i )..pve Sign; -Centre offensives in the ed |3recen; general and municipal elec- icavi, lhon- could not stop the Com oCCU, .gxnunKt:, capturing votes from anti- .jtEominunis . Parties, ana proved that it A' :le Communist Party of Italy can reso .Jsieve: d-. isolated from the people. asset I IJ.N Tne French voters in 37,779 fc0Imnur"; n the two subsequent ; .oaaw iv the second half of oiiered a lesson to Austra- iau howiers against "unity tickets". I. When there were united tickets Franco Socialists gained; where )f itif "d: disunity they usually fell and '|pacir. further. to th r, .nir recommended itself as an 00liti Wook to popular apathy. t b. the cantonal or conseils- 'oiidi elections a year ago, 45 it di cenT uot vote. ' I -sientions in this voluntary here |po. ieli «, 25 per cent. ; IP" ' . - the first ballot, Communist- H lllllilllinlllllllllllliilliniillillilllli lllliHlllilliliinihiHiuHiiiinuiiuui Socialist unity lists won 35.8 per cent oi the vote. If there were full Socialist-Com munist unity, a very different France would soon be exerting its influence in the world. As it is. with partial unity, the change in the French political situa tion, bound to influence "West. Euro pean labour movements, has been dramatic The Communist Party finished with the largest total of city mayors in France — 34 in cities of over 30,000, or nine more than before, and including vital centres like Le Havre. Nimes, Alels, Colombes, Levallois, and, ox course, the 18 Paris Red Belt mairies. Gaullist Mayors hold 25 cities over 30.000, and Socialist 32. Where Socialists rejected unity with the Communists they lost nine cities, but unity agreements ensured return of Socialists in Grenoble, St. Nazaire, St. Quentin and other important centres. In some cases, as in Grenoble and St. Nazaire, Communists stood down in the second ballot, to al low Socialists to defeat Gaullists or Right-Centrist lists on the simple majority system. Bed Beff response Towns and communes of the Red Belt suburbs encircling old Paris responded warmly to Communist- Socialist unity. In some Communists were unop posed and in others Communists made concessions to Socialists. Unassailable unity gave the Com munist-Socialist Democratic Union no less than 86 per cent- of the vote in the Red Belt's Gennevilliers; 80 in Ivry, 77 in St. Ouen, 63 in Nanterre. The Times' correspondent re ported, in warning tone, "that the Gaullists lost all five sectors (of Paris' 14 sectors) where they had a straight fight with Popular Front lists." The Democratic Union votes in the Paris area topped, both the Gaullist and Centre votes. Here, as in France generally, Gaullism can no longer rule alone; they must rely on the Centrists, ultras and Right Socialists to get majorities. The Gaullists, said the New York Herald-Tribune Paris edition, "counted their chickens before they were hatched"; they "elected" De Gaulle's ex-Health Minister Bernard Chenot as Mayor" of Paris in ad vance, but the Democratic Union deprived him of his seat. De Gaulle's hopes of bringing all main French cities into his fold were shattered. Gaullist lists met disaster at Lyons, Nice, Marseilles, Lille, Cler mont-Ferrand, Rennes, Dijon, Le Mans and Grenoble. Unify agreement The Democratic Union Agreement between Communists, Socialists and some Left Republicans, which promises to have important bear ing on the future of France and to influence many other countries, was unthinkable 10 years ago. The Agreement allowed joint lists in Paris, in 39 communes of the Seine Department and in various provincial cities. In some cities, the Socialists divi ded in favor .of unity or disunity. Marseilles was the most spectacu lar example of disunity, and the Communist Party criticised severely the Rightwing Socialists' anti-popu- lar alliances with the Gaullists and Centre; in over 100 municipalities they stood in unity with Right- Centre forces, and even, as in Lyons, Right; Socialists joined with emigre ultras from Algeria. M. Gaston Defferre, Presidential candidate against De Gaulle next December, was given much publi city for his boast, that his return at the head of the Marseilles Right Socialist-Centrist, list proved it was possible to win without Communist support. What this splitter should have said was that with unity a Socialist Mayor would have walked in, but that by fostering disunity, he had a hard fight. On the experience of the previous election, a united Socialist-Com munist ticket would have provided a 70 per cent vote for a Socialist Mayor. This time the Defferre Right Socialist-Centre list and the Demo cratic Union list ran about level in the first ballot, with 36 per cent each, and enough support came from sections of the Gaul lists who ran a bad third, to give Defferre the decision on the second Sunday's ballot. GaulSisf decline Paris-Seine Socialists disciplined members who failed to work with Communists. The Guardian of Man chester said: "This was the first hint of a Popular Front since the war. II it was repeated throughout the country it would be one - thing which would change the picture nationally as well as locally." De Gaulle cooked the electoral system to ensure his victory, eli minating proportional representa tion and making it impossible tor opponents of the Gaullist block to adjust their candidate lists, as in the past, between the first and second ballot. Under a one-ballot, first-past-the- post system, Communists would have won more municipalities). But De Gaulle under-estimated the capacity of both Left and Cen tre to form massive alliances, and over-estimated his own prestige. The London Daily Telegraph talks of "a strong surge of anti-Gaullism." The Guardian feels that when De Gaulle goes, the Gaullist policies will hold "no great attraction lor the average voters", and that the election results have "clearly dam pened the hopes of his political lieutenants planning for a political future after De Gaulle". The Great Debate in French political circles is: "After De Gaulle what?" The spectacular demonstration showed workers, peasants and other exploited sections of the French people that only Rightwing splitters, in alliance with their enemies, hold back from essential economic reforms and from policies based of peace disarmament. The election result suggests that a vigorous, fighting alliance, far wider than at present, will emerge to reshape France. !|k French people in Lens (France) demonstrate against the French nuclear strike force. 