 4,000 workers ill huge Budget demonstration By train, bus, car and plane, workers from many parts of Australia converged on Canberra to protest against the new budget robbery of the workers' living" standards. JOINED by unionists, in Can- berra who had stopped work for the demonstration, over 1500 people marched the mile and a half stretch , from the station to Parliament Houcs. (,We want a people's budget, not a rich man's budget — a peace budget, not a war budget!, "de manded a mass rally of 4,000 out side Parliament. "This budget can be defeated in the Senate if the labor movement unites and the fight is carried, into the House." Wharfies, carpenters, railway work ers, fitters, printers and builders' labourers were included among the 37 trade unions with delegates on the Budget Lobby Train that took 425 delegates from Sydney to Can berra and hack. These workers were mostly elected and financed by their workmates from jobs and workshops throughout Sydney. Cheering waving railway workers greeted the delegates as the train: sped past the Eveleigh Carriage Workshops near Redfern. Five hours, later their delegates were to be in Canberra, demanding concessions in taxation and improved social services for the people. "Train of protest " The real story of 425 determined unionists — men, women and youth, on a crowded special "train of pro test" cannot only be told in the con sumption of sandwiches and cans of beer, noted by the daily press. The numbers on the train, the smooth operation of plans and the discipline were due largely to the energeitc efforts of an organising committee, efficiently led by a Syd ney wharf ie Mr;. M. MacFarlane. And while the delegates were get ting to know their fellow protesters this committee was meeting: in the train guard's compartment to put the final touches' to four weeks' planning and organising. Car captains and marshals were ap pointed, a document was distributed setting out documented facts to sup- Port the budget propr alis of the Australian trade union movement, and meetings were held in. every car riage to bring everyone into the pic- ture. By the time, the train had reached | Canberra everyone on. board had diges- i ted enough information to debate tne workers' cause with any poli tician game enough to meet them. t They could show, for example, that taxation, on the workers can be re duced. pensions increased' and social services improved l\y increasing the taxation on wealthy companies, taxing profits remitted overseas by foreign- owned companies and by drastically cutting down the hundreds of mil- ions of pounds allotted for military purposes. s where the money can come (from" it was generally agreed. then there were facts to sup- P rt: a reduction of direct taxation , a "e workers by five per cent; to increase all pensions to at least 50 ent of the hasic wage; why child shouId be a £1 for each reduction of a capital f J?? ax> the- need for a changed hnJ Policy to Eft the- enormous a «, f ®rms -expenditure, inn r , train pulled into Canberra, K»mh! gates from Wollongong-Port mwa. over 100 from Newcastle, 35 who flew up from Melbourne, and many Canberra unionists were there to cheer. Canberra march Down Wentworth Avenue, Canberra, the marchers went, led by 20 Abori ginal wharfies from Sydney, with the banner, "Wharfies support equal rights for Aborigines". "Halt Holt", a banner carried by Amalgamated Engineers said: "Tax profits not workers". "More money for Peace not Viet nam — Return our troops," Meat- workers said. "Increase child endowment,?' the Union of Australian Women said. The marchers were warmly wel comed by a large crowd which had gathered outside Parliament House. Included among the crowd were dozens of aged pensioners who- had travelled to Canberra the previous day to press for increased pen? sions. Organised by the Australian Com monwealth Pensioners' Federation, the pensioner lobbyists had come from Melbourne, Brisbane, Sydney and Newcastle. "The unions come to Canberra . . . the- wharfies are behind us . . ." Four young folk singers were singing to the crowd outside Parliament House, in their own ver sion of the Negro protest song, "We shall not be moved." "Your wages get lower and lower, while monopolies' profits get. higher and higher," Canberra Labor Council president Tini Donnelly told the rally. "You are also here to protest against the filthy war in Vietnam— without which we wouldn't need such a high war expenditure." Many demonstrations are needed "to get justice from that crowd in the White House," he said pointing to- Parliament. Other speakers included' ACTU executive' member and general sec retary of the Australian Railways' Union (M. O'Brien),. Miners general president. (W. Parkinson), Mrs. W. Walsham (Unioru of Australian "Women;), Victorian secretary of the Transport Workers' Union (T. Doyle)-, Building Workers" Industrial Union N.S.W. secretary (P. Clancy), a- Melbourne Waterside Workers' Delegates fo Canberra last week (fop) listening to speakers on the lawn outside Parliament House, Federation official (W. MonagleO and a Sydney builders' labourer (R. Peckham an Aborigine);. Dr. J. Cairns (Labor M-.H.R.) told the rally that "much of what is happening is because the Govern ment is an- agent of people who im pose a foreign policy not in the interests of the Australian people." Mr. P. Clancy reported that a deputation, had met the Industrial - Comminttee of the Parliamentary Labor Party. . "We told the committee that with a vigorous fight the Government can be forced back. in. the Senate and the Budget changed," he said. Penal powers Secretary of the committee, Mr. E. J. Harrison, M.ER., told the delega tion: "Workers may be assured that the A.L.P: members of Parliament will leave no stone unturned in the fight against the budget. "The A.L.P. and the A.C.T.U. will be meeting on Friday to co-ordinate the industrial and political wings of the labor movement in- the; fight i against this budget and against the Court's li per cent margin de cision. "One of the first acts of a : Labor Government when elected will, he to remove the penal powers . in the Arbitration Act." Then the workers crowded Into King's Hall to lobby their Mem- bers, but none from the1 Government side had the courtesy or the cour age to meet them; Whether- they were "too- busy" or just not game to stand up - for their anti-people's policies, it doesn't 'really matter. They must have- got the message loud and clear, what the working people think about the budget. The trip to Canberra is only a start, of a people's protest move ment. This will be continued on jobs in j factories, unions, pensioners' branches and women's organisations demand ing the adoption of the unions? bud get proposals. "The Liberal Government is a failure and we'll fight them with all our might," are the concluding words , of the Budget song! PHOTO shows wharfies from Port Kembla marching up from Canberra railway station on their way to Parliament House. Mom than 20 per cent of the port force took part in the demonstration. 