 " - "Tii i nnmtmrnrr !) "The Jewel on | the brow of India" I RUPERT LOCKWOOD, the \ Tribune's correspondent who is on his way to Moscow, j called in at Ceylon. I THE current general election . forced on Mrs. Sirimavoo ; Bandaranaike's Freedom Party i Government by external and j fifth column manoeuvres finds 1 the workers, peasants, intel- I lectuals and patriotic middle- | classes courageously fighting I back against a partial eco- j nomic blockade and other I harassments designed to block j the ex-colony's march to full independence. Tourists approaching Colombo Harbor are warned that ashore cur rency regulations are strictly en- j forced, that all spending must be in ? Ceylon rupees, and that foreign mon- ;; ey should be exchanged only at the Bank of Ceylon branch in the Cus toms House. &lt; On launches going ashore Sinhal ese advise against accepting the legal ; rate of 13 rupees to the £ sterling; they will give 20 to the £. At the ; wharf, 25 to the £ are on offer; in ; the bazaars, 40 — and it costs 45 ; rupees as a rule to buy back a £ j sterling. The currency black market is but ! a reflection of the wide offensive from within and without, designed to overthrow the world's only govern ment headed by a woman. Thousands of homeless sleep in the streets and women with babes in arms beg, as they did when the union jack flew over Colombo and Trincomalee naval base. The Government has been shaken, but not broken, by bureaucratic cor ruption that continues from colonial times, fifth column attacks by wealthy and obscurantist groups, the deliberate play on regional, cultural, religious and racial divi sions, defections arid disarray in some political groups, attempted military coups and the bias of a judiciary prone to protect would-be putschists, and the subtly erected barriers to Ceylon's export trade with Britain and the U.S.A. ? MRS; BANDARANAIKE'S Sri Lanka Freedom Party swept the polls in 1960, rout ing the main opposition force led bv ex-Prime Minister Dud ley Senanayake's United Na tional party. With 75 seats out of 151 and the support of Communists and other pat riotic forces, Mrs. Bandaran a ike could count on about 40 majority. London and Washington were ai ready restive about the loss of Trin comalee base, and became actively hostile when Mrs. Bandaranaike in 1962-63 nationalised the uridertak ings ot Royal Dutch Shell, Caltex Standard Oil oi New Jersey and Soc ony Mobil, then broke the retaliatory oil boycott by imports from J.S S.R refineries The U.S. immediately cut "aid and refused Ceylon a dollar loan A 20 per cent snipping freight sur charge was slapped on Ceylon's in t national trade on the grounds ol "slow cargo handling" at Colombo docks British liners seemed to pass through Colombo without delays,- tor fast for tourists to spend the accus tomed amounts of money. Ceylon tried to start her owr national shipping line, acquiring the first two ships, but was served notice that if Ceylon tea arrived at London docks in Sinhalese ships, it would no longer be as welcome as before. Ceylon now has no overseas ships; her trade, like that of Aus tralia, is at the mercy of Conference Lines extortionists.- At a meeting on November 19 last of the Tory Party's Commonwealth Affairs Committee, there were de mands for financial sanctions to avenge Ceylon's "squeezing all kinds of British business out of Ceylqn." The London Daily Telegraph on Nov ember. 20 demanded that Mrs. Band aranaike. break with "her Marxist allies." ? INSTEAD, Mrs. Bandaranaike set out to break the most formidable propaganda allies of the City of London and Washington — the publishing monopoly known as the "Lake House" group (Associated Newspapers of Ceylon) — popularly known as "Fake House". Mrs. Bandaranaike was constrain ed to call the men of Lake House "traitors to their country" who "al ways worked against the national religious and cultural traditions ' , (The pro-Western Lake House owner ship is predominantly Christian, it Buddhist country). Lake House was to be nationaliset and a Press Council and Press Trifc una! were to be established, to up hold press ethics and civil rights (Statutory bodies to guarantee pres. ethics and rights of maligned citizen? space for their replies have beer favored by working journalists and trade unions in various lands, inch || ing Australia). M The press measures aroused a ne M furore, and Ceylon's Finance M m ister, Dr. N. M. Perera, had to poic || . to the "vicious and undesirable" t || tacks on Ceylon in London netf |i papers. He threatened to nationals || the five British banks in Ceylon t, J|j less they joined voluntarily the ;|j eminent Banking Corporation. \|| The renegade Minister de Silrfi® forecast that Mrs. Bandaranait ||| would he "Ceylon's Castro." 1 Mrs. Bandaranaike's stocks shin? || ed further in Whitehall and Washic! ton as both laid plans to put Polais ||| submarines into the Indian Ocean. || The U.S. Seventh Fleet, in procfS jj of getting an Indian Ocean kase;fl| Northwest Cape, Western Av began prowling westward; g Bandaranaike, in January last a nounced that Ceylon would facilities to ships and aircraft c! rying nuclear weapons. J The Communist Party of Ceji» "J has played a vanguard role m c® , dj solidating the front against (eyio. -a enemies at home and abroad p vm against conversion of the In® a Ocean to a zone of nuclear dan . fl through the U.S. Seventh ' Polaris intrusions and the emphasis on "East of Suez" str designed to retain colonial sttOf holds. IJa The U.S.S.R. has provided m|gw veeded economic aid, along pa ther Socialist countries. Jung J|H jeing cleared with' Soviet mac J|| o reduce dependence on intp Jg| ice and extend the sugar inai j|| People's China has been D 'Im Jeylor rubber and supplyin= g| in return, on terms favoraDieg| Ceylon. S| MRS. S. BANDARANAIKE j 