 Roasting' Menzies for praise of U.S. ? jiSTRALIAN Prime Min- | ister Menzies' fatuous | praise last week of American | ' courage" in waging horror- | warfare on Vietnam has al- p ready added fuel to the in- fernational blaze of criticism I of US policy. 1 Speaking in a Melbourne Presby- 2 terian Church, Menzies described | the US war as the "greatest act of p moral courage since Britain stood p against Hitler in World War II". | Reaction "to this in the British press I is shown in this rebuke from Britain's P most widely read columnist— the mass p circulation London Daily Mirror's | Cassandra, who withered Menzies in 1 a single paragraph: I "Gushing jingoistic tributes such | as this about what is going on only i add a sense of bombastic macabre p to these horrible proceedings". | But Menzies was speaking deliber- | ately— and repeated his line this week I at his sole personal appearance in | the New South Wales election cam- | paign. \ His statements, which cynically ignore the use of napalm, gas and | phosphorus in raids on Vietnamese | targets including children in schools, are part of a new propaganda cam paign by the Government. This campaign was touched off in Menzies' reply to the recent protest letter of the 13 Australian bishops, revealing that the Government is wor- ried about the growing public disgust in Australia concerning the war against Vietnam. Pressure, both Australian and inter national, continues to mount against the American Government to make it stop its attacks on North Vietnam. Outstanding was the full-page ad vertisement in the New York Times signed by 2,500 Protestant, Catholic and Jewish clergymen saying "In the name of God, stop, Mr. President! ... Admit that US policy is a mistake." On March 29 New York Times com mentator James Reston wrote: "The President's decision to bomb North Vietnam has not achieved its objec tive." Editorially the paper said: "There is no adequate reason to hope that a further escalation of the war can succeed in anything but bringing more death and destruction." The Political Committee of the Com munist Party of Australia has made a further call for the widest immedi ate public action, to have US and Aus tralian troops withdrawn from Viet nam and recognise Vietnamese in- dependence (see editorial, page 2). On March 31, Australian Council of Trades Unions President Albert Monk Continued on Page 52 Continued from Page 1 wired Menzies that the Council was perturbed at the turn of events in Vietnam and the intensified conflict. He urged Menzies to "use your good" offices in conjunction with other world leaders who have urged Britain and Russia, as co-chairmen of the 1954 Geneva conference on Indo- China" to initiate talks aimed at peace. In Adelaide the seamen's monthly stopwork unanimously condemned the US for using mass-terror weapons in Vietnam. The AEU District com mittee also protested bnd called for branch protests. A combined deputation representing the SA committee for International Cooperation and Disarmament, the Society of Friends, and the SA trades unions met the US consul and vice- consul. 