 i mini imi 1 1 1 uihiiiiiii iimi iiiii The US war in ' coup-coup land [?] [?] pk. .RT1C efforts by Pre sident Johnson to stifle criticism in the United States of his spreacl-the1 war nohcy in Vietnam were faiJiner. according to a deatch last week by the Soviet newsagency TARS' correspondent in W'lkri|?;ton. The correspondent savs that deso;te Johnson's pressure, a well informed - WasU;n-ton journalist has counted 75 De mocratic Congressmen who still oDDOse the Administra tion's course. Indicative also was the siience and lack of unanimity among such noted politicians as the leader oi the senate Democratic leader Mans fk ' chairman of senate com' mittees, Fullbright and Russell and Senators Robert and Edward Ken nedy, brothers of the late presi dent 200,000,000 unionists Both President Johnson in the U.S.A and Prim" Minister Wilson in London reacted angrily last, week against the .mounting pressure ol the people which in both countries is seeking .to force them towards the Vietnam conference table In. Britain - the leaders -of nearly two million workers, in all sections pi the transport industry called on Wilson to move at once to end the -war in Vietnam This urgent call came on March 5 from the executive committees of the 1,500.000 strong Transport and General Workers' Union and the '280,000 National Union of Railway- men. At the same time Mr. Frank Allaun resigned at parliamentary private secretary to a minister and mure than 50 Labor M.P 's signed a mo- tic i demanding that the Government move for p-"ce in Vietnam. One ot the signatories, Mi K Zilliacus. M.P., cailed Wilson's sup port for Washington "at best a piti ful delusion, at worst a nasty blend of moral cynicism and political cowardice." Speaking at Nottingham, !\lr. Zilliacus said the motion asked Wilson to do what Wilson himself as recently as last June asked the then Tory Government to do — to notify the U.S. that Britain would not support any extension ol' the war. In the House, even Rightwinger Reginald Paget, M.P., denounced the Government's policy, saying he was waiting fr "some explanation as why the Labor Party's defence policy, which we worked out over a number of years, has been abandoned and the Conservative policy adopted in its stead." In an angry reply to the Lett Wilson implied , that he was working foi peace harder than they were — something hard to reconcile with his avid support ol all the U.S. bomb mg raids so fai j In ihe US, according to press i admissions President Johnson is urinp the" crudest sort of political blackmail to silence opposition in bis own party to his spread-the-war policies On one occasion, writes Walter Lippmann, "the President showed himself so much annoyed at the 'folks who don't understand' thai he just barely stopped short of denying their right to disagree with him. To stop debate in these circum stances would be "an impossible rule of conduct for a free people," says Lippmann "Today there is an issue in lndo- China which cannot be left unde- bated Saigon losses "In li.... .. ../..a tui. tne urst time in our his airy we are waging a uni lateral war against Asians on the mainland of Asia "In the Korean wai we were the agents ol the U.N.. and were sup ported by contingents drawn, from Europe and Asia "' Lippmann condemns what he calls Americans' "visceral feeling that, as compared with foreigners, we are al ways right and never wrong " Bur.cheH's insde sfory Back from South Vietnam. Austra nan journalist Wilfred Burchett writes in Pravda (Moscow) thai the V S raids on the Democratic Repub lie of (North) Vietnam derive from "the insanity oi desperation." The war, .he says, is becoming more and more a purely American "flair It was waged chiefly by South Vietnamese air force units com manded by American officers A more oi less open war is being waged by the U.S. against the South Vietnamese people. He says that "thanks to the cap- 'ired American arms, and the far sightedness of / the South Viet nam national liberation front, which sends its men into the Saigon army to be trained by U.S instructors to use the latest equipment, a Liberation Army company's 'fire-power Is biggei l ban an enemy company's 