 Algerian workers organise j resistance to Boumedienne's rightwing coup ' Appeal from a group of militants of the National | Liberation Front (FLN) of Algeria, j Organise resistance to the coup d'etat of the ' reactionaries ! Demand the release of President 1 Ben Bella ! "THE internal forces of re action allied to imperialism have given a severe blow to the socialist revolution. They are cashing in on the dif ficulties of reconstruction, on the economic situation of the disinherit ed masses and the sabotage for which they were themselves prim arily responsible. They are exploiting the noble aspir ations and honesty of the officers and sincere revolutionary djounouds. These forces have struck at the Republic and the Party in the person of Ben Bella and hundreds of res ponsible people and militants. The exploiters, both the great landed proprietors and the big capitalist speculators and their allies in the State apparatus— all the privileged and wealthy are delighted. The New York Times, organ of imperialism, displays its satisfaction. The Algerian people themselves, faithful to their martyrs and to the spirit of November 1 (the revolu tionary celebration day) are in mourning. A great anger mounts in them. They have eyes to see and ears to hear. They see that the first to sup port the coup are the organisations who have spoken against socialism and in favor of respecting the privilege of wealth. The people hear a declaration making frequent mention of State morals but they see (among the new dictator group) a corrupt politician, Kaid Ahmed, who when he was Minister of Tourism wished to turn Algeria into an immense night-club. The people hear talk of good faith and they find Boudissa, the man from West Germany, swindler and gravedigger of the cooperative Aissat Idir de Blida. They hear talk of democracy and they see established the worst of dictatorships. They hear severe criticism of the previous government and talk of "change" and find the same op portunist ministers at their posts. Why have the plotters tolerated the "faults" of the party up till now? If they Teally share the socialist aim, it is in the heart of the Party, among all the -comrades, that they would, have put forward problems of "lethods of leadership. It is true there have been weak nesses and serious shortcomings. But there have also been above all great achievements. There had developed a positive enthusiasm in the country and real possibilities of improvement, includ ing real collective leadership, thanks 'to -the continual progress of the revolution through the national -or ganisations and the Party. In fact, it is not to make neces sary changes agreed to by all the revolutionaries, including the -offi cers and socialist djounouds, that the Algerian capitalists have -deceiv ed -the army and used it for their conspiracy. It is to wreck the socialist revol ution ... O Fearing a new and decisive stage in agrarian reform, of which there is no mention :in the -declara tion of the self-styled Council of Revolution. Fearing the momentum of the UGTA after its second congress. 0 Fearing the development of the fighters for socialism, the Youth of Algeria, along the road to unity. e Fearing the awakening of our sisters, determined to win their rights within the context of our national values. 0 Fearing the forthcoming World Youth Festival. 9 Fearing the policy of anti-im perialist non alignment and of peace, now emptied of its content of strug gle. against ueo-colonialism by For eign Minister Bouteflika, known for his -antipathy to the Arab and social ist countries. O Fearing the beginnings of cor xection and reform which would have struck at those who pull the -strings of intrigue. ® In short, fearing the develop ment of the socialist revolution ai the moment when the end of .the armed struggle in Kabylie would have strengthened the unity of the country, dear to the heart of all patriots and nationalists. People of Algeria, workers in fac tories and mines, self-employed peo ple, poor and middle farmers, small shopkeepers and tradesmen, young people, women! This military coup is utterly re jected by you! Your -silence today carries the seeds of your anger to- " morrow! , Already, everywhere resistance is being organised deep -among the people, in the towns ;and in the country, in the factories and in the fields of Constantine, Oran and Al giers. It is enough for each Algerian to give his refusal to the orders of reaction and the dictatorship, in -order to create the conditions for ' success. Officers and djounouds, born ol the people! Political adventures will only isolate you from the people! Link up with the people ... do not fire on your brothers and sisters, .your relatives, your children, who disapprove of the coup! . Gome back to the legal authority of the people, the legal authority oi the revolution! People of Algeria . . . The living forces of the nation- whatever may have been then previous judgement of the work &lt; reconstruction and the role of Presi dent Ben Bella— today are taking into account "the dangers to the nation, its freedom and the freedom of oach person, and the national in dependence of the country. The Algerian people will know how to recongise all those, no mat "er what their rank, who have god nued to serve under this dictator ship ... all those who have failed . in their faith and their duty to the democratic popular republic, to the Constitution voted for by the coun try, to the Algerian Charter and the laws of the Party, adopted by the FLN Congress. Refuse to collaborate with the strangiers of the Republic— our Al gerian Salan and Massu— who are deceiving the " young officers an soldiers. . Bet the question "Where is tn- President? Release the President, which is deepest in the hearts oi a become the -cry of the whole coun try, irrespective of opinions the methods of the general secreta y of the Party. The "forces of freedom, vnd peace throughout , the world a with us. Whatever may be the a iculties, the Algerian people ave the socialist revolution. Free the President and the ot i imprisoned militants! Down with the countcr-revo ien! Long live the socialist rey?lu''1, (signed) A group of miihtau t>f "the FLN. -&lt; Slightly abridged) President Ben Bella seen here talking to members of the International Preparatory Committee for the Youth festival that was to be held in Algeria. Youth and trade unions are the spearhead in opposition to tne -new regime. Resist ance groups are springing up all over t'e ronntn-cidp. narticutarJv ir Oran. Algiers and some provincial centrcr 