 [?] (Contributed) PUBLIC meeting oi 250 people and- a depu tation to the Department of Main Roads and to Mr. Hills (Minister tor iiign- ways and Local Govern ment) has averted tempor arily proposed demolition of 25 to' 30 homes in the Sutherland area. The Department of Mair Roads wished to divert Princes Highway so as to avoid pas sing through the "township o Sutherland where, owing to its narrowness, and to an overhead bridge to West Sutherland considerable traffic congestior takes place. The principle of the" Department of Main Roads seeking to avoid traf fic congestion is to he commended. However the Department's pro posals to resume and demolish 25 to 30 homes (in their opinion the most economical way to achieve this diversion) has- caused widespread resentment among the people of South Sutherland. The Department's proposals were to proceed up Acacia Road to the m iiw!iv linr» and then cut south- west through several rows of houses (some of which have only been recently erected), and then join on to an existing pass. The well-attended meeting held prior to Christmas condemned these proposals as needlessly interfering with the well-being of a large num ber of people. At the meeting proposals were put xorwara tu use nauu at, cuiu. nmbca Highway as one way traffic streets respectively. (Thi would also help the shop keepers of Sutherland who, to a large extent, depend on passing trade). Also to place an additional road bridge- across Waratah Street to West j Sutherland and so ease traffic con- | gestion. - ,, . j A bridge at this point would be = a help to children proceeding . to j Jannali High School, saving them a j one mile walk. j A further alternative that Glen- , coe Ste'et be used south of Princes I Highway was also -.veil received. Mr. Dalton, M.L.A. for Sutherland attended the meeting and promised his full support for the residents' rights. Later Mr. Dalton led a deputation from the Residents' Committee to in terview Mr. Hills and the Commis- , sioner for Main Roads, Mr. Shaw. As a result of this deputation the. Committee received assurances that their proposals would receive con sideration and advice that at least three years would elapse before any resumptions, if these were unavoid able, would take place. uroo a 'hicr imnrnvpmfinfc on the previous notice of resumption which had stipulated six months. "S '-theriand '-rancfi of the Com munist Party has fully supported the residents and strongly opposes demo litions of peopVs homes. Q SUTHERLAND SHOPPING CENTRE — 