 j Widespread cal (or national stoppage THOUSANDS STRIKE FOR HKHER LIVING STANDARDS Trade union protests in all States against the basic wage freeze have widened into growing revolt against worsening living standards. New South Wales Government rail and road transport workers struck a blow against their low pay when they held a 24- hour strike from midnight las' Sunday in support of increased wages (see this page). As Tribune goes to press the Australian Council of Trade Unions is discussing proposals from union bodies representing hundreds of thousands of work ers for a national 24-hours protest stoppage over the basic wage freeze. This has been urged by the NSW and Queensland Labor Councils, and by a meeting this week of 420 Victorian metal and electrical trade shop stewards. Other significant support for this demand has included: Four-hour stoppage by 1000 Will iamstown (Melbourne) dockyard workers and by 250 maintenance workers at . Aus tralian Paper Mills (Sydney) , who called for a national stop page and price control. Stopwork meetings of seamen in all ports, and of water side workers throughout Sydney in area stopwork meetings. Calls for ACTU action have been made by several Federal unions, including the AEU, Waterside Workers and Boiler makers. The NSW Metal Trades Federation this week is planning protest action. Building trades combined protest meetings have begun throughout Sydney. The NSW Labor Party executive last week said that "the basic wage decision reeked of injustice". The Communist Party is distributing 200,000 leaflets throughout Australia headed Basic Wage Outrage, calling 'for a £22 family basic wage, with strict price control. Over 1100 emnlovees of Svdnev milk distributors — Dairy Farmers and Fresh Food & Ice — this week held 24-hour stoppages for a £2 industry allowance. Teachers The NSW Teachers' Federation Council last week said the Com mission's decision was a retrograde step in wage fixation, and will depress the real Australian wage to a level below that of 1964. . The teachers aiso called for the reintroductions of price control on consumer products. About 2500 members of the Vic torian Secondary Teachers' Asso ciation created history last Friday by stopping work for two hours in protest against their new pay award. They are demanding salaries at least comparable with those in NSW. The 25,000-strong Victorian Teachers' Union has been asked to participate in joint action. An earlier mass meeting of VTU members called for a State-wide stoppage unless agreement was given within seven days to re-hear their wage claims. The NSW Labor Council said the Court's refusal of the ACTU basic wage claim "imposes a gross injustice on all wage earners." White-collar The Commission's "cynical depar ture from its own principles must cause workers to have grave doubts as to the justice of such Arbitration Court proceedings," Council said. All affiliated unions were asked to arrange workshop protest meetings to Continued on Page 12 BIG UPSURGE OVER WAGES Continued from Page 1 inform employers, the Government and the Court "6f the determination of the trade union movement to win a basic wage which corresponds with ACTU policy;" Council said that all wage and salary earners should be united in the pro test stoppage. For this purpose/ the ACTU should approach the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the High Council of Common wealth Public Service Organisations to plan joint action, r-uncil said. The Quee"'-nd Trades and Labor Council condemned the "pcutical decision which is clearly designed to help solve the economic problems of the Menzies Government. "The decision means an increase of perhaps £20 to the Judges themselves — 5/- or 6/- per week to tradesmen and nothing to basic wage workers- females and juniors, whose rates of pay are allied to the basic wage. "We condemn the decision of the majority of- the Court in attacking the workers' rights to strike, and this is clearly allied to current National Civic Council and Liberal Party policy. "We draw attentiqn to the fact that the Commis"' while attacking over- award payments on the one hand, closes its eyes to the fact that the consumers are being robbed unmer cifully by the monopoly," the Queens land T & LC said. In Western Australia, Mr. P. Troy, secretary of the marine industry group of unions, said: "The decision is a scandalous one which entirely . ignores previously expressed princi ples and previous practice of all industrial tribunals in Australia on wage fixation. "No doubt the employers in wa will be endeavoring to have a new method of wage freezing applied here. The maximum unity and struggle i called for so that the system of quar terly adjustment of the basic wag is maintained here." 