 South Australia: j Building workers strike for higher wages ADELAIDE: A stopwork meet ing of members of the Plast erers' Federation Was a high light of various actions by workers in the building indus try last week in Adelaide. Other activity included decisions of the Building Trades' Federation for job meetings and stoppages in sup port of wage demands. Workers in the Fibrous Plaster in dustry are faced with an employers' application aimed at slashing wage rates, the introduction of shift work and the employment of women (adult and juvenile) in the manufacturing . of plaster and water tiles at much lower rates of pay. The Federation called a stoppage of workers in the industry. The meeting instructed the union to accept no lower rates of pay and decided that further stoppages should be held if necessary. Success for the employers in the Court would result in wage reduc tions of £4/8/- for tile makers, £2/12/- for shophands and 6/- for labourers. " A resolution of the Plasterers' general meeting held recently con demned "the threat of the employers to use the undemocratic penal clauses of the Industrial Code to prevent a proper expression of members' anger at this action. The meeting decided that in the event of summonses for breaches 4-UA MAMAI AIaiiaaa fV»A AA/1A tijic pt/txat uiauoco vi MAC "we call a further stoppage and sub mit to such a meeting a proposal for a prolonged stoppage until the matter is decided." Following the continued rejection by the Master Builders' Federation of wage claims and special allow ances, the Building Trades' Federa tion of Unions has decided on a series of stop-work meetings throughout the industry. The decision was arrived at after the increases of £2/2/6 for tradesmen and £1/1/3 for labourers in Queens land became known. For some time S.A. building unions have been demanding an industry agreement in line with that won by the Victorian building trades workers. On Friday a combined meeting of over 50 building workers on the Queen Victoria Hospital job heard a report from V. J. Martin, secretary of the Carpenters and Joiners' Society. / i . : ii i. : They stopped work- for half .an hour, in support of the campaign. " . n-i : On Monday 50. . workers on the Central., .JVIthodist "Mission building ; carried 'a 'resolution calling ning stoppages. 