 1 Wharfies lead B| u|UB|||m||-«MJilMMII»l»IIIUIIillMIW«lllllll«l»IIIMIIIIIimillll HIM 1IMMIL ,...11 m ,| ||||B, U, .-XTlm— g ! defence of ;rid i democratic rights J minion in iniiiiniiHi— imgnwi imnimumi j SYDNEY : The Waterside Workers' Federation de- j cision to call stopwork meetings in ail ports, to con- -j sider attacks made on the union by Mr. Justice Gal- i lagher, is a signal to all Australians to defend demo- | cratic rights. The decision follows Justice Gallagher's call for the application of the Crimes Act and for the removal from the industry of workers who took part in "wanton stop- r pages" I see story Page 3L W.W.F. Federal officers warned that the im- plications of Justice Gallagher's statement should concern the whole trade union movement, as they cannot hold true only for the W.W.F. or indus trial workers. J """H1S would mean that the I Crimes Act should be ap- | plied to university students or >1 ministers of religion who de- 4 monstrate on political matters." I :======= This attack follows refusal by the Menzies Government to grant a pass port to Mr. R. Rose, Newcastle branch secretary of the W.W.P., to attend a trade union conference in Hanoi, called by the International Trade Union Committee, for solidarity with the workers and people of South Vietnam. At what Mr. Calwell described as a "sinister performance," Dr. Knop- felmacher told a recent DLP rally in Melbourne that the Federal Govern ment should publish a white paper on what the "Communist front or ganisations in Australia were" and called for even stronger repressive legislation than the Crmes Act. In a recent "News Weekly," Mr. B. A. Santamaria, the leader of the National Civic Council, called on the Federal Government to make it a criminal offence to attend union conferences such as that to be held in North Vietnam. Minister for Territories, Mr. C. E. Barnes, created a furore when he attacked the play "The One Day of the Year" by saying "there was quite a faction in the community which was trying to lessen the efforts of Australia's soldiers in two world wars." It is also very disturbing that the strongest clauses of the so-called Restrictive Trade Practices Bill are aimed at those protesting against the restrictive practices. Clause 84 provides a penalty of £500 fine or three months' jail for any person who creates a disurbance in or near a place where the tribunal established under the Act is sitting. It is clear that Australia's involv- ment in the unjust Vietnam war threatens a large-scale attack on our democratic rights. Withdrawal of Australia from the war and support for implementation of the 1954 Geneva Agreement would be one of the best safeguards of our democratic rights. 