 1 Two officials resign in 1 Postal Workers' Union ff SYDMEY: The Federal Executive of the Amalgamated Postal ,:| Workers1 Union has appointed an acting secretary in the union's || NSW Branch in an effort to bring about the proper functioning of H the branch. i"|HIS action, follows the. un expected resignation last week of two officials of the NSW Branch. They are the former NSW secretary .(Mr. N. Mayell) and a former NSW organiser (Mr. C. McGrane) . Mr. Mc Grane who held the position i general secretary of the union was defeated by the present secretary, Mr G. Slater in the elections held tn September, 1963. Mr. McGrane was supported m the elections by the National Civic Coup Following his defeat, the «-W6W Branch appointed Mr. McGrane as a State organiser. In a statement to the union's mem bership, Mr. Slater said that Mr. Mc Grane "gate-crashed" last Wednes day's meeting of the NSW t executive and prevented it from appointing a ; temporary secretary, pending a ballot. "This left the State Branch without an official legally able to deal with business, sign cheques, or call a further meeting to break the dead lock," Mr. Slater said. Mr. Slater told Tribune that over night he had received petitions from about 2,000 members calling on the federal executive to -appoint an acting secretary, and to call a genera1 meet ing of the rank and file On the initiative ol Mr. Siatei ana r the union's general president, .Mr. Jb. Waters, the federal executive appoint ed Mr. A. Dowdell, a NSW organiser, to act as secretary of the Branch Last November, the federal confer ence of the union refused to adopt the NSW Balance Sheet, and as a result, the State Branch set up an investigating committee which has not as yet issued any report. Mr. Slater said that the membership is demanding the publication of this report. The federal executive will call a special general meeting of the mem bership as soon as the general secret ary and president have completed their enquiries into the events leading up to the resignations of Messrs -May ell and McGrane. I 