 jyou, Mr. Briant! By JIM STEVENS SYDNEY: Bags of flour, at 150ib each, came speeding into the ship's hold on the chute at the end of a conveyor belt. Ten men were then lump- I in the bags from a pile in the centre and stacking them into the hold. This was the scene last week in the second hatch of the British ship "Sud bury Hill", loading at No. 5 Glebe Island in Sydney. A similar scene could also be witnessed in any of the other four holds ... or, | for that matter, on all the other ships loading flour at Glebe Island. I What kind | of men? Ill These are the men that are I always good game for attack by I 1 wealthy newspaper owners; the |l| Menzies Government, arbitra- I tion court judges and the ship HI owners. I These are also, the men who I know from long-, experience that. | all the gains made both. in. wages. I and conditions have been won I through struggle. | They are proud of their I union, the Waterside Workers' I Federation, and make no apolo- III gies for the stand their union | has taken on matters of vital | concern to the welfare of the | Australian people . . . opposi- III tion to Australian troops go- HI ing to Vietnam being no excep- III turn |l| The union is at the moment j campaigning for a non-contri- III butory pension scheme and a HI mechanisation fund. | The giant overseas shipping | companies are now paying in- | dustry pensions to New Zea-. | land, British, European, Japan- III ese and American' watersiders. HI "Why then haven't the same | companies paid industry pen ile - sions to Australian wharf ies?" the men say. "This money can easily come from the huge profits the ship ping companies are making, es timated at upwards of £140. mil lion a year," the Federation said. "Won't work", says owner To divert attention from the unanswerable arguments sup porting these demands, the shipowners, through Federal Government's spokesmen and their wealthy newspaper friends have once more started a slan der campaign against the water side workers. Port chaos, congestion and so on are blamed on the workers. Now, according to the chair man of the Overseas Ship owners' Association (Mr. C. Briant), Australian wharfies "lack will to work". He was speaking at the an nual conference of the Associa ted Chambers of Commerce last week in Brisbane. He also called for the intro duction of secret ballots with in Unions, which he said, "could go a long way towards solving the- problem of Corn- Gang 139 carrying the flour on the abovementioned ship have extended an open invita tion to Mr. Briant "to come down and have a rest." On an average the gang loads about 200 tons in an eight hour shift. This means each man carries on his shoulders about 20 tons a day and the longest walk with . some bags is about 45 feet. When Interviewed by Tribune Arthur Pipce (covered with flour dust and a bag across his shoulders) said: "After working for three weeks loading flour the bags seem to weigh 350 lbs." During morning smoko the workers "paid out" on those who attack them and the Federa tion. Bill McDonald (a wharfie for 21 years) said: "If wharfies had no will to work, who is loading and discharging the ships?" "In this industry you see more men crippled through work than in any other;" he said. Union more democratic The delegate, Andy Hoppner 7 i a wnarne since a as uniy recently returned to work after being off three months with a double rupture. The men also answered the attacks made on their union elections. Wally Stig said, "Our union elections are " more democratic than Parliamentary elections. You have to produce your union card, have it stamped and then vote at a polling booth by sec ret ballot." Others pointed out that re turning officers and their assistants are elected by. mass meetings. "Yes," they said, "we have good union leadership." SOME of the waterside workers interviewed by Tribune. I 