 Finance an important issue in the NSW local elections next Saturday [?] SYDNEY : More than 70 Communist candidates will stand for election to fhp various New South YVales councils in the municipal elections to be held next Saturday, De cember 4. -pHEY are actively campaign ing around the many prac tical demands of the local peo ple, with particular stress on the slogans: No increased rates on individual home owners; 10 per cent of Federal revenue for local government; make busi ness monopolies pay. The Communist. Party's campaign director (Mr. E. M. Burnham) sulci this week that an important 1 mm in the campaign was the aim of the I Liberal Party, through the Askin State Government, to gain control of local government, In New South Wales. | "Since its advent to office last May, the Askin. G oveiwft&ti has | unceasingly attacked the local gQY&m- f merit set-up in order to restrict working-class participation, Impose I heavier burdens on the people and 1 make the local government field even f more lucrative for monopoly in- | terests, particularly in retail, land, | construction and industry," he said. I "Election of Communists to ccun- f cils and an improvement in the i Communist vote would ce a powerful |; setback to 'hese I iberai! and monopoly | w aims, ana vi Ouci conluiiiUUG- uO trie ability of she working people in tbe \ I local areas to fight for better living I f: t % conditions," he saia. f I i | Most democratic j It was important' to defend fee | $ present method of election in local j i government elections, known as pro- j H portional representation and prefer- ' i ence voting. I - ! g Although many people were con- i p fused by it, fee present method of ; || election was the most democratic yet j devised in capitalist society. W "This method gives greater oppor- i 1 tunity for election of working class I 1 candidates and also ensures that B the majority of voters' wishes are I! carried out in their selection of H candidates," he -said. jj| It had operated in NSW since I 1953, when the State Labor Govern- I ment introduced it. | Since then a number of Commu- I nists had been elected to NSW I councils, including Mr. T. Wright and r- Ron Maxwell to Sydney City | Council; Mr. W. Quinn to Lake Mac- 1 ?ilare Shire, and Mr. Bill Flynn and I f Wniley (both still sitting) 1 to Broken Hill. The ALP had also considerably improved its position in manv couu ells. "This is why fee Askin Government is trying to change fee whole voting system in local government. So far the Labor Majority Upper House has held, him hack," Mr. Burnham said. How it works Let us assume a local electorate in which 1,200 voters are to elect three councillors. The returning officer calculates the "quota" of votes necessary to be obtained by any candidate to secure election. This quota is obtained as To fee number of councillors needed (in this case, three) is added fee figure 1. This aives 4. The 1.230 is now divided by 4, equalling 30Q. . ; , Once again 1 is added = 301. This is the quota. Each candidate receiving a mini mum of 301 votes is immediately elected. It can be seen that out of 1,200 votes only three candidates can obtain 301 votes. The team leader of a group of ; candidates of one party should . : receive ALL the No. 1 votes cast for . | his team, to ensure quickly reaching - the quota. Once hawing received the j necessary quota, his surplus votes | (all votes over 301) axe re-allocated ; | to his No. 2 team mate. If No. 2 receives the quota, he too is elected. Preference exchange is vita! If he has insufficient votes and other candidates in other group are in similar position, then those candi dates with fee lowest primary votes i are. eliminated and their second preferences allocated. So that ufci- mately a candidate is elected on a combination of primary and prefer ence votes. Practice shows that generally the leaders of the major teams are elected early, but preferences finally decide fee final candidates. The allocation of preferences piays a very important part also. The need for an exchange between CPA and ALP teams is a key step tn advancing the interests of the work ing class movement and defeating Liberal or other candidates of big business. The Communist Party says that these latter candidates should be placed last. The most progressive vote and the worst blow to big business is to give the primary vote to the Communists, ; with second preference to. Labor. In ! the event of Communists not being ; elected, then their preferences are | re-allocated to the ALP, and thus the \ Labor vote is increased. L However, it is most important also I for Labor supporters to consider I giving the Communists their prefer- j ence votes. Under the NSW Right Wing ALP leadership, pressure is i exerted on Labor supporters to put i the Communists last and often open ; or undercover Liberals receive ? second d references. This means, in i effect, that Labor preferences can elect an anti-Labor candidate. I [?] MR. N. ABELLO, a Communist candidate for West Ward in fee Canter bury Council speaks in fee Punchbowl Shopping Centre on Communist Party policy for the N.S.W. local government elections next Saturday. 