 w/ — « is I Diplomat resigns over Vietnim; Govt, hides truth i The Menzies Government has suffered a ! heavy blow with the resignation of a senior | diplomat, Mr. Gregory Clark, from the Ex- I ferna! Affairs Department in protest against j its foreign policy, especially on Vietnam. From his hard-hitting article in last Sat urday's "Australian" debunking basic as pects of the policy, a major conclusion flows: THE GOVERNMENT IS NOT TELLING AUS TRALIANS THE TRUTH ABOUT THE VIET ! NAM WAR! ! Mr. Clark should know. He was with the External Af- I fairs Department for 8 years and the posts he served included j First Secretary in the Moscow Embassy and Third Secretary j in Hong Kong. ; He now holds a research scholarship in the School of Pacific Studies of the Australian National University. I The same conclusion has been voiced this week by Deputy j Opposition Leader E. G. Whitlam, who said in Sydney that | "the Government was concealing what was happening in Vietnam, Malaysia and Indonesia". ! MR- CLARK'S article amounts j to a crushing rebuff to the j many mis-statements of fact in j the latest official Vietnam ex- > planation pamphlet issued by ! his former boss, External Af- ! fairs Minister Hasluck (iee pic- j ture). | Mr. Clark makes these points: . j "The West is losing the war in Vietnam . . . the war cannot be won I unless the West is prepared to deci- j mate the Vietnamese population. . . . j "Even the Americans agree that : the Viet Cong can only be beaten by ! political measures, and this becomes j less possible to the extent that the | West takes over the running of the ' war." ! Mr. Clark is in effect saying that j the new escalation measures threat- j ened by US Defence Secretary Mc- Namara and US Saigon Deputy- I Ambassador Johnson, the record US j war budget, and the demands which j will follow for more Australian troops (including conscripts) will be j useless. j Shattering the famous "domino" theory on which Menzies and Hasluck I rely, Mr. Clark says that if South Vietnam "went Communist" this would "only marginally improve Com munist opportunities elsewhere in Asia. Any future Communist revolu tionary movement in, say, Thailand or Malaya, will have, like the Viet Cong, to draw 90 per cent, of its support from within the country." Actually the Communists are only one group among some 20 organisa tions, included in the South Vietnam National Liberation Front (or Viet Cong). Continued on Page 12 [?] NEVER AGAIN will Mr. P. M.. Hasluck, External Affairs Minister, smile this way in the company of Mr. Gregory Clark (at left in picture, taken last year during Hasluck's visit to Moscow, when Clark was First Secretary of tlie Australian Embassy). Now Clark lias left the Department in disgust at the Government's policy on Vietnam and S.E. Asia (See story at left). SCANDAL OVER VIETNAM j Continued from Page 1 Mr. Clark demolishes the "Chinese", bog: -' built up by Menzies and Hasluck. He says: "There is no evidence that China is interested in Vietnam from the point, of view ot physical expansion southwards." . "\ The Chinese, he adds, are interested in internal developments and in de fending themselves from the USA. Finally Mr. Clark lays rude hands on another sacred article of the Menzies - Hasluck - D L P propaganda creed— that Australia must support the US, right or wrong, because otherwise the US will not defend us in a future emergency. Mr. Clark replies that the US will be governed lay its own interests in deciding whether or not to back Australia . militarily; Nothing Aus tralia does or says ' will make any difference. However, he says' there is a danger that a future US administration, reversing present US policies and seeking friends in Asia, might refuse to "defend" an Australia whose anti- Asian policies had meanwhile made it unpopular -in 'Asia. Mr Clark condemns the despatch j of Australian troops to Vietnam as a policy, that jeopardises Australia's position with uncommitted Asians, "guarantees the future hostility of Communist Asians and is unlikely to impress pro-Western Asians," who themselves have not sent troops to Vietnam. "In other words, we increase the risk of being eventually confronted > by a hostile Asian power without any corresponding increase in our security." Mr. Clark says he is not comment ing on the morality of "having Aus tralians kill Vietnamese in Vietnam at the urging of a foreign govern ment and the invitation of a govern ment which cannot effectively repre sent the "anti-Communist Vietnamese, let alone the millions of Vietnamese who are apathetic or oppose the anti- Communist cause. Demands to be told the truth featured prominently in last Satur day's massive demonstration by 25,000 to 30,000 Americans in Wash ington against the Vietnam war — the biggest yet. 