 tribune i An Open Letter ' to Sir Robert : "THE withdrawal of Singapore from Malaysia has really triggered off a major crisis in your Government's foreign policy. Things were already difficult enough for you over Vietnam. The majority of Australians, if not all actually opposed to the US war of intervention there, are at least very dubious about it and shocked by the brutal extermina tion policies of Washington. You have tried to frighten Australia with the tale that unless we "defended" the despicable Saigon regime, all the ."cfomrnoes" of S.E. Asia would fall to the "Communist thrust". But it turns out in Singapore that the anti-communist ,i "dominoes" are already falling because of their own rival ries. "Malaysia, the new nation, is here", you trumpeted in Federal Parliament on September 25, 1963. You talked of "The Prime Minister of Singapore, one of the great sponsors of Malaysia", and the semi-feudal prince, the Tunku, has been your spiritual brother. Now the Tunku, without telling Canberra anything in advance, unceremoniously expelled from Malaysia that "great sponsor" of it, the Singapore Prime Minister and his government. It is becoming very clear that your whole policy of using force in collaboration with corrupt, feudal Asian poli ticians, to try to hold back national independence move ments, is bankrupt and must be scrapped. The Singapore Government is now talking of a policy of non-alignment in the Cold War and friendship towards neighbouring Indonesia — a sensible policy also for Aus tralia, but the very reverse of your own. You have sent Australian armed forces into Malaya, Singapore and Northern Borneo. But not only is Malaysia : now falling apart— —there are even serious tensions between the component governments. You have put these Australian trbops into great danger and insecurity not to defend Australia but for fear of losing oil, tin and rubber profits. Every step taken under your foreign policy has cost Australia dear in what matters most to our security and independence — the goodwill of our Asian neighbours. Now, evidently bewildered by the collapse of your schemes, you speak of need to "review defence arrange ments". But nothing less than a complete review of Australian foreign policy is needed— a 180 degrees turn away from iron-fisted militarism towards peace and friend ship with our Asian neighbours. As stated by last year's 20th Congress of the Communist. Part of Australia: "A truly patriotic, farseeing Australian foreign policy should aim to build close ties of friendship with these nations, Calling for peaceful co-existence; to be made the guiding principle, the Communist Party proposed concrete steps to this end, including withdrawal from aggressive oacts like SEATO and ANZIJS and the recall of our troops from Malaya, Thailand and South Vietnam; and the building of friendly pacts with all our neighbours (particularly Indo nesia ) . Already the public .demand for such an independent Australian policy is strong and will grow. If you cannot face rnl'tv;. do te patriotic thing and get out. Tribune I 