 [?] Dawn conies and the sea breathes | The cool sweet "breeze of a day re-born 1 The birds tune up and the doves boom I Softly in the trees on the lawn ... I . The cackling minalis abuse the doves | And their voices mingle like talking men j Like my mates the wharfies, waiting, waiting I Patiently waiting for a ship to come in . . . I It's shocking weather, and the salt sea drizzle j Is soaking their singlets, the wind starts rushing j And tugging the piers like rotten old teeth V . I And roughing up buildings and reefing out trees | And crumpling the sheds like cardboard cartons, | The waves in anger stamp up and down | Like a cramped leader, just out of prison ... j And there is the freighter, way down the Harbour, j Everyone sees it, nothing is spoken, Arms folded they stand like commanders, I Like heroes, waiting, waiting, the engines j Are muffled by the howl of the wind | Closer it comes ... J The crew are tap-dancing, uncurling the ropes, I "Righto my hearties," a growl from the "panno", j An old wharfie springs like a kid to his feet, j But the gangs move off slowly into the hatches I It's wool work, the hardest and heaviest, up I And then over, bales by the hundreds ... j Packing them, stacking them, padding the ship's guts ! Down in the hold they are swallowed and sweltering I Cramming the ship's guts with greasy and fine | Adding their sweat to the sweat of the shearers I And later more sweat in the ports overseas j And more in the factories spinning and weaving ! Each gill of sweat at a different price I Each tot of sweat like the "mineral waters" j A real "pick-me-up" for the owners who price It » 1 Like wrestlers they sweat in the cold chilling wind, I Hooking the bales up, heaving together, j But Jim's hook has gone, and the bale tumbles falling, j "Grab my hook, chic," — ! "Are you tired mate?" says Charlie g "Here get a good grip on it, | I "This hook's made of gold," "What?" says Jim, I ! "Gold? ah not this one Charlie. . . I I It's bloody near rusted, well, what do you mean?" | I "Come up on deck, mate, it's smoko . i That's fifteen minutes I've got to explain ... j j "You see those tall buildings there I I High as the mountains, look at them close | I For the marks of your hook, without it j Those buildings, those shipowners' offices | Would still just be shanties, their neons g j No better than hurricane lamps, you built them, I I You put them there, storey by storey ... 1 ! "That's why it's not steel, mate, it's gold I I Pure gold, Jimmie, your hook is pure gold, j j Do you get me? 1 I "That's right, chic, a gold hook ... I J "Righto, my hearties, give it a go!" J "Well back to these bales, mate, I 'spose f J That I still could be lucky and capture | I A hernia for a pension . . . j ! "Yes, Charlie, but listen, remember when we j V A 11 1!C4 Ikavn'c nAhlAO iffefl flfiUVV '1 | ' ; : URlE;:HAZjEY..j 