 1 TRIBUNE 1 Lift the lid ! ""HERE will be widespread agreement with last week's statement by Mr. H. C. Mallam, MLA, that the people are being fleeced. He was commenting: (see this page) on one of the most infamous affairs in the commercial life of New South" Wales and Australia— the H. G. Palmer crash. There were 33,000 debenture holders alone who had invested in the company after reading a prospectus that H. G. Palmer was a subsidiary of MLC Ltd. The week before Mr Mallam spoke, no fewer than three reports on company crashes were tabled in the NSW Par liament in one day. TRIBUNE asks the NSW Liberal Government:— Why did you refuse a real investigation into the Palmer-MLC scandal? Was it because it might lay top business leaders in NSW open to criminal charges? TRIBUNE asks the Federal Liberal Government:— It is true that the Commonwealth Life Insurance Com missioner is formally investigating MLC Assurance Co. Ltd. under a section of the Life Insurance Act that stipulates extreme secrecy ?- Another extraordinary matter has been the dropping this week by fhe Victorian Liberal Government of criminal charges against Stanley Korman and two other officials of the Stanhill group of companies, following faijures involving large sums of public investment. The company officials had been earlier committed for trial on a charge of having made a reckless and misleading statement in a prospectus of July 15, 1960, under which Stanhill Development Finance Ltd. was floated. The Victorian Solicitor-General (Mr. B. Murray ), said this week that the Victorian Attorney-General (Mr. Rylah) had directed him to drop the charges. TRIBUNE asks Mr. Rylah:— Did you drop these charges because they were very similar to suggestions made in NSW Parliament about some of Australia's top business men involvecLin the Palmer- MLC scandal ? Last week Mr. Ferguson, MLA, asked, in view of grave public disquiet following crashes of major hire purchase companies, for a Parliamentary Select Committee to inquire fully. - t '. Whatever the form, a full public inquiry, is required in all such cases. It could' show that the blame for such scandals lies at the door, not of "bad payers", but of profit-hungry hig investors and their so-called "free enterprise" system. Afriea and action "J HE British decision to send air forces to help Zambia withstand the military threat of the Smith regime in Rhodesia was taken only after heavy international pressure . and with dubious conditions. Nevertheless it underlines the reality of the Menzies Government's position — hypocritical token "opposition" to Smith's declaration of independence for his white-racist regime; and a public guarantee to Smith that the Australian Government will do nothing effective about it. A powerful bloc of countries ruled by. ruthless racist governments now exists in southern Africa, comprising. South Africa, - Rhodesia 4ind Portuguese Angola. This bloc" is not only the main instrument against. African democracy and independence; it is a major threat to world peace. The bloc is held together by close political, economic and military links. There is a considerable Australian trade with South Africa, just as there is in Australia a considerable public loathing for Verwoerd's apartheid regime. A boycott of South African goods is long-standing policy of the Austra lian Council of Trade Unions, based on United Nations ' policy. " There is growing evidence that ''the Rhodesian situation will not be resolved by economic sanctions alone. Nevertheless it is possible and urgent that the Australian people find the way to give practical support to the African struggle, firstly by extending" economic, action against the racist bloc and later by such other means as may be re- . quired. . " / 