 Modern-day Zhdanovs IT seems to be that Jack Beas- Iey is being made the fall-guy for much of the error that is still deeply entrenched in Australian left-wmg fiction writting. It is so easy to talk about hum anism and the need for broadness, but in . this sphere at least, the les sons of the twentieth congress of the C.P.SU. have not been under stood. Nobody these days is going to proclaim himself an admirer of Zhdhanov, and yet the outlook of Zhdhanov is really in practice the guiding principle in the assessment of much of our literature. The mere fact that in such a debate on progressive literature the emphasis should fall on such mat ters as the search for the "positive hero" and the "revolutionary type is proof of this. Why is a "positive" character in a' story more true to life than a "negative" character. " This search for the Holy Grail is exerting a stifling influence on the develop ment of humanist, democratic litera ture. It produces its own conven tionality, its own conformism which in the long run is just as .deadly as the conventionality of bourgeois writing. It has been said that Truth to a writer is like virtue to a. woman. Once a writer has soiled his repu tation by departing from reality in order to conform to the narrow and hidebound concepts of literature pre scribed by our Australian Zhdhan- ovs he is finished as a serious , writer. Those who are demanding that the writer desert reality in order to conform to a pattern of writing acceptable to. a small core of liter ary pundits who think that simply flying a revolutionary flag makes writing good, are asking him to prostitute his art; The function of a writer should be to enlighten his fellow man and to teach him to behave like a human bejfig towards his brothers If the writer succeeds in doing only this he will have performed a noble task. There is much cant talked about socialist realism these days, but it seems to me tbat it is likely to be a long time before a proper under standing of realism sinks in. Everyone pays lip service to the Twentieth Congress, but we still see the same old methods and views rearing up in literary criticism. In my opinion it is not the duty of the Australian novelist to advise the Communist Party on the best tactics to use in the coming revo lution, but to show all people that at rock bottom man must be to his fellow man a friend, a comrade and a brother, if hfe is to be made tolerable for anyone. G. J. Atller (Murrumbeena, V.) 