 NSW Govt, transport workers will fight on for wage justice SYDNEY: Last Friday, while the Disputes Committee of the NSW Labor Council was accepting by the narrow majority of 15-12, a wo'i'e settlement offer for NSW Government transport workers, about 2000 of them were demonstrating against the decision outside the Trades Hall. "THIS was a clear indication that their wage struggle will continue until they win full jus tice. The offer accepted was 17/6 for tradesmen, 12/6 for non-tradesmen and 10/- for others. The Disputes Committee decision to accept the offer cancelled out what would have been the third 24 hour stoppage of. Government transport workers this year. It would have be gan at midnight today (Wednesday). The Australian Railways' Union, the Bus Employees' Union, the major un ions involved voted against accept ance.. They were supported by the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Boilermakers' Society, Electrical Trades' Union, the Blacksmiths and Sheetmetal Workers Union. These un ions represent the overwhelming majority of workers in the transport industry. Twelve months ago the NSW Lab or Council had given its support to the transport workers' claim for increment wage rises from 16/6 for the first year of service to 49/6 after three years. Mr. H. Hatfield an organiser tor the Sheetmetal Workers' Union, Mr. W. Buckley, organiser for the AEU and other trade union officials addressed the workers outside the Trades Hall and then the workers at the sugges tion of Mr. Hatfield, marched through the streets to Parliament House. When they arrived chanting "We want Askin. We want wage justice." The gates of Parliament House were closed on them and they were told that Mr. Askin was not there. They then marched further down the street to the Premiers' Depart ment. When they were approaching Sydney Hospital those in front called for auiet and shouting of slogans ceased until the hospital was behind them. Some of the trade union officials and rank and file got to see the Pre mier's secretary who said he would inform the Premier. The offer now accepted by the Dis putes Committee falls far short of the amount sought and falls far short of the gains made by Government trans port workers in Victoria, South Aus tralia and Tasmania. Despite weakness that appeared in the campaign the 26 unions involved were united under the leadership of the NSW Labor Council and united action won the present gains. Unity of action is the key to future victory. The NSW Government transport workers are part of a growing nation al campaign for wage increases to meet the soaring cost of living, and refusal by Governments, employers, Arbitration Courts and Commissions to grant them will only heighten the campaigns. Fifteen hundred Victorian and 600 South Australian wool store workers, in Port Adelaide ended an 11 day strike last Tuesday for a £2/10/- over award payment. Details of . the return- to-work terms were not available as Tribune went to press. Although the Victorian Teachers Un ion members decided by ballot against , a strike their general secretary Mr. D. P. Schubert, said they were still very dissatisfied with the Tribunal's general salaries award. Postal workers at the Redfern Mail Exchange, Sydney, held a four hour strike on Tuesday to protest against the use of low-paid labor to operate a new electronic sorting machine. The machine is to be worked by women paid lower rates than men and women mail officers. 