 [?] ! She's one of Mt Isa's i II I - I heroines I As told to Tribune Reporter DENIS KEVANsl i | 1 5 "|N Mt. Isa now we have I ! I 40-50 Pat Mackies and 1 ! between them they have I I 140 children." 1 I Colleen Bullen was reading to B I me the names of the men re fused re-employment by Mt'. Isa ! Mines after they had played an active part in the long 1964-65 l| \ struggle of the mine workers for & ! wage justice and union rights. 3 ! As she read their names she j commented on each one: i! i "He's one of our Hungarian | boys, a good picket line attend: J an ' ' -,'J I "Yes, he's one of our Italian "3 I boys; he went to the cane-fields 3 I speaking and collecting for the J ' strike fund. A good leafleter > J too ... 1 I "One of the Greek boys. Now | he had the bile and the audacity J to sit down in front of the car j of a man who had gone back to i| | work ... I "Yes, and here's one of the I I Finns. They had a lot' of pressure I | put on them . . . but stuck it i | out . . . f| J "Here's the Irish boy who went ft ! on the speaking tour of the Hf I North. He even spoke back to a H j policeman, the cheek of him ..." H j Colleen Bullen is the vice-presi- M dent of the Women's Auxiliary of || j the Trades and Labor Council of |g I Mt. Isa. She is 30 years old and jpf I the mother of six children. £=! j She does, not seem to worry t ij j about Lord de Lisle's command ! | to British migrants to "keep i J their mouth shut." f I j She and her husband Eddie j J| | Bullen, one of the. miners refused || j re-employment, arrived in Syd- ;J j ney from Liverpool, England, if j two years ago with "lid. between 1 i us" I I "I am not interested in poli- ! tics," she told , me, "If I gave 1 you my private opinion of politi- 2 cians I'd be afraid you might ! print it." j "Mt. isa people are the finest I I've ever met. j "Eddie hitch-hiked there 18 j months ago and telegrammed me I j to follow him. I ; "As the train rattled over the | miles I thought to myself I must I v e barmy! Miles and miles of || barren nothingness! I "The Isa was better than I ex- I pected but it took us three j months to get a flat. I '.'We were just getting a few j tnmgs together and a few shil- | 'mgs in the bank, when bang I ,ra-s" whallop we were in this j fight. j "My husband was one of the j percussion drillers . . . contract ; - paid by the foot. The dust ! thJLmine is bad, and there's I In.; die came home ' sometimes j looking hke a ghost; that was an j hour after he left the cage. I Hm.hey fire explosives three k S 3 day in the Isa, and that I RdrmS . the crib breaks. In j a dav ' they fire only once : set L between shifts so the dust . | gets an hour to settle. i rinff11?011 miners drill the ! firers L f£ers Mter the ring I it's 'm! e Jested the charge, l "rounrf f out' lnto undei fS? df?es> If the drillers and ! not work! Wrk' the mUle does 1 have, a | mon check inspector. I down16 niining engineers ' go I minin/bw th?n the gvernment thSe rhplect.r- We don't have j Isa. inspectors in Mt . "Prices in Broken Hill are also a lot cheaper then in the Isa. Speaking of Pat Mackie, rank- and-file leader during the 1964- 65 Mt. Isa dispute, Mrs. Bullen said: "Pat did more than one man should have been expected to do. All the muck and filth they could rake up, they raked up . . . but he's lived in Mt. Isa for fourteen years, and everyone knows and likes Pat ..." Mrs. Bullen is one of the wom en who have handled distribution of trade union reiief money for the families of the locked-out miners. ?'We now handle all the relief work in Mt. Isa. We started with ten volunteer workers. It was Pat's idea that we expand it," she said. "We don't handle the donations ourselves but get a weekly cheque from Brisbane." (From the Queensland Trades and Labor Council, official collector of re lief funds). "Since the resumption the craft union men have levied themselves. Tftfc Boilermakers have levied themselves the £3 they won. The AEU levy is £5 a , pay— the Ironworkers say they will give tickets to the boys look . ing for work. "The electricians stopped work over a boy sacked for refusing to work with a particular man as a sequel to the dispute. "We're pricking consciences, and we'll keep at it as long as 8 we can. We want to thank all I the unions for their generosity— | it comes from everyone." ? And When will you be back in 8 the Isa? I "I can't; stay away too, long, f my husband will be driven mad . j with the six kids . , .," said Col- I leen Bullen. ! 