 CLERICS GREET MENZIES WITH PROTEST LETTER C YDNEY : ReS-urning from overseas, the F rime Min ister was greeted by an open : tetter from 1 5 prominent NSW clergymen expressing the view that "Australia, through its Prime Minister, is being ted into a tragic esca lation of the Vietnam war." The letter said: "As Christian citizens, we express deep concern at Australia's policy in Vietnam as declared by the Prime Minister in statements abroad. "The Australian Prime Minister has said 'We are at war.' "We ask: Does there exist in inter national law a state of war? If so,, against what Government or nation is it being waged? "If we are" at. war, by whom has it been declared and when? Has the state of war been declared by cabinet or is it a personal decision? "We ask by what constitutional, right a Prime Minister of Australia speaks in such terms. I "The Prime Minister has stated, that all peace rallies held in Australia have been organised by Communists'. ! As Christian ministers who have been active in planning and conduct ing peace gatherings we ask: "On what grounds does the Prime Minister make such charges? Is the Prime Minister attempting to silence public debate and to regiment, by fear, the free, people of Australia? "Does the Prime Minister wish, as the leader of a democracy, to dis courage discussion of the issues of foreign policy? "We believe that it is important that questioning, criticism and debate shall continue in Australia as. in America. "We fear that Australia, through its Prime Minister, is being led into a tragic escalation of the war. "Therefore we intend to continue i to organise meetings and to seek to bring before the bar of public opinion the actions of the Prime Minister and : his government." The letter was signed by Bishop , Moyes, the former Bishop of Armi ! dale, Rev. J. Bryant, vice-president of. ;the Australian Congregational Union, : Revs. A. W. Loy, Alan Walker, R.. Mathias, W. D. , Adams, P. Saphin, E. G. Clancy and W. R. Cowper (Methodist), Revs. H. J. Rowe (Bap tist), C. R. Spracket and" E. G. Miller (Presbyterian). One of the signatories, Rev H. J; Rowe, said Menzies met honest enquiries and debate with 'sneers and derision." 