 [?] | No fruit for the | I apple pickers j By BARBARA BOUND f I March 8, 1965 will be the 55tli Anniversary of j International Women's Day. > | I.W.D., widely celebrated throughout the world, j is observed as an occasion each year to j examine women's activities, achievements and j problems, women's hopes and aspirations, j The International Women's Day Committee | in Sydney has planned these activities for Mon- | day, March 8: — 10.30 a.m.: Morning Tea at .Vine ! House, 535 George St., Sydney. 11.30 a.m.: j Women's Walk through City to Wynyard Park — j Leaflet Distribution. Noon: International Women's Day Meeting and Concert in Wynyard Park. 2.00 p.m.: Afternoon Tea served at 60 1 Sussex Street, Sydney. | As 1965 is United Nations International Co- j operation Year, celebration of International | Women's Day will feature this theme. I The committee has urged women in the hoipc to hold a morning tea, a luncheon or other social | event in some form to bring people together to 1 celebrate and learn more of International Women's I Day. | It has urged working women to invite a speaker | from the International Women's Day Com- f mittee to address committee meetings, union meet- | ings, job meetings, or any other type of gather- | big. | j TASMANIA is often re- 1 ferred to as the Apple | Isle — Jjut the pickings are 2 very scant as far as wages j and conditions are con- I cerned for the women ! who make up the majority I of pickers during the sea- j son February to June. | For example, if the picker I wishes to take a public holi- I day off she does not get paid j for it. Nor are overtime rates paid for public holidays. I Meal time arrives but there is j no seating other than apple cases and there are no tables. I No lockers and changing faci- I lities are provided and few j orchards have toilets, j Toilets are only available | where there are cool stores J and large packing sheds. There are no washing facili- ties, only a tap outside the (packing shed or cool store. Apple picking bags are the same | size for male and female pick- | ers and hold the same weight j of fruit. | Hours of picking are 44 or- ! dinary pay and more if the | orchardist sees the need to get j the fruit off the trees (at I overtime rates). ! Rickety ladders are supplied I for male and female pickers.1 I These range from 12 to 16 | feet in height, steps are 18 in. apart at lower part of ladder, j Two pounds a week is de- I ducted from pickers' wages for i accommodation aiuts only). j No shoes, boots or wet wea- j ther clothing is provided. Used j gumboots are available. | A lack of education holds j women back in whatever they | undertake. . ! It reduces her earning power, j It is taken for granted that I they are inferior to men, how- j ever able they may be, and this | supposition allows them to be j paid less than men for the I same work. j Working men realise that this j can be a terrible threat in de- I pression periods when men are apt to lose their jobs to under- j paid women. j According to the Labour Re- j search Organisation, U.S.A., the j extra profits coming from the | output of women's labour in I the United States formed nearly | 23 per cent of all manufacturing | companies profits in 1950. ! International Women's Day | honours the woman that all of | us know does exist. | The positive, courageous, In- | telligent woman who stands up ! against all the assaults on | women's dignity — the woman 1 who knows that the home is I deeply affected by what hap- I pens outside it, and who j realises her responsibilities : to g her children through working j in the community as well as I the kitchen. > QNE of the many aims of the International Women's Day is for equality for women all over the world. This young Chinese lass, Chao Wei-lien has complete equality in the People's Republic of China. She is shown here controlling an automated machine in the Asham Iron and Steel complex in North East China. " ..M ft . 