 1 " ' : : — TRIBUNE I t , Higlitwing attack on trade unions. Conferences of the Australian Labor Party .and the Democratic Labor Party (fust concluded) reveal the cori- crrted moves by extreme rightwing forces to attack the trade ur.icn movement as effective organisations of the working class. At the same time, they are aimed at weakening the : trar'e ur.icn base of the ALP. B. A. Santamaria in "Newsweekly" (17/6/65) calls for r.ovt rnment outlawing of trade, union activities that express c poc.:ticn to policies of Washington and, the Menzies Gov- e nment. The DLP conference in New South Wales sought legisla tion to deny employment to opponents of the Government's Vietnam policies and to restrict trade union representation to those committed to the US-Menzies war aims. ALP rightwing moves attacking the trade unions were most sharply reflected in the party's NSW conference. Federal Secretary Wyndham's proposals for reorganisa- t:on of national control of the ALP were accepted in respect to increased parliamentary influence, but /greatly extended, to add 124 delegates from the party electoral bodies but with not one delegate from the affiliated trade unions — the mass basis of the ALP. . This action, supported by the anti-Labor press, consti tuted a rightwing slap in the face to. the trade unions. It came at a time when the manifesto of 34 affiliatedunions had ascribed the defeat of the State Labor Government ' to failure to accommodate trade union policies and neglect of wo' king class needs. . The 1965 NSW conference decision to endorse ALP candidates in union elections (tried out in the Builders' Laborers election with disastrous results for the rightwing) had been declared by the Federal Executive to be contrary to ALP policy against interference in trade union affairs. Nevertheless, State President Oliver this year in his conference address won Sydney Morning Herald (22/6/65) a,;o!ause for reoeating the line of full ALP support for "aporoved anti-Communist candidates". This further attemot against the trade unions pleases the monopoly press, Santamaria and all Labor's enemies. . But it is in striking contrast to the declared policies of the trade union movement, the Federal ALP and the deci sions taken at the Victorian and Tasmanian conferences, upholding the rights of the trade union members and oppos- iro interference bv the ALP or other outside bodies in the internal affaits of the unions. 