 StifgSafwingi victory in ACTII elections gYDNEY: The number of milifanfs on the Australian Council of Trade Unions executive was reduced at last week's ACTU Congress. Mr. T. Wright (N.S.W. secretary Sheet Metal Workers' Union) lost his position to Mr. J. Holmes (federal secretary Australasian Society of Engineers), by 54 votes to 60, as the representative of the Metal Group. Mr. P. Clancy (N.S.W. secretary Building Workers' Industrial Union) was defeated by Mr. J. Anderson (federal secretary Operative Painters' Union) by 29 votes to 31, as the rep resentative of the Building Group. The progressive forces on the execu tive will now be led by Mr. A. Macdonald the secretary of the Queensland Trades and Labor Coun cil, and Mr. M. O'Brien from the Transport Group. s For a long period prior to Con gress, the wealthy press had clam oured for the removal of militants from the executive. Almost the first business of Con gress was to defeat a move spon sored by the right-wing federal secre tary of the Clerks' Union (Mr. J. Riordan) to alter the rules governing the election of Group representa tives. The Clerks' proposal was supported by the executive "but defeated in a division of Congress 288 votes to 260. The extremist National Civic Coun cil newspaper 'News Weekly" and the "Bulletin" had also supported this move. Many ielegates strongly condemned the move' and criticised the execu tive for "time wasting" when work ers wer 3 demanding a positive lead Jon wages and other demands. The ruling that Mr. Riordan be elected as the Services Group repre sentative on the executive was also contested by Congress. Mr. F. Whitby (Miscellaneous Workers' Union, Qld.) tied with Mr. Riordan 64 votes each. Despite this, the returning officer (Mr. L. North) gave the position to Mr. Riordan. This decision was upheld by Mr. Monk, but 221 delegates registered their, disagreement in 1 division of Congress. Mr, R. Gietzelt (feredal secretary Miscellaneous Workers' Union) told Congress that no such precedent existed, as claimed by the returning ofifcer, to instal Mr. Riordan. "There was no precedent in law, common sense or fair play," he said and called for either fresh elections or a draw from the hat. 