 [?] [?] \ We were- mi Wmmws&k Ctaff, where the- United States radio base | Is being constructed. | AS the ship's cargp was: off-, loaded' into lighters to be i I carried ashore,. I; diet not hawe; the chance of goings ashore.. Workers unloading the ship told us: that, the' enteritis; epidemic raging ashore: (as: referred to> by the "West Australian";, June: 30; and/ July 20- had claimed' 400) victims; including: the camp; doctor, who? was . working: overtime in. an effort to- heat the disease:. Main causes were: a faulty/ septic system and filthy conditions; around- the: Hardeman - Monier - Hutcherson- construction camp;. Beneath; the- mess' hut" was1 found, a; large: pool' cat foul: muck,, the area, of which was abouto 25- yards; hy 20' yardSi. Health, officers: have; ordered; the) excavation' of this- filth;. which; was; H infested) to at depthi of two feetr I with' maggots. I The: pool: was. created: by the faulty; I sewerage and' wafer seepage. The area has been evacuated; and' I sprayed- If The excavation: was performed' partly by workers (/who were- con stantly vomiting) and a. front, end loader. f We. were tord' that', the worst area- was immediately beneath the part where- the cooking, was done- It was alleged that the Americans' in charge were" persuading" the Health authorities not to photo- 1 graph the area.. | . Whether that; was the; case or not,.- ag. | seems significant that after press ' | reports oyer several days dealing, | with the mass enteritis outbreak, (a ho mild term, surely;, for what we er were told1 in- some. cases- was blood :e, ; passing) there has been a press ag black-out from July 1 up to the ; tame of writing (July 6). to ; When Menzies- concluded-, the-, rs j shameful deal which, against the demands of the Labor' Movement, j including the ALP, gave all control | over the use. of facilities to the US, I jrven Menzies was forced to say that | ,r ther than US'. military offences » Personnel in: the ar.ea would be |1| subject, to Australian law.. J In the: light of this; it. seems to iy. 11 me that if Australian owners of n" Hi Premises are proceeded against for ee II reaches of health: regulations, the ed m American owners; of the1 "mess" ng || should be brought before- the- court || 10T what is surely a gross violation sa- If .£ ,?e most elementary Australian ad 1 nealfch: requirements;. k' m This has caused' terrible distress k o hundreds: over a long, period and ' Iy was still far from, cleared/ up- as we af. ued. One man working- on the ds 1 /ghter with- us was returned to 9 snore to join his stricken mates. ed 8 be recalled that about the ,ey | middle of 1964 a fullseale strike "S 1 ?h,Vn P8d' aimed: at&lt; among other fl an Provemenf. ih- hygiene :re I f,fd the Quality of the food" for es- g workers. tbe 1| This was unsuccessful' and the :ss.M workers left the job in droves. IT was; told that at, present planes are booked! to capacity for weeks aheadl by those financial' enough to get; out. of the- area;. Lai. Tfcoy,. MY.. "Wangaara," West Australia. EDWIQRiS NOTEi: Unions' had previously alteged grave disabilities for workers on the site. The WA Plumbers" Union- secre tary CMir. W; Wfllox f said1 that' the failure of the septic system5 was in no- way due to faulty or poor workmanship by Au str alian workers; The failure, was due to the. US design; of the system,, which the US Navy approved and installed. The; design was unsuitable for the site;, and- the: system- was; used to- overcapacity:. A- health- commissioner has been appointed for the district. In future all designs for septic systems' will have to be approved by the- health inspector attached to the- local- shire; 