 Bomb outrage A bomb was thrown by Ustashi elements into a gathering of Yugoslav migrants at Geelong W est Town Hall on February 19. It was the third outrage of its kind committed by the Ustashi in Victoria over the past two years. Ustashi bombs were also thrown at Yugoslav national day celebrations in the Horticultural Hall, Melbourne (November 1963) and South Mel bourne Town Hall (November 1964). An eye-witness to the latest bomb- incr do iri fhof of ifiasf-, fin uponle. in- v— .wu u>v x x J eluding children, were in the hall when "something" was hurled through a window and landed on the dance floor. "A man walked over to the object and it exploded with a terrific bang, almost between his legs", he said. Dense clouds of a white gas fil tered through th.e hall, causing the people to choke and cough, and forced them to leave the room. He said that between dances a number of children had been rolling pennies up and down the dance floor. "I don't like to think what might have happened if the bomb had gone off near a child", he added. Among those present were the Labor MLA for Geelong West, Mr. N. Trezise, and his wife. Occasion was the founding of the Geelong Branch of the Yugoslav Settlers' Association. This body's policy of working for the full integration of Yugoslav mi- PTantc in thp Australian community has earned it the bitter enmity of the Ustashi. MLA's statement Mr. Trezise told the Geelong Ad vertiser that since becoming a mem ber of Parliament he had been a guest at Italian, Polish, Rumanian and other gatherings of national groups but "had never experienced anything "out of place before". He said he trusted "this case was merely an unfortunate isolated inci dent". The facts certainly disappoint Mr. Trezise's trust: despite some quiet ening down of Ustashi activity in this State following the Victorian and Commonwealth police inquiries last year, evidence from all States (especially in recent times Queens land) confirms continuing organised Ustashi activity in Australia. The broad official tolerance ex tended to Ustashi activity is re flected in press treatment of them as merely a "rival group" to the Yugoslav Settlers' Association. Yugoslavs are indignantly asking: "If a man tries to blow a bank safe, does that show that he is merely a 'rival' of the bank?" Feeling is growing among Yugo slavs concerned for the safety of community members and their fami lies that the Ustashi must be treated as the criminals they in fact are. Following the Geelong explosion, police dispersed more than 30 Us tashi who were assembled outside the hall. A man from Richmond was arrest ed and later charged with having caused an explosion likely to en danger life and having caused an explosion likely to endanger pro perty. He will appear in Geelong Court on March 16. 