 WA election lessons t ALP-DLP wedding is an absurdity PERTH: In a straight-out contest with a Liberal, Communist candidate Annette Aar- onns polled 18 per cent of the formal votes for Metropolitan Province of the Legislative Council in last Saturday's State election. She will save her deposit. >"jHE return of the Brand Lib eral Government with an in creased majority in the elec tions demonstrated beyond all doubt that the way to electoral victory for the Labor Party does not lie in a deal with the De mocratic Labor Party. Labor Opposition Leader Hawke was a lone voice amongst A.L.P. men throughout Australia giving public support to Senator Kennelly's call for a conference with the D.L.P. His statement shocked and angered many ALP supporters who had al ways regarded Hawke as an opponent of the DLP and its aims. He made this statement only five days before polling day with the stat ed intention of influencing enough votes in borderline seats to win the elections. Yet in the two crucial Gov ernment-held seats of Karrinyup and Subiaco the Liberals polled an absol ute majority over the combined ALP- DLP totals, whereas in 1962 they were both decided narrowly on DLP prefer ences. Further the ALP lost Perth and May- lands, and is in danger in Canning. The positions in the new Legislative Assembly will be 29 or 28 Government to 21 or 22 ALP, as compared to 26-24 in the old House. DLP vote down The DLP vote declined appreciably on 1962, showing the same trend as the Senate last December. The figures make nonsense of DLP-NCC Secretary Martyr's post-election claim that the DLP vote was decisive in returning the Government, and that it further proved the need for an ALP-DLP deal. If all the DLP votes cast last Sat urday had gone to the ALP, the ALP would still have lost the elections. Although Labor's policy included a number of good points, including criticism of the Government's deals with overseas monopolies, and advoc ated a higher basic wage, equal pay, free school books and repeal of the Liberal's Arbitration amendments, nevertheless it is clear they did not campaign vigorously enough around the more progressive points. It is also obvious that the Brand Government's propaganda campaign of "prosperity through monopoly in vestment" influenced sections of the voters. This was shown in the North Metropolitan Legislative Council seat where Mine's Minister Griffiths had a comfortable win in what was ex pected to be a close contest. Industrial Development Minister Court, who always features promin ently in the deals with monopoly sub stantially increased his majority and defeated his Labor opponent by four to one. The election shows the need for the labour movement to develop a positive alternative to the Liberal's propaganda which has won them the last three State elections. Many workers are angry at the blat ant role played by the press in sup porting this line of the Liberal's, and story after story appeared within days of polling obviously slanted in this direction. Mrs. Aarons has so Tar polled 7,688 out of the 44,000 counted in Metro Province. In a statement to Tribune she said "I am very pleased with the vote, and am sure the large number of . people who helped our Party during the campaign will be pleased tod. "Our final figure should be between eight and nine thousand. The result shows that large numbers of work ing people who would normally vote Labor are prepared to support a pro gressive policy presented in a vigor ous fashion by our Party." The result in Swan where the other Communists candidate stood was dis appointing. The vote declined from 8% in 1962 to 2i% this time. One of the main reasons for this was the entry of a Liberal candidate on this occasion, which influenced- some workers worried about the danger of the Labor man being defeated. ANNETTE AARONS "18% of the formal vote" 