 World reaction hails Algerian conp with glee MOSCOW: Growing numbers of students and work ers are demonstrating daily throughout Algeria for the liberation of their President, Ben Bella, who has been overthrown and imprisoned. ANXIETY for the Algerian revolution mounts as more and more progressives are being thrown into jail fol lowing the coup by Boume- dienne. Reactionary forces— from French ultra-rightists to the South Vietnam puppet government — have hailed Boumedienne's coup. The demonstrations in all the main cities, are being met with bullets and tear gas. An appeal "to save the socialist revolution" issued by "a group of militants of the National Liberation Front in Algeria" is prominently displayed in Humani.te. The appeal claims that agents of the Algerian landlords and other sections allied to the imperialists struck at Ben Bella and the Libera tion Front because they feared the agrarian and other reforms. They also struck, declares the NLF militants' appeal, for fear of the workers' upsurge, for fear of socialism and "for fear of the coming Youth Festival, for fear of the policy of non-alignment, anti- imperialism and peace." The appeal denounced Foreign Minister Bouteflika as "notorious for his antipathies toward Arab countries and socialist countries." "Resistance in every quarter" It calls for "Resistance in every quarter, in every factory, in every army unit," and adds that the cry "Liberate Ben Bella" must be the allying c .j of the Algerian people. Humanite now has special corre spondents in Algeria. They report the coup was received by people "with surprise and shock." But demonstrations are now mounting in Algiers, Oran, Constantine, Sidi- Bel-Abbes, Colomb-Bechar, Tlemcen and Annaba (formerly Bone), where police opened fire. Humanite reports fierce opposition of Algerian students at home and abroad and believes about 600 — not six, as reported on Algiers radio- have been arrested. Ben Bella, according to the United Arab Republic Vice-president (who went to Algiers to investigate), is confined in Tamanrasset oasis in he Sahara. Henri Alleg missing The premises of the journal "Alger Republicain," edited by Henri Alleg, have been occupied by the army and many journalists arrested. Alleg, who defied French paratroops' torture, as described in his book "The Question," has not yet been traced. The National Bureau of the , French Union of Communist Stu dents vigorously denounced Boume dienne's arrest of students, workers and progressive personalities and hails the development of the popu lar movement to fight repression. According to American Associated Press, Western diplomats welcome Boumedienne's coup as "anti-Com munist." Saigon's puppet Foreign Minister, Tran Van Do, telegraphed Boumedienne: "Particularly happy to salute the advent of the Revolu tionary Council presided over by your Excellency." A TASS report from Algiers dated June 18 (the day before the coup) quoted Ben Bella as saying, in a speech at Sidi-Abbes during a tour of the country: "A socialist revolution is being accomplished in Algeria." He added would be a long and difficult process, and denounced the intrigues of the Western press, writing about an alleged "conflict" inside the leadership of the Repub lic, and said: "Algeria has a single socialist revolutionary leadership." However, Ben Bella also said the leadership was "fully resolved to frustrate all conspiracies, no matter who stages them.)' He said that the opposition or ganisation—the "Front of Socialist Forces"— had issued an official communique announcing the discon tinuance of its anti-Government activity. Recognised China, through Chou En Lai in Cairo, gave immediate "total and unconditional" esupport to Boume dienne's Revolutionary Council which had overthrown Ben Bella. Boumedienne received Chinese Am bassador Tsun Tao in audience. Soon after the Indonesian cabinet recognised the Boumedienne Gov ernment. The international press reported arrests of Ben Bella supporters, including Ministers and National Liberation Front leaders, and of Communists. Members of the liberation forces who threw the French out of Algeria. The revolution appears to be in danger, as many hundreds of Algerian progressives have been thrown into prison. 