 Lives in clanger on big Adelaide sites ADELAIDE: Recent accidents which could have had fatal results have drawn attention to a serious threat to lives on big building sites CTRONG protests are being expressed by build i n g trades union leaders at the lack of supervision of safety regula tions by the State Government and its officers. . The side of a foundation pit col lapsed last week at the State Gov ernment Office building in Victoria Square in which four men were in- iurpri twn of whom were fortunate not to be smothered in heavy clay. On the same site just before Christmas an earth-moving tractor capsized and a worker was injured. No shoring The Acting Secretary of the Trades and Labor council (Mr. W. Brown") and the Secretaries of the Carpen ters & Joiner? and Builders Lab ourers' Union (Messrs Martin and Thorp) blamed the failure to shore the sides of the cutting which col lapsed. Timber was available nearby for this purpose. Then minutes before the cave-in a senior inspector of scaffolding had been on the site Mr. Brown said that if a direction had been given for the necessary safety measures to be carried out the accident would not have hap pened. He said that if the safety regu lations could not be enforced legis lation governing them should be strengthened. Lir. M. Schuppan, Secretary of the Plumbers' Union said that he had Liacu LU UUllLclUU Lilt; JLepcti LlUCilL Ul Labor & Industry after the tractor accident on a Saturday morning and found no inspectors available. He went on to ask is it a fact that although extensive building operations are going on every day cf the week, and in some cases also at night with continual overtime being worked in the industry, no Department of Labor and Industry inspectors are on duty nor can they be contacted after normal office hours? He also claimed that recently the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees' Union complained to the supervisor on another State, Government build ing site — the new laundry at Is lington — when we found that ap prentices and other workmen were required to work on the side of a building at a considerable height without adequate scaffolding. Scaffolding It is aaid that a proper scaffold had not been erected as it would cost the contractor ano- £250 or so to erect it. It was alleged that the method adopted by the contractor had been approved by the Department of Labor and Industry scaffolding in spectors. The matter of the employers' re sponsibility as well as that of the State Government on these safety issues will be discussed at the next meeting of the S.A. Trades and Labor Council. 