 pyllding a Party that I Hills Australia's need 1 The starting point for creating conditions to build the Com munist Party of Australia into a mass party was to demonstrate consistently that this Party's policy, publicity and organisation j Were Australian in character, Mr. L Aarons, CPA Vice-Chairman, j told its Central Committee recently. j kJtR. AARONS, delivering the ' v main report,- stressed that it was necessary to show the complete relevance of Marx- ism-Leninism to the concrete solution of the many-sided problems of Australia., Exporting on recent discussions by \ CPA delegation to Europe, he said that the French and, Italian Commun ist Parties, in different conditions, hadt both built mass parties by fight ing. Vor, and winning, the recognition of, their truly national character. The Communists there had played a great wartime role, but did not. live onasi glories. Today they were rep resented in all spheres .of national lifdand had a policy on every vital question confronting their peoples and,i-nations. Cehtral to the Party's task in Aus tralia was its work for united action In/Jdefence of workers' economic and political interests. United action had to be developed with thousands of people who Still believed in reformism and in the Lab- ar- Party. This meant seeking united action, without preconditions as to its form uid : character. But Communists still lad-the responsibility to discuss ideol- Dgicial differences in a comradely, fraternal manner. Workers' needs Important in the work for united iction and a mass party was the task Df .increasing the Party's electoral sup- port and winning seats in local coun- Jils fand parliaments. '(We cannot be satisfied with our /Qtes m elections or our attention to sectoral work" said Mr. Aarons. -Daily defence of the workers' inter- is|sp on small and large issues was nJiiPensabIe to the Pai"ty's expansion i/rPStrUggles of the BHP> GMH and Sk sa .workers' raPidly became an struggles for economic and ' Sff,Unin demands. They became .truggles for democratic rights, anti- pnopoly struggles, and, in the .latter JSCass' struggles against American n which won wide support. , ;(| Militancy ieMP!ht&?Jn a11 three struggles had determination and militancy >Me workers and their refusal to 4l|aclS£ by right"wing reform- iapeJSln| iide of industrial action spread beyond the confines of h.ad been regarded as niost militant sections of the work- saiMv11115 and other militants, stddvL farns' should carefully . sns of each struggle, atrfthm v,1 Ibeither to become isol- behfnd adventurism, nor to lag Jgd the workers' growing mili- foJl/nrto Uld n0te the public support Workers engaged in action against monoPolies," said Mr. Aar- Jfe-h , conservative organs as SM meyr Mo„rning Herald had criti- 'an® Or,' Mines and the Queens- Si GveJnment from the point of featlm nfstr?an capital. Another Df ' ISpYt? struggle was the failure aaelLi me anti-Communist pro- 'srS- and stories anout "Commun- eE -Pu a n" ,es®ri,enc,e. showed that it was ne&lt; iue$ tto rect the main fire at the alcgMr monopolies' np-!'tre union movement should aatinn/1 speak up on the major Slf c, lSSUes of the day, on que- i iriHHif /? as social services, foreign , jSgf'. democratic rights in general." Mr. Aarons said that recent trade union elections had shown a trend to. the Left. It was our task to explain our policy to, and win over, militant trade unionists. Elections Mr. Aarons said that improved trade union work would also assist the Party's electoral work. He paid trib ute to the work of the two Commun ist councillors in Broken Hill and to' Alderman Jim Mitchell, of Woodville Council in Adelaide. It was essential for Communists to participate actively in the work of local organisations and mass move ments in order to win more electoral support. It was necessary to improve elec toral work generally and overcome reluctance to contest elections and campaign energetically in them. In, coming NSW state elections, the Party would call for a decisive change in the policy of the NSW Labor Gov ernment which was dominated by the Rightwing, as well as putting forward its own independent demands. In South Australia there was a -real chance of getting rid of the Playford Government". Some study was necessary to devel op a correct policy on some other questions. . Discussion Calling for a general improvement in party life, Mr. Aarons said vigor ous discussion of national and inter national questions was a -feature of the Italian and French party press and meetings. 'We should not fear discussion and debate within the Party or outside it if it is to elucidate problems, improve our work and is conducted within the limits of democratic centralism" he said.. "Nor should we fear discussion puo- licly. We should seize every chance to present the Party's views on every H conceivable issue and through every g possible medium." |j 