 US position is bankrupt hut ... Australian workers' name stands high ® |P TLB® m in S. Vietnam AUSTRALIA'S reputa tion is still good in the liberated zones of South Vietnam and I was well received, as an Australian, wherever I went. Why? Because -Australia is identified with the action of Melbourne dockers who" re fused; to handle some barbed wire destined for the concen tration camp, "strategic ham lets". -This "was the rust such act of .inter national solidarity , that leached the' ears of the South Vietnamese people,, from the leaders of the National Liberation Front, right down to remote village guerilla units. Australia is known . for this — and not .for the token force of "advisers" helping the Americans .in their "dirty . war" or Australian pilots taking part in' the! air war against the South Viet namese people. From the days when .Ho Chi Minh was directing the first resistance war against the French, the Vietnamese people were educated in a spirit ,-of internationalism . — to distinguish be tween friends and enemies/- .'....It was with people such as Henri Martin and Rayrnonde Dienne who actively fought against France's "dirty war',' that the French people were identified — not ivith the Bidaults and Salans who- were running the war. So whether Menzies likes it or _ not, and regardless of what further in glorious steps he takes to help his pals in the.' Pentagon, he will not be able to destroy this image of the Australian working class ln the minds of the South Vietnamese people. Just as, despite his support for the Dutch in Indonesia he could, never des troy the affection for the Australian " working class in the hearts of all pro gressive Indonesians because of the sup port initiated by the Australian dockers for their independence struggle. But, of course, there is also another image of Australia that I was constantly asked to explain. How is it that official Australia is always 011 the side of the worst enemies of the people of South East Asia; al ways the last-ditch supporter of imperi alism's lost causes? The ordinary people of Vietnam do not know — hut their leaders remem ber — that Australia was the only c.ountry, apart from South Korea, to offer troops to help the French in the very last days of their shameful war _ against the peoples of lndo-China. Those who have long memories re member Menzies' initiative in closing the Burma Road when it. was China's only supply line in her war of resistance against Japanese aggression. -In between the Burma Road scandal and the "scrap iron for Japan" row which preceded it — and the involve ment in America's "dirty war" in South Vietnam, the list of actions hostile to Australia's Asian neighbours is long in- - deed, and in every case, associated with the name of Robert Menzies. When I first started writing about Asian affairs over 25 years ago I ob jected to using the term "Far East" and suggested .that Australia should get used to the concept of "Near North" %vheri referring to our Asian neighbours. This is more than ever valid today, especially at this very moment in rela-. tion to the war. in Vietnam. The war in South Vietnam can al ready be added to the list of imperial ism's lost causes. Debacle for US forces The USA today is, in a state of com plete military and political bankruptcy in South Vietnam. They are trying to run an army which won't fight and a regime which will not stay put. The relation of military forces changes every month in favour of the" Liberation Front. Nothing' — including the commitment of Australian trbops — can change that. Gone are the Pentagon pipe-dreams of increasing their original 10 to 1 superiority over the Liberation Front forces to 15 and then to 20 to 1 within the first 12 months of US intervention and wiping out the patriots within Another six months. The numerical superiority instead has been whittled down, to what American correspondents in Saigon now claim as around 4 to 1. And this figure relates only to the regular Liberation Army. If one included regional and local guerillas — the latter include virtually every able-bodied man and woman in the country who are not already in the regional or regular forces — the ratio ivould look very different. ' As most the "US-Saigon forces are bottled up in garrison posts -r- as was the 800,000 strong French army in Algeria in the latter stages of that war — encircled day and night by guerillas, supplied by helicopters and parachute drops — the mobile reserves are forced to meet the Liberation Army, ever more often on something like equal terms. With the vastly superior morale of the, Liberation Army the result is shattering. Veterans of the war against the French told me that because of their inferior equipment and training those days tlicy would never attack the enemy unless the Vietminh had overwhelming numerical superiority. But today it is the opposite. The Americans themselves have con ceded that — in the early days of the War — the "Viet Cong" time and time again have : pulled off , victories when they were outnumbered by 10 and even 15 to 1, Today the Liberation Army has grown up and is probably the best army in the world for the particular type of war it fights.. It is a war in defence of the homes, villages and the soil on which they fight. It is true they have no modern means of transport. Everything is carried on human backs, and shoulders. But 'within those limits it is a superbly equipped — with American weapons — superbly trained, superbly indoctrinated army. Indoctrination incidently is a simple affair aimed at answering two basic questions: "Why and for whom do we fight?" Ev.ery peasant and worker quickly grasps the answers which coincide with their national and their class interests. The US-Saigon forces are also com prised mainly of peasants. The areas in which peasants can be conscripted is shrinking every day and battlefield losses plus desertions can no longer be made .good. Until the beginning of 1964 the US- Saigon command could either augment its forces or at least — in 1963 — replace -losses. -But 1964 brought, a big qualitative change in the situation. There was a net loss of 80,000 effec tives, a figure which coincides incidently with the number of desertions. The regular 'Liberation Army almost doubled in that period, mainly because young women took over self-defence guerilla units in the villages. This year the net loss for the US- Saigon forces will be greater, because units are deserting in company and, at Qui Nhon in February for example, in battalion sized units. General Maxwell Taylor has declared he will recruit another 100,000 for the Saigon army this year. But this is impossible. It may be done by continuing press- gang raids on cinemas and cafes in Saigon; Hue and other cities, to physi cally drag off another 100,000 youths and hold some of them long enough' to get them into uniform. The youths run away at the first chance. _ Every time there is a press-gang raid in Saigon, there is a wave of recruits for the Liberation Army in the ¦'out skirts. The Liberation Army concentrates its attentions on the so-called "elite" forces; the seven or eight battalions of parachutes, commandoes and marines which constitute Saigon's "strategic re serve" and above all, on the Americans themselves. This latter tactic is not only to draw attention to the. fact that they are the guilty ones in keeping the war going, but 'lias the very practical aim of halt ing enemy activities. Experience has shown that once the American "advisers" are put out -of action, an enemy attack automatic ally stops. I would predict that with the arrival of 3,500 US marines in Danang, Ameri can casualties are going to .rise very sharply in 1965 and the US-Saigon army will end the year with a net loss of about 150,000 men despite all that Maxwell Taylor's press gangs can do. Does Mr. Menzies want to make good those losses with Australian troops? I can assure him that if so, it could have not the slightest effect on the outcome of the war, but would have considerable repercussions among Aus tralia's "Near North" neighbours. NEXT WEEK: Tribune will pub lish a special supplement on the situation in Vietnam, based mainly on excerpts from Wilfred Burchett's forthcoming boos "Vietnam, Inside Story of the Guerilla War" (In ternational Publishers, New York) . Members of the South Vietnam Liberation Forces in action with mortars during a recent engagement. 