 ABC of a police state I AST Wednesday's special Order in Council by the Queensland Tory Government was a clearcut reversion to police-state methods, in an attempt to smash trade un ionism in Mt. Isa on behalf of the American - dominated, wealthy company. Although the Government has now "suspended" operation of this order, under nation-wide pressure, its con tents remain a grim warning for the future, and an example of the State machine as an instrument against the working class movement. The Order in Council suspended basic democratic rights not only in the Mt Isa district, but throughout the State of Queensland. The first regulation empowers police to arrest or remove anyone from the Cloncurry-Mt Isa mineral field if, IN THE OPINION OF A POLICE- MAN OF RANK OF SERGEANT OR HIGHER, such a person is, "likely to prejudice the restoration of industrial peace at the Mt Isa mine". In similar terms, any person in Queensland outside the field may be arrested or prevented from entering the field. (This power was used to drag Mt Isa Trades and Labor Coun cil President J. McMahon from planes at Brisbane and Longreach, although his wife and his home are in Mt Isa.) It is not necessary for evidence to be produced to prove that "the restoration of industrial peace at the Mt Isa mine was likely to be pre judiced". Only a police officer's "opinion" is neededl © Any. person arrested in the Mt Isa area or elsewhere in Queensland under this regulation cannot be tried there, but will be taken to Brisbane /PC far no riACcikl/s \/T4. T.-,,s\ fcw vvowua LlLTiU IV 1L JL3&lt;ll J.U1 "trial". This method, revealing the Govern ment's fear of the anger of the people at the injustice of any such arrest, is based on similar practices in the past. For example, in 1892 at Broken Hill, - police arrested the trade union defence committee at bayonet point and rushed them away for trial at Denili- quin, a number of the leaders receiv ing two-year jail sentences. There is a regulation prohibiting /IDVrtnP in f11 AAtlL-l 1 n /I 1 , 1 rt ill Hfl vuuuoiaiiu JLLUiii uiopiajniQ any banner or sign which in any way supports the cause of the Mt-Isa men. Similarly, it is an offence to have any connection with writing or printing or distributing or speaking any material supporting their cause. The police may seige any equipment that has been, or is "ABOUT TO BE" used in connection with 'such activity. 1 bis empowers police to seize any thing that (in the opinion of a police man) may be used to print or produce such materials. © The police require ' no warrant to make arrests under" these regula tions. No warrant . is required to SEARCH any premises or person, "using such force as may be necessary," to carry out any of the punitive actions mentioned. Anyone found guilty of _ any of these and other "offences" listed, is liable to penalties of up to £100 fine or six months' jail, OR BOTH. 