 UK minister says "Exaggeration on Indonesian troops" Despite British War Minister Mulley's repudiation of his own brasshats" war-scare propaganda, Australian Defence Minister Paltridge shows every sign of trying to get Australia even closer to a dangerous fight with Indonesia. > AT the same time, the Malaya Labor Party, main oppose tion party in Malaya, came out against conscription and in favor of negotiations with In donesia. The Malaysian Government replied with threats of repression which again exposed the anti-democratic nature of the regime which is demanding Aus tralian support for its anti-Indonesian sabre-rattling. Insisting that the British Labor Government accept Indonesia's offer to negotiate a settlement, the London Observer says that Malaysian premier Rahman is placing "more reliance on British bayonets than on diplomacy." It says "Blimpery, whether British or Asian, is a real danger to Malay sia's future. "The need is for an agile diplomacy which recognises the mutual interests of Malaysians and Indonesians." Instead of diplomacy, however, the British Government has raised a new threat to Indonesia by giving its local commander authority to at tack Indonesian bases. Obviously the story about Indo nesian's "liuge-build up of strength", which the Australian dailies fea tured, was concocted to cover and "excuse" British imperialism's own build-up and preparations for aggres sion. Commenting on the contradictory statements of Mulley and the British, brasshats, The Australian said last Saturday: "Lies don't help" "Lies don't help to keep the peace ... "In early January reports came from London saying that the main cause of the British action in mak ing a large military build-up in Borneo . . . was the" transfer by In donesia of a full-strength regular army division of 10,000 to 15,000 men from Java. "Imagine the surprise of the wait ing world when it was told by, none other than the British Minister of Defence for the Army, Mr. Fred Mulley, on Wednesday in London, that reports of Indonesian attack forces massing on the Borneo bor ers were grossly exaggerated . . . that only 50 to 200 Indonesian rein forcements were in the area . . "Colonial game" "These contradictory reports from British sources can only add to any latent suspicions that Britain is play ing the old colonial game in Borneo after all." It is to help this "old colonial game" of "justifying" aggression on the ground that the "colony" threatens' the imperialist power, that Paltridge will make his re quest to Canberra for more "aid" to Malaysia. Paltridge ostentatiously avoided Indonesia in planning his Asian tour. Asked by a newspaperman whe ther Indonesia would" see this as an unfriendly sign, Paltridge. said he did not know what Indonesia would think. Obviosly he could not care less. Friday's report from Malaysia, in The Australian, indicates that the troops Rahman is seeking,, with Paltridge's assistance, would prob ably be used for internal suppres sion, not external defence. The report said that the Malayan Labor Party, leader of the Opposi tion Socialist Front, would submit to the Front's central committee a proposal to ignore the call-up under Malaysia's conscription law. "The party said the proposal would be made because the Government had rejected its demand that imme diate negotiations be held with Indo nesia." 