 1 MBBnnuBmBiBiiiafiBBnKBnsBHRBnMmnHnHiniHRnRRSnssRSBefflSBBBmBHMnnnsuBUHHBnHraHKMnHHniMHHnniKflHBisannKSHHaBtt i 9HnBH||pP dssgr v Jgpr fT JmgM I | By HENRY McCARTHY JT was as hot as hell in the I warehouse, but, no one seemed to mind, as the work went on stacking the heaw cases. Why should they mind, they would all finish at noon with a £10 bonus added to their pay — and it was Christ mas Eve. . That is, no one minded except Steve. His shirt was gummed to his back, as he heaved his shoul der against one of the crates. "Must be full of bloody lead — ," lie said to the sweaty face on the other side of the stack. "Well anyway well work up a decent sort of thirst," and the face split into a grin. Steve made no answer. Maybe he would allow, himself the luxury of a couple of beers and then see how far _ he could stretch the fiver in his wallet. He pulled a sodden piece of paper from his pocket and glanced down his list again: Small tin of, ham, small plum pudding, jellies, lollies, vegetables, fruit, nuts, soft drinks, one roll of coloured paper. What ever was left he would spend on presents for the kids and maybe a couple of bottles of beer for tomorrow — Christmas Day. Right at that moment Steve hated Christmas. He wished it was the middle of January or June, or the middle of any damn month, just so long as it - wasn't Christmas Eve. Unlike the others , he Had no bonus waiting when he knocked off. He didn't even have any pay coming. ? y\VO days ago he had got the job. They had needed an extra man for the Christ- mas rush and when asked if he would like to stay perman ently he had accepted. Now his two days would be held and his first pay would be after Christmas. It had been six months since he had worked, and the last four weeks he had spent tramping the city searching for a job with Chri&i-.:as catching hiri up at every step. Until two days ago, the curt interviews had indicated that em ployers weren't interested in a mdn over 40 with a limp and a scar down his cheek that still showed the stitch marks. ? A3 he heaved and shoved, stacking the cases, his mind went back to the Christmas before this. His wages had been about £25 quid a week, often more. There had been plenty of the kind of food that makes Christmas really Christ mas, a ham, even a small tur key, he recalled. He even smiled when he re membered arriving home, after just too much beer with the boys, smoking a cigar. This had caused great hilarity with the kids. There had been the bike for Billy and the scooter for young Beryl, no dolls for her, too much of a tomboy, like the mother she had never known. Things had been tough after Joyce died, but last Christmas seemed to be a turning point, a good job, a few quid in the bank and the kids settled in school, able to take care of themselves until he arriveed home from work. It had been a good Christmas. On the second day of the New Year it happened. He never even saw the car. . He remembered a deafening roar like an explosion, a crushing smash on the chest, searing pain — then nothing. Nothing, until he woke in hos pital. They said it had been three days. At first his recovery was slow, but . his tough strong body con ditioned by years of work, healed quick enough for him to leave hospital after a few weeks. Eight of 'his smashed ribs had knitted, his arm was still in a sling and would soon mend "as new" the doctor had said. His left leg still ached at the ' hip as he walked and it was now about an inch shorter than it used to be. There had been a Court case with a vague promise from his solicitor of a four figure settle ment. The hearing had -been short and — sour. A Clarence Darrow couldn t have proved it was the driver's fault and only similarity with his solicitor and Darrow was the fee. The weeks at home gave him his strength back — well almost, but in return drained his savings to bedrock. - His old job- was out of the question. Who wanted a rigger with a short leg and who got a bit out of breath, even walking up stairs? 1 So here he was on Christmas Eve stacking bloody cases that weighed a ton in a warehouse, with the only fiver he had in the - world and the kids waiting for Santa Clans. ? |T was the last load and his friendly workmate said, "Steve, that's yer name, ain't it, you and me are going to have the two biggest beers they can fill across the road." Soon they were doing just that, ranged up against the bar with the others from the warehouse. The pub was a bit out of the way and wasn't yet packed with Christ mas drinkers. Everyone was in a friendly happy mood and even Steve let his troubles slip into the back ground briefly as the cold beer and the atmosphere relaxed him. He pulled a few bob in loose change from his pocket and called for two more beers. His . new found mate said, "listen you're not going to buy a beer, I got a pocket full of money here and you didn't even draw a deener. "I reckon Dm a pretty good judge of how blokes are goin and I don't think you're going too good. Stick that back in your kick." Steve protested, but it got him nowhere. Half way through the second beer,, when he was instructed to "down that and have another 1 couple," Steve said he would have to -leave and do his Christinas shopping. . ' " His thirsty benefactor said it was a pity, but then Christmas was Christmas. Then he said as though blurt ing out a confession, "Listen Steve, Christmas is Christmas and I didn't guess about you having a bad trot. The boss told somebody over there that you'd had a pretty bad accident and while you was havin' a wash we had a bit of a kentucky, 'ere'," and he shoved £5 in notes in Steve's shirt pocket. Steve felt like kissing him and- crying at the same time. When be tried to thank the others, they laughed a bit awkwardly and told him to shut lip. He picked up his old bag and left the pub, before he made a fool of himself, but, the world was a happier and brighter place as he walked towards the shopp ing centre. He got off the bus with his bag bulging. It would be a slap up dinner tomorrow. He had presents for the kids, he would get a few bottles for himself and be home by 2 o'clock as he had promised. ? "|"HE local hotel was small and it was packed. Four early revellers were singing at the top of their voices and everyone was having a whale of a time. Steve grinned at the barmaid and she said, "Happy Christmas, whafc'll you have?" "I'll have a beer and could you give me half a dozen bottles in ia carrier bag?" he answered, as he put his heavy bag carefully on the floor. She gave him the bottles and he placed them carefully beside it. He sipped the beer and con cluded that it was much better world than he thought it had been a few hours ago. His thought were interrupted by a tap on the shoulder, he turned and a man standing behind him said," excuse me mate, have you got a match?" - "Sure," he said, pulling out his box and lighting the cigarette sticking out of the beery face. "Much obliged", he said and walked away. Steve turned back to the counter, . finished the rest of his drink and bent to pick up his bags. They were gone — both of them. He went cold all over and the next instant was drenched in sweat. He became frantic "My bags they've taken my bags", he al most screamed at the top of his voice. Everone in the pub looked at him startled arid then went on with their conversation. "Another Christmas Eve drunk" someone said. Steve grabbed the drinker next to him and . shook him. Who took it? You must of TU he - man thought he was in the hands of a madman and struggled free Steve ran round the bar pushing drinkers aside in a wild search for the bags. The publican and a barman came round the bar. "If you don't get out of here well call the police," said the fat and frightened publican. Steve looked at' him without seeing. He went limp all over and walked through the door. He stood on the footpath in a daze. When his head cleared he pulled out his old wallet and searched through it. He had thirty shillings: ' He sorted the papers out. A rent receipt, a doctor's bill an old lottery ticket. He stared at them as though by some miracle they might turn into money. He ' put the wallet h-ck In his pocket arid limped lip the : hill to wards home. Be felt absolutely beaten and broken. What could he tell the kids? What could he do? Nothing! That's what he could do — nothing. -He- wished —the world would.., .come to an end.. He opened the front gate like a sleep walker and they ran down the s tail's in a rush to meet him. "Dad there's a telegram for you and Billy wanted to open it, but, I wouldn't let him look," and Beryl thrust it into his hand. "What the hell else can happen?" he wondered still in a daze. He sat down on the steps to open it, unfolded the yellow slip and read: "You are hereby notified that .ticket number 14678 in Lotter No. 648 has won a prize of £50. "Could, you present the ticket with appropriate identification at the Lottery office for payment be fore 5 pun. today." He felt sure he would faint and sat like someone turned to stone for a full minute and then he grabbed the two kids, who had stood silently wondering what it was all about and hugged them. The girl asked — "why are you crying dad?" and he answered, "I'm not crying, I've got something in my eye. "You and Billy go and get dressed, we're going into town to see Santa Claus". (If you are one of those people who don't believe that winners of small prizes in the lottery are notified in this way, then you are probobly also . oiie of those I people who don't believe in Santa Claus) . I MAGAZINE BACKGROUND 