 The protests to Washington "flowed like molten lava" Mass cseflon forced from a relasefarai United States President Johnson a promise of new legislation to win hlegroes voting rights. Johnson resisted demands to send in troops to stop murders Bike that of Rev James Reeh. 'AA/HEN you sit in this chair you think three times before you say "go", he said. (But strangely not when it is troops or planes to attack Vietnam.) Twelve civil rights demonstrators who sat down in a White House cor ridor and refused to move were "hauled off to jail by White House guards" reported Time magazine. "Orders from Johnson followed: from now on any such demon strators were to be tossed out with out any ado." It was only after demonstrations and protests that "flowed like lava to Washington" that Johnson made ' hurried trip to congress to pro mise laws enfranchising all Neg roes (one such law has existed for a century — the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution). But there is apparently no real guarantee that brutality like that visited on the Selma demonstra tors will be either .prevented or punished by Johnson. Time states that Selma is a city of 29,500 people — 14,400 whites, 15,100 Negroes. But its voting rolls are 99 per cent white, 1 per cent Negro. A Selma ordinance of 1852 de clared that "any Negro found upon the streets of the city smoking - a cigar or pipe or carrying a walking cane must be on conviction punished with 39 lashes," and the place has not changed much since, adds Time. "The symbol of Selma is Sheriff James Clark, 43, a bully-boy segre gationist who leads a club-swinging mounted posse of deputy volunteers many of them Ku Klux Klansmen." . These were the police who met the freedom marchers with what Senator Yarborough, of Texas des cribed as "the wet ropes that bruised the muscles, the bullwhips that cut the flesh, the clubs that broke the bones, the teargas that blinded, burned and choked into insensibility." A Newsweek description of what happened: "By raw force (Gov ernor) Wallace's lawmen herded the Negroes back together, clubbing stragglers, dragging bullwhips in the dust. "Felled by a billy, Mrs. Amelia Boyton, an insurance woman and a local rights leader, lay half-con scious beside the road; a trooper walked by and casually dropped a smoking gas r-snade beside her. "And there she lay for ten minutes before troopers finally al lowed the ambulances over the bridge. "Possemen prodded their horses into and over other groups of stragglers. 'One of the troopers hit me when I went out of line', 26-year- old Margaret Clay Brooks recounted later: she had a five-stitch scalp- cut and all her front teeth were loose." Minister martyr v Th murder of Rev. James Reeb in the streets of Selma by a vhite gang sparked the nation-wide demonstrations which finally forced new promises from Johnson. He was a father of four child ren, who, said a colleague, 'had a great love for people and their needs. "He could not have cared less whether they were going to heaven. He cared where they were going now." " Giving up a Washington parish Mr. Reeb last year (says Time) "took a job with the American Friends' Service Committee in Bos ton, where he directed the group's low-income housing project, bought a run-down house in Boston's Negro ghetto of Roxbury, sent his child- ren to the local school, where most pupils were I2groes." Heeding the call of Rev. Martin Luther King, Mr. Reeb went to Selma to demonstrate — and met a martyr's death'. DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING ... Nobel Prize winner 