 [?] New facts on 1 shocking torture I The Australian, April 25, 1965: JS "From Beverley Deepe, Saigon, Sunday: .If Here is some recent evidence on barbarous methods being used by . ! if the American side in Vietnam. The sources are NOT North Vietnamese, ' I -but Australian and American correspondents. « "...Typical of the atrocities is the case of the two Viet Cong &lt;>;| prisoners who were interrogated on a plane flying to baigon. |,|j i i ne rirst refused to answer questions and was thrown out or ||i the plane at 3000ft. The second immediately answered all the f|l questions, but he, too, was thrown out. "One of the most infamous methods of torture used by the (South ,j| Vietnam) Government forces is partial electrocution— or frying. m "I watched the torture, beings employed. JE "Two wires are attached to the thumbs of a. Viet Cong prisoner. m At the other end of the wires was a field generator cranked by a vS (South) Vietnamese private. :|B "The process burned and shocked the prisoner. ;||| "Vietnamese officers report that sometimes the wires are attached jvj to the male genital organs or to the breast of a Viet Cong woman. JB "Other techniques, usually designed to force onlooking prisoners IB to talk, involve cutting off the fingers, ears, finger nails or sexual 'jK organs of another prisoner. . _ . "Sometimes a string of ears decorates the wall, of a Government IB military post. One American installation has a Viet Cong ear preserved 1| in alcohol." By Denis Warner, Sydney Morning Herald, April 23, 11 1965: , I "In a flooded paddyfield in the Mekong delta one day I watched B | a South Vietnamese soldier pull a wounded Vietcong suspect out of B j the water by the. hair of, his head. While he held him with one i hand he took his pistol with the other and shot the wounded man B j through the heart. B j "Every correspondent who has ever gone into the field with the B | Government forces has his own lore of stories of this sort . . fi j Government forces seem to have ho expectation that their prisoners B | will respond to indoctrination. Preliminary torture is used to extract B | information . . . but wars are not for the squeamish. . ." I | i I I I Ml — rflliMl I , .1 ullow ibbitiotwlhwnwh iftmffm— ibftfimbiiaaw ii— miwmiiiiibi Ml illiMH ! "" -11 Photo (slightly retouched) in reproduction from the Sydney Morning Herald 27/4/65 shows Vietnam peasants protecting their children as US marines burst into their village in South Vietnam. i 