 [?] [?] A FTER reading Edmund Al lison's letter in the Tri bune I went to "Ballad of Angels' Alley", at New Thea- tre wondering what to expect. After the -first few minutes of . the performance I quite forgot about Edmund Allison and settled down to enjoy a satisfying thea trical experience. As the original Tribune review stated, Jeff Underhill's musical is "romping entertainment with a salty Australian flavour" :and "will have a place in our independent cul ture . ." True, the characters belong to the "lower depths" but we are not asked to condone their antics: the whole thing is a satirical romp in the best Australian tradition of The Senti mental Bloke and the international tradition of The Threepenny Opera. If one must look for a social or political message in the play then it is that capitalist society and its laws are -corrupt, that the criminal gang leader may be equated with a monopolist bent on a take over bid, that there is much good in the worst of us, but its underlying democratic tendency is the import ant thing. Certainly, its- rambustious, earthy flavor will greatly appeal to the Australian working class audience. While Edmund Allison's views are to be respected, one cannot escape the conclusion that they reflect an unhealthy puritancial tendency which is an infantile disorder of the re volutionary movement as it comes to power historically, adopting the morality that the old ruling class preached hut did not practice. This was true of Cromwell's movement and is a strong ten dency in China and even the USSR today. In my view it is a pass ing phase. Frederick Engels warned against it as early as 1883 in an article about the great German working poet, George Weerth: "In one thing Weerth was a master . . . that was in expressing natural robust sensuousness and the joys of the flesh ... I cannot refrain from pointing out that there will come a time when the German Socialists too will triumphantly get rid of the last trace of philistine prejudices and hypocritical moral prudery — and anyhow, they only serve as a cover for surreptitious obscenity ... It is high time that at least the German workers get accustomed to speaking in a free and easy manner about things they themselves do every day or night. They are natural, inevitable and highly pleasant things — " Of course, I do not, for one minute suggest that Edmund Alli son is guilty of philistine pre judice. The point I want to make is that the modern Australian work ing class does not suffer from the moral prudery that Engels noted in the German working class of his day. It is also important that the Tribune and the Communist Party should not be thought to share Edmund Allison's expressed desire to censor and implied willingness to ban "natural robust sensuous ness' in literature and theatre. Frank Hardy (Manly) 