 Five years after Sharpevilfe | They fried [?] JUST five years after Shart?eville, the US ris held a "Sharpe- viJIe" of their own at Alabama. Verwoerd's South African police killed 62 Neqroes at Sarpeville on. March 21, 1960. when the Africans took part in a peaceful protest against apar theid. The White racist police' were not . such effective homicides at Selma on - March 7, 1965, but it was scarcely for want of trying. The US press admits to world-wide, nation-wide protests against the brutality shown to the 350 Negroes who set out on a Freedom march from f lma to the state capital of Mont gomery, Alabama. As they knelt in prayer, asking God "to lead them through a wilderness o: state troopers", police flogged them with bull whips and lengths of rope and charged on horseback into them . from behind. Then state troopers fired teargas and charged with clubs and electric cattle prods from in front. The Negroes finally broke and fled, pursued by police flogging them. Afterwards 50 Negroes were given mm e nererencv treatment. President Johnson took time off from organising war against freedom in Vietnam to keep himself informed about what liberty-loving racists were doing in the US, and took action. His agents stood by and watched while these atrocities were carried out on American citizens. And John son ordered the FBI men "to deter mine whether unnecessary force" was us i to stop the Negro march But there his action ended Flowers from LBJ Two days later three white clergy men who had come from elsewhere in t.he USA to join in the march were hrutally assaulted in Selma. by a gang of whites as they left a Negro cafe One of them, Rev. James Reeb, had t- have brain surgery. He died later Again, the President acted. He sent flowers to Mr. Reeb. Demonstrations against the Alabama terror broke out in many parts of the USA. Some demonstrators sang in the corridors outside the office of At torney General Katzenbach, busy pre paring new indictments against the Communist Party and progressive in dividuals under the MoCarran Act What SharpevilBe was Fivp years ago the Tribune explain -d what happened at Sharpeville in an editorial which said in part: "On Monday, 62 mangled bodies lit tered a Johannesburg road-way and the air was filled with the screams of the wounded "Unarmed African men, women ! children were shot down' in cold blood - by a barrage from tanks, machine guns and rifles. "They had come to a police station to surrender themselves in a peaceful protest against the racist law which requires the African to ticket, label and register, himself like a dog in his own country . "L imeone (allegedly) threw a stone and the next minute blood was run ning in rivers. "That blood now calls aloud to the democratic peoples, white and black, to summon Premier Verwoerd and his red-handed assistants before the bar of public opinion and deal with them according to their deserts . . . "At the last UN session the Menzies Government, while readily lending it self to propaganda dealing with Tibet and Hungary, refused to support a motion . condemning South African racialist murders "II it remains similarly silent now us becoming a party to what it fails ti condemn, it will shame the nation This comment remains true today 