 A.L.P. CONDEMNS MT. ISA COY. f BRISBANE: Sharp condemnation of the wealthy, American-dir ected Mt. Isa Mines company was made by a special meeting of the Queensland Central Executive of the Australian Labor Party in Brisbane last Thursday. STATEMENT issued on be-' half of the meeting b\ Messrs. B. Milliner (State Pre sident) and J. Keefe (Secre tary) condemned the State Government's new Emergency Order, and demanded its "im mediate repeal". The state ment also said: — The ALP condemns the manage ment of Mt. Isa Mines Ltd., because r of" the methods they previously em ployed at Mt. Isa which, in the light of the recent industrial conference, revealed the need and acceptance for drastic revision of the condi tions of employment. "This causes us to doubt their sincerity- to reopen the mines based on fair and just principles. FuH support for unionists "The ALP declares its full sup port for the trade unions and their ' members involved in the struggle with Mt. Isa Mines Ltd., to obtain industrial justice and is prepared to use all its resources to achieve this objective. , "It is more than a coincidence that because of the liason between the Menzies and Nicklin Govern ments many workers, including clerks, have, as a result of the decision made by the Social Ser vices Minister, been denied social service payments. "The executive committee of the ALP declares that if there is a continued deterioration in the Mt. Isa situation an emergency meet ing ' of the full QCE will be called to consider the matter further." Last Sunday, at the Mt. Isa mass meeting, he stressed that nobody at Mt. Isa was on strike. "The workers have been locked out by the company." He condemned the -Government's Emergency Order: "They talk de mocracy but practice fascism. The onus was on the company if the mine remained closed. They were a stupid government and a stubborn company, he added. Mr. J. Egerton, President of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council, who, together with its Secretary, Mr. A. Macdonafd, has played a leading role in trade union negotiations in the Mt. Isa struggle. 