 FAKE REPORT FAILS TO I J SHAKE MT. ISA MEN 1 ,1 r . A crudely faked document was circulated in Mt. Isa this week in an unsuccessful attempt I to break the unity off the miners in their long struggle against the American-dominated j company, for trade union rights and improved wages and conditions. | >T"HE anonymous circ u I a r ' Taiseiy siarea rnax ine mi. Isa Trades and Labor Council Disputes Committee had de cided on a return to work by all miners. The secretary of the Mt. Isa Trades and Labor Council, Mr. Bevan Foot, said that neither the Trades and Labor Council nor the Miners' Coun cil for Membership Control had any thing to do with the "scurrilous sheet" and efforts were being made to trace its origin. Last Sunday, a mass meeting of the miners reaffirmed their stand, condemned the company's attempt to organise "scab" labor, and condem ned the right-wing Australian Work ers' Union officials for cutting off relief payments to members in volved in the dispute. Money is continuing to flow in to support the struggle, from all States, but more is needed. Three Mt. Isa metal workers (an engineer, boilermaker and electri cian) spent last week in Sydney ex plaining the true situation at Mt. Isa and gaining widespread financial and moral sunpport from about 40 meetings they addressed. Discussing the dispute with Tri bune, one of them, Tom Blanchard (A.E.U. member retired after 191- years' in Mt. Isa) said: "If you are active in the union, victimisation in the form of trans fers takes place. ' Many tradesmen work in condi tions of large -amounts of dust and fumes. Contract miners have to work in very dangerous places. Another, Jack Langston, boiler- maker, who has worked in the mines for six years, said: "Holidays cost you a fortune," Jack said. It is 600 miles to Towns- ville and about 1,400 to Brisbane by road. Prices were very high they said. Examples given were: a gallon of petrol (super) 4/9, bottle of soft drink 2/6, and a bottle of beer 5/6. Both men stressed that Mt. Isa locked out the workers. , The men said that the general feel- | ing at Mt. Isa was that nationali- I sation would solve the problem, j Jack said; "All Australia is getting | out of Mtt. Isa is a big hole in the ' ground, while the profits are going ! to America." 