 1 Transport stoppage | to step up campaign j for wane justice ! w j | SYDNEY: Transport unions have decided to call a third 24-hour j m | State-wide stoppage of NSW Government rail and bus workers j I next Wednesday, November 17, in support of their campaign for j I wage increases. ! MEETING last Monday of 26 transport unions and the NSW Labor Council's disputes committee decided on the stop page. An earlier meeting of the unions last week, by 1 7 votes to 12, rejected the Govern ment's latest offer. This offer, the third since the unions submitted their wage demands last December, provides for increases from 10/- for non-tradesmen to 17/6 a week for tradesmen. It also falls short of wage increases agreed to by other State Govern ments. An agreement just concluded gives Government transport work ers in Tasmania wage increases from 19/6 to 25/- a week retrospec tive from July 4. In Victoria service increments range from 13/- to 42/- a week for tradesmen and from 9/- to 30/- a week non-tradesmen, depending on length of service. In South Australia increment pay ments are based only on service and range from 10/- a week, in the first year, 17/6 second and 25/- for the third year. Queensland railway workers also won marginal increases from 21/3 to 42/6 a week. Government rail and transport workers in NSW are demanding an increment of 16/6 a week after the first year's service, 33/- after two years and 49/6 after three years and that payment be based only on service, not skill or classification. Transport workers say there . is now an urgent need to step up the campaign and for proper consultation with the workers. I Many of these workers have a take- s home pay of less than £15 a week. j The November 17 stoppage pro- j posal will be submitted to this i Thursday's Labor Council meeting ! for endorsement. | It is also proposed to hold j regional meetings during the stop- page at Parramatta, Bankstown, ! Hurstville, Ryde, North Sydney, | the city areas and in Newcastle j and Wollongong. . j A meeting of the publicity com- ' mittee will be held today (Wednesday) j to prepare proposals for the area j meetings and to explain the workers' i demands to the public. J A further contrast to the offer for NSW rail and bus workers is the j recent offer by airline operators to grant increases to ground staff, can teen and transport drivers. Following protest stoppages against an earlier offer, the companies have agreed to increases of £1 a week for tradesmen and 15/- for non- tradesmen. Mass meetings are being held this week in Sydney and Melbourne to consider this offer, which is retro spective to June 24 this year. The companies making, the offer are TAA, ANA, QANTAS "and . Mc- Robertsori Miller (a subsidiary of ANA in. West Australia). . ; At the moment most of the com panies pay increments -ranging from £3/15/- to £5 a week for tradesmen and from £1/15/- to £3/15/- for non- tradesmen. 