 " /x National line negotiates|ndTi9&0 Shipowners for Aust crews on overseas ships SYDNEY : Prior to negotiations, revealed last week, between the Australian National Line executive and the Seamen's Union on the manning of ANL ships for overseas trade, foreign-owned shipping companies had made similar approaches . Federal secretary of the Seamen's Union, Mr. E, V. Elliott, who last week told Tribune of the moves by the ANL executive, said yesterday (Tues day) that an agent for European shipowners had put up to him a firm proposition based on integrating overseas "know-how" and innovations in modern ships manned by Australian crews. ANL had approached Mr. El liott on the manning of two modern freighters with Aus tralian crews to carry refrig erated and palletised cargo overseas, last week. Another European group had pro posed to him an Australian manned overseas immigrant and tourist ship. He said the New Zealand Govern ment had sounded out the Australian Government on. its attitude to a State - owned, ' or State - sponsored, trans-Tasman shipping service. No support- 4 Discussions on a State-owned Tas- man shipping service were promoted by the last New Zealand Labor Government and some progress was made, but that faded after the 1960 elections, with the return of a conservative Government. Mr. Elliott said that he had no knowledge of the Menzies Govern- ment ever supporting, the proposi tion. "The. run between Australia and New Zealand is. completely monopo lised by overseas shipping interests. The ships are owned by the Union Company of New. Zealand, which is a subsidiary of the giant F & O Company," Mr. Elliott said. Since 1960, New Zealand tourist officials in Sydney and Melbourne have repeatedly found that tourist passages have been lost because there is no adequate or regular shipping service. -?r 1 - Their opinion is that a car ferry service would have immediate appeal for Australians. One estimate is that 25 per cent more Australians than the 40,000 long-stay visitors last year could be attracted to New Zealand. Revenue from Australian tourists runs to about £NZ 3 million a year. No clause It is customary international prac tice for countries making trade treaties to insert a clause stipulating that a percentage of the cargo be carried in the ships of the countries concerned. Australia has a trade treaty with New Zealand, but there is no such clause included regarding Australian ships. "Representatives of Japanese ship ping interests have expressed amaze ment to me that the Australian Government doesn't claim this per centage. "They were frank enough to admit that they would oppose it, but would have to accept it as an international practice," Mr. Elliott said. Mr. Elliott said it was a disgrace that Australia, an island country and geographically isolated from Europe, was the only country in the world without a national overseas shipping line. He said that during the First World War Australia had been forced to establish the Commonwealth Shipping Line to survive as a nation. During and after the war there were 64 Australian vessels on over seas trade routes. Given away "The ships were sold to British shipping magnate, Lord Kylsant for nothing — he went bankrupt and the debt was never paid. "These same ships, were chartered by the Australian Government at a high price, to return Australian prisoners home from Changi prison camp after the war," Mr. Eliott said. Switzerland, a completely land locked country, has their own national overseas line and have recently commissioned the bulk -carrier "Romandie" of 33,000 tons. Czechoslovakia, not on the sea board, has its own fleet and For- Continued on Page 12 a I Conference line ship the j " Cornwall 99 j in Sydney AUST. CREWS Continued from Page 1 mosa has a fleet equal to twice the tonnage of Australia's coastal fleet. Indicative of the -huge profits made by overseas shipping companies on the Australian rim are these two examples: Chandris Lines began running to Australia about four years ago. They have just purchased the former flag-, ship of United States Lines. She is a 40,000-ton ship, will carry 2,000 passengers, and she was bought at a cost of about £5 million. Flotta Lauro a conference line company, entered the Australian run in 1948. They recently announced two new additions to their fleet between Italy and Australia— the Achille Lauro and the Angelina Lauro. The Flotta Lauro building at Cir cular Quay (Sydney) cost 11 million pounds. Figures released by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician and published on Monday showed that Australia had a trade gap of £36.6 million in August. This was the biggest trade deficit for any month since August, 1960. Freight charges on exports and im ports are the biggest single drain on Australia's balance of payments. 