 Must examine Communism seriously, says WA Archbishop pERTH: "Over 1,000 million people in the world have embraced communism over the last 51) years," said the Angli can Archbishop of Perth, the Most Rev. George Appleton, "and today there are more Commun ists than Christians in the world." The Archbishop was speaking on "The Christian Approach to Communists" in the first of two lunch-hour services being con ducted in St. George's Cathedral on this subject "You may say that all those in Russia are not convinced Com munists", he continued, "but the same can certainly be said of the Christians in the world. Chris- tians must take communism ser iously, and examine it with open and yet critical minds". Deeper study TXE stated that these two talks should only be considered as an introduction to the subject, which needs to be followed by a deeper st :dy. The Archbishop examined the life and background of Karl Marx, and the influence that the effects of the industrial revolu tion had on his thinking. Marx saw the evil effects of the in dustrial revolution— the theory that nothing must interfere with unrestricted profits; the labour of women and children in the mines; the cheap slum houses put up by the capitalists to house the labour coming in from rural areas; he was moved by the sight of all this suffering and social injustice. The Church was acquiescent to these conditions that Marx raised his voice against. Many people saw in his ideas a threat to the established order of things, and he got no encouragement from the Christians of the day. . "Let us then do justice to Marx's concern for the poverty- stricken masses", the Archbishop continued. "The whole course of history might have been altered had the Church heeded Marx's call". . He stated that to the Commun ist—matter speaks the last word, not the spirit. Yet today Com munists ask when will Christians be sensible enough to enter dis cussion with them. Also, Com munists in Russia are somewhat puzzled that Christianity is still held by so many after over 40 years of communism; he report ed that a clergyman who recently returned from a visit to Russia as saying they are re-examining their attitude to religion in that country. Big pie here The Archbishop said that com munism speaks of religion as an "opiate of the people"— it fixes attention on the justice Chris tians expect in the next world. Communists and others have often spoken of "pie in the sky". Yet the workers know, there is a big pie of prosperity here in the- world today— and they want a , slice in this world, whatever they can expect in the next. In the Communist Manifesto where he put forward the slogan "Workers of the world unite", 'Marx developed the theory that the labour of the worker was as important as capital in produc tion. We must learn the lesson" of this today— that we need both labour and capital in order to . produce goods. Marx demanded that a just share of the profits of industry go to the workers— if this couldn't be obtained by any other way, it should be obtained by revolution. People, . had they thought, might have remembered Chap ter 4 of St. Luke, verses 18 and 19— which are almost as revolu tionary in spirit as the Com munist Manifesto. Or the revo lutionary spirit of the Mag nificat— "Put down the mighty and exalted ..." Christians had been slow to take part in the tremendous social revolution that has been taking place for 100 years. This revolution is not Communist- inspired, but Communists are "cashing in" on it, the Arch bishop said. Change needed Social change is needed; it should take place in co-operation on national and international levels. We should demand that our own Government devote a more adequate share of our in come to relieving world hunger. This is as important as protec tion against nuclear attack. Christians should accept the challenge and realise the urgent need for change in the social conditions. They should work for social justice particularly in the undernourished areas. At the same time, we need c r take seriously the communist re jection of God, and rejection of moral standards. But in this, is it really the eternal God com munists are rejecting, or the idea of God they get from us? It has been said, There are three classes of atheists: 1. Those who hold, that mattier ' is the only real thing . 2. A large class called atheists, but who are really agnostics, say_ that they don't know whether there is a God or not. 3. The class who says there is a 'God or not, I'm not sure, but I don't want the God you offer me. This is a serious challenge to the Christian Church, he con cluded. j FOOTNOTE: The London New Statesman quotes a Vatican &lt; spokesman, Monsignor Guerra Campos, as having said: "Marxism is not a vulgar form of materialism. It is atheistic because atheism is an integral part of its world outlook. It believes in the need for, and adequacy of, material reality, while religion and idealism thrust man beyond its confines, j alienate him and hamper his : liberation. j "This atheism, therefore, is ! not a denial but an expression | of humanism. . . . This world j outlook cannot be countered by > polemics or false praise alone I What is needed is a deep study j of it so as to be able in future j to enter into a dialogue with ! Marxists ..." 1 