 -NELSON MANDELA'S SPEECHES FOR FREEDOM "I am the First Accused. "I hold a Bachelor's Degree in Arts arid practised as an attorney in Johannesburg for a number of years in partnership with Oliver Tambo. I am a convicted prisoner serving five years for leaving the country without a permit and. for inciting people to go on strike at the end of May, 1961. .. . "At the outset, I want to say that the suggestion made by the State in its opening that the struggle in South Africa is under the influence or foreigners or Communists is wholly incorrect. I have done whatever I did, both as an individual and as a leader of my people, because of my ex perience in South Africa and my own proudly-felt African hack- ground, and not because of what any outsider might have said." Thus Nelson Mandela opened the defence case in the now- .amous (or infamous) South African trial in April 1964. To attend this trial he was taken, from prison after being sentenced to three years' imprisonment for incitement to strike and .two years on a second charge of leaving South Africa; without a valid permit.. or passport.; "No Easy Walk To Freedom" is the book which tells, in a collection of articles, speeches at conferences and addresses from three trials, the stpry of this courageous, .outstarid- irig leader of the African people1 in ' their struggle against white -supre- macy .and apartheid, // This struggle is not new. It started from the time when South Africa's four provinces were united into a union of White privilege in 1910, when Africans were steadily deprived of their land and pushed Off the pavements 1 into the gutter if they did not know their place. Disjointed, at first, it gained a form of unity with the formation of the South African Native National Congress (later to., become the African National . Congress in .1912.. . As timie progressed treatment ol the Africans worsened. They were forced to live in grinding poverty, subjected to inhuman exploitation treated like animals by their White ruler's. The movement of the Africa- people strengthened until 1952, whe: the African National Congress .ant the South African Indian Congress launched a campaign for the De fiance of Unjust Laws, which spreac throughout the whole country. Thi.v movement united the people in actions of defiance against the Government until it was suppressed A statement of emergency was de clared under the Public Safety . Act and almost immediately following this the Criminal Law Amendment Act was passed, providing heavy penalties for those convicted of defiance offences. Later , the Government used the Suppression of Communists Act extensively arid under all the laws thousands of Africans, Coloreds and Whites have been gaoled, whipped, tortured and killed. Nelson Mandela, emerged as the leader ;of the African people, work ing legally when he could and illeg- ; ally when forced to do so. He was one of the leaders who tackled the . problem of uniting all who were opposed to the Govern- i ment's racist policy; working out . . ways of publicising the aims of the ANC and the actions to be under taken.'. . , .The . charge . against ,him for leav ing the country .without a permit arose from an invitation to visit other African countries and iBritain. In Addis ( Ababa he : had highly successful talks with. African Heads : of State: arid in Britain with Labor i leaders. Because of his ability to evade arrest, to organise and lead . he he- ; came known as the "Black Pirn-,' pernel". / ..' . ' For years the African organisa- ; tioris tried to rely 'on : such forriis- 'bf action as /strikes to /drive horrie ; their demands for equality. So vicious did the Government's offensive become that a new or ganisation was formed. In December, 1961, the first acts of sabotage announced the forma tion of Umkonto. we Sizwe (The Spear of the Nation). But acts of sabotage were aimed at hurting the economy, not at kill ing the Whites. Mandela is not a Communist, al chough he learned to understand he. aims of the Communist Party and to work with them in the cause of freedom for his people. It is timely that these two hook- are available for Australian readers for they not only explain the aim; of the South Africans for equalitj with the White people; they wii lelp readers tp understand concer: of the Bhodesian people at Premie Smith's determination on a racis constitution, in essence the sam s South Africa.— J.M. "NO EASY WALK TO FREE DOM", price 21/-; "117 DAYS" by Ruth First, 5/6 (8d. postage) from New World Booksellers, 425 Pitt Street, Sydney and all progressive bookshops. 