 Challenge to unionists v JLlJUi j Big attack on | I wage system j lean be expected j J® By an Industrial Correspondent ft . " The trade unions" demand for an increase to the basic wage to !bstor@ its purchasing power wiHI be strenuously opposed by em ployers and the MensSes Government. APPLICATION for ad- S v: iustment of the basic j wage . to cover price rises i during the past 12 months | wMl be made by the unions i dicing the next few weeks. | fflfhe unions are at present j d|$!iting publication of figures j sowing retail price movements j. i|the auarter ending Decem- | b|$| 1964. These figures will I defermine the amount of in- | ciflase the union will claim. j Employers' organisations have al- | reidy moved to counter the unions' I application. 1 -Last December they served the 1 unions with a claim. This was re- | jeeted and it has now been filed with I tli&j Industrial Registrar. | means that the employers I completed the necessary pro- | cfelles for creating an interstate dis- I pilte and having the dispute referred | toffhe Commission for settlement by | ar||tration. || Few shillings | jlpheir claim, rejected by the unions, 8 ftriiS nnw vpfprrpd to the Commission: 1 sells: 2 IH Abolition of the present pro- | vision in awards of a basic wage and separate margin for each classifica tion. ® Substitution Instead of a total wage consisting of the current basic wage and the existing margin for each classification. ® Addition to each total wage of a sum equal to 1 per cent of each total wage. Present total wage for a basic rate tradesman in the Federal Metal Trades Award (i.e. a fitter, boiler- maker, moulder, etc.) equals £21/1/0 in Sydney, and for a tradesman's assistant £17/7/6.- One per cent added to each of these total wage rates would give the tradesman an increase of 4/- per week and his . assistant 3/6. Al though the total wage 'varies slightly from State to State, the 1 per cent increase would work out at the same round figure in each State. Main purposes of this part of the employers' claim are to merge the basic wage and margins into a total wage and have this total wage varievd solely in accordance with so-called "economic capacity," i.e. mainly "productivity". Alternative As an alternative to the above, the employers' claim seeks: ® Retention of the basic wage but Cv Idfbw UIA Wcclfc lower than at present, i.e. £15/9/0 instead of £15/15/0 in Sydney. © Retention of all present margins and the addition to each separate margin of six shillings per week. (This would leave the combined basic wage plus margins equal to the same total amounts as at present. This re-arrangement of the amount of basic wage and margins is based on employers' claims that the £1 in crease in the basic wage last July was excessive). © Addition to each of these total amounts of a sum equal to l per cent of each total amount. In money terms both claims have the same meaning, i.e. a maximum increase of 4/- per week. Both claims would give to women workers and to. apprenticed and unapprenticed juniors a proportion of this 4/-. Limit of 4/- In each case employers aim to limit any increase in award wages in 1965 to a maximum of 4/- per week; abolish the present practice of sep arate assessments of the basic wage and margins; restrict wage assess ments to economic factors. ' The employers' claim in this form is intended to counter, the unions' basic wage claim due to be dealt with in February or March and their margins claim due later in the year. Offer "too paltry" Rejecting these, claims, the unions say the increase offered is too paltry to warrant consideration and the total wage proposal is totally un acceptable. The unions aim to remain free to use all and any grounds to support their claims, including price rises and restoration of the value of and re lativity between margins to their 1947 position. A similar claim to that now made by the employers was refused by a Full Bench of the Arbitration Com mission last July. Then as now the employers' claim was a counter to the unions' basic wage claim, viz. an increase of 52/-. Failure of their previous applica tion has not deterred the employers. Commenting last year on rejection of the employers' "total wage" claim the "Financial Review" said they had only commenced what would be "a long haul." Their present continuation of their campaign must be seen in conjunc tion with their support of alterations to trade training, control of wage levels as a necessary anti-inflation measure but no control on prices and profits, and their demand for con tinuation of penal powers against all forms of job action. In these circumstances their re newed efforts for a "total wage" and all its associated implications must not be taken lightly. 