 Judge attacks police station "confessions" MELBOURNE : Keen public controversy lias been aroused here by the statement made in the Criminal Court on June 4 by Judge Sholl that he had "lost confidence in the fairness of police station interrogations". "THE statement, latest in a series of similar declara tions by Judge Sholl, confirms widespread public misgivings about methods used by a sec tion of the police force to elicit "confessions" from accused persons. The case concerned a Mrs. Elizabeth Wigney, accused on four counts of larceny as a beneficial owner, as treasurer of the Clarinda Kindergarten Association. The Judge ruled out an alleged statement made by Mrs. Wigney at the Oakleigh C.I.B. on February 22, 1964, on the grounds that it had not been made voluntarily. It was alleged in court that among threats made by police to secure the statement was one that Mrs. Wigney's five children would be taken away from her unless she made it. She was acquitted of the charges. Judge Sholl said: "I may say that after nearly 16 years on the Bench I have myself lost confidence in the present methods of conducting police interrogations, the more so since suggestions from the Bench to modernise what is done are entirely disregarded. "Police interrogation methods are long out-dated," the Judge said. Judge Sholl first raised his criticism of police methods in connection with a case in July, 1962, in which an Italian immigrant named Molinari faced deportation on charges of living on immoral earnings. The Judge was struck by the fact that signed confessions in good Eng lish were, tendered in the name of Molinari, whereas in fact the man's command of the language was poor. Judge Sholl said at that time: "A few police officers, acting improperly, necessarily affect the standing and credibility of all in the eyes of a tribunal which has to deal with an allegation of intimidation by police. "As is frequently and correctly enough said, such an allegation is easy enough to make, and difficult to disprove, and is very tempting as a possible means of escape from a genuine confession which a wrong doer has subsequently— perhaps after obtaining legal advice— repented of having made. "Nonetheless, my own approach to such a question is, I am bound to say, now considerably affected by the consideration that police officers do not avail themselves of other modern means of recording police interviews with accused persons, even in circumstances where such facilities would be available — a course which would go a long way towards reas suring the tribunals to which they are subsequently recounted . . . "For example, the tape-recording of such interviews, though used over seas, according to one's reading, has not, to my knowledge, been used here. "Or official licensed shorthand writers, not attached to police depart ments, but bound by the obligations of a licensed shorthand writer, might be used to record such interviews. "Or again a magistrate or justice of the peace might be called in and could testify by certificate to the correctness of a transcript of the interview Asked to comment by the Guardian, a Melbourne lawyer said this week: "There is no reasonable doubt that a section of the police force habitually employ intimidatory methods in order to extract confessions from accused persons. "Others again become convinced that they are right in the allegations made against the accused, become frustrated when the accused persists in denying the charges, and are thus drawn into improper methods of securing confessions. "There is no doubt that Judge Sholl's suggestion, if followed, would go a long way to clearing up this position." The alternative was to adopt the practice existing under Indian and Ceylonese criminal law, for example, where confessional evidence is simply not admitted at all. President Johnson — the hand of friendship 