 ACTION REBUFFS STATE jjuANY protest stoppages and major strike threats, , including the Queensland call for a State-wide stoppage, with thousands of messages of protest, forced the Nicklin Government into Monday's backdown on use . of its Emergency powers. Building workers, coal miners, waterside workers, seamen and metal workers stopped work for 24 hours last Thursday on the New South Wales South Coast and in northern N.SW. About 1,000 workers at the big power station project at Lake Mun- morah and at Vales Point power station, northern N.S.W., stopped. On the South Coast, all waterside workers and seamen stopped to gether with about 200 mineworkers ironworkers at Evans Deakin, a Queensland company. Several unions meeting at the trade union centre in Wollongong at Coalcliff and boilermakers and called or a 24 hour stoppage of all Continued on Page 12 Action wave Continued from Page 1 South Coast workers. Broken Hill's two biggest unions called for a 24 hour stoppage in protest against the repressive mea sures of the Quensland Government. Last Thursday, the Broken Hill City Council also unanimously pro- ested against the "penal measures and called for their withdrawal. Newcastle Trades Hall Council has made an extensive call for finance to assist the Mt. Isa miners. Last Fri day about £130 was collected from waterside workers. New Zealand seamen on the "Kaituna" also donated £21 when the ship was in Newcastle. NSW, Victoria Meetings of the N.S.W. Labor Council and the Melbourne Trades Hall Council last Thursday unani mously condemned the actions of the Queensland Government. The N.S.W. Labor Council demand ed that the Queensland Premier should bring about a conference between the parties "to settle satis factorily the outstanding issues." Council secretary, Mr. J. Kenny, called on all N.S.W. unions to give full support to the Mt. Isa workers. Melbourne THC asked the ACTU to consider calling an emergency meeting of State labor councils. Many federal unions based in Syd ney protested, including the Water side Workers' Federation, Australian Railways Union, Building Workers Industrial Union ..and the Miners' Federation. The Federal Council of the Metal Trades Federation in Sydney con demned the Queensland Government and pledged moral and financial sup port for the Mt. Isa men. The WWF Federal office sent a donation of £2,000 to the Mt. Isa workers and a voluntary 10/- levy was taken up last Thursday through out the Sydney waterfront. HOBART Trades Hair Council un animously condemned the Queens land Government and recommended to the ACTU an immediate nation wide stoppage, as an initial, protest from the whole of the trade union movement. South Australia In South Australia many unions have asked their members to support the Mt. Isa men with a 2/6 a week voluntary levy. Miners' leader, Pat Mackie received a warm response from workers dur ing his short visit to Adelaide. Mr. Mackie addressed waterside workers, seamen, tally clarks the Building Trades' Federation, and the executive of the Australian Feder ated Union of Locomotive Enginemen. Seamen in Port Adelaide also sent a strong protest telegram to Premier Nicklin. West Australia In Fremantle protest meetings were held by waterside workrs last Friday. A WWF leader called for all out action against the Nicklin Government. "The defeat of "he Brand Liberal Government in the coming W.A. elections was an essential part of the struggle for trade union rights in Queensland and W.A.," he said. The WA Trades and Labor Coun cil earlier condemned Nicklin's "state of emergency." Other unions including the Ship Painters and Dockers and Watchmen have sent protest telegrams. Printed and published by D. B. Young, 168 Day Street, Sydney, at 21 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. 