 PRESSURE ON FOR MORE AUST. TROOPS TO VIETNAM Evidence is massing rapidly that both the United States and Australian Governments are covering up the truth about the nature and course of the Vietnam war. But the hard fact is coming through that the United States intervention is in such difficulties that a virtual doubling of the "occupation army" will now be attempted. Australia is being openly pressed to send more troops. Here are some examples of hiding the truth: — ® Menzies, faced with the resignation of a senior External Affairs officer, Mr. Gregory Clark, over the government's wrong policy on Vietnam, last week misled Australia when he claimed Clark had' no access to information On Vietnam. The new Government pamphlet, printed and now circu lated in big numbers at taxpayers' expense, contains glaring falsehoods (samples below). The South Australian Gov ernment has rejected it from schools. Australian SE Asian correspondent Denis Warner (Sydney Herald, December 7) has publicly condemned the US military authorities in Saigon for falsifying US casualty and battle summaries to favor the idea that the US forces are winning. The two years 'Time limit" for a US victory in Vietnam, laid down by US Defence Secretary McNamara in 1963, has expired. Indications by Federal Treasurer Holt after his last visit to the USA that there was no plan to increase the Australian troop commitments are now evidently exposed as untrue. According to the last Sunday Mirror, American pressure for troop increases would hft Australia by the New Year and would bring a step-up in national service intake (now 8400 a year). IAST week's Federal Labor Party caucus meeting Agreed to step up opposition to the Government's declared policy of sending conscripts to Viet nam. A motion along these lines was moved by Mr. F. Daly, MHR for Grayndler (NSW) and caucus was united on it.' Clark case Last week in Parliament, Mr. A. James (Lab., NSW) asked Prime Minister Menzies whether Mr. G. Clark, the diplomat, had resigned over Australia's foreign policy, par ticularly on Vietnam . Sir Robert replied: "Mr. Clark had never had any association with Vietnam, or access to information on Vietnam." In reply, last; Friday Mr. Clark iold a Canberra correspondent of the Melbourne Herald "that for much of his service with the De partment he had been involved with Communist Chinese affairs, and this had given him a link with Vietnam." Falsehoods into schools .Te Govement was sharply criti cised for its handling of the official pamphlet, "Vietnam," particularly on ICS distribution to schools. pamPhlefc "Vietnam" sent out schools and elsewhere by the Menzies Government contains state ments which are known to be untrue, The. pamphlet includes this state ment by External Affairs Minister Hasluck on September 2 last: "Up to date the North Vietnamese, and behind them China, have shown no interest in discussions of any kind. . . . Neither Hanoi nor Peking is interesting in talking.. . In the very week in which the pamphlet was going, out. to the schools, the US State Department was admiting that the _ Vietnamese patriots had in fact made peace offers which were turned down by the USA because of Mr. Dean Rusk's "sensitive antenna" (see story, page 4). Telling lies to the children The pamphlet repeats selections from old speeches by Menzies, Has luck and Gorton which are out of date, misleading or obviously untrue, Another instance is a claim by Senator Gorton that the "Viet Cong" had destroyed an Australian-built dairy , farm at Ben Cat, 30 miles from Saigon. The Land newspaper, published in Sydney; a conservative weekly de voted to Australian rural interests; reported early this year that the Australian Dairy Farm at Ben Cat had been destroyed by American bombers after the people of the district had "gone over" to the libera tion forces. The report was also given by The Australian. 