 5 I TRIBUNE 1 L i : A little boy and grandma . . ' . gACK in July, the Vietnamese guerillas made a heavy and successful attack on Da Nang, a huge air base of the United States invading forces. The US Command then blamed the South Vietnamese troops supposed to be guarding the base. To prevent a recurrence of such things, they poured 75,000 to 100,000 more American troops into South Vietnam, putting 30,000 into the Da Nang area. But, like Dien Bien Phu for the French in 1954, Da Nang has proved far from impregnable. Last week, relatively small forces of Vietnamese liberation fighters moved in, destroyed dozens of first-line aircraft and even chased the Marine officers around their tents, inflicting what Saigon Command describes as "moderate" casualties. This new military and political defeat suffered by the USA was carried out by Vietnamese fighters who included an 80-year-old grandmother and boys in their early teens, including at least one 12 -year-old soft-drink seller who cursed the Americans with his dying breath. These facts emerged through most newspapers despite f the dishonest attempt by the Packer press to rewrite the cables to the effect that the teenage boy had been "forced" to join the attack from a nearby village. Why are children and grandmothers doing such things? "I've seen them before" The answer is to be found in another typical incident of the week — the murderous raid by US aircraft, killing or wounding over 100 people in a South Vietnamese village that turned out to be six miles from the intended target. Perhaps it was the "wrong" target for the day. In the post-mortem, one US pilot complained: "I could see people standing around in the street. But . . . I've seen people before in similar attacks." And that is a very important admission. US airmen and troops are quite accustomed to burning, bombing, gassing and wiping out whole villages and whole communities — men, women and children. Extermination of the Vietnamese people is the ''only safe way" adopted by the US Command for, as wounded Australian Corporal David Munday said in Sydney three weeks ago: "Its a funny kind of war in Vietnam . . . how do you know who they are?" What choice, then, have the grandmothers and the 12- year-olds — and all in between — but to join in the fight to be rid of the foreign invaders? That is the bitter fact that must be faced by Australians, more and more of whom are discussing and demanding the disengagement of Australian forces from Vietnam, where the people, fighting for independence, refuse to be defeated. tSome of the 200 people, including 40 clergymen, who staged a Silent Vigil for Peace outside Melbourne's National Gallery, last Sunday. 