 [?] Australian squatters anil White Australia "TO Rupert Lockwood's thesis (Tribune, Feb. 3) that the White " Australia policy had its inspiration in Britain, I would add: (a) The squat ters picked up the racist line and applied it to the Abori gines with a ferocity that shocked even the British Col onial administrators, the ma terial cause being that the Aborigines were in the way of their stock, (b) As the Buck- land Gap riots showed last century, and the AWU has I shown in this, , the Australian I workers have been affected by I racialism, i hey still are, yet I happily racialism is disappear- | ipg rapidly amongst the young | people. Second, I believe , s statement | published in the English journal, | "The Lady", of August 20, 1953, | may throw some light on Noel ! Counihan's item on Picasso in the f same issue. | Picasso is reported in that maga- | zine to have said: I "In art the mass of the people ; no longer seeks consolation and j exaltation, but those who are re- I lined, rich, unoccupied, who are | distillers of quintessences, seek | what is now, strange, original ex- I travagant, scandalous. "I myself since Cubism and even before, have satisfied these masters and critics with all the changing I oddities which passed through my I head, and the less they understood me, the more they admired me— and today, as you know, I am I celebrated, I am rich. I. "But when I am alone with my- I self I have not the courage to think ! of myself as an artist in the great 1 and ancient sense of the term that | Giotto, Titian, Rembrandt and | Goya were great painters; I am | only a public entertainer who has understood his times and has ex- I hausted as best he could the imbe- || cility, the vanity, the cupidity of his contemparies. 1 "Mine is a bitter confession, more painful than it may appear, but it has the merit of being sincere." Now, in my opinion, it is up to the reader himself to judge whe ther this remarkable statement could be an invention Picasso is a mountain range and disregards attackers and defenders alike. Max Brown (Lithgow, N.S.W.). 