 Union officials comment : j nWMmwW«MMMWU»iglAg I ".UM I«n N.I I ... j| "God help I the wharfies"! j MELBOURNE: Who is Mr. A. E. Woodward, j I the Federal Government's "investigator" into the I I stevedoring industry, whose appointment has been I condemned by the Waterside Workers' Federation j ! as "an industrial farce"? ! i j "THE union's press state s' ment last week said: j "The investigator has no ! experience of this indus- ! try, and to the Federation's I knowledge, has not even I held a brief in a single case j dealing with the industry." I But the background of Mr. I Woodward's career (he is a 36- | year-old Melbourne barrister) I strongly suggests that he is a per- | feet choice for what the Govern- | ment is really after— "findings" ! that will favor stronger disclipin- I ary measures against waterfront labor, in tune with Judge Gal- l lagher's call for use of the Crimes | Act against wharfies who stop I work on political issues. I The son of Sir Eric Winslow j Woodward KCMG, CB, CBE, I Governor of New South Wales fi since 1957, Albert Edward Wood- | ward was educated at Melbourne 5 Grammar School and Melbourne I University. I His University contemporaries' i remember him as among the \ most earnest activists in the Uni- V versity Liberal Club of the day. | Mr. Woodward was admitted to j the Victorian Bar in 1951. I Background, family association J and, no doubt, personal political I persuasion marked him down for i a career leaning to the side of the | Establishment. . It is a course for I which he has shown every sigr. 1 of having a real liking. a . Even before his graduation as | Master of Laws he worked as an I associate to the then Chief Justice I of Victoria (and Lieutenant-Gov- I ernor) Sir Edmund Herring. Sir Edmund, incidentally, is a fire- eating reactionary whose of f-the- bench political utterances show his attraction to violence jn deal | ing with political ideas he does a not like. I Mr. Woodward's practice has S been studded ever since with I briefs fed to him by Liberal govr I ernments in both State and Com | monwealth. He has assisted State Govern- g ment inquiries into matters as I varied as conditions at Pentridge J Jail, the operations of the Hous g ing Commission, off-course bet- ! ting and the management of Al- f bert Park. I He has even found time, quite J recently, to act for the Bolte Gov- | ernment in some of its prosecu- j tions against offending Mel- g . bourne booksellers. ,| "Not yet..." In the Commonwealth sphere I Mr. Woodward has appeared for - I . the Menzies Government in cases . g ranging from the Aboriginal pas- ! toral workers' equal pay case I (the line taken by the Govern- | ment was that it "agreed" with equal pay, but not yet . . .) to j the recent basic wage hearing. | A writer in the Australian | (July 1) speaks of Mr. Wood- j ward's "relative youth", "quiet g charm" and other engaging qual- | ities. But when he goes on to | praise Mr. Woodward's "impar- g tiality", he certainly goes too ! far. j How a person of Mr. Wood- " g ward's experience and back- ! ground could approach the study I of the tangled and bitter indus- j trial relations of the Australian | waterfront in anything like a J truly impartial spirit defies the j imagination. g Last month Mr. Woodward g represented the employers in the I Industrial Court in a important $ case concerning the , application g of new penal powers against the f unions. A union official who sat in on the performance has said, g "If it's the same Woodward who I is doing the waterfront inquiry, f God help the wharfies!" j Well, it is the same Woodward, g But fortunately— and neither the J Menzies ' Government nor Mr. | Woodward can do anything tc I change this— Australian waterside 1. workers know that their chief I asset in public life is their organ- I isation and their unity. In other f words, that God helps those whe I help themselves. i 