 Pressure- for firmer ALP stand agaisist US crimes in Vietnam CANBERRA: Discussions both In Parliament and in Caucus last week showed that an increasing section of Labor MHRs are dis satisfied with the present basic ALP policy of support for US policy in South East Asia. IN Parliament, Mr. James, NSW; Dr. Cairns, Victoria;1 Mr. Hayden, Queensland; and; Mr. Bryant, Victoria, in varying | degrees opposed the US extend- ' the-war policy in Vietnam. In Caucus Mr. Hayden and others ; were reported to have made a chal- i lenge to the Rightwing-dominated ALP Foreign Affairs Committee's re port on Vietnam and Malaysia, which follows the U.S.-Menzies line. Both Opposition leader Calwell and Deputy Opposition leader Whit- lam made important points in critv cism of the U.S., hut remained basically in support of its -Vietnam war. Mr. James, said in Parliament that Australia should consider removing i-5 troops from South Vietnam if the . U.SJL refused negotiations. He condemned the U.S. use of poison gas. ! Dr. Cairns, Labor/ Victoria, said the gas might not poison the "Viet: cong", but "it will poison the minds of about 2000 million people in the world today about the U.S.". Dr. Cairns said freedom and demo- racy could not be won in Vietnam toy military intervention. Quoting from reports of the Inter national Commission, Dr. Cairns said that most of those allegedly "infil trating" from the north were South Vietnamese residents who had earlier gone north and then returned home. He detailed American admissions to show that no more than 10 per cent of the "Vietcong's" weapons were brought in from outside. Dr. Cairns quoted the verdict of the International Commission that U.S: backing of South Vietnam ''amounts to a factual military alli ance which is prohibited under, ar- , tide IS of the Geneva agreement;" Demanding to know why External s /Affairs Minister Hasluck in his ; imajor speech -on March 23 had not' i mentioned this but had only quoted 1 from the section of the xeport i favoring 'the U.S. case. Dr. Cairns asked: "In all fairness and justice to a situation which may involve the world in war, why are both sides not stated?" Mr. Whitlam said Australia should ; tell the U.S. it had acted wrongly , in using gas in Vietnam. He said the West would have to team to live with -the fact, of Chinese .power and influence in south-east Asia. Australia . would have to realise ; that China was the greatest power in its area. Australia, he added, must try to assist peace hy trying to reconcile China and the U.S.A. Calwell: "End war" While .stating that "'we want the American presence, strong and powerful, in Asia and the Pacific," Mr. Calwell said it was "absolutely necessary" ft© end the war now by negotiation. "A wider war can only have dis astrous consequences for South Vietnam, for America and for the world." The Canadian Prime .Minister, Pre sident de Gaulle, U Thant and the Pope hai all called for negotia tions. "But Mr. Hasluck says; 'Nothing doing'," said Mr. Calwell. : Hasluck's "simple" story of "ag gression" by North Vietnam and China Ignored the civil war factor in South Vietnam and the "exist ing rotten social system" there. Mr. Calwell demanded recognition of the Chinese People's Republic and. repudiation toy the Government of W. C. Wentworth's "fantastic" pro posal for a "preventive" attack on China. Hasluck had warned about a world nuclear war, but given no. indication that the 'Government would act to stop it. Hasluck had deplored the French insistence on developing their own nuclear weapons, but made no apo logy for his own government's de facto acquiesence in it, said Mr. Calwell. The Minister had also deplored China's nuclear explosion but had rejected the only measure by which China could be brought to the dis armament conference table — diplo matic recognition. "I ask the minister to declare ' that Australia will never be the first to introduce nufclear weapons into this part of the world and to start negotiations with our neighbours with a view to getting them to agree to the exclusion of nuclear weapons and tests from this area." Hasluck's speech followed the general theme of his "force only" statement of last August. It consisted mainly of a parrot like repetition of U.S. State Depart ment propaganda. The Minister again sw.ore allegi ance to U.S. policy in which be could not find a single item to cri ticise even in face' of the defeats it has been suffering from the be ginning, in Vietnam particularly. Outstanding was his refusal to find anything in the mighty libera tion movements of Asia but the hidden hand of China. For example, "\\hat is happening in South Vietnam is not a local re bellion caused by internal discon tent, but the application of methods and doctrines of Communist guerilla warfare fiTSt evolved in China and then successfully used in North Vietnam." , In fact the Vietnamese resistance movement against French occupa tion began long before the Chinese revolution and worked out its own methods without consulting China or any other country. It was (and is) a patriotic move ment to rid the country of foreign imperialist overlords, beginning with the French (till 1940) then the Japanese (till 1945) then the French again (till 1954) and now the Americans. And Hasluck tries to tell -Austra lians that this is nothing more than a plot hatched in China! 