 Even the cemetery is segregated " "" 7" »» THE recent death of an eight-weeks-old Aboriginal baby and a man slaughter charge against a doctor have focussed public attention on the small West Australian township of Gnowangerup. Last week Tribune correspondent JOAN WILLIAMS visited the township to in vestigate allegations of racial discrimination there. This is her story. PERTH : Set in the verdant green of wheat fields that Aboriginal labour has helped to sow, with fat white flocks of sheep newly shorn by native shearers, Gnowanger up looks like any other pros perous wheat belt town in Western Australia. It was shrouded in white mist when the road curved in after the 250-mile journey from Perth. The sun soon lifted the mist but the evil miasma of racial prejudice remained heavy over the town. Discrimination The ban against Aborigines in the drive-in theatre, swimming pool, some churches and for' sit-down meals in cafes continue. It continues even in death, for the colour bar is drawn in the Gnowangerup cemetery by a road at the back behind which Abori gines are buried. The graves stretch in a pathetic line, with makeshift crosses on some, others merely marked out on the ground by a pattern of white shells and broken bits of china. . One has the name of a child scratched on the lid of a tobacco tin; most are unmarked and many axe the graves of children, judging by the size of the mound. There are no signs over the public lavatories,, as in Wagin, . which has a separate lavatory marked "Native Ladies Only". On inspection it turned out to be cleaner that than of the whites. The 'fuss' The cititzens and farmers of Gno wangerup go about close-lipped and as suspicious of "interfering strangers" . as any town of the deep south of U.S.A. They a?e bitterly resentful of the "fuss" being made about their attitude to the Aborigines. The, cauldron that is Gnowangerup, is simmering to boiling />oint as the trial approaches of the town doctor,, A. R. Winrow, on a charge of man slaughter of an Aboriginal baby girl eight weeks old. She died at the Gnowangerup District Hospital on March 22. - Many of the people are not con scious racialists. But it is known that a "hard core" exists among the big farmers. Nobody will name them. The Shire Council has forbidden its officers to give any statement to the press. The local Native Welfare Offi cer, Brian' Humphries, cannot mike statements. As the white feeling against them consolidates, the Aborigines draw a little closer together in the cold huts on the Gnowangerup reserve and the squalid humpies of nearby Borden reserve. And Mrs. Illis Roberts, mother of the dead baby, waits two hours in a local shop to be served. She lives in a humpy on the Borden reserve. Mrs. Roberts has seven other children, two under school age cling ing to her skirt, four at the Borden school and one out working. "If we didn't have the Native Wel fare Officer we'd be finished/' she said. "We'd get ClrJ. If we got inside the drive-in theatre, the tearooms won't serve us a cup of tea, we can't go in the swimming pool. The only .church that will take our kids for Sunday School in Borden is the Baptist." What Mrs. Roberts wants most of aU— as do the rest of the native families— Is a decent house. "We freeze" The huts on the Gnowangerup reserve are well kept, but they are unlined and have cement floors. "We freeze in winter and cook in summer," said Aboriginal road worker Mervyn Williams, who is em ployed by a local contractor. "We have to try to keep our eight children healthy there. We wouldn't mind paying higher rent for a good house. "Racial discrimination is some- - thing terrible here." It took the present case to bring it out into the open. In 1961 a bitter battle was fought by friends of the Aborigines to have Aboriginal mothrs admitted to the Gnowangerup Hospital to bear their babies. Pressure from the authorities in Perth finally brought about their admission. The 300 Aborigines in the Gno wangerup Reserve are in fact a cheap labor pool from which the farmers can draw on as they please for seasonal needs. Shearers and permanent hands get award rates, but those who contract for a specific job get what the farmer offers. "It's not fair that we should have so many of them in one district," said a white shopkeeper, expressing the desire of many townspeople to get rid of the "problem" by driving the Aborigines away. "But where else could we go?" said an Aboriginal woman who acts as a caretaker at the Gnowangerup Re serve. "Most of us were born here, have lived here all our lives, as our people did before us. Now every bit of land is owned by somebody else. Would they drive us off the Reserve like sheep?" Aborigines Mrs. Irene Farmer and Mrs. Nora Hay-rd have moved into two new Government houses on the edge of the town, for which they pay 35/- a week. They keep them neat and clean, and are making gardens. Events at Gnowangerup have cracked the crust of respectability, the pious talk of "hygiene" as the only barrier to equality, which is typical of so many ' 7er' Australian country towns. Steps needed But what are the practical steps needed to Tight the wrongs of years, to restore the seli-respect of this dispossessed people, who have long ago lost touch with their own culture and been subject to all the worst influences of an exploiting system? © This State needs to emulate South Australia with legislation to make racial discrimination an offence, not only in public places, as in S.A., but in any form at all. © With this must go a widespread housing scheme for native people, with careful education and help from Native Welfare Offices and compli ance with the usual health by-laws after health inspectors have explained, them patiently. Above all, at grass roots level, co-operation needs to he built between the Aboriginal and white communities. Some towns have already gone a long way towards solving the problem with a Native Welfare Committee in volving Aborigines and whites. MR. M. WILLIAMS Pathetic "headstone" on a simple Aboriginal grave in the Gnowangerup cemetery. A road at the back of the cemetery divides the white and Aboriginal sections. The hut where Mrs. Illis Roberts lives with her children. 