 I Unions know N.C.C. disruption first-hand | Tribune Industrial Reporter | YDNEY : New moves j by the extreme right- j wing within the Labor Party to "do a deal" with j the anti-working class j Democratic Labor Party j will receive a strong re-v ! buff by trade unionists | throughout Australia. | This was the general view j expressed by trade union lead ers in Sydney to a proposal I made last Friday by Victorian ! ALP Senator P. J. Kenrielly j that the ALP and DLP should ) merge. I Trade unionists point out that the I DLP has deliberately set its task I to- keep the Labor Party out of I office by allocating its preferences I to the Liberal and Country Parties, I and that the policies of the DLP j are very often even more reaction- j ary than those of the Menzies Gov- | ernment. | The aim of. employers at all times | has been to disunite the working I class and to turn the labor move- j ment to the right, j It is wide knowledge throughout S the labor movement that the DLP | is the political front for the Na- | tional Civic Council with Santa- i maria as its national president. I In a recent report to the Federal j Executive of the ALP, its Federal | Secretary (Mr. C Wyndham) said: ! "Membership (of the NCC) is open j to persons who belong to the Lib. | eral Party Country Party and Democratic Labor Party, but not to members of the ALP." "The NCC claims to be a non- political body in that it does not support any one political party nor does it sponsor candidates for pub lic office, The latter statement is true but only insofar as that cer tain candidates of the DLP do not label themselves NCC. The first claim is certainly not true as San- tamaria's own statements bear out. He has several times proclaimed his support for the DLP and is mild in his criticism of the LCP. "The NCC constantly attacks the Australian Labor Party and uses every device to smear is leaders. "Santamaria's claim that it is de dicated to fighting Communism in political and industrial life appears true only on the surface. He and his organisation will oppose anyone who opposes him or it." Mr. Wyndham also declared that the NCC was not a democratic or ganisation. "It is controlled and dominated by a national executive of three officers, including Santamaria as national president, and six national officers— one for each State." "These national officers are per manent and so are the executive officers. The only body which can dismiss any or all of the national executive is the national executive itself," Mr. Wyndham said. The conference condemned the NCC for the court ballots imposed on the union, for its wages policy its organised disruption of trade union unity and its support for the DLP with preferences to Liberal Governments. "These policies can only assist monopoly employer interests", con- ference said. Way forward The Federal conference of the Building Workers' Industrial Un ion last September in Brisbane said: "The way forward is not the way of the monopolists or Menzies or the DLP— it is the way of militant working class struggle in opposition to monopoly for peace and progress." Conference was critical 01 "some union officials and ALP leaders who have sought to accommodate themselves and the workers to the wishes of the _employe> and their ptess experts'." An earlier conference condemned a bogus carpenters' rank and file committee in Queensland which in cluded people not in the union C&lt; nference said that spokesmen lor this bogus committee "are self- confessed members of the NCC-Qld. Labox Party grouper organisation." This organisation sought and obtained a court conducted ballot in Queensland, but their candi dates were heavily defeated in the election. Federal officers of the Waterside Workers' Federation point out that a conference as far back as 1958 condemned the activities of "DLP groupers within its ranks". Members were called on to re ject "the anti-Federation rag Vigilante' and its disruptive pro paganda". All members were "urged irre spective of political beliefs to work together in unity for the early achievement of the demands and policy of the Federation." | UViViViV.v.v.v.v.y.%' T.v.v.v.v.v '.v.v.v.y.y.'.v.v.v.v.v.v.V'V.v-X'X-Xv. i "IF I'VE GOTTA GO . . . THEY'VE JUST GOTTA GO!" i 