 Communists in Adelaide elections i yDELAIDE: The Communist Party is standing two can didates in the Adelaide muni cipal elections, to be held or Saturday, July 3. They are Mr Don Moir (Hilton Ward, Wes&lt; Torrens Council), and Mr. Rosc Delaine (Woodville Ward Woodville Council). The candidates declare that Federal finance should not come from taxa tion on the working people, but rather by heavy taxing of the wealthy monopoly companies. It can also come from the millions spent on wars of intervention in the affairs of Asian neighbors, if such a policy was reversed to one of friend ship and trade. Communist candidates in local councils will give a tremendous lift o the campaign that part of Federal revenue be drafted to local govern- uent. Already supported by wide sections of the people, this policy, if imple mented, would mean a great advance in local development. It is the alternative to the practice of in creasing council rates to which Communists are completely opposed. Another point of policy is that big manufacturing and - commercial pre mises that are used for profit making should pay higher rates than house holders. is would provide a source of finance for much work in the wards. On the question of democracy, CPA candidates say that all residents should have the right to vote in council elections as for parliament. This would cut out non-residential voting and give many more people, particularly women, the right to vote. The candidates stand for the aboli tion of Government levies for hos pitals and fire brigades, for Govern ments to pay rates on premises in council areas and for all petrol tax to be available for road construction They also urge that as the Local Government Act now allows rebates or remissions to pensioners, this power should be used sympathetically. Particular items of need for the two wards where the candidates are standing are improved lighting and footpaths (Hilton Ward) and provi sion of road safety measures, and extra transport facilities (Woodville Ward). Both wards need improved recreational facilities. Both candidates are family men and active trade unionists. Mr. Moir is a member of the Executive of the j Painters' Union, while Mr. Delaine is | active in the Waterside Workers | Sport and Social Club. Mr. Moir is | also a member of the Cowandilla | School Committee. J Mr. D. Moir Mr. R. Delaine \ I 1 If 