 [?] LA£T Sunday afternoon Channel 2 presented "Abe Lincoln in Illinois", a film made in 1940 and based on the play by the distinguished American writer Robert Sherwood. It was a film about politics and a man who was a great politican and statesman. At the time when the film was made the menace of fascism was awakening the conscience of free dom loving people and "Abe Lincoln in Illinois" reflected a positive American attitude. Many of Lincoln's speeches on the rights of freedom and self determin ation irrespective of race or nationa lity were an integral part of the film. On hearing them one realises how much meaning they have today. The racial question in the United States is as alive now as in Lincoln's time, and American aggression in Vietnam makes a mockery of Lin coln's words that "America should not be a terror to the world but an inspiration to it." Films like "Abe Lincoln in Illinois" are a rarity these days, especially on television, but during the past few weeks the local channels have devoted quite a bit of time to the Vietnam crisis and other major poli tical, questions. There is no doubt that Australian TV- is giving mora attention than formerly to programmes on current evevls. There have been at least half a dr-zeiv discussions and interviews on Vietnam including one at the Oxfc ::r\ Union where Cabot Lodge, Ameris. -n Ambassador to Vietnam, was gi\ en a most uncomfortable time by the students; and two state ments by American churchmen re cently in Vietnam. Also Menzies' press interview where his : -egant and uncompromis ing support c American policy con trasted with Uit statement by the Bishop on "Peo, ".e" the night be fore and the Negro Minister on "Four Corners" last Saturday night. The TV camera has a a very discern- iug eye and Menzies' press conference did his . public image little good. Overseas visitors have criticised Australian television for its lack of programmes on political and social problems, but it seems that local channels are becoming aware of the vide audience attracted by such pro- mmes. —EILEEN ALLISON. 