 | Flying saucers I and the little I green men By KATH OLIVE rLYING saucers and little ' green men from Mars are always good for a column or E en I n the daily press. Latest 1 I offering a few weeks ago, a full page in one Sunday paper, was as interesting a mixture of fact and fantasy as one could hope to see. Half the article set out to "prove" that people living in a superior civil isation on the high plateaus of the Andes (South America) between 9,000 and 30,000 years ago, had at some time migrated into space, and were now seeking to return to earth. "Evidence" for this included a number of well-known scientific facts, some of them quoted without meticulous attention to detail, but nonetheless recognisible. For ex ample: People live at levels of 12,000 to ( 22,000 feet, where the oxygen pres sure is 50 per cent less than at sea level. True. These people have two or three more pints of blood than we have, and have 8 million red corpuscles per cubic millimetre of blood, whereas we have only 5 mil lion. The increased number in persons at high altitudes is not a matter of mystery and wonder, nor is it con fined to South America Any one going to any high altitude (climbing Mt. Everest for example) develops a raised red cell count due to the body's ability to adapt itself to new situations. Where the oxygen pressure is lowered, the red cells are brought out of storage depots and put into circulation as an im mediate measure. The writer says that recent car- !bon tests have confirmed the pres ence of man in that area 9,000 years ago, and other tests suggest that up to ?0,000 years ago there existed a highly developed civilisation. He remarks that the extremely rugged terrain gives the impression of another planet, and asks: "Does all this add up to a great aerial ' migration thousands of years ago? "Is it possible that some of them are trying to return here?" One can but reply: "Why should it mean this?" All the author has described are normal physiological reactions which you or I would also make if we lived there. And the extraordinarily rugged terrain should merely suggest that we still have a lot to learn about our own Planet. The five-mile depths of the ocean would seem as strange. The presence of human and pre human life 9,000 to 30,000 years age ln any parts of the earth has beer well established. They have uncovered evidence eg- from Central Africa) of man's ancestors making tools up to 600, 00(; I years ago. The earth yields up it? ecrets slowly, and one must under and the language of rocks, caves, infClent river beds, fossils, etc., to uuerpret one's discoveries, bui "luch has been unravelled. connectIon, two books ob mame at New World Bookshop Npw iid Union Street Books chii! are wonderful for both m" » and adults. "Prehistoric tho v Czech publication combines fes T eological knowledge of Pro of Jrtse£. Ausnsta and the talents Msm t! Burian, while "How stanrii601116 a Giant" by the out shak ri ovlet eflncator Ilya Mar i Sepal ?en'n.ame M. Ilyin) and Y. | sal is a joy to read. To understand the possibilities oi life on other planets one must find the answer to an even harder ques tion— "What is life?" Scientists still cannot answer this one, but their increasing knowledge is bringing them closer to it, and we do know enough to make some statements about life on other planets with confidence. The idea that life was somehow breathed into otherwise lifeless mat ter by some sort of "life-giving spirit" has persisted for many thousands of years to the present day. This concept had its origins in the limited facilities for observing nature (no microscopes for example) so that worms and flies appeared to arise spontaneously from dirt, frogs from river mud, insects from the ground. So, being brought up with the idea of the "life-giving spirit", it is not hard for us to accept the possibility of life on other worlds without any knowledge of whether the temper ature and moisture, the atmospheric gases and the rest of the environ ment is one in which life is possible. Science can now say, however, under what circumstances life must he considered possible or not pos sible. Frederich Engels, whose capacity as a scientist is not sufficiently re cognised, wrote in 1874 that "Life is the mode of existence of protein bodies", a particularly brilliant ob servation as the chemical composi tion and nature of protein was at that time little known. We now know a lot about protein, particularly that it is the essential constituent protoplasm, which is the substance of living cells. Its "mode of existence" is confined within fairly narrow limits. For example, each type of organ ism has its own ideal temperature. Some . bacteria work best at low temperatures, some at our own body heat, yet others at higher temper atures, but despite this the tem perature range within which life is possible is quite narrow. And tem perature is only one of a large num ber of factors which cannot vary too much if proteins are to retain their living character. Some scientists are approaching the question "What is life" by trying to find out by what processes liv ing cells reproduce their; own pro tein. They start from the complex substances and work back. Despite the fact that protein is built of a fairly small number of simple elements (carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur), there is a tremendous variety of protein, and each species always makes its own particular kinds, which differ from those of other species. Biochemists have found that certain characteristics of a particul ar protein depend on the order in which its building blocks or units are arranged. There are about 25 of these units (amino acids) and the cells can use ariy number of these or all of them, arranged in an order which is always the same for a particular species. This explains the enormous possi iilities of variety. We know too, how the body cells ;tore this knowledge of- the order of its protein units, how they put it into practice, and how they pass it on to the next generation. Other scientists like Soviet Acade mician A. I. Oparin have started with the elementary substances, carbon and hydrogen, scattered in the form of separate atoms in the red-hot atmospheres of the stars, and observed how these atoms later joined together in those atmospheres which have cooled a little. With time, these hydrocarbons were transformed into the simplest organic substances by joining with oxygen, and later in the waters of the primitive oceans formed more complex compounds and finally proteins. Thus the material of which the bodies of plants and animals are formed came into being, at first ex isting in a dissolved state and later taking on a definite structure which divided it off from its immediate environment. With the appearance of a cellular form, life appeared as we know it. Thus Oparin, with a tremendous wealth of information, could sub stantiate what , Engels had the in sight to see in the infancy of protein chemistry, that "life is the mode of existence of protein bodies." Hence any speculation as to the existence of life on the other planets and in other solar systems which does not base itself on present-day knowledge of the development of living matter from simpler sub stances, on the conditions necessary for this development, and on the environmental limits within which life is possible, can be dismissed as idle speculation. 