 Union preferences weaken unity DERTH: On June 22, Indus trial Commissioner Kelly, granted the Australasian So ciety of Engineers, the Elec- trical Trades Union and the Moulders' Union "prefer ence" in private metal shops in the South West Lands Division (covering Perth, south of Geraldton, the South West and Albany). He refused a similar application from the Amalgamated Engineering Union and the Boilermakers' Union, even though these two have "prefer ence" with the others under a num ber of private and government awards in the same area. Commissioner Kelly specifically excluded the AEU and Boilermakers because of their activities to gain higher wages in the form of over- award payments for their members. No doubt many metal trades work ers will wonder what this decision actually means. It does not mean that members of the AEU and Boilermakers have to leave their union to join the ASE or ETU. It does not mean that the AEU and Boilermakers are prevented from joining up new members. a Nor does it mean than an ASE or ETU member can demand a job from an employer in prefer ence to an AEU man. 'hat is what it does mean:— ?he ASE or ETU can send a "properly accredited" repre- j ;entative into a workplace where | there are non-unionists, ask them to join and at the same time give them a copy, of the Union rule book, a copy of Kelly's decision, and an enrolment form. 3uch a non-unionist then has 7 | days in which to join the Union that approached him, otherwise he can he dealt with by law. Any non-unionist can apply to the Registrar of the Industrial Com mission for exemption on religious or other grounds. An unemployed member of the ASE, ETU or Moulders, who is "well-conducted, adequately ex perienced and competent" can demand of an employer that he dismiss a non-unionist of equal qualifications and give the Union member the job. It is therefore clear from the above that Kelly's de.cision does give the ASE and ETU a tremendous advantage in recruiting new mem bers from among non-unionists of whom there are some thousands in the area covered by the decision. On the other hand, the AEU and Boilermakers do not have any right to insist that a non-unionist join, but must continue their efforts to 1 obtain new members on a voluntary | basis. 1 