 SA Aboriginal welfare conference UMifiBgBifliiri bWir ,K, iftaynafrL - vrrmzr.Trrrx.mnm HBMI. JLIHI u.iny wyww m y siLM-uerrarrM Integration still a very dirty word ADELAIDE : The third biennial Aboriginal wel fare conference recently concluded has adopted a more flexible attitude on assimilation . that is not in consistent Afith the concept of integration. |"HE conference was attended by State! Ministers, senior departmental officials and the Administration of the Northern Territory. Its deliberations ou'de Governments in their official policy. Previous conferences advanced a nolicv of assimilation in which such flexibility was lacking. It appeared to mean the complete absorbing of the Aboriginal people into the white, community, thus losing their separate identity and cultural heritage. However, on this occasion the con ference spoke of Aborigines having the right "to choose" assimilation. No doubt the cnange in approach has been influenced by widespread criticism of complete assimilation as an official policy. However, the conference did not go far enough in its deliberations as to indicate firmly . and clearly that integration was a soundly-based con cept which should be adopted as part of official policy. Integration preserves the right of Aborigines to exist as a separate communitv. The SA Labor Govern ment has taken a stand along these lines SA Minister for Aboriginal Affairs (Mr. Dunstan) said the Government stood for "self-determination." j He said the Aborigines should have ' the right to choose — to be assimilated; to live as an integrated group; to live on a reserve; . to continue their tribal customs and beliefs. Public interest has been aroused in the State' Government's plan to provide 20-acre irrigated fruit blocks for Aboriginal families at the Gerard Aboriginal Reserve near Winkie, m the Upper Murray. A community centre run by a Council of Aborigines has been estab lished on the reserve, which contains 30 families— nearly 100 people. The Gerard Reserve project has been commended by Mr. Jerry Mason; Aboriginal chairman of Council. A Communist Party spokesman said that it is. the right of Aborigines exist as a natipnal minority, to p serve their own culture, have i land rights, develop their o\ economic projects and to be 'integrated part of the Australian country. However, where they » the Aborigines should have the rs to be assimilated. He said that 'the more flee stand taken at the recent con is only a tiny step forward- 