 — . - -« t. _ — I Where is the j i fish famine? ! I SYDNEY: Two Ital- | ians were sitting 1 on the edge of the I wharf at Woolloomoo- j loo, m Sydney, dis- I cussing the price of j fish. 1 One is the owner of a | medium sized fishing | trawler, his mate had | given the game away a j couple of years ago be- cause he could not make I a living. I "I was just discussing with f my friend Eanni the price of | fish in the shops and the price | fishermen get," the ex-fisher- | man told two Tribune reporters I who interrupted their quiet con- I versation. I The interview was prompted I by recent newspaper reports of | fishermen on the NSW South | Coast who were said to I be dumping up to 11 million S lb. of fish at sea each year. ! A spokesman from the Ulla- | dulla Fishermen's Co-operative said the reason for the dumping I was that South Coast fishermen I could not afford to market it in j Sydney, according to press re- I ports. 1 These reports also said the | Master Fish Merchants' Asso- | ciation president blamed the re- ! cent "shortage" of fresh fish at I the City markets on the fisher- | men who "have let the local ! market go to hell." 1 A temporary shortage was I brought about because of a hold !up in supplies of frozen fish from South Africa. To overcome this shortage it was announced that frozen fish was to be imported from the ! People's Republic of China. I South Coast fishermen say that the average return to fishermen over the past six months for flathead was 1/4 a lb. and at this price they could not afford to land their catches. The men were now being ? condemned by the fish mer- f chants for fishing for tuna. | Although this export industry jj yields a better return for fish- ? ermen it is controlled by about 9 five major companies. g The co-operatives needed their \ own shore installations and can- ? neries, the fishermen said. I The Sydney fishermen, when interviewed, -confirmed for Tri- g bune the low level of the return f they received from local prices. ( They pointed out that often g all they get for flathead was i 5d. a lb. | Eanni is repaying a loan on g the second-hand trawler at the | rate of £300 a month. g He pays 15 per cent to the I markets as commission for the \ sale of each catch. I Other expenses include: diesel I oil, four tons of ice for each g trip at £5 a ton, transport costs, | boxes. £150 per quarter insur- a ance on the boat and replace- ' ment of gear. | He showed a receipt of £32/10/- j for a coil of rope. j "I need to replace one of I these coils ea 4 week," he said., g "At the enu of some months g I have nothing left for my own | wages after paying expenses," he I said. | Boycott' South j African goods j One important aspect that I has come to light from this a temporary fish shortage is the \ fact that fish shops have for 9 some time been using frozen I fish from South Africa as their 1 main cooking fish. I This use of hake from South j Africa was revealed by Tribune j last year, -in support of the J trade unic. movement's ban "on I South African goods as a pro- | test against apartheid. j The other side of the picture | also shows that the widespread | use of this "cheap" South Af- j rican fish has seriously affect- | ed the livelihood, of local fisher- J men. I 