 "END THE WAR!" SAYS SYDNEY DEMONSTRATION SYDNEY : More than 450 people demonstrated in Martin Place last Friday evening against the Federal Government's Vietnam policy. THEY called for the with- drawal of all foreign troops in Vietnam and for a negotiated settlement on the basis of the Geneva Agreement. Police remained orderly, and kept the demonstration moving up and down the footpath out side the Federal Parliamentary offices. After distributing leaflets the de monstration, consisting mainly of young people, moved off to a brief meeting in Wynyard Park. Walking down George Street they passed through Wynyard Railway Station, where the youth in parti cular sang songs and chanted slogans. The demonstration was organised by the Vietnam Action Committee. Delegates organised by the Save Our Sons movement from Brisbane, Sydney, Newcastle and Melbourne on Tuesday started a three-day anti- conscription lobby with Federal MP's and Senators at Parliament House, Canberra. Big demonstrations of protest against conscription are also ex pected to take place in Sydney and Melbourne next Wednesday, Septem ber 29— the date of the next National Service Trainee intake. The demonstrations, plans for which are already well advanced, reflect the growing of public oppo sition to the Menzies Government's conscription program— the bolster for its foreign policy. The Melbourne demonstration will commence at 7.30 p.m. at the Army intake depot— Swan Street near the Velodrome. Taking part will be the newly formed Youth Campaign Against conscription, student delegations from Melbourne and Monash Univer sities, women from the Save Our Sons Committee, the Youth Peace Group and other citizens active in the anti-conscription and the Viet nam war campaigns. The Youth Campaign against Con scription in Sydney, have issued a leaflet advertising a demonstration against conscription on Central Rail way station at 7 p.m., Wednesday, September 29. They are also holding a rally at the 2GB Auditorium on Sunday, September 26 at 2.30 p.m. The Save Our Sons Movement is holding a protest vigil outside Mar- rickville Army Depot, also on Sep tember 29, from 9 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. It will also join in the vigil at Central Railway station at 7 p.m. A successful rally was held by the Hughes federal ALP electorate council last Friday night, Miranda School of Arts being filled to capa city to hear Senator J. Wheeldon, Rev. W. R. Cowper, Mrs. Phyllis Latona, Senator D. McClelland and Mr. Leslie Johnson, MHR, denounce the Vietnam war. The speakers were, enthusistically - received. On the same night 80 people at tended a "Forum on Vietnam" in the Masonic Hall, St. Ives, where Sena tor L. K. Murphy and Dr. I. V. Newman put the case for ' peace against Mr. W. C. Wentworth and Mr. O. Harries, with Alderman R. S. Turner in the chair. The meeting was organised by Mr. M. Bitel. 