 GLADSTONE: iul.—m,iiuiMiLUi— ,xi"TrrnnTWi"TTnTrTnTnwiMiiHiii»iiifTiMnnniimNBi«iiBiiiiiiiBBmwmTiTinnrnn A boom town, but for whom? From PETE THOMAS in Brisbane. By the Queensland Nicklin Government formula , Gladstone should he a boom town f with development spreading bene fits throughout that community , and beyond . Things certainly are haDneninp in that Central Queensland tnwn milps by rail north of Brisbane and with a population now approaching 8000. Between the Sunshine Route" railway and the foreshore, about three miles from Glad stones main post office, big installations are rising for a £52 million alumina plant, to be owned by an American-French-British-Australian group, under dominant US control. There is a work-force now of about 650 on the site. This may grow to almost 2000 by the middle of next year. yHE Gladstone plant, to be spread over 1200 acres on Parsons Point, is to be owned by Queensland Alu mina, which consists of Kai ser Aluminium & Chemical Corporation of USA (52 per cent) , Aluminium of Canada (20 per cent), Pechiney of France (20 per cent) and Conzinc Rio Tinto of Aus tralia. which is an offshoot of the aiant Consolidated Zinc & Rio Tinto empire (8 per cent). Using the red tiebbly bauxite from, Weipa (on Cape York) — "the world's finest and most accessible high-grade deposit of bauxite," the Kaiser group call it — the Gladstone alumina plant will from 1967 turn out an initial 600,000 tons a' year of alumina, the white powder which is the mid-way stage between bauxite and aluminium. Capital expenditure by the State Government (from public funds) on "supporting facilities" for the alumina plant is reckoned at £4 million. Alongside the railway can he seen also, preliminary earth work for what will be .the £13 million Moura-Glad- stone railway, to bring some five mil lion tons of coal a year for export through Gladstone. The Harbor Board has committed itself to an expenditure of about £2 million for facilities, causeway, jetty and wharf for handling the alumina plant's incoming bauxite and out going alumina. Other wharf extensions are undei way, for the coal, wheat and othei cargoes. A £2i million Council scheme has been undertaken to augment the water supply (the alumina plant will want about two million gallons s day). On Barneys Point (between the alumina-plant site and the Gladstone township), housing construction is go ing on. A few miles out of town, work pro ceeds on a new railway bridge ovei the Calliope. A lot of money is being made oul of all this work. Overseas and Australian contrac tors include Kaiser Engineers 8c Con structors, of USA (design & construe tion management of the alumins plant), Transfields (an offshoot o: European interests), IHI of Japan Wimpey (British), Thiess, Evan: Deakin, Hornibrook and others— the are all in it, and: who doubts tha they're getting profit in big bundles' But what does it all mean to the In April, the Courier-Mail quoted people in Gladstone — the long-time "town leaders" (not union leaders!) residents, and workers who have gone as complaining of lack of unskilled there for Work? For them, Gladstone labor in Gladstone. Encouraged by development has tints less rosy than such statements, men have gone there for the big employers. looking for laboring work. Some workers get pays which may At J-30 on «he Monday morning 1 ; sound good. But, tor that money, Yas 'herf- th«e were about 30 at workers on the alumina project have . Employment Office. A local un- ' to work six days a week and (many came up and said: Isthis all ' of them) nine hours a day. Their site »ere are taJaV "ve 60 ,to allowance (£3 a week) falls short of fare a Monday." A few minutes ; the original demand and was won there was a pick-up there for ! only after sustained pressure (includ- laborers. The number who got jobs ' ing the Queensland Trades & Labor !? .. was— four. . Council rail at that time that work- Gladstone workers, as they see the era not accept jobs at the refinery Mumma plant going up for a foreign- project until certain claims were dominated group, remember what fL.pA happened to them at the hands of a ; ' US monopoly: Swifts. : Rnrpnrlr As Christmas 1963 approached, 5 Swifts abruptly announced that it had | Hundreds of workers on the alum- sold the Gladstone meatworks site : ina project live in barracks: the to the alumina group and was clos- Kaiser barracks (which are fairly ing down. The jobs of hundreds of 1 good) or the Transfield barracks Gladstone men and women vanished (which are not). almost overnight. The number of em- ; A brochure obtained at the Town ployees at the alumina plant when 5 Hall says that Gladstone's housing it is operating (about 600) will be " situation is "acute" and that price fewer than Swifts meatworks used of land has risen. "It's an under- to employ at the flush of the season. statement," said, a real estate agent # r whom I asked about this. Waterfront lobs , For want of anything better, a num- ber of families live in dusty caravan fHERE'S no bright future for the parks, and pay for this. Some un- wharfies here," said Rusty Fer- employed workers sleep in their cars, guson. Others said much the same. Gladstone parents worry about job Rusty Ferguson (everyone calls him - prospects for school-leavers. Appren- Rusty) is secretary of the Gladstone i ticeships are few. Jobs for girls and branch of the Waterside Workers' E, women are limited ("cook; house- Federation and also is secretary of , maids, islands; stenographer; bar- the Gladstone Trades & Labor Coun- 5 maid" were all that were shown on cil. He's a big man physically, and f the Commonwealth Employment Of- in his local standing too. t fice board for women at the begin- At one time, wharfies say, there ? ning of last week). used to be up to 140 watersiders in Gladstone in the meat season. Now there are fewer than 70 watersiders at Gladstone — and a while ago there was no work for them for three weeks. There's a lot of Moura coal going through Gladstone, and there'll be more. But, under mechanised meth ods, it pours into ships without any waterside worker being employed "n it. The alumina wharves? "Were n-jp- ing there'll be work for some wa in siders there," one of the wharfies said. But he didn't sound over conli- ient. Caravan park f or j share a room? As the train neared Gladstone a chap asked: "Got somewhere fo stay?" Yes. "Lucky for you," he said. Others in Gladstone to work &lt;or to look for work) aren't so lucky; for example, families despairing of getting anything better than a dusty caravan park; unemployed paying in/- a night (or "2op' or ""more with break- fast) to share a room with three or four others. Because the Nicklin-monopunes "development" has been launched without adequate housing and other programs alongside it, rents and land prices have soared. A Gladstone real estate agent said: "A block of land that would ha/e been £300 three years ago would be £1500 now— and you'd be lucky to get it at all." . As for houses for renting, he said: "You feel sorry for people who come looking for these." One woman, with two children, said that they had been at the show ground for almost two months, pay ing £8 a week as rent for the caravan and £2/5/- a week as fee for use of the ground. The showground, about a mile from the post office, shows what the situa tion has meant to a number of fami lies. Families are paying £2/5/- a week to have their caravans there and to use the power and woefully scant other facilities. On the day I looked at it, there were over 30 caravans there. One of the caravan families, I was told has seven children. There is only one shower (no bath) for women and one shower for men. There is no laundry. Some women have put their own washing machines in what, at show-time, are the bars. One alumina-project worker sum med up what a lot are saying "The alumina crowd," he said, "boast that they're spending £52 mil lion on the -plant and that the Govern ment is spending £4 million on work for it. "Then wh can't they find enough for a proper housing program so that working men and their families can live decently?" What's the answer? The alumina plant will provide an outlet for Weipa bauxite. It will add a giant new plant to Australia's in dustrial makeup. Australia needs that. But what Gladstone, and every where else, need most is a pattern of continuing and balanced expansion, not a peak-and-trough, lopsided movement. Monopolies take what they want, when they want it, and how they want it— all according to what profit is in it for them. Kaiser and Qld. Alumina build up to a construction work-force of about 200Q next year, then the year after that its construction jobs will have all finished. What happens to the 2000 work-force? That's not Kaiser's worry. Four million pounds of public money could da something towards giving Gladstone an economic bal ance. It could be a down-payment towards an aluminium smelter, to finish the bauxite-alumina-alumin ium process. Or it could finance the setting-up of other enterprises which would provide jobs for school-leavers as well as adults. It is more than time for Australians to demand that Australian industries and resources be under Australian control, for Australians' benefit. That can best be done by setting up public enterprises. When we establish that Govern ments must pursue policies for the people, and not for monopolies, then Gladstone and our other centres can have real development, real stability: the ..benefits, without the insecurity that 13 inescapable when monopolies have their way. WHARFIES' leaders in Gladstone. Left to right: Vigilance Officer Robbie Doherty, sec retary Rusty Ferguson and president Martin Treseder. 