 Fruits of Vietnam war : New threat to living y standards Latest forecasts by Australian economic and business experts of worse economic burdens for the ' working people have highlighted the importance of the Communist 1 Party's demand for a £22 basic wage and control of prices. MANY trade unions are dis cussing campaign action to defend workers' living standards against the Federal Govern ment's predicted "horror bud get". Last weekend on the ABC "Four Corners" TV program, economics and business experts M. Newton, J. Per kins and J. Broinowski warned against: — Higher taxes. - Further price inflation. Growth of unemployment. Federal Treasurer Holt has already admitted his plan for higher taxation. The most important reason given of ficially is the projected £80 to £90 mil lion increase in arms expenditure for the coming year. The three TV commentators gave a strong warning that the Federal Gov ernment was so far failing to cope with the solution of the adverse drain of overseas payments, which needed to be stabilised by 1966. £13m deficit The deficit of £113 million in the 11 months to the end of May is the deepest "red" entry since 1960. Australia's wool cheque is down £82 million for the 11 months of the 1964-65 season. The average price of wool 17 per cent below the average for the corresponding period last year. Heavy sheep losses through drought will mean a much smaller wool clip in the coming season. The announcement that one of the Big Three American motor monopo lies, Ford, will raise £10 million in Australia to expand plant illustrates the undermining of the economy by . big foreign interests. ? Ford are launching a big expansion program without investing one penny of new US capital. They are the first big firm to implement here US Presi dent Johnson's call for US investors to send home more of their overseas profits and to raise new capital in the countries they are exploiting. Steel offer Sir Robert Menzies' publicised plea to Johnson for special treat ment for Australia has thus been brushed aside on the basis that US interests are more important than Australian. In New South Wales, the Askin Government has ; taken the Liberal Party's policy of handing over resources to foreign capital further with its invitation to Japanese or other overseas interests to set up a second steel industry. The policy of the Communist Party and important sections of the trade unions and Labor Party is for nation alisation of this key industry, with establishment of a state-owned steel works as a possible first step. Growing uncertainty about the con sequences of American policy in Viet nam was seen by stock market an alysts as one cause of last week's dramatic fall in share prices on Syd ney and other world stock exchanges. In Sydney shares had their heaviest : setback since the "Black Wednesday" reaction to Holt's credit squeeze on November 16, 1960. There were similar sharp falls ex perienced in New York, London, Paris, , Tokyo and other stock exchanges throughout the capitalist world. In America, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Mr. W. McChesney Martin, gave impetus to the down swing by likening the state of the U.S. economy to 1929. \ v t ; ' : ; 