 r j j m | TRIBUNE | I Fact and fantasy I ! |T is important to separate fact from fantasy in the dan- j I gerous war situation centred on Vietnam. j I The United States itself has now dropped the fantasy j I that its troops were just "advisers" to South Vietnam | I puppet troops. j ! Week by week, it is now committing acts of major j j aggression with squadrons of US Air Force bombers against ! | North Vietnamese towns. I | Whole units of US Marines are going into action as ! | ground forces against the people of South Vietnam. These ! j are facts. j j American and British statements and actions indicate j | that they are building their main concentrations of military j I force in SE Asia and the Western Pacific and that, beyond j I their wars against national independence movements, China j | is their prime military target. j I Some reports indicate that Washington is seeking an ! j early excuse to extend its war of air raids beypnd North ! | Vietnam and into China itself. j ! The American "warhavyk" generals openly flaunt the j I view that this could be done with impunity from aircraft j I carriers which China would not have the means to destroy, j | "COMMUNIST AGGRESSION" j s Big-scale US armed intervention in Vietnam is a fact, j j The claim that it is directed against "Chinese Communist j ! aggression" is fantasy. j ! The Chinese People's Republic has no troops outside j j China's borders. While it has made strong warnings to ! ' the USA over the recent air raids in Vietnam, China has | j not attacked any American forces or positions. j j On the other hand, the main fact is that the people of j | South Vietnam are defeating the US interventionists. The j j tale that the USA is "defending democracy" there is pure j ! fantasy, since every Saigon government has arisen from some | ! kind of coup. ' | I The recent Hanoi agreement between the Soviet Union ! j and the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, on military j j measures to be taken to rebuff US attacks, is another big j | fact that will have a decisive result. j j It underlines the further fact that it is the Soviet Union j j that carries the main burden of defence of any of the j j' Socialist countries against imperialist aggression- — whether j j it be against Vietnam, Korea. China itself, Cuba or any j j other. I | Demonstrations and other actions, such as those seen j | for three successive days in Sydney last week, also assist j ! the struggle for peace and freedom, representing as they j ! do the growing body of thousands of Australian people j j firmly opposed to the war policy of the Washington- j j Canberra axis. j i UNITY THE KEY j I | Similar demonstrations have occurred in many capitalist I I countries and a number of socialist capitals, including j ! Moscow, where a clash was reported between students and j I Soviet militiamen outside the US Embassy. j j It would be fantastic indeed if differences of opinion j | ower how best to demonstrate outside a US Embassy were | allowed to overshadow the task of building unity among the j socialist nations — particularly the USSR and China — around 1 j the defence of Vietnamese independence and world peace. I Such p thing could only encouraoe the US agoressors I to spread the war and prolong the suffering of the Vietna- | mese Deonle. Today's uraent need is the stepp-nq up of the most | widespread united action to stop the US expansion of the | war, and to begin the negotiation of a peaceful settlement | based on withdrawal of all foreign troops from Vietnam j and the guaranteeing of that country's independence. 