 I Exploding tall tales Department: t MENZIES CLAIM IS > 1 REBUTTED BY SAKOfTS EMBASSY Prime Minister Menzies' recent claim that North Vietnam insti gated the Vietnam war in 1959 has been exploded by none other than the South Vietnam Embassy in Canberra . KAENZIES, at his recent press conference, claimed that in 1959 the Saigon regime's "eco nomy was beginning to flour ish" and develop stability, but then North Vietnam triggered off a full-scale guerilla war in the south. This had, he said, led to US (intervention. I However, the South Vietnam Era: ? bassy in Canberra, in a recent pub- 1 lication. "The Revolution of Novem- 1 ber 1963", tore to pieces Ngo Dinh I Diem, ruler (on America's behalf) of I South Vietnam from 1954 to 1963. It said nothing about "stability" and a "flourishing economy". It said that for nine years— includ ing, of course, 1959— "the Diem Gov ernment pursued a dictatorial and tyrannical policy. "Power was concentrated in the hands of the family and those of their close, incompetent and interested col laborators." ' It referred to Diem's "corrupt regime" as being guilty of "oppres- Ision and exploitation". That gives clear reason for the guer rilla upsurge. No eflecHon In a series of two articles in The Nation recently two American experts on Asia give additional reasons for the renewed revolt — that the South Vietnamese people had been refused the elections promised under the Gen- | eva agreements of 1954. ! The experts are Professors McT. Kahn and John W. Lewis, Professors of Government at Cornell University. | They recall that the Geneva agree- ii ments were signed after the French had been- defeated at Dien Bien Phu in 1954. They note the provision that the defeated French forces would re group to the south of the 17th parallel and the patriot "Vietminh" forces to the north, pending departure of the French and the holding of general elections over the whole of Vietnam in 1956. Till 1956 the French were to be responsible for enforcing the agree ment in the south. However, as Professors Kahn and Lewis say (The Nation, May 29, 1965): "In anticipation of these elections (and also because of its pre-occupa- tion with the economic rehabilitation of the north) the Vietminh initially honored a central provision of the Accords and abstained from militant tactics in the south." Defied treaty However "the Vietpiinh came to realise in 1955-56 that the French were disengaging from the . responsibilities they had assumed at Geneva— thereby permitting the introduction of an in creased American presence— and that elections were not going to be held. "When on July 16, 1955 the Diem Government announced, with US back ing, that it would defy the provision Calling for national elections, it violat ed a central condition which had made the Geneva Accords acceptable to the Vietminh". As a result of this, the professors add, the US could not legitimately object when "from 1958" the "Viet- cong" (formerly Vietminh) adopted increasingly militant tactics. In a following article, on June 12, the professors say that today the liberation movement has "good reason to be embittered over the fact that in the Geneva negotiations the con cessions which it made were futile be cause a central clause of the Accords- was not honored." In his book "Vietnam, Inside Story of the Guerilla War," Australian journalist Wilfred G. Burchett tells how he met Liberation fighters in south Vietnam who gave another reason for the armed rising: the breach of another Geneva provision, guaranteeing freedom of persecution pending the general elections. Disregarding this, the Diem Gov ernment in the south took advantage of the withdrawal north of the Viet minh army to shoot down, or jail thousands of Vietminh sympathisers in the south. Had they not taken up arms in self- defence they might have been wiped out to a man. 