 Freedom and the creative artist ,6We must discuss all things, . . ' k - : r— Literature and all other forms of artistic work are constantly subjects ot controversy, reflecting the whole battle of ideas in society. Such controversy exists in both socialist and capitalist countries, though the condition of artists is very different in these two categories. In recent years, discussion has been developing in the world Communist t movement on these, issues. Tribune this week publishes an appropriate part of the opening report to the recent central committee meeting of the Com- v ' munist Party of Australia, in the hope that it will stimulate further discussion. v- Making the report, CPA Vice Chairman L. Aarons said: "If we are to become ' a mass Party, we . must discuss all the things that the working class and people discuss . . . -We feel that there should be no limits set to democratic v ' discussion and thrashing out of views, except those limits set by the principles . - - j; of democratic centralism and the Party Constitution. \ "Primarily this means that when majority decisions are reached on ques- r:- tions, the minority must carry out the decisions, while having the right to «= — - reserve their opinions and properly raise them in further discussion . . . "We want discussion and debate within the Party providing it is discussion to elucidate problems, improve the work of our Party and it is conducted within the limits of democratic centralism. "Nor should we fear discussion and debate publicly ..." "JHE ever - worsening spiritual poverty of life in Australia should be fought and exposed", he said. "We should deal particularly with the American cultural in vasion and corruption. "We fight /for an Australian cul ture, already developing despite the great difficulties posed by monopoly control over the mass media. "There has been a most important development in Australian literature and general culture and growing consciousness of the need to fight for this. i "We need only to point to the , development of a movement lead ing up to an Australia- wide con- : gress in television, the development fof the folk singing movement among young people and the grow- ing volume of creative literature being produced by Australians. "What about our own Communist approach on these matters? There is no doubt that we need to fight against narrowness, conservation and dogmatism towards the de velopment of literature, art and culture in general. "A correct Communist viewpoint on these matters needs to be thrashed out in discussion, con centrating not mainly on develop ments in other countries, but on Australian conditions. "Here we might consider such questions as attitude to art and to a broader appreciation of literature, drama, television programmes and so on. "If we think of the folk singing movement, we find' that some people concentrate on non-essentials such as length of hair or beards,, and fail to see the essential striving to wards a progressive stand in op position to war and the emptiness of life under capitalism, a revolt against bourgeois self-satisfaction, greed and profit-seeking. "We should strive to win over to the Communist standpoint those artists who are striving towards a progressive position in their own own way. "We - should not concentrate nar rowly upon form or a mechanical interpretation or socialist realism, but should concern ourselves more with the standpoint, the content of literature, art and culture in general. "We should not attempt to dic tate the form, how books should be written or pictures painted, nor should we reject any new forms simply because they are new, strange or even repellant to our personal taste. "We make it clear that we stand for the freedom of the creative artist, without the restrictions of profit-seeking or administrative con trol. "This does not mean that we should have less discussion and criticism of literature and art in Australia, but better criticism with a friendly, constructive attitude to new developments." i MAGAZINE PEOBBB — ' 1 — in — rnn — nf'rrmTfinTMiiTiTmriTmTTnimnMBWiMrT"'1--1— j 