 Ifrqchfy elegies on Vaelnam ggSSac11""— — New protest upsurge hits Menzies A new upsurge of church end academic criticism of Menzies1 "no negof iafions" stand Vietnam has followed a second Setter to Uemies by a group of Anglican bishops. LAST week it was announced that the Victorian Council of Churches, representing nine denominations, had added its support to the stand by the Anglican bishops. The council aKlrmed its belief that "our government should be seen to be taking positive steps, with others, towards an honorable and peaceful settlement of the fighting in Viet nam." Members o£ the council are the Anglican, Baptist, Congregational, : Methodist, Presbyterian and Greek s... nui«n«lAn PUiHi/ihae rtf i UrtPljQUX UXiUl vilvOf hv wui uuiivij j Christ, the Salvation Army and the Society of Friends. The NSW Teachers' Federation i Council, representing 27,090 teach- i ers, called on Menzies to reconsider his attitude to the appeal by the bishops (see this page). On Thursday, a Canberra group of highly influential clerics and acade mics published a peace appeal which by implication also .criticised Men zies' "force only" stand. They signed a petition condemning what they called brutalities reported to have been committed "by all part ies in the struggle". Among these they mentioned "the torture of suspects by the South Vietnamese Army, the use of white phosphorus and napalm by. the US air force", and "the killing of 43 children near Da Nang". Bishops blame US (This latter atrocity was commit ted by the US-controlled South Viet- na mair force when it was allegedly fired on by someone in the village,) The signatories to the petition say: "Australians abhor this brutal and callous indifference to the suffering of innocent people and urge an end I to such atrocities through, peaceful negotiations rather than war". Those signing the petition are Dr. M. McCabe, of the Australian Na tional University; the Anglican Bish op of Canberra and Goulburn, the «t. Rev. K. J. Clements; Prof. A. G. Ogston (ANU), and Revs. Rex Mat thias (Methodist), A. Watt (Presby terian), g. R. Stirling (Church of Christ) and H. S. Read (Congrega tional). I rr?e petition is addressed to the | US and South Vietnamese Embas- 1 sies and the Democratic Republic of I North Vietnam. I In a second letter to Menzies, 10 I Anglican bishops told him that his I ,!tren.ce to tbe Geneva Agreements | as having been broken "by the Com- I n,ists" was "surely less , than the I whole truth". 1 nfe bishops said that the refusal I nL r.ie elections in South Vietnam I no grant of military bases to South Vietnam were "two serious breaches of the spirit and rJr the Geneva Agreements, committed by the South with full approval and active sup- Port of the United States". The bishops quote sections of the "PpnlVa , Afeements as saying that July 1956 ?, sha11 be held In electins have never been . they say. Responsibility f0r this rests squarely on the Government of South Vietnam, backed by the . United States. "No authority known to us dis agrees that any fair and free elec tion held since 1954 would, have resulted in a victory for the sup porters Of Ho Chi Mirth. "If people want to be Commun ists, guns will not stop them." The bishops quote the Geneva Agreement sections which expressly forbid the introduction of foreign troops and establishment of foreign bases in Vietnam as has been done by the USA. 