 The Mot-So-Afffi— ont Ones A film of poverty and starvation in Sydney, 1965 The slums of 1965 Sydney are to be found in areas that combine old houses, factories and rail ways. s begins a remarkable TV film documentary, Liv ing on the Fringe", seen on Channel 2, Sydney, last week in the "Impact" series. The subject would not be to the liking of florid-faced public men who, in their after-ten-course din ner speeches, throw in bits about "fringe benefits" of the "affluent society/ The film deals with something else on the "fringe" — not merely the bad areas on the fringe of a great modern city, but thousands of people living on the fringe of society, in semi- starvation, illness, loneliness and degradation . . . particularly older people. Without charity meals they would slowly starve to death. Who needs them, anyway? The ten-course men don't. Another expendable item in the rich man's program is the under privileged Aborigine. Some 2,000 Aborigines live in these inner suburbs. "Impact" showed them in ramshackle houses, ratted by landlords charging up to £10 a week, with Aboriginal and white children dodging cars on asphalt "lawns." This is the way Hie great owners invite the Aborigine people, whom they . can no longer rob on cattle properties, to join the white society. Many migrants, too, live in the slum areas. The main problem is the loneliness and frustration of young, unmarried men. Married migrants usually buy homes and improve them out of sight. The film did not pull punches about rent - racketeering landlords, who refuse to make repairs to houses with no bathroom, no toilet, yet charge £7 a week or more from people on the basic wage or near enough. Nor did it leave unmentioned the manufacturers whose factories contri bute to the filth and degradation of some housing areas, and politicians who have achieved little for people crammed 50,000 to the square mile. Why do the people stay there? As the film says clearly, they mostly cannot afford to move away. But there is something else — they don't want to lose the sense of community, of mutual help, the closeness of spirit among these crowded working people, young and old, new and old Australian, black and white. The stark realism of "Living on the Fringe," produced in Sydney by an Italian migrant, Gian Carlo Manara, the camera sequences and moving music (Richard Brookes on har monica) and the script by Allan Ashbolt, shocked many people into realising that the inner-suburban slums, with old wrecks of people, are something too many of us take for granted. Fortunately the film and commen tary did not fall to the depths of some American sentimentalising about poverty. Of course, it should be kept in mind that all people who live in these inner suburbs are not helpless or demoral ised. Thousands of vigorous young working people also live there, and many of these know how to fight for their rights and a better life, through their unions and in other ways; but this is not within the film's ambit. It Is well to remember that the old slums of Sydney are only one side of the problem. The affluent society "grinding body, grinding soul" is busy turning out its rising yearly average of alcoholics, mentally sick, suicides, industrial wounded and pulling more and more money out the wage earners' pockets. The film marks a new high point in Australian television documen taries and has been entered in the international Italia Prize Competition for 1965, T.V. 