 What have they done to our Harbour? By HARRY ROBERTS Last week a Mr. J. Rardin, social director of America's Matson Lines, complained during a visit to Sydney that Sydney's harbor foreshores were becoming an "eyesore", thanks to the crowding in of high density build ing of apartment blocks on the waterfront. He said the lesson of San Francisco "was that Sydney needed a planning commission with power over the foreshores. Thousands of Sydney people would agree with him. Here are the views of one harborside resident ..." CRQM my window I can see across Mosman to Crows nest Gore Hill, St. Leonards, Spit Junction, French's Forest, Dobroyd Point and Manly Cove. . If I walk a short distance down the road I can see North Sydney, the Bridge and the city skyline. Also within walking distance there are vantage points from which I can see East Sydney, King's Cross, Double Bay, Rose Bay, Watson's Bay, South Head and North Head. As a matter of fact if this house was three or four stories high in stead of two I would he able to see all of those suburbs without leaving the house. Thus I am in a good position to see what a" beautiful site Sydney is built upon (even, after, one hund red and seventy-five years of civilization) and what, a wonderful future it has after we are rid of the ! land sharks and graft. i . ? i AS1 sit here, by .the' window I and look at Manly across I the harbor, I'm trying to imag- J ine the day when the H.M.S. | Supply, with Governor Phil-. I lip in command, sailed through jj the heads, turned north 'and dropped anchor in that cove. I'm trying also to' imagine the tribe of natives, that had fished and hunted there for thousands of years, watching from the. bush and | holding their primitive weapons . ady to defend the traditional I hunting grounds. Watching as a longboat is lower ed from the sailing ship and. rowed toward the beach and, as it scrapes onto the sand, the leader, holding his spears and boomerangs and oiiowed by the tribal warriors, advances towards the strange fair- skinned men that step ashore. How could these primitive people i ave known that this was the. ad- tvff56 party of a race people iif!r would> within the span of one th destry tire code by which I n, tnbe Had lived for thousand- B ingears and rePlace it with notfc witvW could they have known tha wni,i? t, theix own lifetime the Brniim# di®pssessed of hunting trihp fS Had belonged to the tribal ir so lQng that even ; the answer?6gendS C0Uld not 8176 the 1 race6r&lt;LWas the advance party of , a I duce rtic people tHat would intrb- | dishonesty and im- morality that the tribe had never before known in all its long exist ence, and these were the problems that the defenders of the tribe were advancing upon with spears and boomerangs. But they had no way of know ing this or the fact that their way of life was doomed. That narrow neck of land over there, which Governor Phillip named Manly after "the manly un daunted behaviour of a party of natives seen there," once supported a large tribe of native people. Today not one descendant of that tribe can be found there. The tribe has been completely exterminated and the tribal lands have been split up into small blocks that are now "owned" by various people' or organizations. I can even see the Cardinals' Palace on one of the choicest pieces of land in Manly. . The Cardinal must have a really breathtaking view from his win dow. v The palace reminds me of the story of the Island chief who went to the missionary and asked, "When you cam? here, you had your god and; we had our land; now, you have our land and we have your god, what has happened?" : Unfor tunately there are no natives left in Manly to ask the Cardinal that question. - Y J"HE- history of land develop ment and sub - division of Sydney must be one of the nost ruthless and scandalous stories that any city ever had. From the day the British Gov eminent decided to implement the plan contained in the document, "Heads of a Plan for effectually .disposing of. convicts; by. the Estab- ' lishment of a Colony in New South ; Wales"; to the present (for even today, long after The original inhabi tants have been deprived of the land, the invaders continue -to plot and scheme against each other for it), the story has been one of cal lousness, bribery, corruption, treach ery and betrayal. Perhaps they should have con piled another document: "Heads ol a Plan for effectually disposing of the native inhabitants of the land which we call New South Wales, and acquisition of that for Our selves". But then they . could not . have done a more thorough job even if they'd had such a plan. The First Fleet left England in May, 1787. There were 11 ships with 777 persons on board. Ol these, 560 were convicts, including 192 women and 18 children. The majority of the convicts were "mechanics and husbandmen, select ted on purpose by order of govern ment," and although some of these were skilled in trades such as weav ing, that would be of little or no use in the early stages of the colony. It was upon their shoulders, with the help of the natives, whom the English referred to as "the indians" that "7 the survival of the colony rested. The fact that, when food supplies became : short, both convicts and soldiers received equal rations de monstrates how much the settle ment depended upon the convicts They did- all the hard work, such as clearing the land and building the first rough shelters and later on permanent buildings and roads Actually what we refer to as the convict system was, in fact, a slave system, for some were employed on government . work and others were signed over to free settlers. Therefore anyone who incurred the displeasure of His Majesty's Government could be bound over into slavery. The convicts and poorer class of immigrants did all the hard work and received none, or very little, of the rewards. As usual, idle but influential classes reaped the profits, for, prior to 1831, large tracts of land were granted to this class. Later, when the colony was in danger of being populated with more land holders than labourers, a land auction system was intro duced which consolidated the posi tion of the wealthy land holders and, because they had no money with which to buy land, condemned the poor immigrants and convict expirees to be labourers for the rest of their lives, and the position has not changed very much since then. Just across the harbour, to the north I can see Balgowlah, where, about three months ago, crown land was auctioned off to the highest bidder for three or four thousand pounds a block. There is also a twenty acre tract of land on Middle Head, about ten minutes from where I am sitting, . whiph is soon , to be released from military control. Y Who knows what will happen to> this land? Whose greedy eyes are cast in its direction? The eyes of the working people are also watching, but for a dif ferent reason. The working people want this land, which is one of the few pieces of harbour frontage still in its virgin state, kept as a public reserve, and will do all in its power to see that it is. ? J"HE time must come when profit and greed will no longer be the driving force, when the wishes and the needs of all the people will be taken into account and correct civic planning will come into opera tion. Then this city can develop and flower into a garden city, and, . when this comes, the citizens will . feel really protid of it and they will truthfully be able to say, -this, ; ( is our city and this is .our harbourl ' : 