 [?] | WAS amused to read the sug gestion by a businessman to attract more British migrants by playing down the fact that Australia is "the other side of the world". Also, if migrants want to go home or a visit, well, we . are only, after land?7 flying hours away from Eng- Where would the man or woman oe able to find the minimum £589 eturn air-fare, whilst struggling to get a home started here? air"ne companies initiated P cial charter flights as they do in a clieaPer rate, they would P rhaps get more passengers and rants WOUld be less unhappy mig- AUSTRALIA is sending a dele- „ nation eight to the Interna- ttonal Red Cross Conference to be neid in Vienna this year. imrTuj 'nihese delegates, Includ- tof JIM WaddeU> Hon. Direc- will v ®ed Cross Branches, mian ' y lnvitation, the head- to Peking0' Chinese Red 01088 Asian aS thesc our of iimj streg«en bonds MenXr 8 aDd pr#m&lt;"e cpHE entertainment world suffered another loss with the death of Judy Holliday from cancer last week. Nat "King" Cole and Lorraine Hansbury also died from the dis ease this year. The intelligent, warmly vivacious blonde actress was only 41 years old. Men learn to walk in space but the ancient enemy of all living things still remains unconquered. « » &lt; T FEEL it is appropriate to again remind women of the Cancer Detection Clinics attached to most hospitals of Commonwealth cities. Yearly check-up save lives. Mobile clinics are badly needed for country areas. Why can't the Federal Government spend money on methods of saving life instead of destroying it, as in Vietnam for instance? In that country there are 700 doctors of whom only 300 serve the needs of ' fourteen million civilians. The remainder are attached to the military. # it ij rpHE University of Harvard, U.S.A. has recently admitted women business students on an equal basis with men, according to a "Time" report. The spread of U.S. monopoly in terests overseas has set a problem regarding a shortage of executives. Business schools are busily train ing these young men and women and some univesities arrange for students to take second year training in coun tries like Britain and Belgium. Thus the brains, incentive, enthus iasm of these young people are be ing channeled into one direction— to make a small group of giant monopolies and millionaires bigger and wealthier. Under socialism the whole people would benefit and executives, with less frustrations, would be a hap pier group. —Mary 