 Wharfies' country tour highlights many common problems SYDNEY: A group of Sydney wharfies want their union to take steps to organise a state or national conference to deal with pro blems of decentralisation, foreign investments and shipping freights. THE proposal for a conference was made by members of the Waterside Workers' Fede ration's Sydney Branch who re turned last Wednesday from a three weeks' tour of country centres of NSW. Mr. L. Fairburn and Mr. T. Ryan we should have been visiting them visited centres including Yass, Bath- 20 years earlier." urst, Lithgow, Orange and Katoomba. Everywhere the wharfies went they The other team, Mr. M. Lynam and were warmly received. They were Mr. T. Peck, visited Blayney, Cowra, interviewed on radio and television Parkes and Forbes. and by the local press. All are members of the Federation's They met managers of abattoirs and Pensions and Wages Committee. Co-operative Societies, held discussions During an interview with Tribune with graziers and primary producers' last Wednesday, the "countryside cam- associations, fruit growers, chambers of paigners" said their tour was a "tre- commerce, local trades and labor coun- mendous success." oils, members of councils, chuaph "We found that the people in the leaders and businessmen, countryside have big problems and are Leaders of graziers' associations, fruit looking towards the organised workers growers and others expressed full sup- in the cities for assistance," they said, port for the campaign to establish a One of the most pressing problems in national overseas shipping line, the country towns is the lack of job opportunities, particularly for young ummon enemy , . The waterside workers are organising These young people ore being tours to the count Mntres in eve fOTeed to the Cities to seek employ- st t to ain t £or ,heir nt ' lack of decentralisation is campaignefor leased wages and a smashing up families," the waterside penJons workers said. Jt has not been difficult for country The men said that in every town , to see the link between their they vited, Decentralisation Com- blems those of the wharfies. mittees have been established. The same shipowllcls that deny The townspeople want an extension wa increases to the watersiders, of exiting industry and to. fully pro- cfc 15/2 ht „„ case of cess raw materials in the countryside. applcs to the U.K. against the A paper pulp industry could be wharfies' cost per case of less than established to utilise the timber from 5d. the State forest between Bathurst and On a bale of wool the same ship- Lithgow. owners charge £8 freight and the Where an Abattoir exists, tanneries workers' costs are only 2/8 a bale, and shoe factories could be estab- Already the Pensions and Wages lished. Committee of the Sydney waterside b% workers have a mailing list of over 500 Kam-maksna organisations and people throughout the State. In Parkes, the Decentralisation Com- The Committee will ask the Execu- mittee is , campaigning for the tive of the Federation to involve other C.S.l.R.O. Radio Physics headquarters unions in a joint campaign with to be established there in preference to counti-y people. Epping; "What1 is the good of rain- The four recently returned wharfies making experiments, etc., being car- said that the Decentralisation Commit- ried out at Epping, in Sydney?" they tees and Primary Producers' organisa- said. tions would readily agree to take part Mr. Fairburn said, "we saw that m a State or national conference, to country problems were coupled with discuss common problems, if asked to ours in the city. People we met said do so by the trade unions. 