 Sporting change needed 1 By "THE CHALLENGER" LAST month saw the usher ing in of a. new era in the . speed car sport; at the Indianapolis 500 when Scots- man Jim Clark won the race in a rear-engined car. It was the first time in the 49-year history of the race that a rear-engined car had won, and the easy manner in which the rear-engined Ford Triumph Climax won indicates a revolu tion in the type of speed cars netting results today. Also Donald Campbell in his assault on the world's land speed record, has finally adopted a jet-engined car in preference to the conventional piston driven type. These, two changes in the speed car sport are two very tangible examples of the revolutionary changes going on in the field of sport. What is not readily understood is the similar deve lopment taking place in the field, track and water sports and also the vigorous contact sports. Previously various countries lay stress on the importance of either skill or strength but seemingly failed to realize the inter-relation of the two, and the complementary effect of each on the other. Thus we find that today there is hardly one sport that does not use weight-lifting as a basic developer in the conditioning and training of the athlete. if Science has destroyed a whole null ber of old fashioned myths especiS in boxing, where weight-lifting 31 considered as harmful as it slowi! the boxer by making him "mself bound". Also as Dawn FraserbJJ pointed out in her book, that ttol women use weights to devfoS strength"" and endurance. Since 1952 the Soviet Union h|? been an example of what a scientist: approach to sport can achieve \i its remarkable, success in lit Olympics. Spoofs researdf In Moscow, Leningrad and Tbilisi there are sports research institute || which study the scientific principt m of man's physical education, betfei methods of training and other quel tions appertaining to the theory aria practice of sports. Also work is cai ried on in the faculties of physic I culture colleges arid at a number ( i other scientific establishments. | Though Australia has made vei 1 great contributions ot sport-and iff still doing so as witnessed by Row Clarke's latest triumphs— it is badlfi retarded in its progress by a greaffl lack of facilities. Individuals llim Cerrutty, Carlile and others have help® ed in the scientific aspect but AusjB tralian sportsmen in the future vil® require a much greater contributor from the government in the wajo facilities, if they are to maintain thai present world standard. Ruofav LeaeM , By Ron Mackerras J cHII flfl With the- world's nest the sideline St. George convincing defeated Parramatta. In my Raper is a greater loss to St. than any of its other stars wclud1 Reg Gasnier. Their play sefms„vJ deteriorate with Racer out, - - '3 though they mostly defeat then ponents convincingly. . Such was the case last a«"»j and I'll hazard an opinion that , they played at full strength, woild have been hard win. At full, strength-and that m > with Raper in— St. George ar® j a five points better side than any 9 side in Australia. , tj || My choice for the semi George, Balmain and North g Parramatta favoured to nea m for the fourth position. f00>| The tragedy of this seas M ball has been the premature J ment of former Kangaroo an M Sydney player Darrel Chap J ill health. Souths would welcorn jg back for the rest of the _s streetS 'One cannot expect the Phj ' P beateil i brains trust to choose t\ i teams for its Match of ,.tne aIJ| i the Souths versus Parramatta „ has the most attraction wjnnin reasons., hut mainly1 tha i points is so vital to either I 