 Govt, hangs on to the penal clauses By an Industrial Correspondent Penal powers directed against the trade unions, their officers and individual members and providing for heavy fines and jail setnences are to remain in the Commonwealth Conciliation and i Arbitration Act, despite amendments to that Act just made by Federal Parliament. s|""HESE amendments in no way j- reduce the powers of the I "Court of Pains and Penalties". I The position of the Government was made clear by Labor Minister McMahon, who introduced the amendments. Speaking of the existing penal powers which, he nicely called "sanctions", Mr. McMahon said: "The Government has no intention of re moving them." a However, the Labor Party Opposi- | tion's main speaker in the debate Mr. C. H. Webb, Member for Stirl ing (W.A.), moved for the repeal of "the injunction and contempt pro visions ' of the Act in relation to I awards." I Main provisons of the amendments I are to reduce legal costs in relation | to the use of the penal powers and I to provide a so-called "cooling-off" 1 period. I Reduction of legal costs will be I welcomed by the trade unions. I In the past these have frequently I been a form of penalty in themselves 8 and have cost unions large sums even I in cases when fines have not been I imposed. | But leagl costs have not been elimi- | nated and can still cost the unions I heavily. I The cooling-off provision takes the 1 form of prohibiting Court Order I against a union— referred to by work ers as "a 109" — before the expiry of 14 days after the employer notifies the Court of a dispute. However, this restriction does not apply where the Court is satisfied I that the workers concerned are likely to take action within the next ten days. Total effect of these amendments is that if the workers take immediate action the penal powers will be used against them and if they wait 14 days and then take action, they will still face the use of penal powers. The Government has ignored the main submissions of the ACTU and merely tinkered with the Act, which remains one of the most important instruments of the state machinery for use by employers against the economic struggles of the workers. Removal of the anti-union penal clauses is a long standing and major demand of the Australian Council of Trades Unions, the Communist Party and the A.L.P. 