 [?] Whole labor movement should defend union rights SYMtf: The Federal Council of the Waterside Workers" Feder- ation Scsf Friday called on the whole Australian labor movement to support the wharfies in resisting the latest Menzies Government attack on basic trade union principles. T'ME Federation's statement said : — The Stevedoring Industry Bill pro posed by Federal Labor Minister McMahon is more iniquitous and goes further in attacking basic trade union rights than any previous in dustrial legislation of the Menzies Government. The recruitment provisions of the legislation are similar in essentials to the same Government's 1954 legis lation. This was unanimously con- / demned by the ACTU and a Con ference of Federal waterfront unions as "striking a fundamental blow at the rights of the Waterside Workers' Federation" and "anti-working class in its character." They then declared that "the legis lation must be fought by the whole Labor Movement until it is repealed" and that "any attempt to implement its provisions must be resisted by the Trade Union Movement as a whole." "Pernicious" The ACTU and Federal Unions went on:— "We declare that the whole resources of the Labor Movement, industrial and political, must be mobilised to defeat the operation of the pernicious Menzies recruit ment clause of the Stevedoring Industry Act." A special ACTU Congress said of similar legislative provisions in 1956: "We call upon all workers to re frain from assisting the formation of any such force, arid we declare that any person recording his name as a member of such a force without the sanction of the Trade Union con- cerned will be regarded as an indus trial renegade." The Government now seeks to do what the combined efforts of the Labor Movement prevented it from doing in 1954 and 1956. It has introduced this new inflam matory and provocative legislation at a time when labor requirements on the waterfront are being met, when its own Woodward Inquiry is still proceeding and soon after the ACTU has called for an "all-in" conference of unions, Government and ship owners in an attempt to solve all outstanding waterfront problems. De-register rue Government's real intentions are revealed in Part III. of the Bill, which gives the Government power to de-register the Federation even if only two of its members are in con certed breach of an award. The Government then proposes to establish and register a renegade union or separate renegade unions in each port. Mr. McMahon's amazing references to criminal records is a gratuitous insult to the Federation's members. He has obviously dragged in this issue in an irresponsible attempt to slander the Federation in the eyes of the Australian people. Mr. McMahon well knows that the characters and records of the Federation's members as a whole compare favorably with any other section of the Australian people. "Criminals" He well knows also that the Fed-S eration has no brief for persons of bad character and has never sup ported their application to work on the waterfront once it was aware of the facts. At the same time we will, as we have had to do in the past, continue to question the rights of the ASIA or the shipowners to refuse employ ment to a man who has been guilty of some minor offence in his youth, or who, apart from some isolated transgression, has otherwise a good character. Since 1956 the shipowners have had full rights to object to, and the ASIA has had full rights to reject, on "reasonable" grounds, anybody submitted by the union. But now; the Government has de cided to remove any possibility of the union insisting that the grounds -for rejection must be reasonable. The Authority's own recruitment standards and practices are far from unquestionable. The Federation will continue to object to, and protest at, practices such as revealed in these recent examples: © An applicant, previously said to be acceptable, was rejected when it was known his mother worked in the office of the Miners' Federation. © A first grade - Rugby League footballer was rejected on medical grounds ( he was without a cartilege in one knee.) The following week he played an outstanding game to help his team win the grand final! © Numbers of men known to be fit have been rejected and . the Authority has refused to give a reason. In this respect, the legislation now opens the door to Star Chamber C. FITZGIBBON methods in the recruitment of labor which no Australian democrat could countenance. To justify this the Minister has resorted to blatant distortions. It is just not true to say that of 990 men submitted by the Union in Melbourne, 260 had criminal records. Of approximately 1,000 applicants to -whom letters were sent and whose names were submitted to. the Authority: — ® 200 apparently lost interest and failed to appear for interview or medical examination. © 140 were rejected" on medical grounds. 9 16 were rejected because of age or language difficulties. © 64 were objected to "on other grounds" by the employers or ASIA. © 590 were approved and regis tered. Total: 1010. Any objected to on grounds of a criminal record were included with the 64 "objections on other grounds." Why Mr. McMahon con verted a figure of less than 64 to 260 only he can explain. The Federation has no more access to the Police records of citizens than anybody else outside the Police Force or properly- constituted Courts. Minister's "blatant distortions" The Minister and the ASIA are putting the shipowners in a more favorable position than any other private employer in the Common- wealth by obtaining Police records of any citizen who seeks work on the waterfront. By what legal right does the ASIA acquire these records?. All that is now needed to complete the picture is for the waterside workers, to be finger-printed and photographed. "Dishonest" Mr. McMahon's vague assertions that there have been unreasonable delays in recruiting labor will not bear examination. In fact, in many ports the delays by the ASIA in medi cally examining and registering men have far exceeded the time occupied by the Federation in obtaining re cruits and in submitting their appli cations. In Port Pirie this year, for example, it took them seven weeks to medi cally examine 35 men submitted by. our Branch. In Brisbane, medical examination of 300 nominees supplied by our Branch were conducted at the rate of -20 per day. The Minister has been quite pre pared to resort to other dishonest use of figures to support his argu ment; He has. quoted gang loading rates ' to falsely assert that work rates have fallen. When account is taken of the reduction in gang sizes a. knows to have occurred but ipletely ignores, each of the figures used by him show an increased output per man. His 1,200 per cent, increase . in wharfies' margins compared with 350 per cent, increase for a fitter refer to an actual increase since 1935 of £4/2/- per week for a fitter against £3/6/3 for a wharfie. Onus of proof He does not even attempt to justify withdrawal of appeal rights against disciplinary action by the Authority. This and withdrawal of the existing right of men to appear before the Authority trying them can only lead further to Star Chamber methods. The onus on the Authority to estab lish its case against a worker before an appeal judge was a result of the Arbitration Court's decision. The Minister now destroys that decision and places on the worker tlie onus of proving his innocence. Thus some of the basic principles of our system of justice are thrown aside to enable the Government to wreck effective trade unionism on the waterfront. The Minister's attack on certain officers of the Federation and its Branches on the basis of what he alleges are their political views or party allegiance constitutes a gross interference in the internal affairs of the Federation. All the Federation's officers are elected at national rank and file elections, the integrity of which could never be effectively challenged. Democracy The policies of the F-ijrnrion and its activities are also determined not by any political party, but by pro perly constituted meetings of the trade union. All significant decisions are made at, or endorsed by, , mass rank and file stopwork meetings in all ports and the Officers of the Federation are completely subject to rank and file control. By its anti-worker stevedoring industry legislation the Menzies Gov ernment caused much of the indus trial unrest occurring, on the water front since it took office. Its approach has been not to solve the problems, but to add to them by further indefensible attacks on the long-established rights of the unions and the waterfront workers. Each of i,ts Stevedoring Industry Acts in 1.954, 1956 and 1961 has worsened industrial relations and inflamed and provoked industrial unrest. The new legislation cannot but have a similar effect. Rally in unity The Government has continuously found common cause with the over seas shipowners which, its own Tait Inquiry found, dominated our trade. It condones their extortionate freight charges and refuses to take, action against them to protect our trade. Whenever Australian waterfront workers strive to improve their con ditions and retain a little more of our enormous overseas freight bill within the Australian economy, the Government invariably lines up with these overseas shipowners and against the Australian workers. This Federal Council expresses confidence that the Federation's members throughout the Common wealth will unitedly rally to defend their rights and the rights of the Federation. We have proposed to the ACTU that they authorise stopwork meet ings in all ports to discuss the legislation and plan an appropriate defence of the Federation's rights. This Federal Council is confident that the whole Australian Labor Movement will rally, as it did in 1954, to the defence of basic trade union principles and to support the Federation in its resistance to the proposed legislation. Because of its implications, the Federation has called upon the ACTU Officers to call together all the unions in the Transport Group to consider appropriate action. 