 r | ! : Constitution sought lafeVit soml JP ft H ip ® 3 for New Guinea 3 6 w | At a recent meeting, 33 members of the Papua- 11 New Guinea House of Assembly, both Indigene and |f European, unanimously voted for the establishment a be I- of a committee to prepare a draft constitution- uaaer . ived Following this a motion will cer- on c tainly be moved in next month's Itali session of the House asking the li u'l Australian authorities , to draft a ublici constitution. tekeD . indigene members want an imme- acH ;;liate start to be made. They want it . o!i>|>.be finalised by 1968. pair v!» This will follow last week's de- pant |hand by all 54 elected members 1 aro1 :qf the House that the control of the le $f|f rritory Public Service be taken the Australian Minister for Ter- ii|;itoriesf Mr. Barnes, and given to "TI'tTe Papua-New Guinea Administra- w;r -'s Council. e.' qV;-; H s Council has seven elected rjf; || " jers and three appointed by tj || .iovernment. ' if J Wages slashed members, both Indigene and jg-,n>?>ean . tabled an amendment to ii|| i effect to the Public Service fSl,0i finance given effect last Septem- d . i by cutting by 40 per cent the wages of Indigenes joining the pub lic service. This amendment, too, will come up for discussion at the February sitting of the House of Assembly. If it is passed it can be vetoed by the Menzies Government on the ground that the House has no powers over the Territory's financial affairs. In a debate on the public service both Indigene .and European elected members condemned the Menzies Government for its handling of the ' pay rates issue. On the same day the elected mem bers called for an end to the con cessions given the . Burns Philp ship ping services to the Territory. The House decided to ask the Federal Government to inform the House of the Government's intentions on such subsidies. The motion said that "if it is in tended - to renew or place further restrictions on free competition, the views of this House should be firmly kept in mind." One of the members, Mr. Ian Downes, said the motion was "an attempt by this House tp manage part of this territory's affairs." 