 - Pagq S Free elections in I North Vietnam j JEPLYING recently to letters from Australian bishops who showed that the Geneva Agreement of ! vd4 had been breached by the Americans' an$l the South Vietnamese Govern ment's refusal to hold free elections, Prime Minister Menzies said that these elections could not be held because ''free elections simply cannot happen" — in North Vietnam. Some critics have replied that whatever may have happened in North Vietnam is no reasfin or excuse for not having elections in the South which is under US con trol. Others point out that free elec tion: are in fact held in- North Vietnam, (the Democratic Rep ublic of Vietnam), as is proved, by the document reproduced below. It is a ballot-paper for an elec tion which Sydney journalist Len Fox witnessed while living in Hanoi in 1957-58. It gives the names of 13 candidates for a ward in which five Were to be Selected. (Voters were instructed to cross out the 8 unwanted names.) S Three of the candidates were j women (denoted by "Ba" instead f of "Ong"— equal to our Mrs. and I Mr.). Another slip of paper handed ! to electors gave the occupations | of candidates: one was a Cao Dai | priest, others were factory or waterside workers, one a small I 1 capitalist. | The five elected were a woman 2 worker, a man worker, a capital- I ist, a priest, and an official of j the Lao Dong (Communist) Par- ty. For the whole of Hanoi, 100 S members were elected including I 19 women. | This was a municipal election; I the North Vietnam parliament is f elected in the same democratic ft way; there are three parties 2 represented. The first elections f for this Parliament were held in j January 1946 against the opposi J tion of French armed forces I which were then beginning theix I re-invasion of Vietnam. g The elections gave a resouna f ing victory to the Vietminh (in J dependence forces) which in- | eluded many Communists but | also representatives of othei 1 groups. I Len Fox saw the election in ft 1957 of the Standing Committee I of this Parliament (similar to our | Cabinet); its 18 members includ- | ed representatives of the three I Parties and non-party people; a I leading Catholic was among | those elected and a well-known | capitalist. g j | t vii?.r nam an1 c0\() nO.v n j I .' 5c /(l/» — Tt i1o — H &lt;11 ih phuc | | PHlfiU BAU Ctf 1 | HOi dong nhan dan (hash pbo Hi-nOi j 1 1. Ong L6 dinh Difcni j I 2. Ong XgO lien Bur j j I 3. Ong NguyOn chirong Hong J I i4. Ong Y6 KhAm i j 5. ba Nguyfin thj DK'U j j C. Ong Yu vAn SAng j I 7. Ong Nguyfin van Thai j 8. ba Yu thj Thanh 1 9. Ong Phain dire ThAng I I tire Yan DAu j | 10. Ong Dirong van TV' ! II. Ong B6 lifru Yin , re j 12. ba Pham Ihj YAn tire j Mai Plurong J l 1 13. Ong Tnin V? 