 " Wodies land grab may be all in vain SYDNEY: In a statement made in Sydney last Thursday the NSW Minister for Lands, Mr. T. Lewis, said that applications from individual or sectional interests for a lease from Crown land within waterfront reserves are to be refused. |l — |iE said that occupancies on these reserves had, in the past,, been granted to legalise existing structures that were in most cases illegally erected. However, he said, the time has come to call a halt. Waterfront reserves are intended for the public and must be kept freely available for general public use. It would be a mistake to restrict , this use by granting further applies- ; lions that would result in individual : rights or privileges; For many years a large group of wealthy residents living in the choice residential suburbs bordering select waterfront sites have regarded the beaches and parks in their area as "for residents only" and resent "out siders" using them; Such a situation exists in the Rose .Bay area. At present private property pre vents public" access to the beach, ; except from the sea. I In 1912 the State Government ; resumed a large portion of the eastern foreshores of Rose Bay for a scenic drive: and recreation centre. Many adjoining property owners have obtained' permissive occupancy to this choice waterfront land at small rentals and with rate conces sions. On this public-owned reserve, with the approval of Woollahra Council and State Government, stand the tennis courts, pools, boatsheds, gar dens and buildings of the wealthy residents. Some building, has taken place without any authority. Woolworths n The Department of Lands on September 2, 1959, sought Woollahra Council's concurrence on a proposed ipermissive occupancy by V. J. Boyce, owner' of a residence, "The Hermi tage," 22. Vaucluse Road, "for the purpose of gardens, tennis court, pools-, boatman's quarters on boat- shed, situated on an area, which was resumed by the Crown in 1912 for the purpose of a scenic drive and recreation centre." Woollahra Council accepted their engineer's report, who "can see no objection, to the granting of the per missive occupancy as all the improve ments exist and were used under a permissive occupancy by the previous owner, Mrs. McCathie." !; Woolworths Ltd. have now bought ; 2Z Vaucluse Road from- V. J. Boyce for an executive training school and !'. will become a permissive occupier of choice public harborside land along jiside a sandy beach at Hermit Bay. | During, discussion! at Woollahra Council meeting (February- 22) on a ( i £12,000 extension to the main building i at 22 Vaucluse: Road for Woolworths ' Ltd.,, Alderman Belle Miller described Hermit: Bay as a "perfect little ; beach." ; Aid. Miller went on to say she felt ! the beauty of. the beach had. already 'been ruined by. a cement retaining > .-wall and. the natural beauty of the 3 little cove destroyed. "What I set j: there today is notmv idea, of beauty/ ijshe Sciict l- „ A motion to have Woolworth's per ' missive occupancy terminated was defeated on a show of .bands. 