 In Education What is the position of women in our country? Are wosnen given the opportunity of making a full contribution to the life of the nation? IN Australia, women won the right to vote verv earlv. vet we are far from the position where men and women share equally in the responsibilities and privileges of political, .economic or cultural govern ing bodies. Equal pay has been achieved in a number of occupations, yet even in these it is unusual to find a non- male high executive. Is it true that girls' aptitudes and interests are limited to a few fields and are they intrinsically different from those of boys? It is possible that girls show less interest than boys in the scientific and technolo- gical side of learning, because they are expected to do so by parents, by employers and even by teachers? Some teachers although convinced that there is no difference in the in tellectual capacity of girls and boys have been known to say "How good for a girl!" when a girl did brilliantly in mathematics. In a booklet on careers published last year for school leavers, 80 areas of work are described. Of these, 11 are for girls only, and 39 for boys only. Cadetships offered by industry to Leaving Certificate students are mostly for boys; for girls there are two or three. This stems from the idea ... fostered by capitalist society that it is satisfactory for a girl to have a non-permanent kind of em ployment to tide her over till she marries. Undoubtedly almost every girl looks forward to a home and a family, and the bearing and training of children is essential to a full life and to the progress of, the nation. Today girls are marrying younger and families are smaller than previ ously. Economic circumstances fre quently require the wife to look for work— houses are being paid off, cars, refrigerators and other necessi ties of modern life are being pur chased on time payment. To enable young married women to obtain employment, to ensure that the children are adequately cared for, governments are responsible to provide many more creches and kin dergartens (particularly in the out lying suburbs where so many young married couples have been forced by circumstances to purchase their homes). Yet the idea is still fostered that women's only skills and interests arf connected with family life, witl clothes, food and children. Even in the jobs allied to these- textile and food industries, in educ; tion, hospital administration — fe women rise to leading positions. This is in marked contrast to U socialist countries where equal riglr and opportunity are guaranteed t&lt; women, who are increasingly prrn ing their capacity for leadership. Much can be done in Australu even under the present system. In many cases by the time mothers are 36 or 40 their children no longer need full time attention. This is the time many women could enter em ployment and need special training and re-training facilities. With such training, a tremendous source of extra talent would be tapped. Individuals and organisations with advanced ideas, really believing in the equality of women, might well take advantage of International Women's Day celebrations to plan a campaign that would force Austra lian governments and employers to provide the necessary facilities to enable women to enter industry. . 