 DOWNWARD TREND IN I ECONOMY : E HOUSING HIT j SYDNEY: The release of £24 million from j Reserve Bank funds— f he third special release j this year — is a recognition of the downward | trend of the national economy . i yHE Reserve Bank Governor, 1 | Dr. Coombs, last week pre- I dieted that the trend would con tinue into next year, largely | because of the steady deficit in | the overseas payments balance. | It is 16 months since Australia had | a monthly trade surplus. j HOUSING I The Reserve Bank last week, sug- I gested that savings hanks "explore I the possibility" of lending more for | new housing. Approved applicants for Govern- » ment housing, as separate frOm those ( who want loans to build- their own | homes, numbered 82,000 a year. The I combined efforts of the National Cap- | ital Development Commission and the I State . Housing Authorities have built I an average of only 12,000 dwellings a I year. | This means that 70,000 approved | applicants appeal to the Govern- J ments in vain each year to have | their housing needs satisfied. | Early in October the Reserve Bank ! said it wanted the savings banks', to | sustain the rate of about £140 mil- J lion a year for home building. ' | The rate had fallen back from £160 J million as the Sydney Morning Her- ald says, "as a result of steadying instructions from the Reserve Bank in 1964, followed by a weakening trend in savings deposits." Taking the basis of four to a family, the 70,000 unsuccessful applicants to the Housing Commission for homes each year represents 280.000 people. This makes a mockery of the Statement by Sir Robert Menzies a few years hack — "where is this hous ing problem, I fail to see it." It also makes a mockery of the much vaunted Home savings Grant Scheme. A few couples will benefit from the grant, hut- in the main because of inflated land costs and high in terest rates those most likely to benefit will be the land developers and finance companies. Both Federal and State Govern ments, by their attitude to housing for the people, have shown that they are not prepared to stand up to their responsibilities. Provision of adequate housing is a . social questions and the responsibility of Governments. Solution .Starting points for solution of the drastic housing situation are — Immediate doubling of finance 1 under the Commonwealth-State-Hous ing Agreement. A PochrTrn -fii-rtslc bolrl btr bnnlre !/ be released for private home building. A special £100 million loan to assist cooperative and approved home building organisations. Interest rates on all housing fin ance to be fixed at not more than three per cent. . . The rental rebate system to be re-introduced. Price control of all building materials and tax concessions to be allowable on these materials., - Price control of land, control of land speculators and no-deposit land to be made available to home build ers. Crown land' to be released at a pre-determined price by ballot in stead of to the highest bidder. Home purchasers and tenants to be protected against dispossession and eviction when in arrears in rent through sickness or unemployment. Slum clearance to be carried out in inner suburbs and higher den sity housing developed. 