 [?] POINTS «1B ip lit WAY [?] PEACE" i By J. B. HENDERSON, former Tribune corre spondent in Hanoi, writing in the Queensland Guardian. "THE United States and the Menzies Governments, to gether with the daily press, continually raise the "threat" to the independence of South Vietnam by the Viet Cong which, they claim, is really un der the direction and control of North Vietnam and Peo ples' China. v The U.S. and Menzies hypocritic ally justify the presence of Ameri can and Australian troops in South Vietnam on the completely false claim that they are upholding the Geneva Agreements of 1954. There is not one shred of truth in this claim. In fact the exact opposite is the case. It is common practice for the capitalist press to state that the Geneva Agreements set up two Vietnams — North and South, and proceeding from this to advance their claim to be defending South Vietnam. The Geneva Agreements did not , get up two Vietnams. The first clause of the Agreement sets out that "A provisional demar cation line shall be fixed, on either side of which the two paries shall be. regrouped after their with drawal, the forces of the People's Army of Vietnam to the north of the line and the forces of the French Union to the south." As can be seen from the above, the Agreement is between the People's Army of Vietnam and the French Union forces. The People's Army of Vietnam was that led by the Government of Ho Chi Minh. South Vietnam just didn't enter it at all. South Vietnam didn't sign the Agreement because, as Prime Minister of India, Mr. J. Nehru said as early as April 2, 1956: "The South Vietnam Govern ment has not accepted the obliga tions arising from the Agreement because it says it never signed it. It is perfectly true it did not sign it. It was not an independent Government then." Clause II of the Final Declaration on the Agreement says: "The French Government will pro ceed from the principle of respect for the independence and sove reignty, unity and territorial inte grity of — Vietnam." Note that there is only one Viet nam. Far from seeking to divide the country, the very essence of the Agreement is to guarantee its "unity and territorial integrity." To this end the Agreement states (Clause 7, Final Declaration): General elections shall be held in July, 1956, under the supervision of an International Commission — ". India, Ganada and Poland com prise this Commission. The U.S. has blocked the holding of these elec tions, which they have labelled as a "well laid trap." (White Paper issued by the State Department, 1961). It is clear that the U.S. is main taining the division of the country against the specific wishes of the people and the terms of the Geneva Agreement. Flagrant violations are to be found in the actions of the U.S. in relation to Chapter III of the Agreement. Article 16: With effect from the date of entry into force of the pre sent Agreement, the introduction into Vietnam of any troop reinforce ments and additional military per sonnel is prohibited. Article 17: With effect from the date of entry into force of the pre sent Agreement, the introduction into Vietnam of any reinforcements in the form of all types of arms, munitions and other war material, such as combat aircraft, naval craft, pieces of ordance, jet en gines and jet weapons and arm oured vehicles is prohibited. Article 19: With eriect from the date of entry into force of the pre sent Agreement, no military base .under the control of a foreign State may be established in the re grouping zone of either party — The U.S. and the Menzies Gov ernments claim that they have, been asked by the Government of South Veitnam to send assistance. Even if this were true, it is merely an open admission that they are viola ting the Geneva Agreement. NOTE: Mr. Henderson shows Geneva was basically an agree ment between the French forces and those of "the Democratic Re public of Vietnam headed by Ho Chi Minh. - "South Vietnam", as Mr. Nehru said in the passage quoted, didn't exist. Where did it come from? "South Vietnam" was a puppet state created by Vietnamese quis. lings who had served the French and whose nominal head at the time of the Geneva Agreements was the "emperor" Bao Dai. Under American patronage this group announced that they would not observe the Geneva Agree ments _ and at once started a revolt against them. On October 23, 1955, little more than a year after the Geneva Agreements. Ngo Dinh Diem, who had been Bao Dai's Prime Minister, ousted Bao Dai and the "Republic of Vietnam" was- established with its capital at Saigon, with D'iem as President. Diem at once applied to the US for military and economic "aid" and with 'this help the organised defiance cf the Geneva Agree ment has continued till- today. — FOREIGN EDITOR. BELOW: An arrest in today's South Vietnam. 