 AUST. NOW IN SHAMEFUL GAS WAR The Menzies Government's decision to commit Australian troops to the use of gas against village inhabitants in the Vietnam war is seen as leading to new damage to Australia's relations with Asia. Both Americans and Australians are bound by the Geneva Protocol of July 17,- 1925 (though the Americans refused to sign it) which prohibits the use in war of "asphyxiating/pois onous or other gases of all analogous liquids, methods or devices" which it says, has been "justly condemned by the general opinion of the civilised world". TH? Australian move follows the official US decision to resort to noxious gas against the civilian population. Previously, gas had been used there only by US troops, and raised a world-wide outcry earlier this year. Australian troops, now involved in major American .operations, suffered serious casualties in the past week. The total now is 9 dead, 62 injured. It is now plain tnat the Australians are among the spearhead of the forces trying to advance through territory long held by the South Vietnam National Liberation Front, where every man, woman and child may be expected to oppose their advance. Such tragedies as that involved in the death last Saturday of Private Ronald Field, of Windsor, may be come frequent. His young widow was quoted in the Sydney "Mirror" (October 11) as saying of the 22-year-old soldier: "He should never have been fight ing in this horrid war." This view will find all the more support as it becomes clearer that young Australian lives are being sacrificed without important military gain, or any possibility that the war can be "won." Recent US propaganda claims that "the tide has turned" are being re butted by such reports as last Mon day's admission that a whole platoon of 40 American troops were almost wiped out "in a few seconds.". Last Thursday all 12 of a US patrol only 15 miles from Saigon were killed or wounded and two US planes were brought down. All. this confirms ,U writer- Walter Lippmann's view (expressed in the Sydney Morning Herald of October 2) that while the Americans "can seize any place they choose to attack," the Vietnamese come back when the American have/ gone./-./ . \ [?] 'WL are fighting in Vietnam i solely because the United States Is fighting there, not because of any legal or moral obligations under SEATO," Mr. F. James, pub lisher a: ' Anglican layman, told a "Why Are We Fighting in Vietnam?" forum at Paddington Town Hall, Sydney, on Monday nigM. Chairman Mr. J. Bishop, Presby terian Minister, said that the forum which attracted over 500 people rep resented every kind of opinion on Vietnam. (See picture above). Mr. James said: "We have never pledged ourselves to help 15 million Vietnamese. This was done for us by the Warden of the Cinque Ports. "In my view . the greatest threat to world peace today is the United States." Mr. James explained how the, French had lost a protracted war against the Viet Minh. in Vietnam from 1945 to 1954. They had used 500,000 troops, and spent 11,000 mil lion dollars. They had overwhelming superiority in fire power, air force and navy, but they could not win. Why? "It was simply because the Viet- | namese were a people : engaged in | .fighting in their own national,' revo- j lutiona.ry destiny," said Mr. James. ! "Ho ' Chi Minh and the National I Liberation Front were against the Japanese, f©£. Vietnam and for Aus tralia, during World -War II." Mr. W. C. Wentworth, MHR, told the audience that "Communists de ceive people into thinking they have worthier aims." Communists,, he said, had deceived the National Liberation Front into th." .king "first that they were Vietnamese and second that they were Communists." "Fear" Dr. J. Cairns, MHR, said Mr. Wentworth was "a Liberal Party politician with a vested interest in fear and suspicion." "We Australians today . have a tremendous responsibility to over come hatred of foreign people and cultures," he said. Dr. Cairns said that a country that dropped hundreds of tons of napalm bombs on peasant villages and rice fields would seem to have a greater "willingness to kill and tendency to terror" than a poorly armed peasant. He said that despite Mr. Went worth 's undocumented claims there was still no evidence of any Chinese interference in Vietnam. Mr. K. C. Davis (NSW State Presi dent of the DLP) said he wasn't interested in texts or quotations as they "tended to confuse the issue." The forum was organised by the Eastern Suburbs Peace Committee. 