 Equality is £2-8-3 a week CYDNEY: "How equal is an Aboriginal on £2/8/3 a week?" A large banner carried by dem onstrators posed this question outside the Commonwealth Arbi tration Commission's building when the case to grant equal wages to Northern Territory Aborigines was opened last Wed nesday in Sydney. The North Australian Workers Union is seeking the deletion of a clause in the Cattle Station . -Indus try (NT) Award which excluded Aborigines. . In the Northern Territory the award rate for adult male Aborig ines working in the pastoral industiy is £2.8:3 a. week plus keep (or £2.13.0 in lieu of keep) For adult, females the rate Is £1.5.3 and 16.6 in lieu of keep. A 24 hour stoppage of all unionists throughout the Northern Territory planned, for July 1 in support of equal pay for Aborigines was de ferred pending the outcome of the court hearing. , The case is being heard by the Full Bench of the Cojmmission. Prior to the hearing the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islan ders asked the Prime Minister (R. G. Menzies), the Leader of the Australian Country Party (J. MbEwen) and the leader of the Australian Labor Party (A. A. Cal- well) to use their influence for the removal of award discrimination against Aborigines. The 8th annual conference of the Federal Council for the Advancement of AWigines held in Canberra last EJaster called on the ACTU and State Labor Councils to "use . direct action to end wage discrimination against A! origines. During last week's hearing Mr. Brodney (repress ting the NAWU) said public opinion demanded that th j award should apply to Aborig ines. He said he was glad the Common wealth Government has used Its right to intervene in the case in the" public interest. "We hope the Commonwealth will express in clear and strong terms the conscience of Australia in this matter". Mr. Brodney told the Commission that the case c. aid provide a new starting point for Aboriginal assim. ilation. He said A1 .-igines, +o overcome their problems, had to be employ ed within a money econcjmy and given educational opportunities. The first step in this direction was to give them the-- award benefits. "They get the burden of the money economy but hot the bene fits," he said. 