 "One out, all out" | in Loo eviction case! [?] "TWENTY-FIVE tenants of houses 93, 95, 97 and 99 Cathedral Street, Woollo omooloo, are threatened with eviction. The people in 95 and 97 have already been ordered by . the Court to vacate their houses by January 25, 1966. No alternative accommodation has been offered them. The houses were bought from a deceased estate by the Aquatic Club, corner of Cathedral and. Eiley Streets. The Club has 2000 members and raises money for the Surf Life Saving Association. It wants to demolish the homes and build a three-storey premises with a swimming pool on the sec ond floor. On Thursday July 8, the Court ruled in favour of the Club on the grounds that it was an educa tional establishment doing educa tional work among the people generally. The Court also ruled that the landlord was making excessive profit and that, because of the state of the houses, the Club had a reasonable case for demolition. . Rents in the houses are pegged, and average about £3.10.0. The houses, on examination, are sound and serviceable. An archi tect has been through the houses, and said they were "only reason ably clean". "The gun was already loaded. AU they had to Ad was pull the trigger," said Mrs. Tait, one oi the tenants. "We were just wiped," said VIr. G. Sinnett, a TP1 pensioner. The residents had originally iigned a petition saying they did not object to the Club taking over the premises on the corner of Cathedral and Riley Streets. However, plans for the exten sions to the Aquatic Club have not been approved by the Syd ney County Council. An Alderman commented also that they prob ably would not be approved. Recently, plans for extension to the Mediterranean Social Club at 200 Crown Street, East Sydney were rejected by the Council. The Aquatic Club raises £350 a month for the Surf Life Saving Association. Rent from houses 95 and 97 Cathedral Street is £21 a month. Judge Prior is the president of the Club. One tenant, Mr. G. A. Sinnett, a TP1 pensioner (N 7125), reminded the magistrate that TPl's weie ."protected persons". The magistrate's reply was "one out, all out." However, considering the TP1, he extended the quit date from January 11 to. January 25. 1966. "That is a week for each wai he fought in," commented Mrs. A. O'Connell, ' another tenant. Mr. Sinnett, a blacksmith, fought in the New Zealand Divi sion in World. War 1 and the AIF in World War II. He was discharged unfit in 1946. Since then he has lived at 95 Cathedral Street. His TPl pension is £28.10.0 a fortnight. His - wife "Tiny" gets £11 a fortnight old age pension. Other tennants are Mr. and Mrs. D. A. Tait who have two rooms and a balcony. Mr. Tait is iii the Royal Aus tralian Navy, and has two- years service to go. Mrs. Tait said she had not put in for a Navy flat, but it would be no good to them when her husband is finished service in two years time. "They might find us some tem porary accommodation" she thought. Mrs. Tait receives £30 a fort night by allotment, and pays £3.10.0 a week rent. Mrs. O'Connell, a migrant from Scotland has been here 10 years. pays £2.1.0 a week for the attic j room. I The landlord, Mr. Sedgeman is the principal lessor. He received j the first notice on December 21. ! "A nice Xmas present," said. I Mrs. Tait. | . Jim McDougal's column in the j "Daily Mirror" commented last I year that the qualification to join | the Aquatic Club was to "have a s bath a year". I The Aquatic Club claims that | the proposed swimming pool in g the new premises would be used ! to promote above bronze medal | awards. g However, the Domain Baths, g half a mile away, has plans al- ready for big improvements. The | figure allocated for it runs into g hundreds of thousands. S 95,000 bronze medal awards | were made in 1964; g The Askin government might j .remove the clause . protecting I "wealthy tenants" in the 125,000 | premises still controlled in Syd- J ney. I Home and Property Owners j Rights Association are known to g consider a wealthy tenant as ! someone who can afford to pay | more. g The Minister for Justice is also ! considering abolition of a 1964 I amendment which places the onus on landlords to find alter- 1 native accommodation if they I wish to evict. j This will be decided by "hard- i ship". ; In the case of houses 95. and 97 g Cathedral Street, the Court ruled I that it was greater hardship for I- the Aquatic Club not to extend its j premises than for the tenants to | be thrown out on the street. I PHOTO shows Mr. G. A. Sin- J nett (top right) a TPl pensioner | who has lived at 95 Cathedral g Street, for the last twenty years, j "What's going to become of us I now?" Mrs. 'Tiny' Sinnett strokes | the family cat 'Chips' at 95 Cath- | edral Street. | 