 i . tribune | : " ' . ' 9 Time for a change in Australia's foreign policy IT is not 'surprising that future weeks will see a new upsurge of the Australian people's protest movement ; against the Vietnam war. Some of the meetings are listed on the opposite fltage. They are organised by people of very varied poimcai ana religious views. And these people are demanding not merely an end to the Vietnam war but a basic change of . Australia's foreign policy in the direction of peace and friendship, more i especially with neighboring Asian countries. \ Top-ranking Republican leader and former US Vice- ' I President Mr. Richard Nixon has said that the war must . qo on for four more years and he is opposed to negotiations j to end it. > Meantime an article by another important American ! who has also just visited Vietnam — -Mr. James Reston,; assistant editor of the New York Times — has indicated what a continuation of the war will mean in losses not only to the Vietnamese people but also to the Americans and their Australian allies. Mr. Reston, as quoted in the Sydney Sunday Telegraph last Sunday, said the tempo of the war was increasing. Soviet assistance to North Vietnam (the Democratic Republic of Vietnam) in defending itself from American air raids Is mountinq and (savs Mr. Reston) the United States "is going to take more losses from radar-controlled missile and anti-aircraft fre in the coming montiW. In South Vietnam, too, "American casualty lists are growing". . But the sufferings of the South Vietnamese are also growing all the time. Condemning the South Vietnamese puppet troops for their "marked tendency to use airpower and artillery fire indiscriminately", Reston says "Punishing the civil popu lation with blind shooting and bombing is obviously un necessary and stupid". Does Mr. Nixon really expect the world, including Australia, to put up with four more years of that- — with, no victory in sight at the end of it, to say the least? Reasons why Australia should join in it any longer were further demolished by External Affairs Minister Has- luck in his speech in Parliament last month, when he said' this was a war (on the other side's part) "to destroy any .separate existence for South Vietnam". Are we, then, fighting to preserve a "separate exist- . ence for South' Vietnam"— for the partition by force of an Asian country which, like every other country anywhere, wants to be united?" / Mr. Hasluck's determination that Australia must use _ force to stop Vietnamese independence ("Communism" to him) is the more interesting because he refuses even to protest against the corruption in Thailand which was con demned in Parliament last week by Labor speakers. Mr. Hasluck said he considered any protest would amount v to "intervention in Thailand's internal .affairs", -Equally crazy is the Government's apparent determina tion to help stick together the remnants of Malaysia even though it is plain the peoole of the region don't want it and would like to follow Singapore. Articles in the Svdnev Morning Herald in the past week ( have admitted that the Borneo territories originally joined Malaysia because Sinoapore was in it. Now that Singapore is out, they would like at least to consider leaving. But as an editorial in The Australian said on Monday, i ; the Malaysian Government is showing "an unbending determination to oive them no option". .; is Australia to simnlv a rmpd forces to helo the Malaysian Government ru'e Ss>bh an Sarawak bv force.. Are we . ' even to becom tue new "SirnaDore" from which British imoerialism and its nn-ts can terrorise the region's indenendence movement6? Any such prospect will r»e«> est t.n the strono and gmwinn movement to ster onlio' nnto a new I nath — tho o'afh of 'r«oa>« s jr-,: — n-f rpl- 