 £20 in 24 hours on school needs By a Working Mother _AST week 1 spent £20 in 24 hours for school requirements for my two school-age daughters. This did not inclucte . school clothing. The sum seemed so enorm ous and the value received so small, that I worked it out; Daughter (aged 10 years) £ s d Geometry set 10 6 Project book 3 6 School texts 2 16 6 Broadcast book 2 0 Library 2 0 Exercise books 10 0 Sewing materials 12 6 Colored pencils 6 9 Textra colors 9 0 Pens, ruler, etc. 10 0 Total 6 2 9 Daughter (aged 15 years) School fees 5 0 0 Brief case 4 0 0 Folder 6 9 Paper 29 Exercise books 2 0 0 English text 1 3 0 Sewing materials 10 0 Sollotape and ink 6 9 TOTAL 13 9 3 But this is not all. Minimum re quirements in the way of clothing included: Uniform 315 0 Or.o pair school shoes 4 0 0 Beret 70 0 One pair sand shoes 16 11 TOTAL 9 1 11 The financial, pressure at school year commencement is reaching such proportions that it is time a halt was called by parents _who are insulted monthly with "" the child endowment pittance. Starved of finance, the education system is tottering along on the basis of great hardship suffered by thousands of people anxious to give their children full educational op portunities. High school children frequently have to pay school fees before re ceiving school texts or using sports equipment. Exemptions are granted if one is prepared to submit the child to what appears to him as a personally humiliating explanation of family difficulties. Such money is rapidly used up in equipment and text books so that Parents and Citizens' organisations. arn relied upon to supply the extra thousands required. Pressures on both teachers and parents frequently lead to anta gonisms. (The teacher says, "I've got to have the money in by Friday." This almost desperate plea by the teacher, anxious to get on with the work, is naturally interpreted by some parents as an infuriating in cursion into their already hard- pressed budget. Actually, of course, neither group should he in this invidious posi tion). Private Profit Private enterprise which pro duces the books, equipment and school clothing, has a profit hey day at the expense of both. A couple of yards of cesarine (8/11 a yard) run up into a sleeve less, pleatless (often shapeless) gar ment, are suddenly worth £3/10/- or £4. In a fancy new drip-dry, the uni form may cost £5 or £6. And what words are adequate to describe the robbery which takes £4 for one pair of little girl's shoes, with the basic wage at £15/15/-. The "efficiency" of private enter prise comes out badly. It is becoming more and more difficult to buy clothing in the re quired size, even if the parent shops weeks before the return to school. This summer. I was told in several stores that the size uniform required was not in stock, would not be in for at least five or six weeks. One shop reported there was no chance of getting more stocks, as the factories (in January) were commencing winter garments. There can be no excuse for such gross inefficiency. School uniforms don't go out of fashion. The exact number of pupils at any school can be estimated every year. In fact, no store, is prepared to carry stocks for a season; school selling has become a mad hit-and- run affair. Ads. are inserted, a buying spree is encouraged and it's too bad if you miss out. It seems time to think seriously about calling a halt to private pro fiteering in school children's needs. Teachers' and P. and C. Federa tions have long maintained that the State Government should print and publish all text books for public schools. This would greatly reduce costs. But could not Government enter prise also provide uniforms and other equipment for its thousands of school pupils, and retailing them at a reasonable price? Parents would be helped to edu cate their children and money spent on such school needs could be ploughed back into the educa tion system, and not used for pri vate gain. k 