 "My Brother's Keeper" 1 CEVEN tired Australian writ- I ers stumbled into the In- terflug Airline Bus on the niqht of May 14, and were driven through the quiet outer suburbs of East Berlin. I thought, "So this is East Berlin, this is the city behind the wall, this is the place where the confrontation of East and West becomes the sym bol of a divided world." Open fields and single, houses gave Iway to streets of dark stone build ings, then into the city proper and a blaze of lights from the Hotel Berolina . . . automatic glass doors, voices of a hundred tongues, harass ed girls -at the reception desk, a big heated iobby with a wall of glass thrusting out intp a wide city square, and an American voice above the babble... Gertrude Gelbln Heym, "Seven Seas" editor, known so long from her letters . . . nervous, welcoming,., heavily ringed hands, narrow, mobile face framed in a fur coat; behind her Stefan Heym, bulking huge shouldered, with his brilliant hood ed eyes, Stefan Heym of "The Crusaders," "Goldsborough," "The Eyes of Reason," holding me by the shoulders, emphasizing his welcome with a great hug. They had waited all evening, Gertrude and Stefan,, to meet the Australians, many of whom had their first European publication in a "Seven Seas's" edition. In the middle of the lobby . stood Judah Waten ("The Australian Bear" the Russians call him), like an oasis in a circle of Australians, a familiar face among all these mill ing, strangely half-familiar faces . . . the grey head of Fedin, bowed shouldered, sensitive faced, hurrying J?t0 a lift speaking French, English erman, Russian, switching from language to language with urbane ease and laughter; Pablo Neruda, that big brooding face; Daniil Gran- in, luminous, quiet, smiling, always m his open-necked white shirt; dark, grizzled, thick-set Mulk Raj Anand; £ aria Stancu, the great Rouman- poeti author of that classic peasant novel, "Barefoot"; the hand some, sharply cut profile of Jimmy Aldridge, looking like the hero of one of his own novels; the drooping moustaches and melancholy eyes of ' William Saroyan, perhaps wonder ing if here too he would find "The Beautiful People"; the little, wiry, fiery, wickedly humourous Scotch poet, Hughie McDiarmid, with his . bottomless capacity for poetry and vodka; the broad, rough, unbeatable face of Bruno Apitz, who survived . Buchenwald to write his prize-win ning novel, "Naked Among Wolves." The International Writers' Con gress in Berlin and Weimar, May 14 to May 22, 1965, had begun. ? "17 VEN the Australians are here," wrote the East Berlin news papers. There were twelve of us; Alan Marshall, John Morrison, Bill Wan- nan, Clem Christeson and Judah Waten from Melbourne, Frank Hardy from Sydney, John Manifold from Queensland, Max Harris, Geoffrey Dutton, and Flexmore Hudson from South Australia, F. B. Vickers and myself from Western Australia . . . one of the biggest foreign delega tions from further away than almost anyone. Both in Berlin and Weimar the Congress was loosely organized, ranging from literary discussions on anti-fascist books to evenings of in ternational folklore; discussions on Brecht and the contemporary theatre, with the great figure of Brecht's widow, the actress-producer Helen Weigal Brecht, in the chair, to cocktails with East German pub lishers in Weimar; readers' forums, a discussion on "The Novel of the Unbeaten Generation," a G.D.R. Film Club discussion on Films against Fascism and War, Prose, Verse and : Song from Czechoslovakia, Poland and the G.D.R., tours round Berlin. Weimar, Dresden, Leipzig and the Thuringia Mountains. 1 That first afternoon I went to a . garden party for English speaking writers. at. the beautiful, two-storied home of the Heyms in an outer riverside suburb of Berlin. "And this is John Manifold," said Gertrude Gelbin to Alvah Bessie, Spanish Civil War veteran, and one of the brave Hollywood Ten, who challenged McCarthyism and the "Un-American Activities Commit tee." "But of course," said Alvah. "You're a great Australian poet." It was good and warm to be accept ed among the progressive writers of the world. It gave a feeling of strength and meaning to your work. It became real work, important, deeply necessary, not just a spare- time occupation. It meant that many lines of communication were being kept open across the world if we could meet like this. There was Alvah Bessie in his red shirt, slightly deaf, brown-laced, balding, ironical. I would have known him anywhere. He was my kind of person . . . Alvah, humour ous, sardonic, saying to me . . . "For Christ's sake speak English. I can't understand a word you say in that terrible Australian accent." "I was comin' out of jail, and this guy sits beside me in the train goin' home to California. He says, 'Where'd you get that marvellous suntan? Florida?' 'No,' I says, 'I got it in jail. Breakin' rocks in the yard.' He moved off so fast." Alvah mixed us. cocktails in Gertrude Gelbin's big glass Czech bowl. "Alvah used to be a bar tender in New York," Yuri Suhl told me. (Afterwards Alvah broke the bowl. "I'll get you another from Maceys in New York, Gertrude," he said.) Yuri' Suhl is a little Jewish write, who writes novels in Yiddish, an immigrant who came up the hard way. He was full of admiration for the young University students in America, who, he said, were making a real stand for democratic rights and civil liberties. "It's something really new in the States at last/' he said. "And it's spreading. It gives me new hope, and it's coming from the kids." Inside the house American film- writer, John Wexley, was autograph ing his book on the Rosenbergs for Stefan Heym, and long, loose-limbed American poet, Walter Lowenfels, was peddling the latest issue of his left-wing literary magazine, "Dialogue." I visited the Heyms once more before I left Berlin for Moscow, driving out in a taxi with the Amer icans. This time we had with us the negro writer, John Killens, author of the novels, "Youngblood" and "And then we Heard the Thunder", Kil lens told me he had berthed in Fremantle during the war. The Americans had the New York papers with them, and were discuss ing the arrest of an American writer on a marihuana charge. "It's a common frame," Killens said. "Especially for negroes. The cops plant the stuff in the room, and come back and arrest the guy." I sat next to Killens at the ses sion on "The Novel of the Unbeaten Generation". Some delegates were demanding a stronger political line from progressive American writers. Killens sat quite still, a handsome, pale-skinned negro, highly emotional. "I think we're doin' what we can," he said quietly to the listening table, but his voice shook. What is the thing that makes pro gressive Americans like progressive Australians? What gives us a com mon language, if not a common ac cent? Is it the cracking of jokes, the laconic comment, the wry laugh ter of two peoples? I don't knew the reasons. I only know I never felt closer to any human beings than I did to Bessie and Suhl and Killens in Berlin. TO BE CONCLUDED NEXT WEEK 