 Miners call for return of NSW Labor Govt. SYDNEY: The Central Council ©f the Miners' Federation last week in Sydney called upon its members to campaign for the re turn of the NSW Labor Government which, Council said, "is clear ly facing its most serious challenge". OUNCIL said it was vitally V important to prevent any Liberal success, which would not only be a setback to the people of NSW but would strengthen the position of the „ Menzies Government and the Liberal -Country Party through out the Commonwealth. Council's opinion was "that the Labor Government would greatly enhance its electoral prospects if it were to come out more boldly . against the monopolies and in sup- port of the important demands of the labor movement. Examples of these were listed as: price control, cost of living wage adjustments, the removal of the penal clauses, and for the nationali sation of the coal industry. Council fully supported the de cision of the N.S.W. Labor Coun cil to approach Premier Renshaw to ask for the inclusion in his policy speech support for the unions' 35- hour week demand. The action of Miners' general sec retary, Mr. W. Mahon, in publicly supporting Mr. Calwell in his rejec tion of any rapproche with the Democratic Labor Party, was en dorsed by council. A resolution directed attention to the Council's warnings after the Federal elections that attempts were being made to move the Labor Party to the right and said that the current proposals by Senator Ken- nelly were part of ' this attempt. "There can be nothing in common with the ALP and DLP," Council said. "The DLP is simply the political front of the National Civic Council, whose policies are diametrically op- posed to those of the labor move ment and whose deliberate and de clared policy is to keep the Labor Party out of office in State and Federal spheres," the Miners said. On April 8 this year, the Federa tion will celebrate its 50th Anni versary. Council decided to organise a national convention in honor of the occasion. The Council called on the Federal Government to implement the Federation's proposals made at the time of the joint approach with the colliery proprietors in August last year. . These included that restrictions be placed upon the importation of overseas oil and that the 'present high percentage of fuel oil be re duced by forcing the oil companies to carry out a higner degree of refin ing of this oil. "This would considerably reduce the unfair competition to the coal industry, the Miners said. The Council has called for a con tinuation of agitation for a proper national fuel policy to enable coal to fulfil its proper place in the eco nomy. 