 [?] Important -sections of the British press, and also the British Communist Party, are demanding that the Labor Government accept Indonesian peace pro posals and stop the aggressive arms build-up in Mal aysia. "FHREE times last week Indo nesian spokesmen made it clear that he was still seeking a peaceful -settlement of the issue. President Sukarno stated that, although withdrawing from the UN, Indonesia was still ready to accept a UN solution of the Malaysia ques- aw n mtainncoh hlt on. uiuuf ul c ovaulmva vj Afro-Asian commission. Fbreign Minister Subandrio said' Indonesia was ready for peace talks with Malaysia and Britain without any pre-conditions. In London an Indonesian diplo mat made an informal approach to British foreign under-secretary Lord Walston, proposing peace talks. .Sukcarno on TV On Sunday night Australian TV viewers heard President Sukarno, in s press interview, declare that In donesia wanted no war and woiud never start one, but was ready to de fend herself. Indonesia he said, sought a return to the Manila agreement of 1963 whereby Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines declared that they would not allow their territories to be used Jor the purposes of powers situated futside the area. ('By allowing Britain to retain Singapore unconditionally and use it to build up huge forces in the area, llalaysia broke this agreement). President Sukarno also agreed to tccept the vex-dict of a thorough and properly-conducted UN survey of public opinion in the Borneo ter- Jit'ories. ((That conducted by the UN in U9G3 was rushed through in a fort- light, without Indonesian observers teing present all the time, as jp'e'cified by the Manila agreement. Sefore the results were disclosed the ifalaysian leaders announced the in clusion of the territories in Malay sia )'. But' instead of seizing with both 'Van'ds'- the new opportunity for peace, tiVe'' British Government brushed off tee'' approaches andl speeded; its war preparations. "Me Australian Government also 'fU$dV ncf-iesponse to the Indonesian Proposal,- while sections- of the capitalist press broke out into new sabre-rattling menaces; iSlowever in both countries other cCti&lt;ms( of the capitalist press had itolSect the desire of both British fEfdl .Australian people to be rid of a djanSgerously warlik situation. the London Observer on w'ai-y 10 warned that if war broke ftftl Britain would never be able to and urged negotiations. _&lt;t&erwise, warned the Observer, ia-ys&c will become a British Viet- IThe1 London Guardian urges the Britisl'f Government to realise the Sfcvife-lhility of Britain leaving the £r-eaV arid the Sunday Citizen (form erly' Reynolds News) also calls for a toteMia-ted settlement. "BySlysng" move The London Daily Worker (Com- Siuhisty also demands that negotia- replace force. y Iff Australia The Australian fftfwspaper says that the Indonesian — appfoaches offer "'he chance for and peace." It condemns tte British Government's "hard- fthc" response. frisi& moves of the past week, un- S&plihed the importance of Aus- communist Party chairman R. Dixon's call for new initiatives for peace in south east Asia. Supporting ALP leader Calwell's proposal last week for a guarantee of Indonesia's frontiers by her neighbours. Mr. Dixon said: "Aus tralia should strive vigorously for a peaceful solution of this (Malaysian- Indonesian) conflict before it escal ates into general war." 