 Nino soon learnt to call for "the bloody beer" "THE "Australian film indus- j try" has bad a boost from the production of "They're a j Weird Mob", now being j filmed in Sydney. j Australian actors rarely get | the chance to work on a full- j length film in their own coun- I try. ' | Australian actor Ed. Devereaux, j who plays Joe Kennedy, the "brickie" in the film, said last .week that | "acting in Australia is a vacation, ; in England it is a job." "Here you've got the. emotional ; involvement of getting a job every j time the filming cuts out. . "If Australian films are to be any more than a rubber-stamp of shows from England, America or anywhere else, then the responsible people in the community have got to do something about it." Do you think this hook and film "They're a Weird Mob" has a basic importance of bringing migrants and Australians closer together, as there is a continuing antipathy in Australia towards "southern Europeans"? Ed. Devereaux:. "Well, unless a man is a nutter or got a kink, he's ready to look for the good in all other people." "Nino" (Walter Ghiari) was on the set with "Joe Kennedy's long haired mate, Edie" (Doreeri Warbur- ton). Walter Chiari spoke good- English and gave the impression of being a serious thinker.. Like most Italians and Europeans (except Spaniards and Portuguese), he soon brought "politics" into the conver sation. He interpolated his talk with noises of Lambrettas, bombs, cars and so on. Walter: "You have something here we have lost in Italy, and which I think you could lose. That is the closeness of work and nature. "In Italy' everything is done by pushing a button. You sit in an office all day and read six letters, answer one and make two telephone calls . . . and that is work. "People think of their house and car and clothes. They wouldn't be seen dead with a hole in their sock. "In Italy cities are crowded, choked with cars and exhausts; even fourteen-year-olds ride Lam brettas . . . b-daamp ... b-daamp JJ Ed: "Say a few words into the microphone, Walter." Walter: "Is this all people want? A house and a car? Even the Com-' munists in Italy are the same . . You don't mean all the Com munists, Walter? Walter: "Some of the actors I know won't work under 100,000 dollars; they drive big Ferraris. And if the script doesn't agree with their ideas they put a pencil through it. "I can't hate any man. I treat a man for what he is." ® You don't hate anything at all? Not even war? Walter: "Yes, war . . .boom-boom- boom . . , once you could use your own eyes, legs, your own strength; but today, press the button and boom-boom. What's the sense of that?" Doreen: "But some people like war ..." Walter: "Yes, must be a bit cuckoo ..." Ed: "You remember jj.the first war how they stopped lighting at Christmas-time and shook hands. Now, they were mad!" Walter: "I hate war, but I don't hate America. It's the young boys they're sending who are getting it." Ed: "Would you like to say a few words into the microphone, Wal ter?" Walter: "What I hatejnost is the way propaganda is uJeotTp make people hate each other, it's like using scandal against someone. If you like you can pick out one or two things about a man and you will soon prove he is no good. "The same with countries. You can find things in the history of any country to show that it is bad, and in five days propaganda can make people hate each other. "They can put a dam up between people. These are the ones to exter minate; these are the ones to sup port. If you're on the right side you can't do anything wrong. What about a bit of objectivity?" Doreen: "There was a writer in England who was thrown out of the Communist Party' five times. The last time, he wrote a book that was too left for anybody." Ed: "Must have been an Irish man." Walter: "I don't believje there is a simple truth, and I don't think any group of men can decide what other people ought to think. "Film actors are not somebody's property. They are alive to observe life and prbduce what they see, not what they are told." . # There wasn't time to argue further. The cast were preparing to film the last scene, which is the destruc tion of a couple of "nines" in the backyard of Joe Kennedy's house. "Nino" has been brought home, and the group sit uneasily around the tea-tray until he enunciates in a way that had to he heard to be appreciated: , "Where's the . bloody beer?" D.K. Relaxing during tbe "Weird Mob" filming are (1 to r) : Doreen Warburton, Walter Chiari and Ed Devereaux. 