 VIGIL FOR VIETNAM: 300 CO I® «— muiffflw. iiiiMiHMmwriiivHMMmMiTiiwfwa CAMBMWA On the lawns of Parliamsnt House, and in line with the windows of the Prime Minister's rooms, over BOO people last Thursday stood in silent viqil and prayer in protest against the Government's Vietnam policy. -pHEY stood in ranks of about ' 20 to 30 each. From time to time during the two-hour vigil a- minister or lay man would step forward and lead the gathering in prayer. Although the majority of those pre sent were church members the vigil was solidly supported by. trdes unionists and members of the or ganised peace movement. Mr G Brayant, M.H.R. Mr. J. F, Cairns, M.H.R. and Mr. G.W. Duthie, Opposition Whip, were among those who participated About 50 were ministers of reli gion, including Rev. Alan Walker, superintendent of the Central Metho dist Mission in Sydney and Principal John Garrett, of Camden Theological College, Sydney. Unions, too Among the unionists present were Mr. Gilbert Jackson, vice-president of the Sydney Branch of the Waterside Workers' Federation, Building Work- ers' Industrial Union officials L. Marshall, W. Ferguson, R. Scott and H. Cahill, members of the BWIU Women's Committee, and representa tives of the AEU and AEU Women's Committee, the Teachers' Federation and the Sheet Metal Workers' Union. Others were members of the Asso ciation for International Co-operation and Disarmament and the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, including its president, Mrs. Gale. ' Young people and children were prominent among the demonstrators. They stood patiently thr-jhout the two hours' vigil. Earlier about 170 people attended a service at the Methodist Memorial Church, from which they walked to Parliament House1. During the vigil, Rev. Rex Mathias, minister of the Canberra Methodist Church, prayed that Christians might learn to be peace-makers, not "merely peace-hopers and peace- wishers." Others prayed that Australians might live in peace and harmony with their Asian neighbors. Only banner carried was one saying "Silent Vigil for Peace." Earlier a one-man "demonstration" was carried out by a visitor from Sydney who marched up and down in front of Parliament House with a placard calling for an end to US napalm and bloodshed in Vietnam. During the parliamentary lunch- hour recess a number of politicians came out to watch the vigil from Parliament House steps. Others watched from windows. There was an extensive 'VV coverage. At the end Rev. Alan Walker thanked those who had participated. He said a statement of the vigil's aims would ue left with the Prime Minister and Leader of the Opposi tion. He invited others to interview their local MHRs and a large number did so. "Appalled" A statement issued by the 20 pro- testant. ministers organising the Vigil said they were appalled by the tragedy and suffering that had come to the Vietnamese people. They favored a cease-fire, in Viet nam and negotiations for a peaceful settlement. They opposed "escalation of the war by the Government's deci sion to send troops to Vietnam." They also urged the Government to offer immediate increased support in money, personnel and equipment for economic, development and welfare in South-East Asia. The organising committee consisted of the Revs. I. Alcorn (Meth., Qld.), G. Barnes (Cong., Vic.), D. G. Brima- combe (Meth., Vic.), Canon F. W. Coaldrake (C. of E„ N.S.W.), N. Faichney (Pres., Vic.), J. Garrett (Cong., N.S.W.), S. Henshall (Cong., W.A.)„ W. J. Hobbin (Meth., N.S.W.), Dr. Arnold Hunt (Meth., S.A.), K. B. Leaver (Cong., S.A.), Rex Mathias (Meth., A.C.T.), Bishop J. S. Moyes (C. of E., N.S.W.), G. Powell (Pres., N.S.W.), H. Rowe (Bapt., N.S.W.), C. R. Sprackett (Pres., N.S.W.), R. Sutton (Meth., S.A.), M. C. Trenor- den (Meth., S.A.), Alan Walker (Meth., N.S.W.), Lyle Williams (Church of Christ, Vic.), Mr. David Hodgkin (Quaker, A.C.T.). Afterwards Rev. Alan Walker said the Vigil had been "effective." He regretted that the Prime Minister had refused to interview committee mem bers All Australian Protestant denom inations had been represented. 