 GETTING RID OF PENAL CLAUSES SYDNEY /. Anti-union penal powers were once more condemned by the ACTU Congress — the sharn division by the Congress was how to get rid of them! "THIS debate drew the fire from delegates of those unions most heavily fined for taking industrial action in „ support of union demands. A resolution submitted by the ACTU executive and carried by Congress by 293 votes to 245 said: . . the fundamental belief in the right to strike and the manner in which it (the trade union move ment) has fought to retain such a right has been made abundantly clear by repeated decisions of the ACTU Congress and its executive." "Employers' power" The resolution also noted that the Amendments to the Commonwealth Concilation and Arbitration Act in troduced by the Federal Government "... still continue the Employers' preferential economic power by des troying or nullifying the legimate use of the industrial strength of the workers organised in their trade unions. "In this way, the unions' right to withhold labour is denied and when it becomes necessary in the opinion of the trade union movement to exercise that right, the penal provisions are used as a means to attack the financial posit ion of the workers' organisations by im- position of excessive fines and heavy legal costs. The resolution says that the use of penal powers are causing "loss of confidence in Conciliation and Arbit ration" and "will destroy goodwill in industry." It also "again warns" -that penal action taken by the Government or employers against unions involved in industrial action "must inevitably be met by the trade union movement taking its own practical steps to bring about industrial justice." The executive is urged to "continue its campaign for the removal of the pernicious penal sections of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Ar bitration Act". "In addition to co-ordinate with the Commonwealth Labor Advisory Com mittee for it to continue to press for the removal in accordance with Labor's policy." "Master plan" The resolution then sets our pro posals which sections "of the wealthy daily press applauded as a "master plan" to tighten ACTU control over strikes throughout Australia.- Two amendments submitted to Congress sought positive opposition by the whole trade union move ment. Mr. T. Doyle (Victorian secretary of the Transport Workers' Union) moved that in th event of unions being fined in the ACI dispute that the executive organise positive ac tion with a view to holding a national- 24-hour stoppage. A further amendment moved . by Mr. C, Fitzgibbon (general secretary Waterside Workers' Federation) asked Congress "to put some teeth into its oft-repeated declarations on the matter." The WWF- proposed that when penal powers are used or threatened that the ACTU officers be directed "to ensure that the unions in the industry concerned are called to gether to consider the most effective form of protest and/or retaliatory action which can be taken ... and then take the necessary steps to properly organise such protest and/ or retaliatory action." Similar steps to be taken by State Labor Councils when the dispute is intrastate or State legislation is in volved. This amendment was finally put to the Congress in opposition to the executive proposal. "Controlled pressure" Mr. H. Souter (ACTU secretary) who moved the executive resolution, said: "We want controlled pressure." He said "deliberate actions have been taken to build up a case to display before the Congress." He also criticised some sections of the trade union movement for taking industrial action. Mr. Fitzgibbon said: "We hove no in tention of belittleing ACTU officials— also the ACTU should not try ond be little trade union secretaries." Referring to Mr. Souter's obvious re ference to the WWF, Mr. Fitzgibbon said: "I can tell the ACTU secretary we didn't have our members fined to tell this Congress. Our union was fined because we got out to win demands for the members." Mr. Fitzgibbon said that since 1960 the WWF has been fined £25,100. He said that the resolution deletes those sections of the 1963 decision which attempted to say something would be done. "You can still be carrying motions in 30 years time but only by positive action can these penal powers be re- -.moved. . ."If we cannot convince the Menztes Government we can convince the em ployers that we mean business." Mr. Fitzgibbon pointed out that a threatened 24 hour stoppage forced t e removal of bans clauses against the Transport Workers' Union. The Qu®en5." land Government was also forced to bae down during the Mount Isa dispute he- caus of massive trade union protests. "In the movement you have to Jea . If you don't, someone else will, said. Want leadership Other speakers in opposition to the executive made the following points: f Mr. Doyle: "The Courts are not slow to take something from y We want the ACTU to give us leader ship. How long are we going disagree with penal clauses and ta no action?" Mr. G. Crawford (federal secretary. Plumbers' Union b "The trade un movement has not measured up its responsibility. We have no Continued on Page 12 PENAL CLAUSES Continued from Page 10 agreement about the Labor Govern ment when elected to power chang ing the legislation, but what do we do in the meantime? "Sit on our backsides? or offer a prayer?" Mr. G. McDonald (Victorian or ganiser, Building Workers' Industrial Union): "We carry all types of reso lutions for increased wages, etc., but when we go out to implement them we. are confronted by penal powers. "We have the power if used, to far outweigh the power of the Court. We can also put employers out of business." Mr. J Egerton (president, Queens land T & L.C.): "Because of lack of ACTU leadership, penal, powers are now being extended to other States. "Employers are saying look at the advantages of these Federal clauses. "In 1955, Mr. Souter said we will repeal penal clauses but we are still waiting for the right dispute "There are still penal clauses in N.S.W. after 24 years of p Labor Government. This is one of the reasons why this government was de feated." Mr. Monk (ACTU president) su ported the executive proposal: "Tell us what can be done . . You think up something. At le: we have tried to get legislation. "I was prepared to have soi: stoppage on the basic wage. "If you cannot get a toppage o the basic wage issue you won't ge; it on penal powers," 