 fflsfiraSraS Garbage disposal causes headaches Last year the Menzies Government, through the Department of Civil Aviation, closed down the St. Peters rubbish tip, near Syd ney Airport. "T"H1S had been used for dis- posal by many councils ana also was a reliable /'backstop" when other tipping areas be came filled in and some temp orary pjace needed while new sites were found. Subsequently, the garbage ques tion has assumed greater importance for an increasing number of Sydney councils. These include Canterbury, Waverley, Marriclcville. The "tipping of garbage is certainly the cheapest way of dis posal and also assists to reclaim un used quarries, empty brickpits, swampy river, harbour and beach front lands, unnecessary gullies and ravines. However, the availability of these types of places is practically gone. Even the Blue Mountains Council has difficulty in finding suitable gul lies. There are, of course, many places that could he used but there are cot tages nearby and the residents don't want a "stinking tip" nearby. The question of incineration is not simple; it is extremely costly, one figure given me by a council officer was 10 times the cost of tipping. Incineration certainly disposes of most materials but cost of running, and maintenance costs particularly, are very high, and, of course, there is a limited life for an incinerator also. Unlike tipping, when the job is done, there's nothing to see for the (say) 20 years' effort. Composting is increasingly looked to overseas as the best method avail able now for garbage disposal. This process is fairly simple. Rubbish is segregated with non perishable salvaged and sold. The residue is then piled up or shredded and digested in enclosed containers. The oxygen content is kept high and the living organism feed on and decompose the material. Ultimately due to temperature in creases, the organisms die and the material achieves biological inert ness, i.e., is O.K. from health point of view. The compost can he sold to farm ers for fertilizers. Here, of course, is the rub. Under capitalism there is never, a guaranteed market and consequently councils can be, and are left with surplus stocks; in additions, of course, there is competition with the monopoly fertilizer firms who would exert pressures on both the councils and farmers. In the Soviet Union (and presum ably other socialist countries) the fertiliser goes to the State and col lective farms, helping to cut costs not only for the local councils but also the farms and their products. Apart from our general demand of 10% of Federal Budget for local government, there is need for a group of councils to come together (this is known as forming a County Council) and pool their resources available, and experience, and select Sites for disposal of garbage. Cost could be jointly borne with special grants from State Govern ment, which also I believe should Part of joint enterprises, imu J research, experimental fruits vai?ous kinds, overseas enS specialists to study experi- ' etc-> are needed and can only be borne by the State Government. This joint State-local authority could be grouped where needed. Perhaps there would be 5 or 6 in Sydney, elsewhere as needed. Whether an incinerator or com post or some other type of disposal- is used, there is need for some fairly quick action now for this problem is fast becoming Sydney's No. 1 health problem in providing an essential acivice. — -M. Burnham (Sydney). 