 A robust exposure of Australia for sale , 4,-|"HE HIGHEST BIDDER" is a robust analysis of the i foreign take-over of Austra lia. I . i Though requiring close reading, j as does any hook dealing with j economics, it is often racy in style j md avoids the ' "language of the ' c-nert" that so often conceals an ' economist's meaning. ' The authors, Brian Fitzpatrick r-cT E. Lv 'Wheelwright,'.- /deserve congratulation for their contribu tion to this vital .subject. In. this, 1: s last major, work, the former has e "'led Irs. name more deeply on' the roll of. Australian patriots. jl .. /' 1 THE Australianism' of the authors' rnproach is made very clear in their to cning paragraph. There has been "too rich an injection of American dollars for the : Australian com munity to assimilate ... of British . pounds sterling also, lor the cOra- tinued growth and health of the economy and the social and political community, as an Australian econ omy, an Australian community -with its own distinctive character." Later, they state their belief that "the case for continued uridiscfim- inating reliance on overseas capital is not nearly so powerful as Aus tralian official submissiveness has chosen to cozen our affluent society into accepting as gospel." ' This challenging stand is different to that taken in the Vernon Report, which looked . on foreign investment with a more favorable eye, but urged its limitation mainly -because, in their view, the surplus of exports over imports would not be great enough, in ten years' time, to cover the cost of dividends and other remittances to the overseas owners! . Menzies, when assassinating the Vernon Report, accused it of exag gerating the extent of the foreign takeover as " ell as the threat to pur international reserves. The fact that room for difference about facts and figures exists, that estimates must be deduced from other statistical reports and no official record of foreign owner ship of Australian resources is kept, is in itself an indictment of the Government and its sell-out of our country. $ But irrespective of the degree of accuracy of the estimates used in the Vernon Report and The Highest Bidder, it is . indubitable i that the trend they point to does exist. For if the bottom falls out of our overseas reserves, another Sir Otto Niemeyer (will it be the International Monetary Fund?) will demand satisfaction for the interests of the foreign owner like the gal lant knight did at the onset of the Hungry Thirties. Furthermore, neither publication takes into account the effect of natural calamities, such as the .. present drought, and its effect on overseas earnings. It the recent forecast that the drought will mean a drop of £200 million in overseas exports turns out- to be anything near correct, a new generation of Australians will learn what Niemeyerism means to their living standards. FITZPATRICK and Wheelwright produce estimates of the extent of the foreign takeover that they de scribe as "the dismaying, even alarming situations in which six teen Menzies' . years of virtually uninterrupted and unregulated foreign investment have landed Australia.' Though these will not shock the Warden of the Cinque Ports or ruffle the slick urbanity of his Treasurer and Prime Minister-elect, they will s'-ock most Australians. Wheelwright's calculations show that, in 1963, the percentage of i company, income accruing to over- seas owners was 26.7, and . 43% of ; that year's, investment , in the manu- : factoring sphere alone was owned by. foreign; monopolists. These figures are taken over the. whole range of private business, but the Highest Bidder shows that, . as the companies get bigger and moret decisive in pur affairs, and also . as/ the /investigation is nar- .. rowed down to key industries standing at the very heart of the economy, the proportion of foreign control gets alarmingly greater. Vernon raises no pbjection on /this particular score> taking the stand that it would be a. different matter if "large sections of Aus tralian industry were coming under the control of potential enemies" instead of "Australia's closest allies." But the Highest Bidder shows that in fact we have become a cap tive country, captive moreover of .what the . authors describe with biting satire as "our Great and Powerful Friends." (A phrase first used unctuously and sycophhantly'by Menzies.). And, as a captive country already dependent- on a continued flow of foreign investment to maintain the buoyancy of our : international re serves, Fitzpatrick and Wheelwright emphasise that we are dependent not just on the policy or whim of multi-millionaires in foreign board rooms, but also on their govern ments who may restrict the outward flow of capital to preserve a favorable balance of payments for. themselves. They quote with telling effect on this point the correspondence be tween Menzies and Johnson of last March, in which Menzies pleaded for American benevolence in the restrictions being placed on dollar outflow, as well as Mr. Calwell's comment, that his letter was "one of the most complete confessions of failure of national policy" ever written by the head of one govern ment to another. Since then, on October 15, the Financial Review has reported that the restrictions imposed in March had not resulted in any "drastic fall-off in private dollar outflow" and new curbs were being imposed by the Administration. ; We may well ask, as these In-, vestors (to use the polite term) pay so little heed to the wishes of their own Government, how, , much can they be expected to pajT to the needs of Australia? The Financial ; Review, however, assured its readers that the new curbs were "not expected to affect dollar support for major mineral projects now under way." Nevertheless, these new curbs,- which bear witness to the mounting cost of the American war in Viet nam, have an ominous rihg for our economic health. . , . - //-''' ?H/;- THE Highest Bidder examines ' many of the consequences _ of the foreign takeover; including— the way. in which foreign sub sidiaries- and Australian manu facturers working on foreign licences are barred from export ing the products made by Aus tralian labor; , the prices policy which suits the 'interests of the foreign monopo lies with tentacles in many countries and able to play one off against the other to their own advantage. It debunks the oft-repeated myth about foreign investment bringing with it foreign "know how," point ing out that while this has some truth, very often the "know how", is last year's model, and that it has resulted in a serious stifling of Australian native research. And it points out that the flood of foreign money restricts the field open to Australian capital, forcing much of it into compradore fields like real estate, hire purchase and other non-producing (but not non profit making) activities. So one of the threads leading from the working man desperately trying to get enough money to buy a home building block goes back to "our Great and Powerful Friends." ; The authors add spice to their treatment of this point by a quota tion from Marx, who, dealing with certain aspects of the joint stock company in the credit sector of the economy, wrote that "It reproduces a new aristocracy of finance, a new variety of parasite in the shape of promoters, speculators and merely nominal directors; a whole system of swindling and cheating by mean I of company promoting, stock job. 1 bing, and speculation." 1 ? I SOME readers may find made- I quacies in the chapter explaining I ' how Australia became a cockpit for 1 international capital. While the 3 factors stated by the. authors all 1 played their part, they overlook the Si fact that behind the Menzies Govern- 1 ' ment stands the Australian capitalist f ' class, and especially the B.H.P. | The point that, in striving to I realise their post-war ambitions to 1 become the dominant force in I South-East Asia, this class sought /> ' foreign investment to reinforce its I strength, is worth consideration. | . that the guest at the dining table I turned out to be a python proves I only that all imperialists are blind £ to present-day realities. In this 1 context, Menzies' love of medieval I titles may well be symbolic. I ' It may also be said that the | exposure of the foreign takeover I would have been more sharply 1 illuminated ; by a. comparison with gf the disinterested aid given by the 1 socialist countries to the under- 1 'developed. But then, a book must i have some limits in size. i In explaining the way forward as I they see it, the authors exclude | "socialist economy nationalism" as I not being practical politics in the i present political climate. I I They argue in favor of building | Australian capitalism, and especially jjt of a "consortium of Australian | private and public capital" for I; optimum development of our pro- | duction, "without sycophancy to | and domination by overseas capital." 1 While this would be. a stage pro- I gressive to the present situation, | and while it may well be a step that can mobilise a very wide || measure of support, the B.H.P. and | its ilk have, nevertheless, never I given the people any reason to love | them, and they would dominate | any consortium unless governments | and people were determined that | the popular interests are placed j| first. , . | Nationalisation of the foreign I interests in at least the key sec- 1 tions of our economy would be a 1 more significant step forward. | Pricejd at 27/6 for the paper W covered edition and 42/6 for a board I cover, the book is well worth the fl money. Any group who clubbed || together to buy and read it would || be rewarded with countless ani- m mated discussions which may also If lead to- the conclusion that the jl present policies of growth, whether || as practised by Menzies or advo- EI cated by Vernon, alike have to be || challenged, together with the policy 1 of selling our country to the | Highest Bidder. I I 