 [?] I Launch challenges big ships USSR backs China plan -RENCH warships entering 1 Sydney Harbor on January 4 were met by a launch crowd ed with demonstrators and decked with slogans against nuclear weapons and testing. On the launch were 50 sup- Dorters of the newly-formed Committee - Against Atomis Testing (CAAT). I A spokesman said: "These Jhips are here to condition public opinion in preparation .for the forthcominq French !ntom bomb tests in the South "acific." Slogans were in French and Eng- sh (see picture). ft The protest vessel circled the two ajhips— the 12,000 ton helicopter car rier Jeanne D'Arc and the 2000-ton 'iestroyer escort Victor Schoelcher — to |ive the French sailors a good view j>f the slogans. T &lt; On the third trip around the launch tyas stopped and boarded by a ser geant of the State Water Police, who wrote down names. I Within 10 minutes the skipper re ceived a radio call from his employ es ordering removal of the slogans. feLater two French sailors at Cir- iular Quay said they were against . yiPm bomb tests. ihey. 3aio; "Tout le monde wants gee," but that it was "difficile" .£& wain, iff T ' Isil ' m \ OSCOW: The Soviet Gov ernment has declared that it fully agrees with the pro posal of the Chinese Govern- ment that the question ot pro hibiting and destroying nuclear weapons be studied by a worlc conference of heads of state. The Soviet Government is ready to take part in such an international conference of heads of state and will do everything possible to have it held and yield positive results. These statements are contained in a message sent by A. Kosygin, Chairman of the USSR Council: of Ministers to the Premier of the PRC State . Council, Chou En Lai on December 28, in reply to the latter's message of October 17 containing the proposal to convene such a con ference. TOP: CAAT members prepare the "Lithgow" with slogan! - before confronting the French warships. BOTTOM: A heli copter leaves the deck of the carrier Jeanne D'Arc. CENTRE: Matelots on the deck of the destroyer Victor Sehoeleher Watch the slogd launch-. 