 ZZefill i IF you walk into one of the Broken Hill clubs with either Bill Whiley or Bill Flynn you will soon have company. They are both leading com munists and 'membars of the Broken Hill Council, with the repu tation for fighting for the needs of the townspeople. Most Broken Hill residents would - go further and agree that the two communist councillors are doing a very good job for the town. That's why people are always consulting them. Bill Whiley, a 1 1" well-built ex-miner in his thirties, is the second communist councillor to be elected, but they have had com munist representation in "the Hill" since December, 1953, when Bill Flynn was first elected. An important reason for Bill Whiley 's election in 1962, was that people knew that Bill Flynn's reso lutions were often lapsing because he did not have a seconder. The younger councillor pays a lot of tribute to Bill Flynn for his pioneering of the municipal market project, which worked successfully for two years before it was halted by vested interests. ' When the old Caravan Park was condemned, Bill Flynn fought and won the support of council to mod ernise the park. This proved to be so successful, that the Council has now decided to extend it further. Bill Flynn also exposed faulty construction in the early stages of a new swimming pool. He was, however, ignored, with the result that additional expendir ture of £5000 became necessary later to rectify the faults. Bill Whiley moved and gained the support of council for a number of important items that were for warded for the agenda of the last local government conference. One such item was "That the / State Government make part of the revenue received from motor vehicle registration and petrol tax available to council for expenditure on roads." Another item was to increase the amount of rates paid by the giant mining companies from 3d to 8d in the "£. This 3d in the £ has remained unaltered since 1919, while the fin. ancial needs arid services provided by the council have expanded manv - times over. 1 In 1959 one of the mines, CZR paid £82,000 in rates and in 1964 only £65,000, while the citizens, who paid £76,924 in 1959, paid £110,400 : in 1964. This happened in a year where the total wealth produced from the mines was nearly £28 million pounds. Other items included: "That local government be exempt from paying h pay roll tax, and that state and 9 federal governments be required fl to pay rates on all government h owned properties equvalent to the W rates paid by other property (f owners. w An extremely important item jf was: "That:, local government calls H for a share in the common pool of | taxation to the extent of a return of 10 per cent of all federal taxa tion revenue. Bill Whiley believes strongly that proportional voting should remain in local government elections as it helped ensure the election of communist councillors who have brought a new atmosphere into the council work. If communists were eliminated the people's interests would suffer. Both communist councillors played an important part in the struggle to get council employees four weeks' annual leave and 10 years' long service leave. This opened the way for the same gains for all other workers in the towns and mines. The two "Bills" have an import ant goal in front of them. They are determined to see the rich mining companies pay rates of 8d in the £, like every citizen in Broken Hill. Profits from Broken Hill produc tion originally supplied the capital ' for BHP, and now provides the capital to develop projects such as Weipa aluminium, iron ore de posits in West Australia, timber, cement, oil exploration and other projects. The two councillors are deter mined that some of the continuing gigantic profits from the mines will go to the council to make hie better for the people living m Broken Hill. 