 TWO QUEENSLANDERS WIN EXEMPTION g ROM COMPULSORY NATIONAL SERVICE j "We were prepared I to go to jail" —Says mother BRISBANE: Two young Queenslanders, Mr. D. Dean and Mr. D. 1 Scott, who registered their objection to military call-up, have won exemption. Both men stated they were oppose d to the war in Vietnam and to conscrip- tion for overseas service. They consider that our country is not threatened at r present — "no war has been declared". pOTH men received identical pre-printed letters from the Department of Labor & Na tional Service. These said in part: "I am writing to tell you that | _vmi do not meet the' standards of | litntss required of persons called upon to render service under the National Service Act ..." These letters followed many moves by the young men and other citizens and organisations. These included: Registration as required by the National Service Act, 1965. Attendance for medical examina tions. Steadfast refusal, to sign any forms except mandatory ones. Advice and assistance from the Save Our Sons (SOS) movement, trade unions, Labor Party members, lawyers, the Communist Party and others. Publicity in newspapers. Forthright public statements that the would face jail- terms rather than compulsory military service for war in Vietnam, to which _they are opposed. The two men were not exempted on expressly medical grounds. One had been passed as medically fit and earlier had his call-up deferred to allow him to continue his appren ticeship. Sought aid Save Our Sons Queensland secre tary, Mrs. V. Ward, of Tennyson Street, Norman Park, Brisbane, told Guardian: "Mrs, Dean approached me for help during one of the weekly vigils for peace in Brisbane's Anzac Square, "One of the aims of our organisa tion is opposition to conscription of youth into the armed services to serve in overseas wars. "Our advice in all cases is for the young men to register as required by the Act and to present themselves for medical examination. "If they do that, SOS will advise and help if they wish to lodge objec tions to service on conscientious grounds. "Such objections must be lodged within 14 days of having the medical examination. "We urge that young men read the j National Service Act, 1965. "Objection forms may be obtained from the National Service Registra-i tion Office or any District Employ- 1 ment Office, despite what officers of 1 such departments may say to tin contrary. ' "It is heartening to have these two lads exempted from service. Others are objecting— and SOS will assist all who ask our aid." Mr. David Dean's father served in World War I and was gassed in France. He served again in World War II in the Middle East. When David's father died in 1961, David went to sea at the early age of 16 to support his mother and two younger sisters. He has since worked as a builders' laborer and industrial painter. Mrs. Hazel Dean, mother of David, told the Queensland "Guardian": "Both David and I were prepared to go to jail rather than submit to this unjust Act. "We will defend Australia, but .not over there (in Vietnam) ... it is an American war. "We have no right to be in Viet nam. | Mrs. Dean continued: "I heard that the Save Our Sons movement could help me and my son. I ap proached them for advice. "They said my son should register and have his medical examination. He should also read the National Service Act. "If my son registered and had his : medical, then they would help in any way possible. "Since SOS helped David I will work harder to help SOS help others fight conscription for overseas service." 