 Who'll pick these j grapes of wrath? j "n RAPES OF WRATH" was - a novel about history- — so - - a lot of people think. They miaht also Think that Woody Guthrie's dust-bowl blues and 'oakie' ballads are- fit only for the archives. JOHN DOE, a migratory agricul tural worker who left the States in 1956 would disagree with them. "Agricultural workers jn the States are the lowest paid, and they have no union, no conditions, no paid holidays, no compensa tion, no unemployment benefit— they move from state to state fol lowing the seasons— Arizona for the wheat, Nebraska for the ap ples, oranges in California. "Wages are better as you go North, worse as you go South. "Wheat in- Texas is 3 dollars a day, 5 dollars in Kansas, 7 in Dakota, 9 in North Dakota, and 12 dollars in Canada. The hay run varies in the same way. "There's no set basic wage and no set hours for the day. You might work 12-14 hours a. day on the harvest, then they'll expect a few extra hours 'chores' out of you." I listened to him with disbelief. Yes, I have read "The Other Amer- ' ica" by Michael Harrington, seen the TV film "The Dollar Poor", heard Johnson call for a war against # poverty to make the "Great Society" in the United States, but hearing it from a man who was under it all his life, came as a real surprise. "There's plenty of opportunity in the States if you're highly skilled, prepared to flog your guts out, and make sure you don't talk union. "Unskilled? You're finished at 35. "There's plenty of men." But John Doe is a skilled agricul-' tural worker. He told me some of his 'diplomas'. "I've picked and lidded apples in Boise, Idaho, for 75 cents an hour- ploughed wheat in at Plainview, Tex-, as, twelve hours a day for two dol lars a day.— green bug got the wheat shoots. "I harvested hay off boggy land at Fairplay, Colorado, for 125 dollars a month and keep. Bring your own blankets and linen. Hit a gopher hole and busted the caste on the , tractor. "They docked my wages." (An American dollar or 100 cents would be under 10/- Australian). "T WAnt fn TVyraATV/riUan'c PAP TTm. ployment . Office in Market St. Den ver. They'll get you a job for half a week's wages, cash .in advance, unless they know you. We called these places, 'slave markets'. "I worked sheep in Cozad, Nebras ka, for Armour and Co. They paid 125 dollars a month. 'Stacked men two deep in bunks. "I worked for Swift's putting up corrals. "I hitched to Nebraska and cut four-foot blocks of ice at an icing joint for Californian fruit. Buy your own rubber boots and gloves. "The farmer has a hay crop in the summer, and ice in the same field in the winter. I worked the needle- bar, splitting the blocks. "When you're cutting hay or lucerne, you sharpen, your own sickles. It takes about twenty min utes a sickle. Cutting lucerne, a sickle'll last about one and a half days; in wild grass, you'd use four sickles a day.. You sharpen 'em in your own time. You also gas the f tractor in your own time. , "There's no smokos. You can take'em but you're docked for it. "There's no. overtime in agricul- . ture. In industry, you get time and a half, only" after 'five days contin uous work. If you then work Sunday you get double time." Did you ever talk about Unions or politics? "What you talked about was no politics. We only knew one side. "In order to stay out of politics you talked about survival. Never talked about the Nazis in World War II, nor .about the Commies during the Korean War. "Just talked about where the next feed was coming from. How to make a buck, right quick." "Until I left America I never met a Communist, I never met a person who said he was a Communist, or who said he knew a Communist. I had never read a Communist news paper. People knew nothing about it, only what they were told. "But I was fortunate, very fortun ate. I was always prepared to shift and move and get a fair share. "You can always get a car cheap. "I went up to a dealer and he had a car for 50 dollars. "I said how much do you want for it, he said 50 dollars for the two. I don't want the other one I I W _ J r\ if f" /"\T saia. Jtie saia yuu utui nave spare parts. "I got up with a farmer on a mow ing machine. He was making the opening rounds of the field, to ex pose the ditches. There was no guard on the power takeoff. I got my trousers caught, and bothulegs skinned. I got 'canned' (sacked)1. Got my money but ho extry. "I worked poultry for the Danburg Land and Livestock Co. in Nevada. Hot water pipe burst and my feet were burnt. I got nothen' for that either. "I went to the Shoshone Mount ains putting up fences round the . green spots where the springs flow in the desert. "We lived off tortilla bread. The 'Mexicans live off it — its lard, salt, flour and water. "Got a job in Fallon, Nevada with a contractor. We raked, mowed, harvested- v. Jle couldn/t pay rnoney, he said, until they put the share I crops in. | I "After the harvest in October, I 1 , asked for some money. He gave me J nothing, and the others nothing. | (His wife followed me in a car and j gave me ten dollars). j "I went' to the District Attorney g and he said that as I had, more I or less, shares in the enterprise, and j as they had paid no dividends, I j was entitled to nothing. | "In the winter of '49 we had the big hay lift in the North West. The J stock were eating the bark off the | fence posts. They were feeding them j duckweed and gorse. | "Most of the US Air Force trans- | ports were tied up in the haylift. jj i We were loading the planes and got a dollar an hour. They carried about eight ton a trip. "Tha&haylift held the Korean War up- "When the war started the boys' were signing up to get a good feed. "I went to Elois, Arizona, and asked for a job on a cotton picker. "We'll think it over and let you know they said. ' "That was no good to me, I was broke at the time. So I hung round with the others waiting for some one to quit. "I sold my spare tyre and jack and razor. "They like to have a few hanging around. It encourages the boys on the job. "If they want 200 they send 2000, if they want 2000, they send 20,000." Human life was cheap then? "Clearing timber if a log fell on a man, they wouldn't worry; if it fell on a tractor, they'd come running from everywhere. "I remember a fella wheeling a two-wheel dixie on a scaffold. They are bigger than a wheelbarrow; they take a lot more weight. The scaf folding collapsed, and the foreman comes yelling; "Is the dixie all right? Is the dixie all right?" "I went, picken' cotton to Bakers- field, Arizona. The farmer sells you your cotton hag — dollars. You pick coton in it by day and sleep in it by night. You get 3 cents a pound. I made 65 cents the first day, picken' clean. I threw in a few rocks, tin cans, and bulbs the next day and trebled my wage. "You steal the cotton bag and move on. The contractor gets half the. wages. v- "The cowboy is the lowest paid of all. The Hollywood cowboy is a myth. "He. has to buy his own ropes, nylon or hemp. Nylon'll snap easy. He buys his own saddle— a month's wages. Hs own boots — a week's wages. "He'll shoe his own horses, and is a bit of a vet. into the bargain. He'll pull out calves, cut out cancer- eyes and stones in steers, and cut lambs. Ever cut lambs yourself? "Can't do it with false teeth. "The cowboy's the most glamour ised man on earth. "It's just done for children and money." What about Mexican labor? MORE NEXT WEEK 