 BIG ISSUES IN 1 N.S.W. ELECTIONS I The New South Wales State election, next Saturday, j May 1, is particularly important because it concerns the j strongest of the Australian States. j The political character of its government — and itG | parliament — not only attect the lite of its four million g people, but can greatly influence national affairs. ! The 15i: years of the Menzies Liberal 'Government f j have been years of tremendous growth of the power and I : profit of wealthy monopoly concerns in Australia. . f I They have involved Australia in brutal war, and the \ | threat of bigger war, led by the United States, against i Asian nations, and they have brought Australia into grow- | ! ing economic difficulties, in which the working people's | ! incomes buy less and less while -prices and profits climb | I rapidly.- - . . g J This process would be accelerated if the Liberals won j I the NSW Government, thus strengthening the Menzies S I Government and the home and foreign monopolies. J | The only party which has puf forward in this election j j a real alternative to the existing situation is the Communist I g Party of Australia. j g Its candidates in 13 electorates — men and women of j ! proven integrity and service to the working pople — are | j well capable of carrying into Parliament the fight they | j are already waging outside, to unite the working people S i for: j ! OA policy of peace, ending present policies of making war against f | Asian national independence movements, and thus freeing for useful j | purposes the hundreds of millions now being poured into Australian arma- g | menls. _ g j 9 Higher wages, price control, equal pay for women and Aboriginal j j workers, radical improvement of education, hospital services, housing and j | other public needs, and full trade union and other democratic rights. j ® Public ownership, through nationalisation of wealthy private monopo- 1 | lies (including insurance and hire purchase finance) at present ruthlessly | I exploiting almost all the people — an important step towards the socialist | transformation of the whole monopoly-profit system. I j The way to support these policies in the State election g | is to vote for Communist candidates. J | The Labor Government, while drawing its strength from I j the trade unions, in fact administers the State for the ! | monopoly capitalist system. j !" It remains more susceptible than' the Liberals to pres- ! sure from the working class, and so has introduced some j I progressive features into NSW life; But it has a general j j- record of. opposing and fobbing off workers' demands for | ! wage increases, removal of anti-union penal powers and j ! other official policies of the unions and labor rank arid g ! file. j Thus if is necessary, while using the vote to keep the | | Liberals out, to resort now and in the future to greater I j united trade, union and other, public action, to force the I ! Labor Government to implement policies based on the j ! working people's needs, and against monopoly. | ! Great care should be taken to follow the Communist | ! howrto-vote advice, which is the only way to avoid a split in j I the labor movement vote:-— g Where there is a Communist candidate (see also page 10), vote (1) g | Communist, give next preference to ALP, and put the Liberal last. I g Labor voters should give Communist second preference. | O Where there is no Communist candidate, vote (1) ALP and put g I Liberal or Country Party last. 1 | Work for. the maximum manning of the Communist j | Party's booths on Saturday, to win increased votes for Its 1 j candidates, at the same time building the membership ! | and finances of the Communist Party and sales of Tribune— | | to strengthen the continuing mass struggle against the I j policies and power of monopoly capital, for a Socialist ! Australia. | 