 Behind the Liberals "White Paper on Communism" plan is police-state thinking Criticise the President but not the FBI chief "THE Liberal Party Federal Council/ meeting in Can berra last week, unanimously repeated its former demand for the publication or an Aus tralian Gpyernment White Paper on Communism. The , aim of this demand is not in doubt and is not denied by any one. It ,would enable Liberal Party leaders lijm Men'sieSnd 'eyeri bSck- benchfers, Tike 'Wentyirorth, to name people publicly; "as "traitors" with out being/ sued for libel. They would not have to produce their evidence for what they said; nor would their victims have the right to challenge that evidence or even know what it was. The person named, however, could be certain that his or her name would be smeared throughout Aus tralia in hundreds of thousands of copies. Even it the White Paper itself did not get a very big circulation, the pro-Liberal", anti-Labor press would guarantee that the slanders cir culated and stuck. i ? GREAT number of the "named" — probably most — would find no reason for concern. Some would, pdrhaps, feel honored to find that their activities in the cause of peace and progress had singled them out for attack by the Menzies Government. But others would certainly find themselves prejudiced in their careers and subjected to unhappi- ness in their private and personal lives. And in law, they would have no redress. rtiiu wnu wuuiu wiciu wiis guuiiive power to make or mar a citizen's career— to plunge him into despair or allow him to continue in tran quility? About that, too, there is i.o room for doubt. It would be on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, headed by Brigadier- General Spry, that the Government would rely for the "information" in its White Paper. Spry's spies would thus become a real power, if not THE real power in the land. Australia would take not a step, but a long leap, towards becoming a police state. What happens in such a state is also well known but will brccme better known in future because of a recently-published book "The FBI Nobody Knows" by Fred J. Cook, published by Jonathan Cape, Lon don. (Price 51/6, from Angus and Robertson). Mr. Cook shows that the mair agent in letting loose the reign o terror against the peace movemen: and all progressive and Left cause.' in America after the last world wai was not Senator Joseph McCarthy, but the -Federal Bureau of Investi gation, headed by J. Edgar Hoover ? yHAT the Central Intelli gence Agency does abroad, the FBI does at homr - — harass, terrorise and where necessary destroy opponents of the US military-industrial complex which is now striv ing to rule the world. It was Hoover's FBI, Mr. Cook 'shows, which framed Alger Hiss, which framed and murdered William Remington and the Rosenbergs and set the stage for McCarthy to frighten (for a time) all hut the most courageous opponents of the .Government into an acquiescent silence. It did this mainly by the use of what has been called a special "stable" of paid or terrorised in formers whose" "confessions" could be used to "convict" the innocent before a jury, or smear them be fore a Congressional committee. Whittaker Chambers, who got Hiss (a former high government official who had offended the monopolies when he exposed their practices he- fore the Nye Committee) convicted as a "spy" admitted during his testi mony that he had prepared it in collaboration with the FBI. Former British Lord Chancellor, Lord Jowett, later wrote a book to expose the framing of Hiss. ? ITHEL and Julius Rosenberg were convicted on the FBI- inspired "confessions" of David Greenglass. As Cook says, no scientist believes, or could really ever have believed, that anyone could have made an atom-bomb out of the "drawings" al legedly given by Greenglass to the Rosenbergs for transmission to Mos cow. Why then, did millions of Ameri cans come to believe, for a while, the lies of Hoover's spies? Why, on the basis of them, was McCarthy able to establish his terror" reign? Mainly because, as Mr. Cook shows, J. Edgar Hoover moved ruth lessly in, with menaces that could not be ignored, against anyone, particularly any politician or news paperman, who dared to question them. McCarthy was finally broken by his own ambition. When he took on the army chiefs themselves, McCarthy's own pay masters decided he had gone too far. But J. Edgar Hoover is still there . — and, says, Mr. Cook, "there isn't a legislator on the (Capitol) Hill who dares to risk a conflict with Hoover however good the cause. "A similar faintness of heart per vades the mass media of informa tion," ? BY way of illustration, Mr. Cook tells what happened when the New York Post de cided to do a critical study, of Hoover and the FBI. Hoover found out about it, and before the first article appeared, got to work. The American Legion president the Catholic Archbishop of Boston and sections of the Conservative press were rapidly mobilised to de nounce in advance the suggestion . that Hoover could be criticised. The Post's publisher was noti fied that she and a member of her family were being investigated by the FBI. Hoover personally warned a big Post advertiser to keep away from the paper.- Not one Crongressman, apparently, was prepared to take up the case. Senators and Congressmen knew that Hoover kept a dossier on every important politician and could put them out of politics, or go near to it, any time he wanted to. Mr. Cook shows that the FBI is one of the most powerful arms of the American state machine. He offers, without knowing it as good a proof as anyone could want that this machine is not impartial; but operates to suppress one class on behalf of another. He shows that the real law breakers, the Ku Klux Klan and other bomb-throwers of the south, go scott free for all that Hoover does or intends to do. Such is the man and the institu tion who has achieved a sort of godlike immunity to criticism, ex cept from the boldest spirits, to the U.S.A. As Mr. Cook says, the President can be criticised, but not J. Edgar Hoover. Is that what we want in Austra lia for General- Spry and his Security Intelligence Organisation? ? "J"HERE is no doubt that that is what. Menzies and Spry himself would like. The Pet- rov Commission of 1954 was perhaps the first attempt to achieve it. We saw then an obviously Ameri can-inspired attempt to frame liberal-minded citizens on the faked "confession" of renegades — the Petrovs. We saw, as in America, the anti- Labor press smear the names of these citizens, against whom no evidence could be found, in hund reds of thousands of copies all over Australia. And we saw, also, how such tactics could, and can be defeated. The Communists refused to be intimidated. Together with the late Dr. Evatt, the late E. J. Ward, Mr. C. R. Cameron and others, the militant workers and their sup porters moved in to tear to shreds the structure of lies and forgeries painstakingly created by the Aus tralian "FBI". Spry and his spies have never really recovered from that stagger ing rebuff. - . Yet they have never ceased to plan a comeback and may think that the Vietnam war gives them their chance. Mr. Cook's work reveals some, of the main reasons why this attempt cannot and must not be allowed to succeed. — W. A. WOOD. 