 Call for support to Mt isa Miners: Mt. Isa women refute I Press and Government "gangsterism" lies SYDNEY: The wife of a Mt. Isa miner and mother of six child!- I ren has issued an Australia-wide caIS„ declaring that the struggle ©f the men for better wages and conditions is also the fight of the mothers and wives at Mt. isa. KARS. BULLEN, as the voice of a mother of six, has issued a call to the Australian people on behalf of the women folk of Mt. Isa. Another mother of three children, Mrs. U. Bertolutti arrived in Sydney last Saturday to campaign in support of the Mt. Isa workers. "Will you print this message from the women of Mt. Isa?" Mrs. Bertol utti said. Both Mrs. Bertolutti and Mrs. Bul- len are members of the Relief Com mittee of women which distributes all the financial relief on behalf of the Mt. Isa Trades and Labor Council. The picture, painted by the press and radio, that Mt. Isa is in the grip of "gangsterism, hooliganism, com munism and various other 'isms' is not true," Mrs. Bullen said. "The leaders in this dispute were freely and unanimously elected by the men in the early stages, when there was NO talk of coercion and intimid ation. "Prominent, politicians have freely used the expression 'UN-AUSTRA LIAN' in connection with the happen ings at Mt. Isa. This is far from being fair comment on a town that has been described by the Australian press as 'the largest European settlement in Australia'. Nor is it a very accurate statement' in a country that is so dependant on migration as a means of populating its vast areas. "Statements have also been made about the suffering of the women and children of Mt. Isa. "While things are not what they were in the days before this dispute started, NO ONE — man, woman or child — is starving in the town. The women have rallied to the support of their men wholeheartedly and whatever privations are being endur ed, it is NOT the children who are suffering. "The distress committee is function ing with remarkable efficiency, due to the unstinted efforts of the men and women of the town and the gen erous financial support from outside. "Anyone requiring aid is quickly and adequately looked after. "The position of Mt. Isa presents problems to the housewife peculiar to Mt. Isa alone. Items which are regarded as luxuries or extras else where, are essential to daily life in the town which swelters in above century temperatures for the major portion of the year. "The cost of living is extraordin arily high and makes a big hole in the reputedly big earnings of the men. "To the mothers and wives of Mount Isa the balancing of the family budget, the well-being of their homes and the security of their families is of prime importance; so it naturally fol lows that the struggle of the men for better wages and working conditions is their fight too. "The present situation has not been brought about by a few hotheads. On the contrary, every man and woman involved is fighting for something near to their hearts — the right of every one to a better future. "These 'UN-AUSTRALIAN' elements are battling dictatorship and tyranny, not only for themselves, but also that those who come after them can have the justice and freedom that is so t 