 [?] South Vietnam troops desert while Menzies rants about freedom Setback after setback to the American war in Vietnam have revealed in the past week the dangerous isolation into which the Menzies Government has pushed Australia. Yet another military coup last week in Saigon means the disappearance of the (non-eiected) Quat Government, claimed by Prime Minister Menzies to have "requested" Australian troops. ® Several battalions of South Vietnamese (American-led) , have ceased to exist as a military force, in the biggest defeat of the war so far, at Dong Xoai. © This was due in part to "record desertions of Vietnamese soldiers", reported by Rupert Lockwood from Moscow and confirmed by daily press analyses ("The Australian", June 14, said only 65 of one battalion of about 200 could be found, dead or alive) . Little wonder that the Sydney Morning Herald (June 14) reproved Menzies for speaking in his New York speech about "defence of freedom", or that the New York Herald-Tribune's Saigon correspondent reported South Vietnamese officers as complaining: "What are we fighting for"? ("Australian", June 14). Menzies, in the same speech, said Australia was "right out there on the end of the line". Next day, to emphasise the isolation created by his policy, came reports that: — Japanese Premier Sato declared Japan would not be drawn into the Vietnam war (she may even deny the Ameri cans transit facilities to Vietnam) . Canada and India jointly dissociated themselves from American policy and Indian Prime Minister Shastri called on the USA to get out of Vietnam. BIG PROTEST IN NEW YORK ASHINGTON announcement last week that entire US military formations would now ao into battle in Vietnam caused a new v/ave of protest at home, . A sample of American response was the rally of. 18,000 people who filled New York's Madison Square Garden to protest. Senator Wayne Morse said there that the USA would have 300,000 | troops in South Vietnam in six months \ anc that the US would not stop escal- p ating the war till it had bombed I China's nuclear plants. | . Tblr New York Times attacked the decision as turning the conflict, into | 'an American war against Asians". I The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, a -j prominent daily newspaper, described I the American war policy as "immoral and unjustified" and urged all citi zens to join anti-war organisations and voice every kind of protest. Stir in Canberra i Australian Prime Minister Menzies, 1 then in Washington, rushed in to an il bounce that Australian troops would I oe assigned the same offensive role. 1 h "Iy a few hours earlier Defence | Minister Senator Paltridge had an- 1 27Unced in Canberra that Australia's 9 tL wuk continue to be defensive. I Melburne Herald's Canberra I esPn&lt;ient Harold Cox said on 1 that the "sharp conflict of 1 enri S8n- between Sir R. Menzies I Mimster for Defence, Senator I vS"dgevn me role « taPS in | letnam has caused a political stir." 1 thp fn J mean» adds Cox, that I zies waftl ? ,not know that Men- I and ThPrp make a statement 1 twL them M COnsultati011 b I 1 mand ePis-on on Johnson's de- I ' thout reference to Australia $ and the serious effects this will have on .relations with Asian countries in future. Tribune correspondent Rupert Lock- wood has cabled Moscow opinion that plans for an all-out and desperate US assault on Vietnam have been dis cussed in Washington during Men zies' visit and will dominate the ANZUS meeting on June 28. TASS commentator Vassily Kharkov refers to calls by SEATO leaders, in cluding Thailand's chief of staff Mar shal Tavi Chulasaba, following his re cent official visit to Australia, for extension of the war under the "threadbare banner of SEATO", Pravda's commentator reports that a campaign for SEATO intervention along the lines of the Organisation of American States in Dominica is being stepped up by Washington to give the Vietnam war the semblance of an in ternational operation. Izvestia commentator V. Tarasov says that American policy has en countered international "misunder standing" and adds "This is why the US is now staking on ANZUS to make aggression look like collective action. "The talks of Australian Prime Min ister Menzies with the secretary of State and Menzies' public statements testify to his full approval of the adventurist policy of the US in Viet nam which is now being strongly criticised all over the world", Izvestia says Menzies' visit to Wash ington "had the purpose of co-ordin ating plans for further escalation of the war and was not devoted to con cern f r Australia's interests." After stressing there was no room for doubt that the ANZUS Conference would be marked by the same spirit of aggression, Izvestia said: "Having joined in open international piracy, the ruling circles of Australia and New Zealand assume serious res ponsibility for the consequences of their actions.'- 