 Wide tributes to Mary Gilmore REPRESENTATIVE gath ering of 500 or more people met at the Trocadero in Sydney to honor Mary Gid- mnrp nn DDth anniver- sary of her birth, August 16 last. Included among those honoring her were Opposition leader Calwell, two Archbishops, the Lord Mayor of Sydney, two professors of literature, several poets, some trade union lead ers and many workers. Professor Wilkes, professor of lit erature at Sydney University present ed the Mary Gilmore novel compe tition prize of £500 to Mr. D. Crick for his novel "Process of Adjust ment". Open for inspection was an exhi bition of Mary Gilmore's books, writings and other objects associat ed with her life and work. The Federal 'Labor leader, Mr. A. Calwell said that Mary Gilmore . stood for everything that was best in Australia. She valued everything that was good and great in our life. She also knew that it was not free from greed, dishonesty and profit-seeking. She was an Australian nationalist, but free from raucous pride. Her poem "Nationality" expressed the thought that all mothers' sons must be fed. "While we have such as Mary Gilmore to honor, who can despair of Australia?" Mr. Calwell asked. Speaking for the trade union, movement Mr. Edgar Ross said that Mary Gilmore had belonged especially to the turbulent 1890s in Australia when Australian writing expressed social rebellion, pride of country and glorification of the common man. She had stood with the vanguard of Henry Lawson's "Army of the Rear", fighting for social justice, international friendship and peace. Mary Gilmore had followed Wil- liam Lane in the courageous at- tempt to build a socialist commun ity in Paraguay. It was significant tnat on the issue of support for a youth peace carnival Mary Gilmore had return ed to the role of crusading jour nalist. She had started writing for the Tribune, the Building Worker and Common Cause. Justice must be fougnt for today as in the past, said Mr. Ross. Mary Gilmore had taken up the militant fight for peace and a new world. We would continue the fight, stronger because of her contribu tion, said Mr. Ross. "We will keep her standard high, her flag un furled." Professor Inglls Moore of the National University, Canberra, Archbishop Eris O'Brien, Roman Catholic archbishop of Canberra- Goulburn and Miss Nancy Keesing, poet also paid tribute to Mary Gil more. - Prizes were presented to the win ners of a verse-speaking contest held in connection with the centen ary. 