 United States does not consider itself "bound" bv Geneva Agreements From MALCOLM SALMON in Melbourne. The event that was filling the international news pages of the press 11 years ago this week was the signing, on July 20, 1954, of the Geneva Agreements on Indo-China (Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos). THE Geneva Agreements ended the nine-year- long war which had arisen from the Frenah attempt to re-iimpose colonial rule on Vietnam and on its two smaller Vrmer pos sessions, Cambodia and Laos, following the Second World War. The Agreements ' were greeted with a huge sigh of relief from a. world which had for weeks been living under the menace of a wider war, threatened above all by the United States, following the historic Vietnamese military victory at Dien Bien Phu in May. Signed by most of the great powers of the earth— signatories in- , eluded the Soviet Union, Great Britain, People's China and' France — the Agreements were hailed1 as a triumph for the concept of peaceful co-existence. They seemed to he — in fact, as a document they were— perfectly de signed to settle . the Vietnamese problem. They met the immediate problem of the restoration of peace and they provided firmly and tan- equivocally for the political future of Vietnam. Under their military provisions, the contending armies were to re group to either side of a line drawn approximately along the 17th paral lel of latitude which crosses the narrow waist of Vietnam.. The Vietnamese were to re-group in the North and to pass under the authority of the Democratic Repub lic of Vietnam. The French were to go to the South, which, was to pass under the authority oil the French client State of Vietnam. The Agreements explicitly ack nowledged the "independence, unity, and territorial integrity" of the nation of Vietnam, North and South. Military demarcation is provisional They said, "the military demarca tion line is provisional and is not in any way to be interpreted as constituting a political or territorial boundary." They provided that Vietnamese national unity should find its full formal expression in free nation wide general' elections to be held in July, 1956; for a united national government ruling over the whole 30 million people of Vietnam, North and- South; allowing no foreign bases on its soil and pursuing a policy of neutrality in world affairs.. The first part of the Agreements providing for a cease-fire; and mili tary re-groupment were carried out to the letter. And: that is as far as they have, ever got. For, serving peace and the legiti mate national' aspirations of the Vietnamese as they did, the Geneva Agreements lacked one conspicuous element for the success of inter national agreements in our day — they lacked the goodwill of the United States. There are examples enough of international agreements which, were, signed by powers either lukewarm or unwilling about implementing them. As; it turned out, France and Britain are cases in point as far as. the Geneva Agreements were conr cerned. But the United States, while it attended the Geneva Conference, would not sign the Agreements. In the language of international diplo macy, this- amounted to a declarar tion of bitter hostility. At the Conference, the then US Secretary of State, John Foster Dulles; had done all in his power to. prevent agreement, striving in stead for a greatly extended war as- part of the US plans for an early war with the new People's Republic of China, plans which had just ground to a standstill, in. the Korean armistice. - His chief errand boy at Geneva in. this mandating mission was the Australian External! Affairs Minister, R. G. Casey, who, on behalf of the Menzies Government, offered Aus tralian troops for the purpose. But Dulles failed. He quit the conference in a rage, leaving his deputy. General W. Bedell Smith, to make the grim- lipped unilateral declaration that the US would "refrain from the threat or the use of force to disturb the Agreements." US "not fao&md Even, this formula was too' much for the US Administration, which next day, through President Eisen hower,, declared it did not consider itself "bound" by the Agreements. Suiting the action to the word, the US immediately undertook the eviction of French influence from South Vietnam, the establishment there of a new type of colony and a war base, and the setting up of the South-East Asia Treaty Organisa tion (September. 8, 195.4) with its "protective umbrella" over South Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. A high priority of their policy of sabotage Of the Geneva Agreements was to prevent the 1956 general elections. They knew, as everybody else knew, that such elections would be won hands down by representatives of the Vietnamese independence revolution. Through the mouth of their local placeman, Ngo Dinh Diem, they publicly announced their refusal to permit the elections. What hypocrites are the leaders of the United States today— President Johnson, Secretary of State Rusk and the rest — when they pretend that these Agreements which; their country would not- so much as sign,, let alone respect, mean as much to them as they do to the Vietnamese; These differing interests in the Geneva Agreements explain the simple truth behind, all. the welter of US charges against North Viet nam as having 'violated" the' Agree ments. In fact, the Vietnamese care; so much about implementing some part of the Geneva Agreements that they are prepared to make concessions on the terms of the Agreements. This- is the meaning of, the policy plank of the: South Vietnam National Liberation Front making the. ques tion of reunification with North Vietnam something not to toe put into effect immediately through general elections, but rather for future discussion between an inde pendent South Vietnamese Govern ment and the Government of North. Vietnam. This policy has been agreed to by the North Vietnamese leaders. - ? With all the differences, there are instructive similarities between the situation of the French 11 years ago in the earlier Vietnam war and that of the- Americans today. The French were- essentially brought undone by the. military, victories of. their Vietnamese op ponents; dissent among their most important allies, the movement of the people; at home; for peace and the opposition of the countries of the newly-liberated "third world" to a continuance of the war. All' these factors, present before Geneva," are present again in the new/ American war in South Viet nam; Socialist camp Today there is the new factor that: North Vietnam, is an established part, of the. socialist world, which despite its, internal differences, ig providing aid to. North Vietnam of a volume and quality unthinkable 11 years ago. Nor does the American "escala- tion'" of the- war- to North Vietnam contain, any real: novelty. The French for almost eight years, from the end of: 1946 to 1954,, fought over the whole territory, of Vietnam and were resisted over this whole terri tory; At least they- were spared the task of cooking: up. sickening lies about "aggression from, the north" to cover- themselves! When the Geneva Agreements are signed, they must embody the meaning of the agreements signed in Geneva 11 years ago this week. These, agreements acknowledge the. historical validity of the inde pendent. national existence of the Vietnamese people — their right, acquired through years of heroic . straggle,- to decide their, own fate, without foreign, interference. IIKHIaMIUMUM iWit— HMHIJ— MENZIES ! DULLES EISENHOWER 