 ' ' " a=BgBr' ' WH1Ri RISING STANDARD OF LIFE IN THE SOVIET UNION, by S. Figurnov, 2/- (2/8 posted). The Twenty-Second Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, mapped out the principal afd ithe Pnt Phases in the development of Communism m the soviet Union from 1961 to Pan s achieved the ultimate for those of our gen eration will have been reached "From each; according to his ability to each according to his needs". The book traces the necessary developments for the achievement of this ideal. # FROM SOCIALISM TO COMMUNISM, by P. Yudin, 1/6 (2/2 posted). Sometimes the question is asked What is the difference between Communism and Socialism" — a difficult question to answer, but it would be useful to have the' facts to hand about the developments in the first Socialist country. Here, it is, well-written and sim ple enough for the school student. # . OLD LAND, NEW PEOPLE — a collection of short stor ies by authors from the Ger man Democratic Republic, 7/- (7/11 posted). This book is unexpected — the problem of the individual in society is subtly dealt with in the first story. The Peasants Sermon is a delight ful story — you could call it a caricature of the usual serjmon — the humour gentle — the lesson well taught: For example "Do you talk about such things at " your meetings? I thought you only talked politics." "You're quite right, Herr Pastor. That is politics." # A MORNING TO REMEM BER, Herbert Smith, 6/6 (7/5 posted). This book about industry is also about people. The r- :n stream into the works like ants, but become individuals under the pen of the author. This is a tale of men trapped in a pocket of carbon monoxide — of the women who . wait for them — of the work-mates who cry out against a fate that would call them cowards. You will become involved with their story. # A PAIR OF MITTENS— Seven Seas Publication, 5/6 (6/2 posted). These stories, set in post-war Germany, deal realistically and compassionately with the problems of people struggling to emerge rom the bitterness and hatreds of war. The title story is a fine study of man's humanity to man: the theme of the whole collection is optimism. A valuable addition to your paper back library. Available f-om . . . . NEW WORLD BOOKSELLER5, 425 Pitt Street, Sydney. 