 "Overseas shipping line is H "long overdue" says Holt r and hopes he'll live long enough to see it! SYDNEY: The Federal Treasurer, Mr. Harold Holt, said last week that he hoped to live long enough to see jn Australian Sine of ships carrying Australian goods around the world. "1 feel that most of us would agree that the time is long over due " he said . R. HOLT, who was speak- I ing to the Victorian Chamber of Commerce, well knows that there is no lack of support from wide sec tions of the Australian work ing class, farming and busi ness communities to make his wish come true. As he also well knows that the policy of his Government is prevent ing such a line being established. Before Federation The demand of the Australian peo ple for an overseas Commonwealth shipping line existed long before Fed eration, and. still our country, geogra phically isolated, is the only major exporter and importer whose flag rarely flies in the ports of the world. Australia, an island continent, with most of its population concentrated in the ' coastal ports has relatively poor roads and a rail transport sys tem made slow and expensive by long hauls and broken gauges. Yet we don't have an adequate coastal nationalised shipping service. Our coastal trade is monopolised by overseas snipping on cnarter. Our coastal trade like overseas trade is in the grip of foreign ship ping cartels. If Australian exporters found new markets in South America or Asia the all-powerful Shipping Conference could decide whether or not its ships would operate on these runs. Should Australian exporters decide that they could earn more by selling products direct to Europe, (instead of through London middle-men) ship ping combine connected with City of London interests could refuse to carry the produce direct to Europe. Even if ships under Australian con trol were suited for overseas trading, which most of them are not, they could not be spared from the poorly provided coastal traffic. Not independent : It is an obvious fact that without its own line of ships, both for coastal trade and for overseas, Australia can never have complete independence. The Shipping Conference can virtu ally sentence an industry to death merely by .raising freights to excessive levels. Proposed freight increases this year, including the proposed rises this month, will add £10 million to Aus tralia's sea freight bill. Australian agricultural products face fierce competition from geogra phically better placed exporters, yet freight charges by foreign shipping racketeers are the second biggest drain on our economy after defence allocations. Some politicians and trading inter ests admit that the Australian econ omy is in the stranglehold of the snipping conference led by P & O Cunard groups of Britain that take in leading foreign lines. P. & O. Orient Yet the Australian interests respon sible, mainly Federal Governments past and present, have so capitulated to the Shipping Conference's that Australia is the weakest maritime nation in the world. Our puny fleet has virtually no in fluence on our export-import econ- omy, despite our almost £200 per head dependence on trade. Cunard and P & O Orient are the two cartels which lead the Conference regulating Australia-England-Europe trade. P & O, the senior of the two, own British India, Orient, Union, New Zealand Shipping, Australian United (AUSN) Macdonald Hamilton and others. It has close links with Ellerman and Runciman shipping interests. Sir John Ellerman is one of P & O's larg est shareholders. P & O directors come from the top of the British ruling class. Lord Inch- cape organised with Lord Kylsant (later jailed as a swindler), and Stan ley Melbourne Bruce, then Australia's Prime Minister, the sell-out of the old Commonwealth Line in the 20's. As part of his reward for this treachery, Bruce was made a Lord and a co-director of the P & O Com pany. The Commonwealth Shipping Line was established in 1916, because of business, farm and labor revolt against the treachery of the Shipping Conference during the first world war. Produce was allowed to lie or ro1 in storehouses while they found safer ! cargoes elsewhere. The Commonwealth fleet proved in . its first five years that it could reduce freights and fares and still show a profit. Cunard The history of Cunard is similar to that of P & O. Its shareholders are leading shareholders in British and imperial finance. Cunard owns Tort Line and Brocklebank Ltd. and has ties with Furness, Withy and Co., (owners of the Shaw Savill), Elder Dempster, Royal Mail, Prince Line and others. Cunard directors are on the Boards of the Australian and New Zealand Bank, Martins and Midland Banks . and insurance companies whose main,, business interests are marine under-' writing. The Hon. David Bowes Lyon, is one of the Cunard chiefs, he is the brother of Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, better known as the Queen Mother. There is hardly a British insurance company operating in Australia that is not a Cunard shareholder. These are some of the people for whom Australian workers, farmers and business people provide enorm ous profit in the form of the highest ; freight rates in the world. ; The time is surely now for united ! action to establish a Commonwealth L Line to ply our overseas trade routes and to free Australia from the chok- ; ; ing grip of the freight pirates. 