 K. T '11 A i yBOUT 130 Singapore poli tical prisoners staged a hun ger strike on December 16 to protest against maltreatment by Malaysian officials, says a Hsinhua report. The General Secretary, Deputy Gen eral Secretary and a member of the Central Executive of the Singapore Socialist Front were among the pri soners involved. On the same day Members ol Par liament of the SSF and families of the political prisoners told a press conference that the political prison ers were often kept in solitary con finement and forbidden to read books and papers. Members of their families were al lowed to see them only once a week. # BQUT 2000 South Korean work ers employed by the United States Army in Inchon held a meeting on December 20 and demonstrated against persecution, according to the South Korean Radio Donga (Hsin hua, Dec. 21). From the meeting the South Kor ean workers sent a letter to the US 8th Army Command voicing their protest and demanding relief. # rpiIE Latin American Youth Con ference in Solidarity with Politi cal Prisoners, which closed recently in Santiago (Chile), denounced the United States of America as being mainly responsible for political per secution in Latin America. The conference is reported to have called on Latin American youth to fight lor the release of all political prisoners on the continent, for the repeal of repressive laws and aoo- iition of repressive organs The conference was attended by re presentatives of 12 Latin American countries including Cuba, Brazil, Chile and Venezuela. =# 1" IiE L'rst Vietnam-made loe.omo tive has been turned out by the 3ia Lam locomotive plant in Hanoi. The Vice-Premier said its produc tion would promote socialist indus- trialisation in Vietnam and help build a basis for an independent economy. The locomotive has a maximum pulling power of 12,00(. horsepower. # # OOUTH AFRICAN persecution un- der apartheid laws resulted :n the following heavy sentences from January 1963 to November 1964: In over 150 political trials, 1202 re sidents of South Africa were sen tenced to an aggregate of 7256 years' jail for various demonstrations against apartheid They included also 45 who were sentenced to death and 14 to life imprisonment. JLL1TERACY had in the main been wiped out in the Indonesian Re public. said President Soekarno at a mass rally in Djakarta on January 2. fJineteen years ago, in 1946. when Indonesia set out on the road of independence, nearly 94 per cent of the people were illiterate, thanks to the policies of Dutch colonial rule1 