 Superphosphate price rise hits the man on the land bYDNEY : Farmers in New South Wales, already hard hit by the worst drought in history, are to be slugged by price increases for superphosphate. AUSTRALIAN Fertilis e r s Ltd. and Greenleaf Fer- tilers Ltd. have announced a price increase of 11/6 a ton for bulk super. New prices will range from £8/15/- for bulk to £10/1/-, £10/13/- and £11/1/-, according to whether paper, polythene or jute bas are used. 1 These prices are after deducting the Commonwealth bounty of £3 per ton. Victorian prices, after an increase of 18/- a ton, range from £7.2.6 for bulk to £9.13.6 in jute bags. Rebates ranging from 10/- to 15/- a ton are granted for deliveries be tween October 12 to December 15, but few farmers are in a position to take advantage of this rebate. The fertiliser companies claim that the price rise is due to the increase of £3 a ton for sulphur imported from Japan, Italy and USA. The price increase has been strongly criticised by leaders of farmers' and graziers' organisations, who believe that the fertiliser companies, particul arly in NSW, could absorb the sulphur price rise. Mr. J. H. Fraser, assistant general secretary of the Graziers' As sociation and Mr. L. M. Ridd, general president, United Farmers and Wool- growers' Association, attacked the fertiliser companies for increasing the price of super and urged the Federal Government to have a look at the price of imported sulphur and to con sider recommencement of local extrac tion from pyritic ores. Recent moves indicate that there is little, hope for reasonably priced tertil- jG v, . . . ft/; 1 iser necessary for grain, fruit, veget- unlikely that farmers will receive any able and pasture production. The big benefit. American firm W. R. Grace and Esso, Research for Australian deposits of the oil concern, are jaoth attempting phosphatic rock is being stepped up. to secure control of Cresco, an Aus- Dr. R. P. Sheldon of the US Geologic- tralian superphosphate manufacturing al Survey is here to advice the company based mainly in South and Bueau of Mineral Resources on a West Australia. phosphate exploration program. The idea is to use, Cresco's distrib- With ample potash, growing oil and uting facilities and to extend the gas discoveries from which synthetic manufacture of new composite and ammonia and una will he produced, concentrated fertilisers which should only phosphate is needed to build an be a boon to "farmers because of low- integrated fertiliser industry suitabw er transport and application costs, for production of all types of plant But in the hands of monopolists it is nutrients. 