 [?] Secret pact with Defence Minister AN agreement by Greek Rightists to despatch Greek troops to Vietnam, made .on American fnntst- ence against Premier Papan- dreou s wishes, we e major factor in the recent attacks by the Royai Palace and US Central Intelligence Agency on Greek coftstitaticna! gov ernment. Tribune's Moscow correspondent, Rupert Lockwood, analysing inter national reports, cables that Wash ington was desperately anxious and prepared to pay handsomely to get Greek soldiers in the Vietnam war in view of the growing US inter national isolation whJoh non-Ameri can troops so far despatched did practically nothing to check. The Athens newspaper Avgi said: "The Americans Instated on sending b, detachment of Greek soldiers to Vietnam. Formation of this detach ment proceeded secretly. The Ameri cana undertook to pay 30,000 drachmas for oaofc recruit." Avgf showed that the Centre Alliance Dfifenoa Minister Garoufalias con sented behind Papandreou's back to despatch Greek soldiers to Vietnam. Prarda'B correspondent In Athens telegraphed that the Greek public is shocked by Avgi's exposures, adding: "Tbeae exposures show how far collusion between the American aggressors and certain Greek circles had gone as regards sending Greek soldiers to Vietnam. "These facts throw additional light on the reason why American Intelli gence and the US Embassy In Athens were so Insistently working for the overthrow of Papandreou's Govern- ment, which became an obstacle to drawing Greece into dangerous adven tures." The well-known Greek journalist, Theodor Mandzukas, writes: "It is plain beyond shadow of doubt that American imperialists stood behind the Palace coup which removed the lawful Papandreou Government. "American imperialists are bent on one thing — they need a puppet govern ment in Greece which would agree to send Greek troops to Vietnam to fight for them." The Greek Communist Party Politi cal Bureau notes that while the government of royal servitors was defeated by a united people "local and foreign reaction,. American im perialists, the Palace and the junta ' have not given up their anti-national aims. The time is still critical." 