 [?] Sir F. Packer has no regard for television standards gIR FRANK PACKER, the big wheel of the New South Wales Liberal Party, controls most of .1 tne capiuu aiiu puiic.y ux Consolidated Press Ltd., which includes the "Daily Telegraph", "Women's Weekly" and "The Bulle tin".' . His television station TCN uses a minimum of Austra lian material and artists, pre ferring to import the cellu loid ha-ha and bang-bang of the USA. Artists at TCN do not get paid for rehearsals. During the inquiry by the Senate Committee into the apparent con tempt commercial television stations in NSW have for the Broadcasting and Television Standards, Sir Prank said that he didn't think the Com mittee was "dealing with a real problem". And further when asked whether TCN was fulfilling . Section 16 of the Act dealing with "adequate and comprehensive" programs, he said: "This is an instruction to the Aus tralian Broadcasting Control Board and not to me.- This does not say what. T TiflVfi to do". The present manager of TCN, Mr. Ken Hall signed a . statement in November 1955 which said: "A high standard of television programs in Australia can best be assured by protecting the future of the men and women who can and should work in Australian television as artists, technicians, musicians, composers, writers, scenery and cos tume designers, and so on. Mini mum percentage protection must be guaranteed before the beginning of television in this country, as later, pleas for protection would be of 110 avail and Australian television would have lost the race it never ran". How right: he was! Sir Frank Packer has stripped his television station of all protection for Australian work while padding his profit charts with millions — and the television standards "do not concern him". Known widely as "the man who sacked the PMQ boy", Packer also got a fright from another lad, a copy boy on his staff. The boy, whose hair was too long, was thrown five shillings by Packer and told to "get yourself a hair cut". Tlie boy handed the money back and said that ' he was a socialist and would work for his money to pay for a hair cut. He said the reason he could not afford one was the low wages he got as a copy boy. Packer asked him if he wanted a better job. He said he did. The boy was given an application form. In the position requested space, he wrote "Ownership". — D.K. (Sydney); 