 [?] M/ITH the New Year, Channel 2 continued to maintain a good standard of TV programs. On some evenings it is possible to enjoy three to four hours ot pleasant viewing. On Tuesdays "The Arthur Haynes Show" commences at 6.30 p.m., and is followed by excellent programmes that incb'ie "The Avengers" and "Dr. Finlay's Casebook". "The Arthur Haynes Show" is a witty comment on the English way of life especially when it has a crack at the obsolete traditions of the old school tie brigade. "The Avengers" is a brilliant satire on all thriller and spy pro grammes, which appear periodically ci all channels. "Dr. Finlay's Casebook" is the warmest and most human account of people and their problems to be sfen on television. On Sundays at 5.30 p.m. Chan- nel 2 offers "The Barnstormers", a serial recommended especially for children but which1 adults also find pleasant viewing. Later at 7.30 p.m. Robert Louis Stevenson's "Kidnapped", another serial, is a wonderful dramatisation of the famous story, and far superior to the Disney version of this tale, which starred Peter Finch. This programme is followed by "The Great War" which is in its final episodes, and at approximately 8.-40 p.m. we see Sunday Night Thea tre, an almost invariably enjoyable show. Last Wednesday (January 6) Chan nel 2's "The Recruiting Officer" was the highlight of the week. This local production by Ken E 'nam starred many of our best actors. Outsta: ding were John Meillon, Ronald Morse, Edward Hepple, Arlene Dorgan and Anna Volska. The play, by George Farquhar, was based on his own experiences as a recruiting officer during- the reign of Queen Anne in the 18th century. Ronald Morse as a country squire was superb. John Meillon as "Plume" the re cruiting officer added another fine performance to the excellent work he has done since his return from overseas. His appearances in recent stage and television shows is an example of how an actor can develop with consistent work. It is a pity that he will leave soon for London to fulfill engagements that this country cannot offer per manently. Some jumps in continuity showed obvious cuts in the script. One player whe suffered in this respect was John Armstrong in the role of the police constable. His recruitment to the army in the final scene was inexplicable. Ken Hannam's production did not explore ail the resources of tele vision. At times the production looked like a photographed stage play. However, the spirit and zest of the play were generally maintained and most viewers would agree that we need tn mre of t'"'"1 J" — of work, —EILEEN ALLISON. 