 i F n I ! New Guinea moves i ! ! I towards freedom i ! | THE struggle for free- idom in New Guinea is rising fast. I This was most recently | shown by the way in which j elected members of the | new House of Assembly | in Port Moresby — despite j its serious limitations — I have openly challenged ( Canberra control of the ( administration of the ter- f ritories. J These mainly indigenous | leaders of the New Guinea | peoples have demanded a . ( start to drafting an inde- | pendent constitution — a | demand which will cer- | tainly stimulate all aspects J of the struggle for inde- ! pendence and democracy. j They have challenged i! existing control of fin ances — for example in the sinDing subsidy to the fi Bu-ns Philp monopoly, and S particularly in the matter ! of the wage-cut policy re- f cently operated against Q NG public service em- j p'oees. I This stand, which has | thrown the Menzies Gov- | ernment on to the defen- j sive, has been made pos- j sible by the accelerating j mass movement of the I New Guinea peoples them- j selves, often taking de- I monstrative form, on such j issues as wage demands, | and resistance to taxation | and other aspects of the I unjust colonial rule there. j The Administration's re- | ply continues to be the | use of violence, as in the j recent New Ireland armed I hunt for local opponents ! of the. colonial govern- j ment. I - — — — - — The calling of the first I " conference of trade union j organisations, at Lae, is | another significant event reflecting this rising strug- j gle. This happens when, j for the first time, major g strugUe is developing ! simultaneously by Austra- ! lian workers (for higher j wages) , Aboriginal work- j ers (for equal pay) and | New Guinea workers S (against wage cuts). i Already Australian trade j unions and the ACTU are | giving support to these | struggles of their Abori- I ginal and New Guinea | brothers. All are exploited g by the same, or related, j wealthy monopoly firms. J Undoubtedly higher levels j of united action against J monopoly will be reached, j The Menzies Govern- ment,. vainly, seeking to I stall off the independence | struggle in New Guinea, j in fact has no policy ex- j cept to hang on and open i all doors to modern mono- g poly exploitation of the j NG people and resources. ! The Aboriginal and New g Guinea workers will win g their own emancipation, I but they can be, and are I being, greatly aided by ( international fraternal sup- . j port — by the liberation j struggles of other peoples, j and by the anti -colonialist j struggle of the Soviet Gov- g ernment and other govern- j ments through the United f Nations and in other ways. J In this fraternal support, g the Australian working I class and democratic j movement must play an I increasing part. I 