 InilSiifinEI ipr ' ill Ifll ffji ||W||| gfgjll Jf III & l||I pi a i 1LZ11 BWBWEf Behind the smooth talk ruthless exploitation of Aborigine workers i THE Northern Territory Pas- ' toral Lessees' Association i has described the basis of re- I lationship between NT Abori- gines and station owners as "intelligent parasitism". In submissions to the Common wealth hearing on equal pay for N.T. J Aborigines, this body (according to f B report by the United Graziers' ' secretary Blaikie) said that the I Aborigines had adjusted their lives I to getting food and their neces- I sities from the stations, while the ?. station owners had adjusted to 7/- their "inefficient" labor because it is available and cheaper than white labor. I: It is a fact that aborigines ori- y ginally were able to obtain their i food and necessities without the star tion owner and cattle work. But how could the station manage- ; ments operate and improve the P stations without Aboriginal labor? Turning to Queensland, the United H Graziers' Association reports a Gov- ernment policy of "paternalism and encouragement", equality of wage, keep and amenities for. coloured H labor. h It should he pointed out that the I equalities of wage, keep and ameni- ties were won by hard fought for |i Awards forcing graziers and pastora-. lists to toe the line. The "encouragement" now being 5/ meted out to station labor is dis- | placement by mechanisation. I The populations of bush slums, I shacks and shanties usually found in I the scrub fringe of country towns, I has increased as modernisation has I substituted casual unskilled labor I employment for permanent station I duties. i At the town of St. George, in a rich area of irrigated and stud pro perties, together with many exten- sue pastoral andd grazing proper ties the riverbank population has trebled during the past .ten years. After years of apathy, an infes- v- wion of round worm, due to lack t sanitation and proper hygiene iacmties, forced the Council to pro- me camping facilities with sanita- to safeguard public health. The Council, composed wholly of grazier membership, approved the 1 f the camP area upon -land i . was Previously a garbage and I sewage disposal site. I a further infestation of the I npr.f , , round worm with one sus- || death from that cause. 1 The Taipan, | Dirranbandi (Qld.). 