 | U.S. raids are frantic blows as defeat looms in S. Vietnam I IN the past three months > there has been an un- j precedented stepping up i of US intervention in the -J „ — a m South, and repeated ag gression against the North. The US has added Hawk mis siles and 3500 marines to its large existing forces and now has over 2000 war- planes in South Vietnam. These include B57's and mod em jets. Artillery forces have been doubled. j This is how Dinh Ba Thi com- | menced to outline to me the present position in Vietnam. This stepping-up of US aggression is not a sign of strength, but of the defeat of US "special war". The United States and its puppet regime need more artillery and planes precisely because their ground forces are more and more restricted in their movement. Areas under their control are get ting smaller all the time. Their movement is also restricted even where they have nominal control. That is why they depend upon ter ror raids in the South, often with 100 planes. Only the other day, a village near Da Nang was razed, and 37 school children massacred. The Liberation Front forces have made a big tactical and technical ad vance. Where previously the Liberation forces could only tackle battalions, 'hey are now putting whole regiments out of action. The local people's guerilla forces, as distinct from the Front's regular forces, now pin down two-thirds of the enemy. Dinh Ba Thi said that even in the cities, including Saigon, the people We becoming masters of the situation. Saigon, a city of two million people, » the centre of the US war effort. It houses the top US military om- forces W 5UPPfy centre for US i Mi»LSnS S1"?' _near Sai8n. is the 1 w strategic airfield. . 1 Wife nr Sa'£n iS 110 longer a Despite the presence in Saigon of huge forces of US and pup pet troops (four out of nine puppet divisions and 44 per cent, of US and puppet forces), there are continual demonstrations, meetings and strikes by all sections of the people — work ers, small traders, students and women. The US top brass is specially per turbed by growing guerilla actions in and around Saigon. "Not a single day or night passes without fighting in Saigon and its en virons," said Dinh Ba Thi. SAIGON'S "FIGHTING COCKS" REGIME There is an insoluble political crisis in the puppet regime. There have been 10 coups in 15 months, and more are expected by public opinion, in South Vietnam. There are many contradictions in the puppet regime, between the civil ian side and the military officers, and within the military junta itself. When Ngo Dinh Diem was in power, his regime controlled the pup pet army. Since his overthrow and death, the army controls the regime. However, the military leaders are divided and a constant struggle goes on, sometimes hidden and sometimes open. There are at least four main gioup ings. One is the so-called "Da hat" group, which conducted the coup against Diem. They were exiled to Da hat. This group, led by General Minh, has been discarded by the Americans. The second group, also shelved by the US. is led by Colonel Pham Ngo Thao. The third is that led by Nguyen Khanh, who lost power and was poli tely exiled. The fourth group, in uneasy power, is that of the so-called "Young Turks". But this group is also divided, with rival contenders for power grouped around Air Vice-Marshal Nguyen Cao Ky and Brigadier-General Nguyen Chanh Thi. This latter group instigated the abortive coup d'etat of March 6 this year. .. Although, the US forces are trying to bring the rival groups together, they cannot succeed. South Vietnamese public opinion says, "It is like trying to put many fighting cocks into one cage." The victories of the Liberation forces are increasing. "75 per cent, of South Vietnam territory is held by the patriots," said Dinh Ba Thi. "Over eight million people (out of 15.7 million) live in these areas. "Every day there are more and more desertions by puppet troops, who take their arms with them." He went on to say that this in creases the instability of the regime and its US masters. This instability was one cause be hind the grave US decision to attack the North. They believed this to be the only way to reverse their downhill slide, and lift the morale of their puppets. "This has already been a failure," he said. The second reason was an overall strategic plan, to extend the war, not only to the North but to all Indo- China and even further. When asked about the views of in fluential public figures in South Viet nam, Dinh Ba Thi said: "The people want peace, on the basis of the withdrawal of US forces. This would allow the people of South Vietnam to settle their own affairs. "Some Buddhist leaders and other public figures genuinely desire peace. "There are others who put forward fake peace proposals, instigated by the US interventionists. "Such is the call for withdrawal of both the US and National Liberation Front forces." This is an effort to justify the US slanders that the NLF is a foreign force, but the NLF is die creation of the South Vietnamese people. When asked to give his estimate of the situation created by US interven tion, Dinh Ba Thi said: "If the present US aggression is not checked, they may attempt an invasion of the North. It is certain the US plans to extend the war. However, this will not be decided by them. "Three things will decide. First, the attitude of the Vietnamese people. Secondly, the attitud: of the social ist countries, particularly the USSR and the People's Republic of China. Thirdly, the attitude of the peoples of the world, and the world commun ist movement. "If these forces are firm and united, the US will recoil from their aggres sive course. "The Vietnamese people arc fight ing harder than ever before. The National Liberation forces are guided by the order of the Supreme Com mand: To strike hard on all fronts to liberate South Vietnam and defend the North." "We express our thanks to Austra lian workers and people who have shown solidarity for the struggle of our people. In this crisis, we hope for further solidarity activity. "This is particularly needed in the present stage, when US aggression is worsening all the time, and when it is putting pressure on the governments of South Korea, the Philippines and Australia to get them further into the war. "We hope our Australian friends will strengthen their efforts to reverse the policy which is drawing Australia into the US war of aggression against our people." Australian Communist leader, Mr. L. AAR- ONS on March 19 this year secured an inter view in Prague, Czecho slovakia, with Dinh Ba Thi, an official repre sentative of the South Vietnam Liberat ion Front. 