 Abram Fischer, the I conscience of S. Africa I On December 22 the fascist-racialist Verwoerd Government of South Africa will arraign the distinguished South African lawyer Abram Fischer, QC, on charges arising out of his fight for demo cracy and racial equality. It is expected that the case will be adjourned until after the Christmas recess. A protest poster demonstration will be held j outside South Africa House in London when the j case comes on. j The World Campaign for the Release of South i African Political Prisoners (address, 89 Charlotte Street, London, Wl) appeals for supporting action I in Australia and sends us this story of a great fighter for freedom. j yFTER a nation-wide man hunt for 1 () months, the South African police , captured the advocate, Abram Fischer, last month in Johannes burg. ; . Abram Fischer is best' known for his brilliant and courageous court defences in the -historic ."Treason ; Trial" of 156 anti-apartheid leaders of all races '(1956-1961), the "Riv- onia Trial" of Nelson Mandela. Walter Sisulu and seven - others (1963-1964) and scores of other poli tical cases'. But Fischer did not confine his opposition to white supremacy to Court appearances; he personally took an active part in political ac- tivities for many years. . He had been a member of the Communist Party of South Africa until it was . declared unlawful, in terms of the 1950 Suppression of Communism Act.; He became the first Chairman of. the South Afri- v can Congress of Democrats when that body was formed in 1954. ? There are many factors which have made this remarkable man a symbol of opposition to apartheid, especially with that hard-pressed minority among the privileged white . community who reject the concept of white domination as preached by both Verwoerd's . National Party and.,Graaff's United Party, and stand for a non-racial democracy affording equality of rights, and opportunities to all 17 . million South Africans. Bram Fischer , had everything to lose and nothing to gain, in a mat erial sense, for choosing such a course, of life, . ' ? As an Afrikaaner, Bram Fischer is a descendant of the Boer pioneers who constitute the majority of the white population and dominate the political life of the country. Every Prime Minister — from Smuts and Botha to Malan and Verwoerd — has belonged to "this group, and so have most of their Cabinet Minis ters and Members of Parliament. Even among this group, Bram's ramily gave him special status. His grandfather, Abraham Fisch er, was the first and only Prime Minister of the Orange River Col ony before it was merged into; the Union of South Africa in 1910 na turally he was a leading member of the National Convention which drew . .up the Union's constitution and a member of the first Union Cabinet. His father, Percy Ulrich Fischer, was a famous lawyer who rose to be Judge-President of the Orange Fi'ee State. ? Bram's intelligence and capacity for hard work, together with his characteristic personal charm, kind ness and modesty, seemed to mark him out for an exceptional career. Joel Mervis, now editor/of the Jo hannesburg Sunday Times, who was at university with him in Bloem- fontein, wrote that his fellow-stu dents were all convinced that Bram would become either Prime Minis ter or. Judge-President of South Africa depending only on whether h. e decided to enter law or politics. When Fischer won a Rhodes scholarship to read law at Oxford and, returned to enter the Bar in Johannesburg, he did indeed seem to have "the world at his feet". He married Molly Krige, a niece of Mrs. (General) Smuts — their de voted companionship was ended only a year ago when she was killed in a car accident. The path that' led from such an auspicious beginning to his career to the day when he was captured on November 11 last, living in heavy disguise under an assumed name, -is a tribute to the integrity of a man who sacrificed everything to his principles. A year ago Bram Fischer, togethei with Eli Weinberg, Ivan Sherm- orucker and 11 others, was arrested under the Suppression , of Commun ism Act. A former Congress of Democrat: leader, Piet Beylevelde, had broken down1 under police interrogation ind agreed to turn state witness. ' : Fischer was granted £5,000 hail and even allowed to go to Britain in October 1964 for a Privy Council 1 appeal involving a Rhodesian com- \ pany. j When the trial was resumed in j in January, Fischer was present j but later decided to forfeit bail and ! go underground. . | Circumstances refute the charge | of "cowardice" brought against him by the prosecutor- Had he wished to avoid trial and prison, he need never have returned from England. He could later have escaped from South Africa in disguise. Instead he chose the stern and lonely life of an underground lead er,, to fight, as he said in .his court statement explaining his non-ap pearance, against "this whole in tolerable system" of race oppres sion, which, if not changed "radi cally and rapidly", would cause "appalling bloodshed and civil war" > . Bram Fischer's case shows clearly that the position has been reached in South Africa where all who work actively against apartheid are liable to end up behind bars. World opinion will speak up to support Bram Fischer, especially in chis time of crisis when Smith's seizure of power in Rhodesia threat ens even sharper color" conflict in .all southern Africa. Fiscner has come to symbolise that "other path" which is still passionately advocated by some South African whites — of brother hood and equality, irrespective of race. . . Recently the Archbiship of Cape "own said, speaking of apartheid; By suppressing his conscience, a lan destroys his integrity." Bram Fischer has preserved his integrity and has become the con science of South Africa. - MAGAZINE BACKGROUND 