 ASKIN SHOWS HIS FANGS SYDNEY: After only eight days in office, the Askin Liberal Government struck out against the democratic rights of the people of New South Wales and was reported (see Page 12) to be scheming to sell the State-owned coal mines. "|HE Government opened its attack by refusing amplifier rights to the trade union Vietnam ' pro test rally in Sydney Do main, and thus now shares the Federal Government's responsibility for the war policy. The Stale Agriculture Minister (Mr. Chafley), commenting on the refusal, made an attack on the patriotism of the trade union movement. As reported in the Canberra Times, Mr. Chaffey said: "It is significant that the rally organ ised by the ACTU to protest against the Federal Government's intention to despatch Australian troops for service in Vietnam co- incides with the time the Com monwealth Government is con sidering a protest from the Soviet Government on the same issue." The NSW Labor Couricil last week said that the action of the Askin Government wap a direct challenge to the trade unions and an attack on democratic rights. Sydney City The Askin Government also took first steps in an open plan to gerrymander the electoral system for the Sydney City Coun cil, to ensure that the Liberal Party dominate the Council after next elections (due this year) in the interests of big business. This week Mr. Tom Wright, a Communist ex-alderman of the Council, said: "The anouttcement __ that the Askin Government has ordered a public inquiry by a commission of three into the present ward system of the vvuaaujh ui ojrwiioy IS ttii ViXliy indication that they will make every effort to oust the Labor Party from control of the Council. "The enquiry is strictly limited in scope to making recommenda tions whether the present divi sion of the city into wards is to be retained, altered or abolished. "At the moment there are four wards each of which elect five aldermen. "Three of the four wards have about 30,000 voters each, mainly residential voters. The other ward, Gipps, includes the busi ness centre of the city and has only about 13,500 voters (mainly on-residential voters— that is, property owners and lessees). "The aim of the Liberal Party is not to find a more democratic system of wards, but to secure additional representation for the minority of property owners on the grounds that they pay the greatest amount in rates. "An inquiry to serve any use ful purpose would need to deal with the question of enlarging the City Council area into a Greater Sydney, and with, the system of voting, particularly to improve the method of propor tional representation, and estab lishing equal adult franchise by eliminating all property qualifi cations. "Within the scope of the pro posed inquiry only one recom mendation would really improve the system and that would be to abolish the wards and revert to the system of one electorate for the city area, with all of the aldermen being elected on the one ballot paper by proportional representation." . The Sydney District Committee of the Communist Party has announced that Mr. Ron Max well, another Communist ex- alderman will give evidence before the inquiry. 