 Tear gas used" Ion Solomon Is.j demonstration ! SYDNEY : Solomon Island police used tear-gas against members of the Building and General Work ers' Union at Honiara (British Solomon Islands) on April 1, when they demonstrated in support of a wage claim for 1/- an hour. Although this shocking as sault against the workers took place on April 1 , it, was not until late May that news filtered through to the trade unions in Australia. The Australian Government and the daily press have kept the assault under a close news blanket. The information on the assault was contained in a press release from the federal office of the Build ing Workers' Industrial Union of Aus tralia. The use of tear gas against the workers followed theix rejection of a wage offer of 93d. per hour. Earlier the union, in negotiations with the Government, agreed to this wage offer but the workers rejected the amount and 800 went on strike and marched through the town. As they marched, many more joined the demonstration. When one of the demonstrators was arrested the workers went to the police station and demanded his release. They were ordered to disperse, and when they refused tear gas was used by the police. The leader first arrested was sen tenced to two months' jail and 14 others arrested later were sentenced to periods of six weeks to three - months. The strikers were then threatened with being driven back to their vil lages unless they resumed work at 93 pence per hour. Prior to this, the BSI Building and General Workers' Union had appealed to the BWIU and Miscellaneous Workers' Union for assistance in trade union organisational matters. After consultation with the ACTU these two unions offered to provide accommodation and expenses within Australia for a period of two months for Joel Kikolo, Secretary of the BSI Union. The strike cut across these plans. Several Australian unions sent finance and messages of solidarity to the BSI workers. Several also called on the British Government to inter vene to grant the workers a decent living wage. A reply to a letter sent by the BWIU to Mr. Harold Wilson, British Prime Minister, said: ". . . It appears that the Protectorate Government are not prepared to reconsider the award until the new agreement has been given a fair trial and new facts are adduced in support of the case for any revi sion. "In the circumstances the Prime Minister feels that the British Govern- ment should not intervene. It is the . nnlinv of fh« Prnt.pn1xirnt.fi Government to promote the development of effec tive trade unions." A further letter has been sent by the BWIU to Mr. Wilson pointing out "the contradiction between the state ment in the last paragraph and the use of tear gas, jailing of unionists and threatening them with dismissal from work because they struggle against the imposition of a less than living wage." The Australian Council of Trade Unions has also been asked to or ganise the widest possible protest and action in support of the Solomon Island workers. 