 Mary Gilmore, unpublished | 1 A hitherto unpublished poem by Mary Gilmore appeared 1 last week as an exhibit in a display of part of the Vida 1 Goldstein Collection in the National Library, i The poem commemorated the heroic death of one of Australia's greatest anti-war, anti-conscription fighters, Percy John Brookfield. Brookfield, himself a miner, led the struggle of the Broken Hill miners against conscription during the first world war, and was elected by them to the N.S.W. Parliament. He was dragged before the court many times for defiance of the War Precautions Act, was jailed and fined. But he said: "The only flag I will fight under is the Red Flag." He hailed the Soviet revolution of 1917. Brookfield was elected to the N.S.W .Parliament where he used his position to win important advances for >the workers. On March 22, 1921, he was travelling by train to Adelaide when a passenger, Tomayev, ran amok with/ a revolver. Brookfield closed in on him and took four shots in the stomach, which killed him. The man said he had been paid £100 to kill Brookfield. He was adjudged insane. HOW BROOKFIELD DIED Tell it abroad, tell it abroad, Tell it by chapel, and steeple How, in the height of his manly prime, Brookfield died for the people. There was the station, there was the train, And women and children crying And thick as a gallop of fiery rain, The madman's bullets came flying. And there, in his own quiet way, Brookfield stepped to the breach And a man might wait for a thousand years For such a lesson to teach. Blood for blood says the law and blood For blood on earth was spilled And the rattling shot died, thud for thud, And hell for a moment stilled! Was it for this the Lord God made And gave to his heart its bent? Only we know, at call, unafraid, Brookfield answering went. And when the Barrier women wept, And its men thought tears no shame, I The child shall ask, ere it turn to sleep, , ' For the story of Brookfield's fame. plough the years may go, still shall he stand, A man amongst men, my brothers, Who gave to the full of his kind strong band And died, as he lived, for others. So, tell it abroad, tell it abroad, ... Tell it by chapel and steeple, How in the height of his manly prime. Brookfield died for the people. ... ...» mBrnamm— M 