 USSR pledges all aid to Vieinaa From Alf Watt M OSCOW: "We want to make it clear to all that the Soviet Union will render to the Democratic Republic or Vietnam all aid necessary to strengthen its defences and beat back American ag gression", secretary of the Communist Party Brezhnev said in Warsaw last week. "We have not been found wanting . in this respect before and we will not be found wanting in this respect 'k now or in the future," he said. He was speaking together with Mr. Gomulka at a meeting held to cele- i| brate the signing of the treaty ol g friendship, co-operation and mutual i assistance between the two countries, gj The new treaty provides for in- ; | creased economic, scientific, techni- M cat and cultural exchange and gives firmer guarantees of mutual aid injjj the event of agression. Both! leaders dealt extensively with ; .' the situation in Europe, Gomulka saying that traditional German mili-f .. tarism had come, to the fore in West ?. Germany. They gave stern warning against | this power being given atomic weap« r ons and emphasised that postwar p. European frontiers should be written ; into , a German peace treaty. This was not because of any un | i. certainty about the strength and in- : . violability of these borders, but be- : cause of the need to finally dampen the ardour of the West German re- vanchists. The hew treaty provides that both parties shall jointly apply all means available to them to eliminate the : threat of aggression on the part ox West German militaristic and revan- « chist forces or any other State that -. enters into alliance with them. Unity Both speakers stressed the iffl | portance of world unity, Brezn: n i ; stating that unity of action of a revolutionary forces is more nece sary than ever before. | Imperialism must be PPose£J 3 a common front of the world system | of socialism, ' the working class | capitalist countries, the natio liberation movement. | Unity in action was a U overcoming the present differe k in the world movement as wex | to curb aggressors and ensure triumph of common ideals. j;: 