 Probe on Victorian police rackets must be made public MELBOURNE: The Bolte Government is trying to jam the lid on the big gest police scandal in the history of the state, says a "Guardian" special writer. |T should have initiated a public inquiry in 1961, when a report submitted to it by the Solicitor-General stated his opinion that crimin al conspiracies had been form ed by some members of the police force. Instead, It hushed the whole mat ter up, and the very existence of the 1961 report was never made public. Now a whole series of allegations have been mde by criminals who have been closely connected with police rackets. The complete account stretches back many years, includes scores of police officers up to the rank of sup erintendent, and covers a host of il legal practices, including: Bribe-taking by police to suppress prosecutions against all kinds of offen ders, from drunk drivers to thieves, sly grog merchants and brothel keepers. One contact man for the police could "sell" immunity from prose cution for a tidy sum provided the money was in his hands within 24 hours of the arrest. Where it was too late to stop a prosecution, charges could be broken down, or previous convictions "forgotten/ in return for bribes. SYSTEMATIC BRIBING and rigging of Juries. 0 PROTECTION and receiving rackets organised by police in concert with well- known criminals. 0 FRAME-UPS of innocent people and police accomplices who ''got too big for their boots." REPORTS Premier Bolte and Attorney-Gen eral Rylah are desperately trying to keep their enquiries behind locked doors, and to prevent the only mea sure that may bring out the truth, nail the guilty parties, and clear the names of the honest elements in the police force— THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A ROYAL COMMISSION. They would rather that the repu tation of the police suffer as a whole than permit the explosion that would certainly follow an open enquiry. "Guardian asks these questions: 0 Was there an inquiry by the then o'olicjtor-General, Sir Henry WinneKe," into conflicting evidence given at the trial of the men accused in connection With the robbery of the E. S. & A. Bank, at the Corner of Russell Street and Flin ders Lane, on May 29, 1962? j 0 Is it a fact that one of the reasons for the inquiry was that there were two sets- of policemen who gave evidence, and that no confession was made, to the breaking squad but only to the second group. 0 At the second trial of the accus- sed, was a senior policeman called as witness by one of the accused. 0 Did the Solicitor-General recom mend any action by the Police Depart ment itself, or by the Crown Law auth orities, arising out of the inquiry he had held? 0 Were there any subsequent charges laid against any member of the Police Force, or any inquiry held by the Police Department? 0 Is it a fact that certain members of the breaking squad, as it was con stituted in 1962, have been transferred to other positions in the Police Force without any loss in seniority? O Is it a fact that the same persons have been refused promotion in their new sections of the force, but that other wise no action has been taken against them? One of the reasons why the Gov ernment will strenuously resist an in quiry is because so many members of the Supreme court bench are xriown to hold definite views on police activities. At least two judges of the court have slated police evidence and and methods on several occasions, and, to add to the Government's embarrassment, THE PRESENT CHIEF JUSTICE, SIR HENRY WINNEKE, IS THE VERY MAN WHO WAS SOLICI TOR-GENERAL IN 1961! Criminals and bashers in the police force constitute one of the most dangerous threats to democracy that can be imagined. The police, by their very nature in a business society, are frequently placed in the position of acting a-s Instruments to crack down on social discontent and democratic activities. How much worse is the position when the force is penetrated by venal ele ments. As the history of Chicago and many other American cities shows, the power and greed of the uniform ed criminal element within the force tnerges, not only with the under world, but also with the high world of business and politics, to strangle democratic government and civilian liberty. Many of the same elements are already present In Victoria and can only he checked by open and reso lute democratic action. 