 [?] r I CANBERRA: If Treasurer Holt is really as happy as he pretended to be last Wednesday about Australia s oversea j|, reserves, ke must be just about the. only responsible Australian who 'is. if AA R. HOLT was replying to Dr. J. F. Cairns, Labor, who asked whether Australia's ex- ternal funds were being ex hausted at the rate of well over 300 million a year, even allow ing for seasonal factors. 1 Dr. Cairns asked whether this rate of exhaustion was likely to continue, and what the Government meant to do about it. Mr. Holt did not reject Dr. Cairns' figure, but se-id it was higher than the Government's estimate at the time of the Budget. He thought there would be a decline in imports, noted "the high level of capital im ports", and forecast that the loss of overseas reserves would be lower than had been expected in August. Two days later it was announced that the oversees reserves had fal len by £66 million in the first three months of the financial year (July — September) — a rate of decline not lower, but higher, than the figure suggested by Dr. Cairns and rejec ted as "too high" by Mr. Holt. The President of the Associated Chambers of Manufacturers (Mr. Anderson) brushed aside Holt's views by saying, according to the Financial Review, that the balance of pay ments situation was "critical". The Communist Party's general secretary (Mr. L. Aarons) said at the party's central committee meeting that - chronic problems facing the economy were becoming acute; the trade balance had worsened drama tically.. The Government might act in var ious ways; it might restrict imports, which is considered unlikely (and the Government is apparently still resisting pressure for this); try to raise bigger overseas loans or attract more overseas Investment (both be coming harder to get) ; or try to re strict the demand for imports by wage-pegging, higher taxation of the workers and a credit squeeze. This last "solution" is, the one most favored by the Menzies' Gov ernment, which has already begun to apply it, he . said. ' For their part, the workers will re- sist this attempt to lem on their shouldeds. WJ j| be deterred from continuing struggle for wage justice m tijjy urgent by the huge Pf0 rv crisf ing to be piled up by industrj, | or no crisis. „rri A transfer of Australian res 1 to policies of peacefuld 1 of war with Asia ""Sht ders with the trade SJ all, as the Financial Key1® yf even the US is "set to drav hitherg iron curtain" which it ha raised against trade w j| states. . , ,hprs aI Accordng to the Rey\e//ies a.wa'l big new export opportun j ing . Australian manufactuiers g Soviet east. I 