 Trade union backing for farmers Newcastle delegation visits drought area NEWCASTLE: A de legation of trade union officials from the Trades Hall Council recently visited drought stricken dairy farms in the Hun ter Valley and reported that farmers, their wives and families were working under condi tions that would not be tolerated by the trade unions or industrial workers. The delegation consisted of the secretary of the NCTHC, I Mr. Alex Dowling Mr. R. Rose, an executive officer of the NCTHC and president of the Newcastle branch of the Water side Workers' Federation, and Mr. M. Copley, research officer for the NCTHC. Writing ' in the July issue of "Dairymen's Digest" Mr. Dowling says— We found that the exploitation of the farmer in his crisis had been intensified — the price of fodders had shot up, while farmers' stock was 'being sold at "give-away" prices. We believe these aspects alone de mand urgent inquiry at top level, separating the exploiters of the far mers in their hour of crisis from the honest people who are trying to assist. Farmers and their wives work on the farm from a dawn-to-dark basis, unable to leave the property un attended, seven days a week in many cases only to earn a sub standard living. We will move, through our trade union journals to expose the calcu lated lie that the daixyfarmer is "sitting pretty" and exploiting the worker in town and city. It will quickly be said, in some quarters, "What do the trade unions or industrial and white collar work- - ers know of the farming industry and its problems, or the problems of the producer. Bitter experience We do know stark hardship, disaster and crisis when we see it — and we have seen it on farm lands in the last week. We do know, by bitter experience, the exploitation suffered by the average toiler during his whole working life. We do know that both industrial and white collar workers and the small farmer are mutually exploited sections of the community. It has always been necessary for the trade unionists to close their ranks and unite in the never-ending struggle to protect and improve their living standards. No worthwhile reform has ever been gained by the workers unless they fought for it by all means at their disposal. Any divisions weaken our position, and we are sure this applies equally to the farmers. The economics of the working people — on farm or in the city- demand unity as a first principle. Many . will recall the assistance of workers from shop, factory, mine and waterfront in the disastrous floods of 1955, in the Maitland- Singleton district. The decisions of the Hunter Valley Community Conference, held in New castle in 1961, made some points: "When the purchasing power of the workers drops through unemploy ment or reduced earnings, this im mediately affects the farming and business community. "Re-afforestation, water conserva tion and other measures of flood mitigation are an urgent national need. "The people of N.S.W. are still at the mercy of the vagaries of the weather " These, and many other decisions were made at the conference, at tended by 202 delegates, 87 observers, representing 78 organisations. Our inspection of dairy farms, lasting only five short hours, pro duced two immediate reactions: The great friendliness we encountered and the shocking position on the farms due to the drought in par ticular. We want the farmers to know that the same common enemy — the monopolist (whether they represent land, finance, fertiliser, meat, bank or stock) are the same people who demand the maximum price from the town and country worker for con sumer goods. This is based of course on the lowest possible wage they can pay to the worker who produces those goods. The Newcastle Trades Hall Council has written to both the N.S.W. Gov ernment and the Federal Givernment, requesting that immediate cash- grants (non-repayable) be made to the farmers to assist them in the present crisis. Stronger representation We know of the farmers' moves for stronger representation on the Milk Board, and for an increase in the price of milk, and that the current price has been static for years. This latter really pin-points the con tinuing squeeze of the farmers by the big suppliers of basic farm needs — as these prices have skyrocketed. On an increase in the price of milk, we would fairly point out that any such increase could mean a fall in the living standards of the great mass of workers who pur chase, and need, farm products. However, something must be done and quickly! Just again on the question of a price increase — undoubtedly an inrcrease would assist farmers — but only temporarily. The same strangehold of farm income by monopoly would quickly, gobble up new income, from what ever source, unless prices of basic farm products are stabilised. Our knowledge of the quota sys tem, while not expert knowledge, shows us that basic exploitation and hardship stems from this. It tends to divide the farmers. The cheaper price Of surplus milk to the big processing companies, is a concession that is not passed on to the consumers in purchasing the many and varied products. We have a programme and here are some of the points: (1) Conservation of Australia's water resources. (2) Vigorous and planned water conservation and re-afforestation policy. (3) Immediate Federal and State Government free financial grants to purchase stock and fodder. (4) Price control "of fodder, con centrates and new stock purchases. (5) An extended immediate morato rium on farmers' debts. (6) Banks to make available loans at extended, low-interest rates to help restore and rehabilitate the farm ing industry. " All the many points briefly made do need more development. Perhaps the trade unions may be afforded this opportunity. What we do say, however, is that we sincerely hope this is only the beginning of our first real contact with the farmers. If we receive further invitations we will readily accept them, and if the farmers ask us for assistance, we will give this to the best of our ability. 