 "HeB'@sd" pr iirts Ink r.m ir-ffer: D.R.A. Y. reveals his identity Si.D.sEii': 'i he Sydney Morning Herald last Saturday pub lished a letter from T.tbune Editorial refuting an important j aspect of an attack published earlier on Tribune and the Communist Pa:ty of Australia, written by Fred Wells. --HE "Herald" also published a three-column interview which fully substantiated Tri bune's letter and its proposal for an apology by the "Herald". The letter, signed by Mr. A. Robertson for Tribune, said: "In a recent article in the series "Cool Look at Communism" by Fred Wells (Herald, September 23), there were the very serious implication that the Tribune publicly misrepresents the sources of its finances. "One passage reads as follows: 'An amazing result of the 1964 article on party finance was the acknow ledgement in Tribune of a startling j upsurge in large donations made to -he party by individuals., j "One such donor, under the initials ' )f D.R.A.Y., suddendly started eon- "ibuting amounts of £100 at a time." The Tribune ' letter pointed out: 'a) that these donations were to. he Tribune's regular fund (not to die Communist Party) and (b) that the D.R.A.Y. donations had begun not in 1964 but in 1963. It continued: — "Mr. Wells evidently set out to cast doubt on the authenticity of donations listed under the initials of 'D.R.A.Y.', and implied that t is was some kind of fictitious cover for some mysterious source of financial support, as in the following sentence: 'Party wits have been known to say that 'perhaps D.R.A.Y. has a rich uncle in Moscow'." The letter pointed out that D.R.A.Y, was the pseudonym of a generous donor who, for reasons of personal privacy, wished to remain anonymous, and that this had been clearly stated by Tribune on two occasions in 1964. It then announced that, with the kind permission of D.R.A.Y., it was now possible to announce that he is Mr. D. R. Anderson, a resident of a Sydney suburb, whose xact address was supplied but not for publication (to avoid having curious callers). It indicated that - Mr. Anderson's bank could confirm financial details. The letter- concluded: "We believe that Mr Wells seriously over-reached himself in this matter and that the Herald is, as a result, obliged to publish some form of retraction and apology to those associated with Tribune." The interview made independent with Mr. Anderson and published in same issue gave details of dona tions made over years to Tribune, the State Cancer Council and the Com munist Party. He told the Herald he had never been a member of a political parly. The interview also gave details of the sale of houses which had yielde money for the donations. It reported Mr. Anderson as say ing he donated to bcenus he "values the force a newspaper can have." 