 [?] The contrast between NG's poor and the idle rich colons pAPUAN wharfies, un loading the inevitable Burns Philp ship at Port Moresby, raised their heads from equatorial zone toil, paid at one- tenth the rate Australian wharfies get for unloading a Burns Philp ship in temperate zone Austra lia. The liner Ellinis had come through the Basilisk Passage at dawn, anchored inside the reef, half a mile from the jetty, and swung her ice boats down to the water. At Port Moresby, capital of Aus tralia's Papua-New Guinea colony, lifeboats were lowered away to car ry passengers ashore, because Port Moresby has not been provided with deep-water wharves or sufficient launches. The World Bank, in a recent sur vey of New Guinea's economic needs, inferred that too much money was flowing out in profits, draining the colony's wealth and stifling develop ment. The World Bank wanted a balanc ing inflow — not by return of pro fit sucked out by Australian, British and American investors, but by tour ist promotion. The Ellinis sailed in a couple of months after the World Bank pro posal, with the first promising batch of nearly 1,000 tourists, their pockets still undepleted by the ravages of n.i mama on/1! Adon LAMUIIIUU gtMll otuxco aim hucksters. Unwelcome visitors After the Customs-Immigration- Health ooat, two launches came alongside Ellinis— one, named Wins ton Churchill, to collect luggage, and the other, a pleasure launch carrying half- tipsy young Aus tralian empire-builders, ostentatious ly guzzling beer from snub-nosed bottles, throwing empties into the harbor and giving most people aboard their first introduction to Australian colonialism. The tourist crowd piled into the lifeboats, ready for the reception ashore which the World Bank report seemed to foreshadow. Port Moresby was enticing, with its leafy avenues and glory of tropic al blossom, the green hills and stilt ed Papuan waterfront houses. The half-tipsy empire-builders had beaten the lifeboats to the jetty, where one of them addressed re marks to disembarking girls. The Administration did not ar range a single taxi, bus, guide or consultant to advise tourists on sights to be seen or souvenirs to be bought and so help provide currency to meet profit outgoings. The. more discerning among the tourists quickly got the impression that they were not welcome. As Brigadier Sir Donald Cleland's Administration knows, there's more to see in Port Moresby than tropic al blossom. Concourse of poverty The most significant spectacle was before the tourists' eyes as they piled from the lifeboats on to the water front. By the harbor shore, along the main street, in the residential sub urbs, at the market and in the "native village" of Hariabauda, stilt ed above the tide, was the con course of the unemployed poor, the dispossessed and the discontented, suffering their indigence and ill- health without visible protest. Some gaze sullenly at white drink ers on the balcony of the Hotel Papua. Drinking, after the U.N. Foot Re port, was the subject of an "equal rights" ordinance— the Papuans could drink legally instead of illegally. The only black skins apparent in the bars and lounges of the Hotel Papua belonged to barmen and stew ards. Interested in progress toward desegregation, I went round the side of the Hotel Moresby. Still no sign of a Papuan drinker. "Where do your people get a drink?" I asked a Papuan. He silent ly led me round into a narrow alley way at the back of the hotel, into a semi-decrepit outbuilding, one fibro wall badly holed, a cement floor and other austerities. There was only a handful oi Papuan drinkers and non-drinkers. Thi right to have a drink is no use without the right to earn the money to pay for the drink. Many of Port Moresby's unemploy ed poor sit listlessly on footpaths with their children; others "stroll up and down, past well-stocked shops of Burns Philp, Steamships Trading and others. At the market on the seashore, Papuans sit behind pathetic little heaps of fruit or vegetables, a very occasional grass skirt, a couple of fish or cononuts, underlining the paucity of Papuan commodity pro duction and commercial exchange. Not all Port Moresby Papuans, of course, are idle. In the lush European suburbs they were shifting the sanitary pans of the white colons. Papuans work as shop assistants and clerks (junior), messengers and carriers, as stevedores and truck- drivers, carpenters and nurses. A few drive fork-lifts and earth- moving machines. An Australian con tractor in a big way, one of the unwelcome tourists, rated these Papuan operators, as of equal skill to his own Australian drivers. The unemployed poor of Port Moresby sometimes turn to crime in a futile attempt to alleviate their - lot. The vast majority neither steal nor beg, nor offer wares or enticements to tourists, as in other colonial sea ports. They just look at the white colons and think, and, as the colons fear, await leaders who will -inevitably rise, talk, inspire and , organise. The classic colonial plantation economy, with its denial of arable land to an expanding population, decline of Stone Age subsistence gardening in favor of c&sh crops such as cocoa, and coffee, and fail ure to provide industrial employ ment for the displaced of the tribes will swell the army of the idle poor, and create political crises in Aus tralian New Guinea of the kind that wrecked the older colonial empires. Industry need The message from Port Moresby's idle poor, from the skilled gardeners without land, the street children without adequate schools, the ailing without doctors' surgeries, is that New Guinea must have secondary industry and all that goes with it. Agricultural crops such as cotton and other fibres and sugar, to prov ide by-product factories, and rice and stockbreeding for food, are cry ing needs. Millions from gold, timber and copra, that could have ' capitalised New Guinea industries have gone into the pockets of absentee inves tors. Rather than launch cotton planta tions and textile factories in New Tribune's special correspond ent who is on his way to Eur ope, went ashore in New Guinea and wrote this story. Guinea, Burns Philp will invest in a Hong Kong button factory, a store in Nambucca Heads or Albury, in G. J. Coles' chain stores, the B.H.P., C.S.R., insurance and hire-purchase in Australia. The U.S.-Australian-Randlord gold and timber investors of the Bulolo enterprises put money into a sky scraper in Sydney or the rutile sands of Australian beaches, but never into a factory that could process the rubber of Papuan plantations. Monopoly grip New Guinea, contrary to the claims of official knockers, has vast indus trial potential, through proven reserves of natural gas and hydro- power. Petroleum is obviously there, but it has not suited the world oil cartel to do much about it. Mineral surveys have been scandalously in adequate. For immediate relief of increasing displacement and unemployment, the stifling, restrictive grip of Aus tralian monopolies must be lifted. The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.'s official history, South Pacific Enter prise, admits that the New Guinea Stone Age gardeners were the pion eer sugar-cane breeders of the world, and that the superior sugar content and sweetness of Australian cane was due to the introduction of the Badila stock from New Guinea to the Queensland plantations. New Guinea could be one of the world's great sugar countries, but this does not suit Colonial Sugar or - 1 its financial patron, the Bank of New South Wales, most powerful -1 hank in the colony. /'||| A sugar industry allows a network S|f of by-product industries. Large areas are suited to rice but Papua-New Guinea imports £1,500000 "Wl worth of rice from mechanised Aus. ' W tralian farms in a year. The German colonialists exported high quality cotton by 1896, and in ' 1893 began exporting tobacco from S the Bismarck Archipelago and North- -II east New Guinea equal to the best M Sumatran leaf. Today, cotton and -M tobacco goods form -an important « part of the profitable Australian ex- ''& port trade to New Guinea. The potential in rubber, cocoa and ' ' i coffee has hardly been scratched tea, sisal, cinchona (quinine), kapok -If oil palms, coir fibre, cattle, fruit' Ipf ground nuts and spices neglected. 'Y;|g| "It will be i different" J -I Kov far distant are the New Guinea peoples from their rightful llf. inheritance— from ' control of re- sources essential to social progress and useful occupation? , || A long, long way, if the men and women from New Guinea (all white) 1 who joined the Ellinis at Port Mores- , by for holidays in Europe could be taken seriously. &lt;$ "They're dirt, and that's the way they've got to be. treated," said one, .&! The British, European and Ameri- - can colonialists have learned to be t:\lf more circumspect in their language, '$0 It might be as well for the Ad- . W ministration to give the New Guinea '-.-J colons a briefing on standards ol 'jf conduct less likely to besmirch Aus- ' tralia's name, before they are allow- ;.Jp ed out into the world. '-|jf The subject peoples in this eco- ' nomically inhibited colony say litle. p| I asked a Papuan who spoke good|!|I ' English what he thought of things,1-;: V,| He confined his reply to a sentence!:;' "It will be different under dependence." -M FOOTNOTE: Major exploiters of New Guinea these days include: >.|gf the Australian plantation owners; |M Burns Philp, W. R. Carpenter, || Steamship Trading, the British New Guinea Corporation (a Baring Bros, banking house affiliate), the || Bank of New South Wales, Ameri- :|j can Smelting and Refining (New Guinea goldfields and timber), and a® the Bulolo timber and mining en- terprises in which Australian, US, 'J| and British-South African "Rand- ' lord" investors are Interested. yM MAGAZINE . PF0Pl.fi Hill I I I , "" RUPERT LOCKWOOD A typical village in Papua-New Guinea fl 