 niral3nf3raf3 1 p i H rJH UHNM IIP "! lii IT® M i :jfawwJi P mr% » gp HHb»» p if q aacf j i NOT VERY PEACHY FOR THE PICKERS 7he Sydney SunHeraid (IS/4/651 states that a man earned £?3 a week packing peaches, working 9 hours a day and haSf a Saturday. This surprised me, hut having spent some time I with seasonal workers I could see the explanation. S mORMALLY a picker is given I three rows of trees to do at I a time. He carries his own 1 ladder and/or platform. Strap- 1 ped on the picker is a bag with 1 a clip underneath which he I empties into bushel 'U9S 777 one and a half bags usually fill j a "lug". (pickers have to pick clean, by flick of the wrist not dragging or grabbing. Small branches and butts must not be broken off. If there is' dry rot in the fruit special care must \ be taken to keep rotten fruit out of I the basket. One had peach can spoil | a bushel. Picking skill usually takes 1 a fortnight to acquire, and on the I big orchards in Victoria, say Sheppar- I ton, the orchardists will pay the | picker for his learning fortnight. I A picker mu£t also pick for size, I and fruit on a tree does not ripen I at the same time. The orchardist in- | sists on not paying for lugs that | are not full. The picker stacks his f lugs for the tractor. I If this picker picks what they I say he does he must be picking 60 I to 70 peaches a minute apart from | attending to all his other jobs. I Any pickers who know the game I could only laugh at the orchard- I ist's claim. 1 The AWU award in Victoria, I agreed to by the orchardists, is a I minimum rate of 1/3 a lug. Payment % varies a little with the sort of crop. Rates for Sunday are 1/9 a lug. The union keeps strict control in the big orchards where no one is allowed to work more than seven hours 50 minutes, 10 minutes for "smoko". The pickers elect a dele gate. In small orchards, and especially in New South Wales, it is up to the pickers to observe union rules and the award. Every gang has a gun-picker who is a pacemaker and can usually pick 200 lugs a day, depending on the .crop and whether it is first or last pick. The only way for this man (in' the Sun-Herald) to pick 331. lugs in a day would be for his family and kids to be working too. The orchard ist pays them all with one cheque, in case the union does inquire. If he can pick 200 lugs, his wife would pick about 70 and the two kids 30 lugs each. I have seen a lot of kids who could not read or write who follow their parents on the seasonal work. Kids are a common sight picking peas, beans and tomatoes, where a lot of bending is needed. So here are the facts: The orch ardist has paid four people £130 a week or £32/10/- each. For this they worked 61 times 91 hours, or about 62 hours for an hourly rate of 10/8 -no penalty rates, and work for about six or eight weeks, after which they are idle until they find an other Job. We know that it is cheaper for the battling orchardist to work in this way — and are they battlers? Fer tiliser costs a fortune from the phos phate monopolies — sprays for fruit fly. dry rot and other diseases cost far too much — and other costs mount up, too. But small orchardists who suffer hardship should approach the Gov ernment and insist on price and pro fit control on farm essentials, . and they could bank on trade union support. By attacking rates paid to sea sonal workers they will not build up that support though they may get some inaccurate publicity in the daily press. —LEO MARTIN, Kings Cross, Sydney, 