 History has recorded the Negroes as a courageous, noble people - | "When did the American Negroes first start their fight for equality? \ "When did the Movement start? Was it in 1775 when the first abolitionist society was formed? Or in 166B when. -the first slave revolt was planned? Mavbe it was in 1526 when the first slaves ran away and joined the Indians. Then again, you might say that it began thousands of years ago when, even then, human beings were oppressed by their fellow men and they found that there is something in the human spirit which can't stand chains. . / These questions ore osked and answered in "Negroes in Ameri can History", written by iohhi and Frank Cieciorka and pro duced by The Student Voice inc. in AfBanta, Georgia, for the Stud ent Non-violent Co ordinating Commit tee. The following is a brief summary of the primer: Negroes fought in the war of independence, when the American people were battling for their free dom from England. Crispus Attucks, a black man, was the first person to die for American freedom. Many slaves died fighting in the war and many ran away and found freedom But many were still slaves. Lots of people did not think it was right that people who fought in the war for- freedom were still slaves. So the , first big emancipa tion of slaves in the United States came after the war. The cotton gin It looked as though the slaves in the South would be free, but the cotton gin was invented— someone had to work to grow the cotton. Slaves remained in the South. At the time of the French Revolu tion there were a few French planteis in Haiti and .500,000 Negro slaves. They heard the planters talking about the revolution, about "Liberty, Equality, Brotherhood!" A slave, Touissaint, organised an army to fight the French, but he was finally beaten. But he had proved that slaves could revolt and win. The revolt of the slaves in Haiti gave hope to those in the United States who wanted to be free and as early as 1800 three Negroes, in different ways, tried t' organise revolts All failed. Civil war fighters Women, too, dreamed of freedom some acted. One famous Negro . woman. V "rriet Tubman, was born a sla r.i Maryland. When 25 years of ' >«3 she escaped to the North "Tat she did not want freedom foi her-Xif alone. Knowing of the great danger, sht returned to the South and led hei brothers and parents to the North Altogether she did . this 19 times , leading out over 300 slaves; ' "The '.feivil war was baused by the ' different needs of 'the; North - and! the South. Laws that wfere" good for agriculture in the South were bad for industry in the North. And laws that helped industry hurt agriculture." Finally the two started fighting But anyone in the South who owned more than 15 slaves did not have to fight and rich people in the North did not have to go to war. At first President Lincoln would not have Negroes in the army, but after two years of fighting he de cided that he could not win without their help. 200,000 Negroes joined the army and 38,000 of them died n battle. "One of the worst crimes of the >var was the Fort Pillow Massacre. The Confederates captured the fort and killed every Negro after the battle. They killed them with bayonets and with clubs. They burned them alive and buried them alive. They nailed them to houses and tortured them to death The Confederate general who led the murderers was Nathan Bedford Forrest. Forrest was a slave trader before the war. He became the first grand wizard of the Ku Klux KJan after the war. "When the war fended in 1865 ' Negroes looked to the future, with ' hope in their hearts. They didn't know that 100 years later equality would still be an empty promise." In 1868 two things happened 4, which were very important for the American Negroes. One was the signing of the. 15th amendment which gave them the right to vote. The other was the birth of William E. B. Du Bois. A student at Fisk and Harvard Universities, he received the fixst Ph.D. F rvard had ever awarded a Negro. For 13 years he taught at Atlanta University. Du Bois believed that Negroes would only gain their freedom and equality by struggling for it. He believed that they must have educa tion and helped them to get it. . In 1905, together with other militant leaders, Du Bois started the Niagara Movement. They said: "We will not be satisfied with less than our full manhood rights. . We claim for ourselves every right that belongs to a free-born Ameri can — political, civil and social. . . ." Four years later a new group j grew out of the Niagara Movement, I the NAACP. Du Bois edited the j NAACP magazine Crisis, which 1 became the voice for militant | Negroes. I "Du Bois wrote and said a lot of things which the government v didn't like. When he talked about freedom and equality, he meant more than being able to vote or to buy a house or to get a job . . "Freedom for everyone meant the United States government shouldn't oppress people in the rest of the world ..." Jailed by the U.S. government be cause he worked for world peace — he said Nogroes shouldn't fight against other people of color in Korea. He fought the case and won his freedom. "Du Bois was one of the greates .eaders black people ever had. His wisdom and courage helped Negroes all through the years from Recon struction to the modern movement In 1963, on the night before the March on Washington, W. E. B u Bois died." Modern movement "The twentieth century change the face of the world with new in ventions and progress in science Man could send rockets to the moon. But in many ways he was still liv ing in the Stone Age. Men usee new inventions to kill their fellow men. "The Nazis murdered six millio. Jews. The United States droppec the atomic bomb on hundreds oi thousands of Japanese men wor men and children. This led many people to question the use of vio lence- "A new method of dealing with jppression was developed. Non violence. This became the weapon of the struggle for equality in America." Segregation of .the Negroes in thi South with laws didn't begin unti the end 6f the 1800's. After 1900 the South passed laws to segregate everything it could think of. WHIT1 ONLY signs sprang up like weed across the South. In 1960 four Negro students se town at Woolworth's lunch counte n Greensboro, North Carolina. Th&lt; ;it-ins had begun. In April, I960, these student ormed the: Student Non-violent Ci rdinating Committee. The Movement got wheels wit ne Freedom Rides — riding across th :olor line in public transport. There are different trends in th struggle for equality of . the Neg roes; not all support the NCC. But more and more people are ques tioning— "Where is the Movement going?" "Why does the United States sup port dictators and racists in other countries? "As machines put more and more jeople out of work, what will these -eople do? "All these questions have to do /ith freedom. People in the Move- lent are looking for answers. "Since 1960, thousands of Negroes rave gone to jail and have bee oeaten in the struggle for e(lu?Jr ' Some have even been killed. i" j are writing tomorrow's history vv heir lives." Begun as a coloring book, the com ileted fifty-one page primer contain drawings which emphasise the ionship between present events he history of the Movement. It is designed for use primarBy n freedom schools and m northern ghettoes where it \ given away free of charge- 