 CALL FOR FINANCIAL SUPPORT May be long fight against Mi Isa bosses BRISBANE: Mt. isa workers are preparing for a Song struggle. They have fhe complete backing of the citizens of Mt. Isa and are winning interstate support for their determined struggle against the American-owned monopoly Asarco, which controls Mt. Isa Mines Ltd., and dominates Australia's copper supply. J AST week's conference be- tween the mines manage ment and union leaders, after achieving some success in cleaning up the company's in iquitous contract system, broke down abruptly when the com pany refused to negotiate even a fraction of the way on out standing wage and other issues. The company made it clear that it intended to seek revision of in creases already granted by the In dustrial Commission after examining the results of the dispute which has been going on since August. The company respresentative said if all claims were met the company would not be able to pay its way and would have to close down. Huge profits Union leaders, however, pointed out that the company had averaged over £12 million profit annually over the last ten years and financed its £64 million expansion out of profit. The company was also flat-footed in persisting in victimisation of the miners leader, Mr. Pat Mackie. Rank and file delegates said the workers were determined to save Mackie, not merely because he was competent and trustworthy, but be cause his" victimisation was merely one of the' many in line with the company's policy over the years of victimising and beheading leader ship. New Australians have been particu larly solid in the dispute, drawing on their European experience. The stocks of the AWU leader ship which expelled Mackie fell still lower after Secretary Williams hastily closed Saturday morning's meeting and declared that the union was now at war with the Mt. Isa workers. Rising funds , Mt. Isa representatives have been I sent to Broken Hill and elsewhere &lt; to raise funds. \ The Queensland Labor Council ap- I peal has met with wide response. I The Disputes Committee of the Queensland Trades and Labor Coun cil met yesterday and heard a report from its representatives, just re turned from Mt. Isa. It reaffirmed that the Mt. Isa workers are engaged in a legitimate dispute and said the failure of the company to" negotiate properly was causing the prolonging of the dis pute. It is bringing speakers from Mt. Isa. to address workers and unions in Brisbane and other parts of the State. The Disputes Committee also con demned the decision of the Minister for Social Services refusing payment to workers stood down or sacked. The State Cabinet is meeting to day to discuss ways and means of dealing with the Mt. Isa dispute. In collusion with the daily press and the company it is seeking to create a crisis and find ways and means of dividing the workers and destroying their leadership. It is talking of "examining personali ties" and using the emergency powers it has assumed. Asarco is a foreign monopoly and the labor movement is calling for its nationalisation. 