 Rhodesia: Smith Govt, j can't beat Africa MOSCOW: In their Sal isbury coup, South . Rhodesian racists, the British, American and South African financial interests backing them, and Whitehall appeasers have misjudged the tem per and strength of the new Africa. This dark -smear on the map of Africa — Ian Smith's apar- theidist dictatorship — may not -survive.. long against combined African action, supported by Asian and socialist nations and progressive people the world . over. The Organisation of African Unity at its recent Accra meet- ; ing foresaw -the openly re hearsed Smith coup and passed secret resolutions relating to armed support of the op pressed four million Africans : of Southern Rhodesia. "Support for Zimbabwe" Prom Algiers to Bagdad and Delhi, from Accra and Dakar to Lusaka ! and Nairobi, the call for support of : ZIMBABWE — the African People's : Union I Southern Rhodesian Africans) met immediate response. Emperor Haile Selassie of ; Ethiopia said the time had come for ! all African States "to take practi- | cal measures including the use of ; ground forces against Southern ; Rhodesian racists." He announced that Ethiopia was ready "to take full participation in military actions against Southern Rhodesia as envisaged by the Accra Assembly of Organisation of African Unity." Guinea President Sekou Toure J said "All African countries are in a state of war with Southern Rhod esia." He added that "Guinea has already prepared military contin gents." Brazzaville Congo President Mos- samba Debat called for "Armed sup pression of the Southern Rhodesian rebels." Conference in Kenya? Kenya parliamentarians are urg ing an African States conference in Nairobi to work out "concrete mea sures against Smith's racist's re gime." And the setting up of "A joint African army" to protect their four million African brothers." Foreign Minister Doudou Thiam of Senegal said "We Africans are ready for any sacrifices to save our African brothers. Smith has made the greatest political error. It will be the starting point of resolute struggle for all Africa's freedom." The Ghana Government's state ment blames Britain for encour aging Southern Rhodesian racists and warns that "unless urgent mea sures" are taken all the Southern part of Africa will fall into the hands of the most vicious racists that ever existed in the world." Chairman Houari Boumedienne of the Algerian Revolutionary Council said "we shall never approve of the establishment in Africa of racial ist government such as Ian Smith's regime" which he branded as an "insult to Africa". At the demand of Upper Volta., Niger-, Dahomey and other States the OAU Council of Ministers will, it is anticipated, meet soon to plan action in line with these typical ex pressions of Africa's desire to re move this threat to peace. Wilson fries to dampen struggle Already Zambia has had to. move troops to the South Rhodesian frontier in view of Smith's des patch there of two battalions in combat readiness. Smith also threatens Zambia's communications ' across Rhodesia \ and the cutting off of electric pow- | er from the Zambesi" power station | on which Zambia's industries de- | pend. I The opinion of African and soc- | ialist countries is that the British | Prime Minster only went the limi- | ted distance he has in proposing a | a few sanctions in an effort to | dampen down African unrest and | mislead world opinion. | Wilson let Smith know that Brl- | tain would not use military force | (Menzies has done the same) and |l that gave Smith the necessary con- | fidence. Wilson also made it clear I that he took the issue to the Secur- 9 ity Council because if he did not, I somebody else would. J The British Prime Minister wants J to let things ride in the hope that I Africa will quieten down. He clearly | could take effective action against | Smith's regime with the surety of 1 widest international support and f prestige. | But British military action 1 be confned to areas like Aden— I against national liberation move- I ments— and the imperial rulers who | dismissed British Guinea Premier g Cheddi Jagan after his Government | had been legally elected three times | will not find the necessary entmis- | , iasm to get rid of Ian Smith. | However, the forces opposed to j apartheid in Southern Rhodesia are = far more powerful than the Bri Government estimated, and A: f j will not remain quiet wh apartheid insult and threat to peace &lt; remains. ' 