 Militant victory in APWU vote SYDNEY: Federal officials of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union, who have campaigned to unite the membership around a militant policy for wage and other demands, were re-e!oed with landslide majorities in all states. The ballot, which was officially declared last week, showed that Mr. G. Slater (general secretary) de feated the former secretary Mr. McGrane (an extreme Right-winger) by 6752 votes to 3120. The Federal president (Mr. F. Wa ters) and vice president (Mr. D. Allen) were also re-elected by large majorities. Mr. McGrane was also defeated in the New South Wales ballot. Postal workers say the NSW State Executive now represents various trends of militant, centre and right wing thought. The influence of the extreme right-wing, led by Mr. Mc Grane, has been broken. Only six of the 21 sitting members of the executive survived the ballot. Three of these were opponents of the previous right-wing control. Over recent years the NSW Branch has been torn apart through bitter faction fights. In NSW a Rank and File Commit tee for Membership Control was formed to campaign for the ending of these fights and to unite the mem bers around their wage demands. The secretary of the committee (Mr. L. Skelton, a militant ALP mem ber) was elected as an organiser. The CMC supported Mr. T. McLachlan who defeated the sitting president (Mr. B. Rya-n a right-winger) by 2,526 votes to 830. Mr. F. Richardson (a moderate right-winger and former industrial officer) was elected NSW secretary. He is the fourth secretary of the Branch since the beginning of this year when a bitter faction fight de veloped among the right-wing. Mr. B. Carey (a Communist) was re-elected to the NSW executive, de spite a determined effort by all the rightwing forces to defeat him. Mr. Carey said this week that the election result is regarded by postal workers as a clear mandate for a change in the behaviour of union officials. It is an, endorsement of the militant policies of the Federal Executive and the CMC. 