 ACT y call to sharpen. wage campaign J"HE Australian, Coun cil of Trade Unions' special executive meet- 1 last week called on ai&lited unions to tensify tkeir campaigns ! in swesiart of a £17/2/- a week basic wage and a pH.um margin for a h».dftsna » of £8/6/-. "These- must be regarded as , our immediate minimum claims. "In. light of the failure of the Conciliation- and! Arbitra tion: Commission,, we must now steo up our industrial; camf- ' oalan. to secure- higher wage- outside the Commission;'7, the .«vo"tiive saiidi. AFatrii uaaaens; are ealled on to , widen. and intensify the existing ampaisjiis; new being, cor dilated in support, of these minimum cdaimc wl>p they are. not being, paid, and to increase oner-award payments. I sst Thursday's, meeting of the NSW Labor- Council adopted the /CTGE decisions, and; (? 7 ' to set uy> a campaign. committee consist of the exeiv+nte plus, the sec- es, an'3' presidents of the Coun cil Groups. Strong support, was also given to speakers critical of the ACTU for net. rallying the welters on a nat ional level. Last week's ACTU executive was divided on the question of nation wide strike support o£ the: unions! basic wag,e claims.. Instead, the executive reiterated a previou. call to the State Labor Councils "to. lead "a campaign: by arranging mass- protest rallies ta condemn the ms "-ority decision and to co-ordinate with affiliated unions by holding, workshop meetings and other appropriate action in accord ance wrth ACTU procedures." The executive met in. special session to consider Sir. Richard Kfrby's rejection of a 'Move to have jthe recent, 14 Mer cent wage in crease decision reviewed. NSW crlfkism Messrs. P. Clancy (NSW secret ary Building. Workers' Industrial Union) and J. Heffernan (federal 1 secretary Sheet Mtefca! Workers'" Union), who spoke of hte need for national - protest action., were crit ical' of the NSW Labor Council leadership for their , lack of a dec isive lea. f the T"orkers of this; ; State. Mr. Hefferan, (who is also- federal 1 secretary of the Metal Trades Federa tion of Unions),, said the: minimum .claim of the ACTU has already been won by a large section of metal, workers. Many unions have declared thpig a basic wage, as a family living B wage,, should 'be not less than £221 a week and a fitter's margin I £10/12/-. The. ACTU decision will be "J- .terpreted to; mean that all exist ing over-award payments should bo added to the minimum basic nago and margin claim. This would give a fitter now , getting £5 a week over the aware, fa total wage of £30/8/-. ' Last week's ACTU executive meeting strongly condemn tices. Gallagher, Sweeney and Nimm "for having prepared a designed to cast aside establish principles of wage justice an 'verting to a discredited wage p I The executive said that "thr_0 increeng prices and suppi money wages, real awaid standards, have fallen and wi : tinue to fall i The only relief that wor0|/h secure in this situation is ; over-award payments secu m : side the award making system. ! The ' trade union vemeny ! never been linrted to. the F .of ' compulsory arbiti-- the ! pursuit of industrial ju » executive said. tl)at , The executive also de"de the .unions, now seek. under ,. „er 'cent margins increase of i» P ttje , awarded by the C£>,mm11L13 should metal trades; that /"/tion press that the date o: oper ,the same as hi the iod 0n or award - the first pay after Jr'y 1. 