 Aiist. Miaionbfs say "STOP POLICE I SPYING ON I N.G. WORKERS" SYDNEY: The Building Workers' Industrial Union has asked the Australian Council of Trade Unions to declare support for the right of the Papua- New Guinea workers to organise freely without in terference by the Administration or police. MR F. PURSE (Federal i secretary BWIU) said the Australian Gov e r n m e n t should support improvements in the living standards of the indigenous people and re spect their democratic rights. The union has asked the ACTU to treat this' matter with urgency and that it be given wide - spread publicity. According to the ABC News Service of October 11 and 12t thp P-NG Administration is "concerned" about the cause of the recent strikes by workers in the Port Moresby area and the recently formed secruity police force was ordered to investigate. Took notes est porty meeting A few months ago the P-NG police chief announced at the Port Moresby RSL Club that the security police force had been formed, as he said, to guard against subversion. Following this, when the P-NG people held a mect3ing to form a political party, representatives of the security police attended the meeting and took notes of the proceedings. Mr. Purse said: "It is common knowledge that the Indigenous workers of P-NG are shockingly underpaid and that most of those working in the towns would be lucky to get £3 a week. "This low living standard coupled with encroachments on civil lib erties are obviously the cause of discontent and the basis for the strikes which are causing the Administration concern. "It s a case of the chickens coming home to roost," . he said. In a letter to ACTU president (Mr. Monk), the BWIU said the Administration in P-NG should recognise the right of the people to develop their social, political and trade union forms of organisation a- ' activities and should help promote improved living standards. Instead, the Administration while allowing the low living standards to continuei has set up an organ, isation to spy on the workers and no doubt take other steps to pre. vent them from organising to attain their just demands. Obviously the r 'ions of the Administration are consistent with Canberra policies and directed from there, the BWIU said. "In consequence the Menzies Government bears the full respon sibility for the betrayal of its trust and its obligations to the peoples of P-NG. "That these things are done in a most blatant way for all the world to witness is a further proof of the Menzies Government's attacks upon democracy. "These things cannot be allowed to go unchallenged by the Austi. xalian trade union movement," the BWIU said. 