 r — — — — I S.A. apartheid I affects cricket By THE CHALLENGER I This year has seen r the emergence of a somewhat touchy sit- ! uation in the world of cricket and one that | officialdom has so far handled by apparent | convenient oversight | a series between ! the South African XI I and the West Indies XI- j impartial observer I . looking at the year's | cricket results, would most | likely conclude that it is | logical for these two teams ! to meet. ' Series: played- this- year" have . ..seen the,- West Indies beat Aus- -. I tralia last April- and the South. -: Africans beat England last month. ! Now preparations are being I made for. a forthcoming series i in Australia between last year's | losing teams, England and Aus-. | tralia, while any thought of a I series between the two winning I teams South Africa and the West Indies, just isn't mentioned. This situation no doubt arises I from a kind of tacit acceptance i of South Africa's apartheid j (racialist) policy, by a number ! of the major cricketing coun- i tries. I In nearly all other sports, I championships are decided by a " I series of elimination contests I and the same should hold for | cricket if the best interests of | the game are to be advanced. I The South African apartheid- I ists have a knack of using their I racialist policy internationally in | ways most convenient to them- I selves; this is apparent especially i in sport. j Thus, when the South African 1 Rugby Union football team, the j Springboks were in Australia at 2 the beginning of the year, their ! manager, when fronted about I their racialist policy, curtly re? j plied that there should be no ! politics in sport. j It is apparent that the South j Africans not only practise apart- | heid at home, but also abroad, as I can be seen from the inter- i national set-up In cricket. | It is high time that the South I Africans were told by the | cricketing world, that racialism I is out, and that if they want I any form of recognition as an I international cricketing body, | their policy should be dropped. | It is only under such circum- 6 stances that any true form of I elimination series can decide the &lt;- | best team all round. j j Rugby League | by RON MACKERRAS i S | EAGUE fans who hope to see g | Souths end St. George's run S i of premiership wins on Satiir- | | day week, must still believe in | | miracles. If such a miracle did S . i happen, the standard of play I would be memorable and a ser- j vice would be done to Rugby | League. g | Souths should defeat Norths in j | ' a close and interesting final — g | any other result would be drastic ! | for attendance. j _ Souths reserve grade wii Huddart to come in should I too strong for Newton and w fully extend Balmain in £ grand final. 14 Laurie Fagan's last two gams m particular have justified m mid-season opinion of him Witi him back in first grade Balmaii would have been certain grand finalists. , Souths thirds were convincing- 1 . beaten by Parramatta but ran I improve sufficient to beat s i George and challenge Parramatta I m the grand final. Half-way through the season 1 1 forecast Saints to win its tenth I premiership, Balmain to win the I _ Reserves and South Sydney to H - - win the thirds. , if I will stick by St. George anlM , Balmain, but would like to sublf stitute Parramatta for Souths Urn . third grade. ! I believe each winning team II next Saturday will pay a price for' the hard .football necessary to win finals and give sufficient ; . advantage to the teams that have had a fortnights rest to clinch the 1965 Rugby League premier- ships. Chief Justice offer justice | AST week at the annual meet ing of the N.S.YV. Swimming Association, the Chief Justice of N.S.W., the Hon. L. J. Herron, gave an impetus to the settling of controversy created by the Aus tralian Swimming Union's severe action last February of banning ihe four girl Olympic swimmers: Dawn Fraser for ten years, Linda McGill for four years and Mat lene Dayman and Nan Duncan for three years each. According to the Sydney Daily Mirror 3/9/65, the Chief Justice, a former president of the NSW Swimming Association was very critical of the harshness of the .severity of the penalties and the of appeal, of the four girls. The Chief Justice inferred, that the ASU should abide by the wishes of the associated swim ming bodies. He said that NSW as the lead ing swimming state should have a big say in the running of ASU affairs and that if the ASU did not abide by the recommenda tions of the NSW body, the NSW association should reconsider its relationship with the ASU. This comment by the Chief -Justice could be really instru mental in getting this contro versy of the banned swimmers . cleared up, for there is no action like militant action, and if tn® ASU is forced to realize that its very future is threatened, it may very- readily alter its adam- g ant attitude. | 