 United labor movement to combat monopoly SYDNEY: "The best way forward for the workers is to stand up and fight", a national trade union leader told delegates to the annual State Conference of the Building Workers1 Industrial Un ion. R. G. M. DAWSON, an I ACTU executive member and Queensland secretary of the BWIU, was opening the four-day conference of the union's NSW Branch last Monday in Sydney. "Some trade union leaders think it's | their scholarly approach and friend- sh'p with judges that gets results." ; He said the best results gained from ! any case before a tribunal is when | the workers stand up and fight out side the court. Big words "You cannot just fight with big words, resolutions, or intelligent ar guments it's only by workers in action that victories are won." He said that building workers in Queensland recently won a £2/2/- mar ginal increase following 1200 stop pages. Earlier the master builders, the Gov ernment and the court refused an increase.' " ' — Following the united mass action of building and metal workers, the Government even admitted Queens land was a low wage state, he said. Mr. Dawson said that all trade un ion leaders need to get down among the workers and find out their opin-. ions and what they want. He said the ACTU executive did not take the advice of Tom Wright, Alex j Macdonald, Mick O'Brien and Dawson I to back its wage claim with a nation al 24 hour stoppage. There is a smear campaign being waged on unity tickets. Mr. Dawson said this runs counter to a genuine demand of workers to select the best possible leaders irrespective of party affiliations. Monopoly grip In a toast to the unity of the labor movement, Mr. Tom Uren. (Labor MHR for Reid) said the greatest en emy of the labor movement is mono poly capitalism. "Australia is the most monopolised country in the capitalist world with one per cent of the capitalists getting 52 per cent of the profits. "The only way to combat this is by a united labor movement." Mr. Uren called for the halting of the Vietnamese war and to bring home the Australian troops. It's not the workers who are sending our boys overseas. "It is the representatives of monppoly," he said. During :.the conference the delegates, elected from the union's branches throughout NSW, will discuss almost 100 agenda items. Union leaders from other building unions were included among the guests at the opening of the confer ence. Association of unions Mr. Pat Clancy (NSW secretary BWIU) presented a comprehensive re port on behalf of the executive. (This will be reported next week in Trib une). One proposal made in the report was to consider forming an associa tion of building unions in NSW. Such a scheme could mean that ad ministrative officers of the various unions would assign the common ad ministrative tasks among themselves and that organisers would act on be half of the members of all the . unions. Mr. Clancy said if three unions form ed an association, instead of three or ganisers . visiting the one job three jobs could be visited at the one time. This would increase our organising effectiveness enormously, he said. If conference endorses this proposal, formal discussions will be held with other building unions. 