 CONSCRIPT'S FAREWELL: Why should they be torn apart J to suit the Government's war policy? This scene at Sydney's Central Station last Wednesdav followed a big demonstration against conscription for overseas service. (See page 3) 'The Demonstration | | |T was the second time this j year. | The drooping fluorescent chandeliers at Sydney's Central Station stared down on a crowd of several hundreds awaiting the j arrival of 600 20-year-old men who j had been conscripted into the j Australian army. ; Two separate anti-conscription ! groups had organised a demon- j stration of protest against the j conscription of young people, particularly for overseas service. I They were the Save Our Sons j movement (SOS) of women who > have sons eligible for conscrip- I tion, and the Youth Campaign j Against Conscription. : The latter, many in bright ! sweaters, armed with banners, j slogans and songs, were gathered j near platforms 4 and '5, where the ! two trains waited. The mothers | were quieter. j Scattered around the fringe ' were the forces of "law and I order": — Railway detectives, j Commonwealth police, "special j squad" detectives, uniformed ! police and Army provosts (xriili- tary police). And there were : Regular Army youths dressed in 1 civvies. In contrast were the grey suits and faces of the plain-clothed police as they stood nervously waiting for the conscriptees. Their small pork-pie hats, cold eyes, the occasional note book, the pointed finger, the murmured word from the corner of a mouth, all distinguished them from the crowd. There were parents, sisters, brothers, girl friends of. the con scriptees. Perhaps there were not so many tears, they were not so quiet as last time, but still .... sad. The State Government's cream and green buses jerked to a halt outside, young men clambered out to form into ranks. "They're coming!' Uniformed police and army provosts holding back the crowd braced themselves. The demon strators held their banners higher. An advance guard of strutting army provosts, chests out and grinning, led the soldiers-to-be up into the waiting crowd. The young men, mostly wear ing sports shirts and cardigans, carrying overnight bags, looked apprehensive as they approached the banners and the chanting . . . ! "One, two, three, four j "WJE DON'T WANT WAR j "Five, six, seven, eight, ! "STOP THE WAR, NEGO- 1 TIATE !" j Press cameras and TV flood- j lights flashed on the faces of the j young demonstrators ... I "Don't go mate," they urged.. g "Don't die for Menzies and 8 America." 8 Some conscriptees looked and smiled— some retorted— some just S marched ahead, eyes straight. | _ A hand began to push leaflets j into the hands of the marchers s but "Special Squad" men moved J in and grabbed the hand. 8 Attempts were made to grab i some of the banners, so the | young people held them higher. j "Conscription the Death g Lottery" S "No Diggers for Dollars" I "No Vote, No Voice, No Choice" j "No Conscription for Overseas | Service." 1 "Special Squad" police hauled 8 several young men from the g crowd and cautioned them. ! The conscriptees, temporarily 8 tagged with red and yellow card- j board "dog tags" were funnelled j by wooden barriers through the I gates onto the platform. j Tension grew as parents, j friends and relatives pushed to ! get through the barred gates. f A small, thick-set lad cupped I his hands over his mouth and 2 bawled: "Don't go to Vietnam ! " ! The gates were opened, the I crowd surged through. Mothers f and fathers, friends and other j relatives found the familiar face, | but then there wasn't much they $ could say. Only their faces be- trayed what they felt. | As youthful demonstrators I came through the civilian and military police seized their | banner. I Outside, under the big clock, j the women remained quiet while 1 they held their banners. Some I were bruised where they had been roughly jostled. g j "All military personnel board I their train, please !" j Train 4001 slowly began to pull 1 away. | Rolls of coloured streamers I and toilet paper were flung into f the crowd by conscriptees, and on | the platform the young demon- J strators bowed their heads in I silence.— B.H. I 