 I The % d)t flawd (ill pill STAN MORAN, for many years a Communist Party orator and public figure, and former treas urer of the Sydney Branch of the Waterside Workers7 Federation, has now retired from active work because of ill health. Last Friday he was j honored at a special public function in Sydney. J Tribune staff reporter DENIS KEVANS this week I concludes some of Stan7s recollections of the ! struggles of the unemployed and the demonstra- tions against fascism in the 1 9307s. - j "QN ANTI - WAR DAY, August 1 , 1931 , the Communist Party Central Committee made a call to the workers to answer the attack by Japan on Manchuria by demonstrating to the Japan ese Consul in Phillip Street. I had joined the Party after being reprimanded by the Labor Party leaders for lead ing the unemployed. We carried banners inscribed 'Hands off Manchuria', 'Down with Japanese Imperialism', - 'Collective Security against War and Fascism'. Many of the 7000 demonstrators, mostly unemployed, converged on Phillip Street right outside the Con sul's office. The meeting had been under way about five minutes, when down the street came the police sitting in a truck back to back with their batons drawn. They jumped off and sailed into the crowd. The workers fought back. One comrade Bruce was given three months and four others were fined and goaled. They were Tom Payne, Jimmy Lynch, Jack Barry (Bluey Sampson), and Bill Young. Speaking from the window ledge of a building we said: 'this attack by Japan on Manchuria is the first shot in the new world war.' Coming as it did eight years be fore the outbreak of the second world war in 1939, the lead given by the Party was the correct one. 'Collective security in the Pacific would have meant an alliance of China, Australia, New Zealand and Russia against Japan in the Pacific.' The battle with the police took place around the statue of the Rev erend Johnson, a pioneer Sydney clergyman. The baton marks of the policemen who missed their target can still be seen on the stone. The sermon on the statue read: What shall I render to . the Lord for all his benefits to me?' Psalm — CXVI-12. Any of the unemployed who had time to read it would have wonder ed, I suppose. Two of the communists gaoled in that demonstration were later killed fighting for the International Brig ade against fascism in Spain. They were Bluey Sampson and Bill Young. __ Others killed in Spain were: Ted Dickinson, Ralph Baynham, Bill Morcom, Harry Hynes, Cormac Mac- earthy, Jack Stevens, Aussie Stevens, Jack Newman, Kevin Rebecchi, Percival Butler, James Stewart and John Burgess. There were other Australians who gave their lives in Spain, but their names are unknown. When the "City of Barcelona" was torpedoed off Valencia, many volunt eers for the International Brigade were drowned including 18 Austra lians. ? |N 1936, when Hitler was elected Reich Chancellor, we marched to the German Consulate in Bridge Street, Dr. Asmis was the German Consul. The march was led by Tom Wright, now well-known trade union leader, and the Reverend Stuart Watts (edi tor of an Anglican paper) with the slogans, '"Fascism Means War" and "Down With Hitler". Outside the Consulate 2000 unem ployed workers gathered. A girl pass ing by said, 'What's Fascism?' Her companion replied, 'Must be a new kind of facecream.' 'Boycott Japanese goods' demon strations used to be held every Fri day night. We could speak inside big stores like Selfridges saying, 'Don't buy Japanese goods, you are financing the murderers of your own children.' Some people laughed, "but their sons were in New Guinea ten years later. For 18 months of the Sydney un employed workers' struggles in the early thirties, the police seemed to have prior knowledge of all our movements. To counter this we used the tactic of announcing a demonstration in one place and then sending runners around telling people to come to another place. We later discovered four police agents on the executive of the Un employed Workers' Movement. The executive included Jean Devan- ny, Professor Anderson, Jean Thomp son, Mr. Sylvester and the four .police agents. The agents were ex- ' pelled immediately. The police used to trail the leaders of the unemployed. One day I was arrested for 'litter ing the streets of Sydney' because I had thrown away a 2d tram ticket, which had on the back of it 'Destroy on Alighting'. The Council prosecutor admitted that there was ten tons of litter taken off the streets of Sydney every night and one tram ticket would be part of the ten tons. He admitted that no one had ever been prosecuted for the offence be- fore. I was fined 10/- (the maximum) and 3/- costs. When the Lang (New South Wales) Government denied the right of free speech, the Communist Party and local Labour Party had a united front in the fight to win it back. A lot of us would start speaking from a "stump" so we would all be arrested. Many of them could not speak at all. The policeman wating to arrest them would say: 'Say something, come on, say something!' 'Comrades and friends.' 'That's not enough, that's not en ough!' 'This meeting has been organized by the Unemployed Workers' Com mittee of Rozelle — ' 'Ah, that'll do' said the policeman and took him along. We held another demonstration in Martin Place because the Govern ment Savings Bank could not pay its subscribers. A brick was heaved through the Bank window. We then marched to Belmore Park and I spoke from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. with only a cup of tea break. Well-dressed people, with thick- soles on their shoes, listened at tentively—their money was in the bank, and so was the money of the police, so they didn't interfere. Later on there was a big rally for Premier Jack Lang in Moore Park. An estimated 750,000 people were there. We were a bit sectarian, in fact very sectarian, and organized a counter demonstration of our own. Most people of that time were wear ing a "Lang is Right" badge. In fact, Lang made a moratorium on loans, gave old age pensions, and child endowment— all of which had been policy points of the Commun ist Party. ? 0VER the years I had 50 summonses served against me for taking up collections for the Communist Party in the Domain, but I have never ' been charged with subversion or treasonable remarks; I was brought to court only twice . for things I said in the Do main. One Sunday I was summonsed for breaking by-law 17A concerning the Sydney Domain: 'No person, shall without written permission of the Ministry of Agriculture collect mon ey or take part in a performance or entertainment.' We argued, of course, that a Com- munist Party meeting was not a performance or an entertainment but a legal political meeting. But when I got into the court, lo and behold, they charge me under the wrong by-law — by-law ' 17 of the Parks Act— 'No person shall disrobe, swim, fish or dive in any of the pools etc.' I pointed this out to the judge (I was elated I had taken a point over the police). Said the judge: 'Case dismissed, but re-arrest him and charge him under 17 A'. Another time I was charged under the Crimes Act for obstructing the police in the execution of their duty. This would have brought a 5/- fine in the lower court, but under the Crimes Act, I had to go before a judge and jury. The judge was Justice Clancy, an old friend of mine who had repres ented the miners during the 1929 lockout. I had spoken for him at Ashfield three years earlier when he was campaigning as a Labor Party candidate. After I spoke on that occasion he came to me and said: 'Anything I can do for you at anytime just let . me know.' When I was in Court, the jury of businessmen found me guilty, and the Judge asked if I had anything to say before sentence was passed. I said: 'Three years ago you said that if ever there was anything you could do for me, to ask you. 'Well, you can help me now by being as lenient as possible.' He gave me two months and put me under police observation for two years." MMMM BACKGROUND, 