 Braid Government to face electors February 2® is vital! iwqiMWWiJiMi 111 nn IIIL.H— r". . . \y EST AUSTRALIA'S most important election for many years will take place on February 20. The Brand Liberal Govern ment faces the electors after three years during which some of the most outrageous hand outs of mineral resources to monopoly occurred. Charges 'on many important services to the public were increased. The period also saw the general stoppage of workers against the. Government's repressive arbitration legislation. — The election has special significance as the first in which voting will take place of the Legislative Council on a full franchise, simultaneously as the poll for the lower House. Fifty members of the Legislative Assembly will face the electors, in which the Government holds the slender margin of 26 seats to Labor's 24. ' Half the 30 members oi the Legis lative Council are up for election in 15 Provinces based on new boun daries. The State Committee of the Com munist Party last week-end decided to wage an all-out campaign' for the defeat of the Liberal Government. . Major points in Communist policy will be for the repeal. of the arbitra- tion changes; price control; an end to the low wage State policy of the present Government; full citizenship for all aborigines and the develop ment of the extremely rich mineral resources under State Government, and not foreign control. Two Communist candidates will contest the election. Mrs. Annette Aarons, a member of the W.A. State Executive, CPA will stand in .the Metropolitan pro vince of the Legislative Council against a sitting Labor Member. The province covers the Legislative electorates of Cottesloe, Perth, Clare- mont, Nedlands, and Subiaco. Railway worker Gordon Murray wil contest the Assembly seat of Swan where he received 8.2 per cent of the formal votes in 1962. This Labor seat, which covers the big Midland, railway workshops, has been contested by the Communist Party in every election since World War II. Members of the State Committee, CPA, pledged to raise £135 in the five weeks to polling day and called on all Party members and support ers to emulate this effort. The success of the finance drive will determine whether television time can be bought during this elec tion campaign. 