 WAR BY EXTERMINATION Wilfred Burchett, well-known Australian corre spondent and expert on SE Asian affairs, reveals whv the USA took over the Vietnam war. The South Vietnamese pup- pet army has ceased to count i L — Tifninn in ine Vietnam TY«1, has been taken over by the Americans since the begin ning of this year. The Americans have been waging a war of indiscrimi nate mass extermination against the Vietnamese popu lation — as for example by B-52 bombers on the densely populated Mekong Delta. These are the main points in an article by Wilfred . Burchett, written in Cam bodia after his latest visit to South Vietnam, which we reproduce in part below. gY the massive commit ment of US combat troops in South Vietnam, the war there has changed in character. Instead of being primarily fought with South Vietnamese ground troops with American "advisers" under a joint U.S .-Saigon command, it has literally become an ail-American war, fought primarily with U.S. ground troops aided by South Vietnamese "advisers" and solely under an ail- American command. What is left of the Saigon puppet army, virtually ceases to count and the war becomes more and more specifically a war of aggression waged by the U.S.A. against the en tire Vietnamese people — north and south of the 17th Parallel. As far as the South is concerned, the almost daily raids by the giant eight-qngined B-52 bombers are a good example. At first they were used to drop their huge loads of bombs on an alleged "Vietcong stronghold" about 30 kilo metres from Saigon, flying 3,600 kilo metres from their bases in Guam to do so. Patrols, sent in to. check up on the results, repeatedly reported back that they found only cratered rice-fields, and mangled patches of jungle and rubber plantations hut no "Vietcong" dead. The bomber fleets started pattern- b "ibing in the Mekong delta, where there is about the world's highest density of population. Air war This represents indiscriminate mass murder of peasants and fishermen. Flying at the height and speed they do, it is absolutely impossible for navigators and bomb-aimers to dis tinguish even between Saigon-control led regions and those that are liber ated. In the official communiques, of course, the target is always a "Viet cong stronghold." Apart from the few actions under- taken by American units-with their Australian, New Zealand and South Korean allies — the war, as far as Sai gon is concerned, is being waged ex clusively from the air. The response to any partisan at tack is the immediate dispatch of scores of aircraft to pound the whole area of action with bombs and rockets, the Saigon command then claiming a paper victory of so many "hundreds of Vietcong killed." The absurdity of these claims, step- ped-up since the commitment of U.S. ground troops, prompted the "New York Times" correspondent in Saigon, Charles Mohr, to warn in the Septem ber 30 issue that "statistics on Viet cong losses have long been a matter of controversy in this war, as they would indicate that the Vietcong forces have been destroyed many times oyer, but the total number of Vietcong also continues to go up by official estimate." "Safe" areas In the same article, Mohr put the total number of Americans killed in South Vietnam at 680 and wounded at 3,696. Generals Maxwen Taylor and West moreland seem to have drawn- some correct conclusions from the battle of Binh Gia, fought at the turn of the year in what had been regarded as one of the "safest" areas for the U.S.- Saigon command, to the east of Sai gon. Conclusion (I): The Liberation Army had grown up to the point where it could engage and wipe out crack bat talions of the strategic reserve in classic day-time battle with elements of war of movement and positional warfare. Intervention by U.S. air power could not alter the tide of the hat hi Ft. Conclusion (2): The U.S.-Saigon command could no longer count on the support of any sections of the population. The Binh Gia area was settled by Catholic refugees from North Viet nam: it was considered the most "pro-Saigon" of any place in South Vietnam. Yet the local population had com pletely collaborated with the "Viet cong," carried food and supplies to them during the battle; carried off and hidden the wounded after. They turned out to help prepare the am bushes and battle positions, but not a single one informed any/ of the Sai gon military posts that were .thick in the area. Conclusion (3): Considering the com plete political chaos in Saigon, an other few defeats similar to Binh Gia would bring about complete collapse in Saigon and a real possibility of a pro-neutralist coup aimed at negotiat ing peace with the "Vietcong." NLF successes The two generals' master conclusion was that the war must be "escalated" north of the 17th Parallel. And so an absolutely new and shameful element was introduced to international af fairs: aggression by terror bombing raid. What were the concrete results of these attacks as . far as the war in the South was concerned? The process started at Binh Gia was stepped up in scope and. tempo,, If, during the whole of 1964, the Liberation forces were able to w'pe out eight battalions, during the first six months of 1965 they wiped out 20 battalions, including nine of the 11 elite battalions that constituted the entire strategic reserve at the end of 1964. By mid-1965, in fact, the Saigon army had been cut to pieces and by forces native to the soil and very localities in which they were fight ing. The Liberation Army made a spe cial point of drawing these elite bat talions into combat, by attacking key posts which they knew the U.S.-Saigon command would make desperate ef forts to defend by committing the strategic reserve troops. Thus at Ba Gia (Quang Ngai Prov ince) on May 31, 1965, two elite bat talions, the 39th Rangers and 3rd Marines, were sent in to try and save the 1st and 2nd Battalions of Saigon's 51st Regiment. All four were wiped out and their weapons seized. In the Dong Xoai battle, north of the Bien Hoa air base and at the junction of strategic highways Nos. 1 and 14, on June 9-12, the Americans refused to commit another elite bat talion after the 7th Parachutists , had been cut to pieces in a vain attempt to reinforce the doomed Dong Xoai garrison. By that time, the "strategic reserves" had virtually ceased to exist, the Liberation Forces having also concentrated their attention on wip ing out the "Special Forces" training camps where American "counter- insurgency experts" trained the "elite" battalions. Within six months of the bombings having started, another million or so population had been added to the Liberated Zones, and Saigon had 4 A/Mniwnl UMMAIM A AAA AAA UUULU7J. xta uuiinui utiiczy tt,UUU,UUU U1 South Vietnam's 15,000,000 population. Escalation The succession of "Binh Gia's" that followed the bombing attacks shatter ed General Maxwell Taylor's concept of "special war" and he "resigned" his post as "super-ambassador" to Saigon. The idea that "native" troops could win Washington's wars was fin ished. This was a good chance for America to pull out. But, as was predictable, the deci sion was to replace the Saigon army by the U.S. army and with a haste that bordered on panic, the numbers to be committed skyrocketing up wards after each confab of the Pen tagon specialists. A decision which meant, in fact, escalation from "special" to "limited" war. There are several differences be tween "limited" and "special" war, as conceived by General Maxwell Taylor, the main one being that the former has to be fought principally with U.S. troops. But another im portant difference is that "special war" is waged ostensibly by a com pliant government which "invites" intervention and theoretically runs the war through its own War Min istry and General Staff. But one can not conceive the Americans placing their divisions under the control of a South Vietnamese Supreme Com mander or General Staff or War Ministry. "Limited war", in fact, is conceived as being waged without reckoning with the War Ministry and General Staff of ' the : country con cerned. 