 Askin's deaf ear on prices SYDNEY : As a new wave of price increases hits the public, the NSW Lib eral Government is turning a deaf ear to the protests and demands of the Labor movement. | AST week the Askin Gov- i ernment by only one vote- defeated an urgent motion in the Legislative Assembly call ing on the prices commission er to investigate spiralling food prices. The same night the NSW Labor Council Secretary, Mr. J. Kenny said that the government had re fused to receive a deputation de manding the reintroduction of price control because they were too busy on important matters. Mr. J Renshaw, Leader of the Opposition, when moving the mofc- | ion said that the wholesale prices of I some essential food, prices would I rise as much as 30%. 1 Mi. Renshaw told State Earlia- J| ment that the grocery trade had been circulated with a new list of wholesale prices which would be in operation this week. Most cereals, soaps, r.oap powders, cleaning materials, flour, cake-mix es, jams and dripping would cost more. Some increases include: Weetbix (small and large) an increase of lid. and 9d. respectively; Fairy margarine 15 per cent; dripping 30 per cent; melon and lemon jam 10 per cent; Uncle Toby's oats 5 per cent. Mr. Renshaw strongly attacked Premier Askin and Minister for Labor Mr. E. A. Willis for giving manufacturers the green light for these increases by their statements that they would take no steps to control prices. The motion was urgent because of the impact of prices of the recent Federal budget. He had met workmen recently who had told him that their food bills in the last three or four months had gone up by £3 a week. He pointed out that monopoly was growing in the food line, and that if the previous Labor Government hadn't acted the only independent flour miller operating in N.S.W. would have been ousted. H'is overdraft had been called in by a bank wiio was behind tne big flour millers. In fact the boards of the bank and that of the big flour millers were al most interchangeable. The / continued rush of price in creases, despite the wage-freeze de cision of the Court in the basic wage case, is revealing that wage rises are NOT the cause of price increases. 