 [?] |"HE PMG Department if nothing else is consistent ' L when it comes to delayed action . . . particularly so with regard to postal workers wage claims. Last week the Department sent out "bungs" ,to workers at the Mail Ex change Branch who knocked off a bit early on Christmas eve, an accepted practice over the years. These workers are now told, two and a half month later, that the period of absence will be deducted from their pay. ? QUERENT debate is who's to be the new Governor General? Whoever it is, one thing is certain . . . it's not a bad cop. According to the ABC Four Corners show last week, the GG is on about £10,000 a year salary plus another £10,000 for telephone expenses. All told the cost to Australia tax payers is about a quarter of a million quid a year . . . upkeep of residence etc. etc. How would you like to try and spend £10,000 on phone calls? J7RANK EYRES, my boilermaker mate from Mt. Isa who has been j in Sydney collecting finance, said he j Is going back this week because of ! his concern for the wife and kids. I He is as proud as punch of his family. Mrs. Eyres and the four children have on several occasions joined the picket lines. "Now the police," said Frank, "are trying to intimidate my wife." Only last week Frank's wife and another woman drove a miner's wife (Mrs. Ramsay) to a local doctor for medical attention. Mrs. Ramsay was man handled by police and suffered a dislocated neck! COMMONWEALTH En&ineerins in 7X'r Sydney obtained a "six-months ban" order against boilermakers - who had stopped for a week in sup port of a £2 wage. increase. The court brought down the order a day after the workers returned to work. It doesn't seem to matter whether workers return or not, to be penalised under the Arbitration Act! ? WAL BUCKLEY (A.E.U. organ- iser) points out that we messed up his story of the tool maker at the British Motor Corporation's plant at Zetland in Sydney, who clocked on one minute late and was docked 2/6. By a printer's error, Tribune left out the 2/6. Earlier Wal said, this broke a re cord for meanness by the million aire company . . . and it made vhe worker the highest paid tool- maker in Australia. Had the worker been paid at the same rate, a 40 hour week would be worth £300. Printed and published by D. to Young, 168 Day Street, Sydney at 21 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. 