 [?] YDNEY : State Premier Mr- Renshaw has told a deputation from the NSW Labor Council and the Aus- tralian Railways Union that the wage claims of Government trans port workers would be referred to the Commissioners for Railways and Road Trans port. Government transport work ers are demanding wage in creases in the form of an in cremental scheme for service. It was proposed to the PremieT that this scheme be based on a payment of 16./6 per week after one year's service. 33/- after two years' service and 49 '6 fter three years, and the payments be based only on service and not skill or classifica tion. A conference of delegates and union officials, called by the ARU (NSW Branch) ar I representing about 30,000 NSW railway workers, early in December endorsed a pro posal for a 24-liour State-wide stop page failing early satisfaction on these demands. Victorian win Following a 14 months' struggle Victorian railway workers last Oc tober forced the Bolte Liberal Gov ernment of that State to grant wage increases. | This brought these workers from % the lowest to the now highest paid railway workers in Australia. Railworkers in NSW say that Mr — plintir'e OAicinn fn vofnl' fho jroGAioiija w o ULVIUIUAI VW ui«- matter to the Commissioners has caused him to lose the initiative and the Labor Government of this State will suffer by comparison with an anti-worker Government in Victoria. Arbitration Mr. Renshaw was reported as stating that he did not intend to follow the views of Mr. Bolte and also indicated that the matter may be referred to Arbitration. In 1964 the NSW railways earned £101,243,665 and showed an operat ing profit for the second year in succession. The current year showed . a credit balance of £250,000 aftei allowing £13/. million for interest and capital debt charges. Working expenses, which in the main are wages and salaries, de creased by £266,409 so that the .-rcdit balance was made at the expense ci railway workers and general speed up in work. Railworkers point out that durint. this period staff has declined by 1,420 and that freight concessions have been given to private industry, including the huge road transport monopoly of about £l million Deterioration Despite the increase in business, the staff position contniues to de teriorate and the increasing staff shortages must soon limit the ex pansion of railway business. This failure to hold staff, coupled with the deliberate policy of staff cur tailment, has meant increasing hard ship for many railworkers. The main cause of this condition is the low wages, which have to be aug mented by excessive overtime, the lack of amenities and disgraceful working conditions. Workers say the granting of a substantial Increase in wages is one way to assist in overcoming this staff shortage. Dr. L. Ross, NSW secretary ARU. 