 NEW A-SUB MENACE 10 ASIANS AUSTRALIAN-CONTROLLED ' 1 Cocos Island has been "1 marked down for use in Anglo- 81 American plans for a chain of li nuclear submarine communica- Pi tions centres from which to SI threaten Asia. >m According to the London Times plans for. this chain of centres are (l$i now "far advanced." -.-k The Times says that nuclear sub marines in the Indian Ocean, armed li with Polaris missiles with a range of 81 2,500 miles or more, "could cov»r as a form of devastating long-ran? e 11 artillery, the approaches to India or to Vietnam and Malaysia, or in. i'il deed to the CENTO area north of 1 the Persian Gulf." I'M The British-controlled coral island ; "if of Diego Garcia has been discussed, ill The Times also says that an Anglo- i ?1 American survey -teaim has also visit- Iffi ed Australian. controlled Cocos Is- j'ifl lands. fM The Times does not discuss the jlfl US communications centre at Ex- '111 mouth Gulf' in NW Australia, but !|f presumably this is also meant to be l|| part of the chain. Manus Island f>|| (from which an Australian Labor ''m Government barred the Americans) has also been mentioned. lis ! vtft'lj The Soviet journal Izvestia also notes that recently a number of In. " r3 dian Ocean islands have become the -k scene of hectic activity by the Anglo- f;| Ajmerican strategists. ' "They visited the Cocos Islands' '' Diego Garcia Island, the Seychelles and Aldabara They were the van. 1: guard troops of the neo.colonialistS." : "In Washington and London they : | have for long been planning a 'bridge' between the American base at Aswara in Eritrea and the Phillipines. This ;'|S idea was furthered, as noted in the 'M Western press, during Wilson's just plij completed visit to the USA . jW Rebuff by France j "The Pentagon received with un- mm concealed delight the decision of the j||| Labor Government on "allied co-op. li peration- east' of Suez'." In "The aggressive nature of these jm plans is crystal clear. All this 'insul- ® ar strategy' is /inked with plans to ;|| escalate the war in Vietnam." The article says the US has also #| turned an eye on French island pos- sessions, particularly Tahiti, but "this excessive curiosity backfired unex. ,|| pectedly for the Americans." "The ' French Government demafrjgj ded the closing of the US consulate || in the Tahiti capital, Papeete, which &lt; jJ had only just opened. x-U "Apparently France doesn't want to be involved in US activity in this J part of the Globe." — i — TSjfi 