 Orange squeeze' and | marketing scandal ' Four hundred tons of South Australian oranges, condemned to be dumped in the interests of marketing agents" profit, have been saved oniy because of the Playford State Government's fear of a pre-election scandal. T"HE incident highlights the way farmers and consumers are being exploited in many parts of Australia by market ing monopolies. . Marketing agents for the -Murray Valley had imposed on growers an agreement preventing the sale of sur plus oranges to the public; those who broke the agreement would lose their export quota, according to the "Sun- Herald." Because the marketing agents refus ed to make room for the surplus stock the Loxton Soldier Settlers were go- incf to pick and plough them under. Because dumping of food would have teen political dynamite the State Government took steps to sell the surplus oranges to a Sydney chain store. The marketing group, which had long functioned with the full approval of the Playford Government, then re fused to handle the fruit, forcing the government to give growers permis sion to sell their fruit direct. Small men Since around 1900, Australian capital cities have been supplied with fresh food from nearby dairies, , fruit and vegetable, poultry and pig breeding farms. But over the last 10 years, tremend ous urban development and ruthless exploitation by monopoly "concerns have driven thousands of small pro ducers off the land. 1 The cost of producing food has multiplied and the return to the farmer has decreased. N.S.W. fruit and vegetable growers, after paying monopoly-controlled prices for fertilizers, machinery, chemicals and plant, and struggling to harvest their crops, have the prob lem of marketing them. They either consign to Sydney fruit and vegetable agents, or travel to sell their own produce. Farmers a long way from the Syd ney markets often find themselves rt the complete mercy of such power ful concerns as the Edgells-Gerber and IXL cannery groups. Big retail chain stores such as Wool- worths, following the American ex ample, buy direct from the farmer and sell at their own price! Over the last 20 years demands from the .farmers organizations for the re location of Sydney's chaotic fruit and vegetable markets has led to the set ting up oi Judicial Committees of En quiry. The result was a recommenda tion for the shifting of the markets to the much bigger and more central area ol Flemington. Till now the N.S.W State Govern ment has not acted on the recom mendations and is now suggesting the cost would be too prohibitive. Agents Tor years the fruit and vegetable growers have been critical of the sys- f consigning their produce to eS n, ?uing t0 dePend on the hon- price agents to receive a just years the agents have sold the sinn Produce a 7A% commis- > out are now demanding 10%. a«p£ rraers ar.e resistinS and. the sunnk- nave retaliated by refusing to ers hn 1 normal services that grow- had for years. from6 growers are seeking support ti0n tor „Sllmf,rs and demanding ac- ter i better deal, includine bet- antee? 8thlg methods and "guar- neries" mmum Prices from the can- Jh&lt;/ havre sel "P. co-operatives to prorinnf111'1? needs and "sell their have hf ' ut .fre&lt;3uently cooperatives So, !„!"pushed to the wal1 by mono Ume, and mercbants, and some tives Ver by their represents I t 9 Mr. D. Syme, of Moorebank, mem ber of the Sydney Committee of the Communist Party of Australia, said this week that discussion with many farmers has yielded the following pro posals for reorganisation of the NSW marketing system:— a) Construct a new Sydney Fruit and Vegetable Market at Fleming- ton on the site already approved by many marketing experts. b > Build ample modern cold stores, canneries, snap freezing and quick ripening rooms and other . efficient marketing needs where necessary. c) Provide stalls in markets for growers co-operatives and indivi dual growers who may wish to market their own products in dependently. d) Provide branch markets in Syd ney suburbs and provincial cities and towns as needed, branches to be in direct contact with each other to ensure even and balanc ed distribution of produce. e) Ensure that all business transac tions are properly recorded, trip licate docket system introduced and annual balance sheets pub lished. It is also proposed that State Gov ernment legislate to establish a fruit and vegetable marketing committee, with power to set up a State-wide marketing apparatus ensuring the dis tribution of fruit and vegetables on a non-profit basis. This committee should comprise elected representatives of farmers, consumers (from trade unions), and State and local government. Mr. Syme said farmers and trade unions should campaign for the nat ionalisation of the monopolies, partic ularly those which dominate banking, shipping, transport, iron and steel, machinery, chemical, food processing and marketing. The National Farmers Union rep resenting Australian primary pro ducers, is seeking Federal Govern ment action to implement the Res trictive Trade Practices legislation in troduced by Sir Garfield Barwick several years ago. 