 | Congress for Human Relations j "Automation Creates I Jobs" — not even the bosses believe it! MELBOURNE: in a paper read at the recent Employers' Federa tion International Congress for Human Relations, the late John Snyder Jnr., an American automation machine manufacturer, con tradicted the employers' slogan, "Automation Creates Jobs". Mr. Snyder said: "I simply don't believe this slogan is true." He died three days before the Congress. MR. SNYDER'S paper wasn't the only contribution at the Congress to knock the well- known fallacy on the head. Professor Galbraith from Har vard (U.S.A.) reminded the Congress that automation means more capital invested in machines that do not strike for higher wages. It also means a growth in the proportion of white collar workers who are less liable to join unions and thus liable to strike for higher wages. He demonstrated that the unem ployment created, in the United States by automation struck particu larly at those whose education and skills were deficient. Profit share Professor Lubeck from West Ger many, in answering a question on wage demands by West German unions in response to the expansion of automation, said: . .. . the em ployer tries to get as high a profit as he can from his customers, so surely you must expect the worker to try also to get his share of. the profits from the employer if he can. The congress was addressed by a number of international authorities, and by Australian representatives who included the Federal Minister for Labor (Mr. McMahon), the Vice- President of the Australian Council of Trade Unions (Mr. W. Evans), and Professor R. Downing. Inevitably, the information gath ered from the experience already gained in applying automated pro cesses in the United States and Western Europe provided the sub stance of the. discussions. In contrast with the acute shortage of skilled, well-tramed physics teachers in "the " U.S.A., Great Britain and Australia, Mr. Norman Fisher, a British educationist, direc ted attention to how the socialist Soviet Union is meetirig this prob lem. A contrast The U.S.S.R. education authorities produce a packaged physics course. Text books are written by acade mics, lessons prepared by teachers and subject specialists/ and a full battery of supporting aids (films, film strips, diagrams and apparatus) are standardised and provided for use in the schoolroom. The British educationalist said he met many indifferent and mediocre Soviet secondary schools teachers, but he never heard a bad physics lesson. Standing out in contrast to. this was the story of hundreds of thous ands of Negroes from the Southern States in the U.S.A., with a sub- I standard education of as low as four s or five years indifferent schooling, | thrown out of work by mechanical \ cotton-picking machines, migrating to the Northern States and incapable of being trained for work , in the new mechanised, semi - automated and automated factories of today. Children of today have no hope in the future automated age unless popular demand forces our govern ments, both State and Federal, not i only to guarantee extended educa tion for every child, but high quality education that will ensure that they are PROPERLY TRAINED to take their place in an advanced techno logical age. Planned society None of the speakers referred to the fact that a planned socialist | society can digest automation without dislocation and human, misery, while | a profit-motivated society cannot. | But that is why we were all gathered together at this congress, f and in many ways the existence of I the socialist world was the "hidden persuader" forcing capitalist spokes men to consider problems of human welfare that they can no longer afford to ignore. Only three white collar organisa tions and two trade unions attended the congress. This clearly showed the great weakness in the Australian trade union movement in failing, in a period of full employment, to | prepare as the Employers' Federa- | tion is doing, for the Automation Age of tomorrow, and the mecha nisation problems of today. 