 North Borneo states Dragged into Malaysia without the option "|"HEE,E was strong op position to the Tun- ku's announcement that we should loin Malaysia The neon"ie w'e not con- said Mr Donald Sfov>hens on A ng'USt 8 ipn-t Now Chief Minister of S?k"h and Fo'd'no a hio iob rn the MH'Sia st uo. Mr $tpnlnrp&lt;; i c; poxy Strong SUp porter of it. Put wht said remains true. The people ot Sahah. and Sarawak (north Borneo) were not consulted ah— being included in the British cnnfi-nUed federation ot Malavsia Thv were iust. told they would be iP"'nap(i have not been con eir\op phnut staying in last week's announcement tn the Menzies Government that more troons are to be sent to Borneo to . fiM. for "Malavsia" is another m dioation that there is no intentv to consult them now. Phev are to be kept in subject! "> bv British. Gurkha, Australian p - 1 New Zealand bayonets under 'So pr>. n»o of "defending" them However thee oeorPe?. inhabiting the northern part oi Borneo (the so- 'rn nart in Indonesia) are nt likely to ston their centurv-olri struggle for the right not only to be consulted about their future, but tr determine it themselves Mr Ronald McKie writes in rus pro Malaysia book. Malavsia in Focus: "It is said that the British first whispered the idea of Malaysia to the Tunku as a solution to their own economic, territorial and dp fence problems" Donald Stephens, in, the speech ai ready quoted, .showed the Bornese bad no doubt where this bellowed "whisper' came trom. He said, a: quoted by McKie: "There was a real fear thai Britain, with so many problems tc solve at home, would find it verj convenient to dump us in the Malay an lap ... "It would indeed be convenient for the British. They keep then base in Singapore . . . and every body would be happy except us poor cousins, the wild men frcrr Borneo . . . We would have beer made - just so many pawns in the game of power politics". Voted, then revolted In protest against being "pawns" the people of Brunei (the third, with Sarawak and Sabah, of the British north Borneo territories) soon after wards voted candidates of the anti Malavsia People's Party into ail the positions open to election in the Brunei Legislative Council. When their views were ignored the people rose in 1962 in a revolt which spread to neighboring Sar awak and is still not ended. Though suppressed, the Brunei people were able to keep their state out of Malavsia. Democratic people all over the world demanded the right, for Sabah and Sarawak, in particular to make the same deci sion if they wished. Rahman and the British fixed tc nroclamation of Malaysia for Sep tember 1. 1963. But. the Manila conference, attend ed by Malaya, Indonesia and the Philippines, issued, on August 5. 1963. the Manila Declaration, signed by all the three powers, which said" "The United Nations Secretary Gen eral should ascertain, prior to the establishment of the Federation o 1 Malaysia, the wishes of the peopk of Sarawak and Sabah" To give time for the UN missu.i to do its work, the Malayan Govern ment agreed to the postponement r- the Malaysia proclamation date. However this mission had scarcely begun its job when on August 29, Rahman announced that Malaysia would be proclaimed on September t 16', thereby tearing up the Manila ) agreement. ' As the Sydney Morning Herald ad mitted in an editorial on August 31: "Malaya has announced that Malay- sia will be formed on September 16 apparently regardless of the UN decision". ( Whatever they wanted, the Borneo ( peoples were to be dragged into the , Malaysian cage, and there was no doubt who prompted the dishonor ing oi a solemnly concluded inter national agreement. From " the moment of its signing, the Manila agreement was subjected i by the Tory press both in Britain and Australia to a tornado of abuse as "appeasement" "another Munich" a "sellout" The Manila Times said on Septem ber 5, 1963 that it was "the British whose proddings apparently forced Abdul Rahman to make his state ment virtually repudiating the Manila summit agreement". '. And the Sydney Morning Herald had already said, on August 30. "The author of the new tough line to wards Indonesia and the rapid drive towards the foundation of Malaysia is believed to be the British Com monwealth and Colonial secretary, Mr. Duncan Sandys who arrived in Kuala Lumpur last Saturday (Aug ust 24)" Sandys is also believed to have caused the rupture of another agree ment. reached in Manila— that the UN team should be accompanied by Indonesian and Filipino observers The British authorities in Sarawak blocked their arrival until Septem ber 1. The Sydney Morning Herald said: "Officials of the two teams will now decide whether it is toe late to carry out their task The UN mission is reported to hav almost finished its work." The big anti-Malaysia demonsira tions which greeted the UN team in Sarawak help to explain why the British imperialists were anxious nut to wait for its report before getting Malaysia and its repressive force? into action. Despite tear gas and baton charges anti-Malaysia demonstrations of up 5000 people were admitted by the western press to have taken place in Sibu, Miri Bau and other small towns. U Thant's report, while claiming that the majority favored Malaysia, regretted that the mission had to work "within certain deadlines" Though conducted under condi tions of British imperialist armed occupation, the UN mission's en quiry could not conceal the depth of anti-Malaysian feeling which was further demonstrated when a last minute "hitch" arose over the ap pointment of the new Governor ol Sarawak. Against Sarawak's opposi tion a Malayan got the job. There is no sign of this opposition caving abated. The Sarawak United People's Par ty, the largest in Sarawak was anti- Malaysia before it was "purged", as described in Mr. McKie's book The iium81 Cobbold Commission, in 1961 could only claim that one-third of Sarawak people favored Ma' sia unconditionally, and this was long before any Indonesian "threat" Last week Rahman announced spe cial measures against what he called a. "clandestine Communist organisa tion" which he claimed was centred in Kanowit, a town well in tne interior, far from any frontier in cursions. An increasing struggle against the imperialist occupiers — British, Gur kha and Australian — has been re ported and it is this no doubt which has led to urgent calls for more Australian troops. Whatever Sarawak and Sabah ev entually decide about Malaysia they want it to be their own decision and not one dictated to them from London, Canberra or any other out side capital. 