 [?] "THE Soviet classical pianist Paul Serebryakov, one of the artists incited to Austra lia h\/ tho ARP1 fnr the 1965 series of celebrity concerts, has a liking for modern Ame- rican music. "There is much that's good in modern American music. "I do not prefer the type of jazz that knocks in the top of your head. This type of music blunts the mind "I've heard villagers in Brazil playing the jazz idiom with many interesting tunes and melodies, "Benny Goodman's fine orchestra had a successful tour of Russia. "Tastes differ widely on music — some like it sweet, some sour." Serebryakov, who is a professor of music at the Leningrad Conser vatory, was born in Tsaritsyn (later Stalingrad, and Volgograd) 56 years ago. Taught music by . his lather, then orphaned, he played in silent cinemas and restaurants to support his family. "It certainly, wasn't classical," was how he described .the n sic he played- then. ' Visiting Leningrad artists heard him play when he replaced their accompanist. They suggested he go to Leningrad. He did, and was admitted to Conservatorium in 1924. Graduating in 1929, he was made director of the Conservatorium in 1939. His teacher was Professor K. Nico- laev who, with Rachmaninoff and Levin, had been a pupil of Safonov. His class mates included Dimitri Shostakovich and Sofronitsky. "I helped to Introduce the first compositions of Shostakovich, Yev- ' geni Brusilovski and Ivan Dzer- zhinsky to .the audiences of the time," Paul Serebryankov told Tribune. Critics seem a little surprised at the spirit you retain in your piano. What is this "inspired daring" they talked about? . "1 don't know. I have always loved the spirit of Russian music from Prokofiev and Tchaikovsky. It's good music for singing with a wide breadth of range. It's the humanity in it that lifts it up. Why not retain it? "No doubt' I still feel a _ spirit of questing and daring. I've never been satisfied with what I could do because there is no limit to perfection in art. "We do try to foster this tradition.' I have a pupil named Lazko who is only fourteen, who has won a Bach International.. He has given two- hour monographs of Bach, Bee thoven and others in the Leningrad Philarmonic. "He will be one who carries on that tradition because he is a good student and pays a lot of attention to his normal school subjects like maths and physics. "This . year my pupils performed Benjamin Britten's 'War Requiem based on extracts from scripture and poems of' Wilfred Owen. Ben jamin Britten was present ano expressed pleasure at the studen s performance "I have travelled to many coun tries. In Canada I heard Ge Gould, who is outstanding. I on the panel that awarded Cliburn first prize at the int national Tchaikovsky contest. "Modern Russian composers in clude Rodion Shchedrin, of Msco\ , who wrote the music for Hump-Backed Horse,' and Tishchenko, who wrote the for the ballet based on poet Bl "The ' Twelve.' From Baku co Shostakovich's pupil Kara- K ar J and from Armenia BabadJ ' m These are some of our m composers. "I have several compositions hy | Australians and am looking thr them. "Because we have not sUce|nt i in establishing a Cultural Agrea .e with the Australian Governme _ do not have any Austrahan d0 j at our Conservatorium. f/,t j have cultural agreements wi j Britain, United States, Canada | France." | 