 The Challenge of Weimar Second of a series by DOROTHY HEWETT, who attended the Weimar Writers' Congress. THE only formal part of the Congress was the Manifes tation held on the last day in the German National Theatre in Weimar, from 11 am to 7 pm. It opened with addresses by two great novelists, Anna Seghers, the German wtiter, and the Russian, Konstantin Fedin. A representative writer from each country spoke, ahd we listened on our earphones to translations in six different languages. What do I remember? Anna Seg hers, long admired as a great poet in prose, with her high cheekboned, broad face, and big peasant hands and feet . . . "We feel sure that something lasting and real will emanate from this assembly of writ ers from many lands and all con tinents. All those who attend this meeting will take it home with them and tell others of it," she said. "The globe is covered by a net work of gradients indicating longi tude and latitude, indispensable for ships and planes. Indispensable for peace is a network of men of good will, of writers and readers. "Neruda at Cape Horn is maybe a mark on such a network, Arnason of Iceland another, or Fedin in Mos cow a third, or Aldridge in London yet another. These living marks and the people moved by their books form a net which must be unbreak able." And here was Neruda reading a poem as his contribution to the speeches, a poem translated rather oadly into English through my ear phones. I took them off and listened o that great voice rolling and re sounding like waves through the rneatre. I never knew what Neruda's P em meant, but I will never forget Aldridge was saying that he had hated many Germans could now love them. War and Fascism was a human problem and here in the G.D.R. he had seen "the restor ation of a people, a culture and a future." Here too was the Spanish writer Marcos Ana, who had spent long years in Franco's prisons. Here was Yuri Suhl remembering the Jewish dead of Buchenwald, Auschwitz and the Warsaw Ghetto, on this 20th An niversary of the defeat of Fascism. Here was Tibor Dery who led the Petoefi Circle of Hungarian writers through the streets of Budapest dur ing the counter revolution, crying "Speak the truth." Two years ago he was released from jail, today his books are published in Hungary and in East German translations. He was the elected spokesman of the Hun garian writers at the Congress. "I am against Fascism in whatever form it raises its head. I can only support a socialism based on free dom," he said. "A writer who does not write the truth is no writer. I wish you a peaceful mind and truth ful friends." There was silence for a moment Then the whole Congress gave trib ute to this grey headed, stooped, burning-eyed man. ? DUT for me there were other " things. I went to Buchenwald, a few miles out of Weimar, in the peaceful Ger man countryside. I went along the road built by concentration camj labour, in a taxi with two Finns one a great Finnish national poet who was imprisoned by the Nazis during the war, the other the young editor of an avant garde literary magazine. I will remember forever the wind blowing over the bare ground and thin green grass of that desolate place, our footsteps echoing in gas ovens and cell blocks. But more than the gas ovens, the awful efficiency of the slaughter house methods of dis posal of human bodies, the panor amic, life size photographs of human brutality and suffering. A heap of old broken shoes in a glass case; men's, women's children's shoes, all that is tangibly left of the victims of Buchenwald. I remember the young German poets of today, some of them with their Brechtian fringes on their fore heads, all with a serious sense of responsibility towards writing and socialism. I remember their satirical political jokes, their impatience with bureaucracy and old fashioned liter ary models and ideas," their warm idealism— Michael Henselmann of Berlin, handsome, blonde poet and TV scriptwriter, speaks English with a strong American accent, was a seaman on American luxury yachts sailing off the coast of Bermuda, came back to the G.D.R. Why? Be cause he believes in socialism . . . gifted Heinz K&Uau of Berlin, leader ; of young German poets, big, shambl ing, bi-focal, Bertolt Brecht fringe "He was a pupil of Brecht 's," they \ tell me proudly. (CONCLUDED NEXT WEEK) 