 [?] SINGAPORE: BLOW TO CANBERRA'S WRONG POLICIES m 1 The withdrawal of Singapore from the Malaysian Federation heralds the total collapse of this British-created political concoc tion. It also signals to the world yet another failure of the Menzses (government s militar ist foreign policy in South-East Asia, a pol icy which is entering a state of grave crisis, particularly over Vietnam. The Singapore development caught Canberra unawares; the Menzies Ministers were thrown into a panic, unable to think of anything to say to cover their confusion. "THE crisis shows that, as in ; Vietnam, the Menzies Gov- : ernment has sent Australian ; : troops to impose by force cf ! arms on the local people a set- I up they do not want. ! In Vietnam it Is the Ky dictatorship I wanted by the US; in Borneo it is j the Malaysian Federation wanted by the British imperialists, but not by I the people concerned, as Singapore's | revolt has just shown. 9 | Domino! | The famous "domino" theory, under I which the South Vietnam regime is S propped up to prevent the "collapse" I of other countries further south, lies I in ruins. Profit-rich Malaysia is | falling- apart without waiting for I South Vietnam! | The huge sums spent by British imperialism to rivet Malaysia on the I people's necks and the British and I Australian forces have been insuf- | ficient to keep its creation in being, j By its armed revolt of December, I 1962, Brunei (Borneo) was able to keep itself out of Malaysia; now j Singapore has followed suit. Forced in j The Malaysian Borneo territories ; I (Sabah and "Sarawak), where Austra- I j lian troops .were sent to fight in I February, were never given a chance to vote for or against inclusion in &lt; Malaysia— not even the phony "refer endum" held in Singapore, where "No" votes were disallowed, "There was strong opposition to the Tunku's anouncement that we should join Malaysia," Mr. Donald Stephens, now Chief Minister of Sabah, said on August 8, 1961. This year has been marked by increasing resistance of the people, especially in Sarawak, where the main political party, the Sarawak United People's Party, was solidly against Malaysia before it was "purged." Last month the British and "Malaysian" forces started the mass imprisonment of Sarawak Chinese in barbed-wire concentration camps. The Communist Party's view of Malaysia was expressed at its central committee in December, 1963, when Mr. L. Aarons described the newly- formed Federation as "a British concoction, a smelly mixture of mili- i tary strategy and oil, rubber and tin I profits." j "The Communist Party calls on the | working class movement to demand ! a pact of friendship and peace be- | tween Australia and Indonesia, with- % drawal of Australian troops from overseas . . . and positive policies of friendship, trade, cultural and other exchanges with the nations of South- East Asia. "These measures are all essentially based on renunciation of support for I imperialism, whether in its old form or in neo-colonialist disguise, such | as Malaysia," he said. 