 MEN IN BATTLE By Alvah Bessie, 7/6 (8/5 posted ) . (THE CIVIL WAR IN SPAIN.) rpHIS book has been called "The classic of soldiers on the firing line." Every man or woman who has taken part in war will find him or herself in its pages. This story traces the story of those involved from the time they board the train and cross the border into France preparatory to making the trek into Spain. An unforgettable book, one which is hard ot put aside. ON PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE By V. I. Lenin, 2/- (2/11 posted ) . p» recent times it has been sug gested that Khrushchev invented the concept of "Peaceful Co existence" — we therefore com mend to your attention a little booklet composed of Lenin's writings and speeches during and after 1917. Peaceful co-existence implies recog nition of the possibility that countries with different social and political systems may exist parallel to each other, without need for "cold" or "hot" wars. This idea is as vital ot the future of mankind today as it was in 1917. TIMUR AND HIS SQUAD By Arkady Gaider, 3/9 (4/8 posted ) . pOR boys and girls of an age to- appreciate a gang. But this is a gang with a difference — a group of school children who invented a new game which resulted in an inconspicuous but nevertheless devoted assistance to others. COMBINATION IN CHESS By G. Negyesy & J. Hegyi, 33/- ( 34/2 posted ) . COMBINATION, one of the most interesting and spectacular as pects of chess, is systematised, analysed and illustrated with 500 examples in -this volume. The authors have grouped the examples according to the aims to be achieved by the combina tion. THE SCARLET FLOWER By V. Garshin, 8/6 &lt;9/8 posted ) . A RUSSIAN classic sensitively written in short story form. The first story is an indictment of war and its senseless cruelty and is written with real warmth and dignity. The struggle of one human being against all evil is told with affec tion and a deep understanding of the human heart. Human fraility, tragedy and courage are highlighted in other stories. Available from NEW WORLD BOOKSELLER 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 