 WHARF:Threat to all workers The Australian Council of Trade Unions has called on all sections of the trade union movement to act to defend trade unionism, now under dangerous attack on the water- front by the Menzies Government. The Government's aggressive step, coming simultaneously with nearly 2,000 sackings by General Motors Holden was further evidence that Menzies 19 preparing for economic dif ficulties by a series of attacks on trade union and democratic rights. The ACTU executive special meeting on Tuesday called for "solid support" of the struggle now developing around the ACTU and Waterside Workers' Federation's resistance to Government moves. The decision was unanimous. "FHE ACTU said the Govern ment's plan — 9 "Alms to destroy the long-stand ing trade union organisation of the WWF." Must be condemned "for discri mination against persons offering for employment on the ground of their political views." 9 Must be opposed also because it seeks to empower the government (itself an employer) to deregister a trade union. The ACTU has called on the government not to proceed with the legislation but instead to take part in an "all-in" conference for a settlement of disputed issues. "The executive condemns the Gov ernment for introducing this legis lation without taking advantage of the ACTU proposal to have an all-in conference to review the factors causing conflict on the waterfront," it said. Already many trade unions and workshops groups, recognising that a united labor movement and mass action will be' decisive, are calling on the Federal Labor Party to add its full weight to the trade union struggle. Proposals for co-ordinated stop pages and other action will be fur ther discussed by the ACTU - execu tive on October 14-15 in Melbourne. Labor Leader Calwell has already attacked the Government handling of the legislation. Police control The Menzies Government has intro duced legislation which if implement ed would:— ® Place wharf laboring employ ment under strict political police screening and government control, so that only men with the "right" poli tical and industrial views could get a job. 9 Enable the government authority to deregister the Waterside Workers' Federation, and open the way for a government-controlled fake "union", or non-unionism on the waterfront. The essential purpose of these steps is the destruction of the WWF —one of the strongest bulwarks of the modern Australian trade union move ment and one noted for its solidarity with' all workers' struggles for better life, justice and peace, and for its public-spirited support of needy and charitable causes. Similar legislation was defeated in 1954 by a united trade union and labor movement. At that time the ACTU supported a stoppage by the WWF in defence of fundamental union rights. Dr. Evatt, then ALP leader, said in Federal Parliament in November, "1954: "Don't let a wretched overseas shipping combine control work on our waterfront. "The shipping combine was "a financial power behind the Liberal Party." Again today the Government is act ing on behalf of wealthy foreign shipowner and stevedoring interests, who are obstinately refusing the wharfies' long-standing demands for pensions and other normal entitle ments, and who fear the growing campaign by wharfies, seamen, farm ing and commercial interests for a national overseas shipping line. . » The Government is thus acting not in the "national interest" but in support of those who already squeeze £450 million a year in freight charges from Australian trade, thus increasing all costs of living. 