 US policy in SE Asia warms up the nuclear arms race By the Foreign Editor The long-standing United States policy of equipping fi eets and bases off Asian coasts with nuclear weapons is slowly but surely hading towards a dangerous nuclear arms race in the Western and South-western Pacific region. "JHE past week's press hulla baloo about reported Indo nesian atom-bomb plans re veals the readiness of import ant ruling circles in Australia to foster the suicidal idea that this country should join in such a race The hard tacts behind the issue, i as distinct from reported claims by an individual Indonesian general about atom testing plans), are: The United States introduced nuclear weapons in the region by dropping them on Japan in 1945. Later it started a series ot bomb tests in Bikini and other Pacific islands; it established nuclear-bombing bases in Japan, Formosa and else where, and from 1950 has stationed the Seventh Fleet (with nuclear weap ons) off the China coast. It has now sent Polaris submarines with nuclear missiles to prowl round the coasts of Asia and, with Menzies Government approval, is building a base in Western Australia from which to direct them j Britain The British military leadership tested their first A-homb on Monte bello Island, off the North West Australian coast in 1952. For at least two years their nuclear capable bombers have menaced In donesia and all South-East Asia from Singapore and Malayan bases In a TV interview of February 1 British Prime Minister Wilson even indicated that this force might be in creased He said that "some jet oombers would be held out of his proposed Atlantic force "for continued station ing east of Suez" He said this was "not a sunaen decision but had been intended by Labor before it came to power This was before China exploded :ts nuclear bomb on October 15 and long I before there was any talk of an "In donesian nuclear bomb". Mr. Wilson's excuse, that he wants to "protect" non-nuclear Asian nations from China's bomb thus fails to ring true China exploded its first test A-bomb j late in . 1964 but no one has suggested j she has such weapons available yet j for use in any major hostilities France The French nuclear war engineers are aggravating the atmosphere by planning to explode a nuclear weap on in the Pacific this year. The American Government has re jected and the British Government has ignored the Chinese Government's call for a new summit conference to plan the abolition of nuclear weap ons, though this has been supported by the USSR and other socialist countries. The USA have also rejected the Soviet Union's proposals, backed by- other countries, to stop the prolifer ation of nuclear weapons, to prohibit underground as well as other nuclear tests, to scrap, under international control, nuclear delivery vehicles as steps to total disarmament. The Menzies Government, the Santa- maria extreme rightist forces, and most of the daily press have opposed the powerful demand by the Austra lian labor movement and peace move ment to make the southern hemis- S phere nuclear-free and to keep nuclear I weapons out of Australia | In fact, the Menzies Government has ! always carefully kept the door open to ; future stockpiling of nuclear weapons | in Australia, either by the USA or j Australia itself. Publicity around the reported Indo- | nesian statement will be used oy ex- ! treme militarists in Australia to renew ! pressure for such a step i " However, the way forward in Aus- j tralian interests is illustrated by last ; ! week's demonstrations by thousands : ! of Japanese people against the entry of a US nuclear submarine into Sasebo harbour. The struggle to keep Australia nu clear-free and the Southern Hemis phere nuclear-free is part of the task of opposing the development of a SW Pacific nuclear arms race, getting all nuclear weapons out of the region and achieving total world nuclear dis armament. 