 Sir Isaac on wharfies '"THE views recently expressed by Mr Justice Gallagher concernirig the responsibilities of waterside workers was interesting for many reasons, one of which is the con trasting attitude of Sir Isaac Isaacs in an industrial dispute some years ago. This dispute arose towards the end of 1938 over the refusal of Port Kembla waterside workers to load scrap iron for Japan, then engaged in an aggressive war against China. The workers acted out of solidarity with China and out of a feeling that it was in Australia's interests to assist Asian . and Pacific peoples struggling to be free. The Lyons Government took the opposite view that we should appease Japanese fascism, just as the Menzies Government now thinks that we must at all costs placate US imperialism. Sir R. (then Mr) Menzies, who was Attorney General in the Lyons Government, used -the "Dog Collar" act to coerce the workers into loading the scrap, thus acquiring the sobriquet Pig Iron Bob. Sir Isaac Isaacs, a former Chief Justice , of Australia and former Governor General, is generally agreed today to have been one of Australia's, if not one af the world's greatest jurists. In his booklet Australian Demo cracy and Our Constitutional System, published in 1939, Sir Isaac said that, in coercing the waterside workers, Mr Menzies had "used a statutory power which I cannot believe Parliament ever intendeed to be used for such a purpose." He suggested that if the Govern ment had . coerced a trader into sell ing the pig iron to Japan it would have been generally seen to be a breach of liberty. Coercion of the workers into selling their labor for such a purpose was no better. Sir Isaac said: "For myself I honor the men who stood out as long as they could and those who supported them. They went far and, with sincerity of heart and purity of motive, sacrificed much to vindi cate, for the Australian community, a general humanitarian sentiment and the right to insist on a personal freedom of conscience when unre strained by law." And he concluded his discussion of the episode by saying: "I conclude my consideration of this most un pleasant incident with unbounded ; admiration for the struggle for humanity and for freedom of con science. I believe that Port Kembla, with the sturdy but peaceful and altogether disintereested attitude of the men concerned, will find a place in our history beside the Eureka Stockade, with its more violent re- sistence of a less settled time, as a noble stand against Executive dicta torship and against an attack on Australian democracy:" WAW (Sydney) 