 [?] | Battle of the I ! press advts. f | ADELAIDE: Port Ade- j . laide waterside workers 1 walked off the job recent- | ly in protest at a daily press, advertisement in- ! serted by employers, j Wharfies claim the ad- | vertisement distorted the | facts of the wharf dis- I pute. | The action was also in protest | against the refusal of the employ- i ers to meet waterside workers' | justified claims. I The employers' advertisement ! claimed that the reason for high er freight rates was the decline in the handling rate of general i overseas cargo in Australian j ports. It also claimed that the 1 men had rejected an offer to dis- j cuss a contributory scheme for a 2 pension fund if the Waterside I Workers' Federation would co- j operate in achieving "orderly" | and "efficient" operations. | Wharfies followed up their j walk off with an advertisement j of their own which put the I record straight. I The WWF quoted Government j statistics which revealed that I since 1955 cargo handled has in- j creased by 10 million tons per !year, man hours worked have decreased by 8.5 million per year, | handling rate per man hour has j increased by 78% while total pur- | chasing power paid to waterside I workers has been reduced by five | per cent. I The union said these figures ex posed the employers as "Profit hungry people prepared to bleed j jther Australian economy by their ! vicious policy of determining freight on the basis of what j 'trade will bear". For this reason 8 the WWF called for the provision of an Overseas National Shipping | Line "to compete with these over- j seas ship owners and so force o freight rates down to a common- 1 8 sense level in the interests of ' 1 our primary producers and the i I Australian community generally" I B . The Federation also stated that I I the employers "offer" was that I I they (the employers) would con. | | sider the practicability of a con. I I tributary pension scheme if the ! 1 WWF would agree to redundancy I I forfeit the Tight of recruitment! I I permit the adjustment of port I B quotas without restrictions, guar- ! ffl antee freedom from disputes I B permit automatic penalties for 1 B minor offences, encourage incen- ! » tive payments and agree to the I B introduction of permanency ot 2 H the WWF labor force. j B Employers said they would not j B even consider the implementation 1 If of a mechanisation fund for the | if benefit of members displaced by I B mechanisation. j B The WWF haa replied that if f ffl the employers were prepared to E give an immediate answer to the j I Federation claims for an indus- 11 try pension, a mechanisation I V fund, increased meal money and 1 1 increased penalty free attendance | \ money (which were the reasons j for the series of conferences be- 1 ing held under the jurisdiction j of Mr. Justice Gallagher) the I Federation would then be prepar- ed to participate in a conference j designed to do everything pos- I sible to correct the anomalies j which exist in the industry. This j offer was . rejected by the ship- J owners' representatives, and so | the conference proved abortive, j The WWF advertisement' added: j 1 "Despite the repeated rebuffs ac- S i corded them by the employers, j the WWF has indicated that it j always has been and still is pre- ' pared to. reopen discussions with I - the employers providing employ- | \ ers change their attitude and in- j dicate they are prepared to 1 i . negotiate : in good faith on all I aspects of the industry". j 