 5000 UNIONISTS MARCH M SUPPORT OF UNION DEMANDS SYDNEY: Over 5000 trade unionists from 41 unions marched an Sydney's Six Hour Day procession Bast Monday in support of high er wages, shorter hours and many other trade union demands . - THE highlight of this year's march was a large color ful display of the Waterside Workers Federation. More than 500 waterside workers and their womenfolk took part in the display. They sharply criticised the Federal Government's legislation attacking the Federation. A float displaying a rocket said: "Menzies Wharf Bill is Aimed At All Australians." Aboriginal waterside workers raised the demand for wage and social equality for Aborigines. Other banners called for the stop page of the "dirty war in Vietnam" and to stop overseas shipping "pirates". Three youngsters dressed as a horse and jockey took part, in a humorous skit on wages/ prices and profits. A wharf ie "bookmaker" was call ing the odds and offering "any price on wages", a small boy trailing the field. Neither thieves, nor criminals Several other unions condemned the Government's wharf legislation. These included building workers, printers, firemen, boilermakers, New Zealand seamen and postal workers. The postal workers said: "Postal workers are not thieves, neither are wharfies criminals." A large crowd packed the side walks to watch the procession, which included 33 floats, 17 bands and five teams of marching girls. Australian Railways' Union mem bers and N.S.W. Government bus em ployees an increment wage scheme. The Amalgamated Engineers called for nationalisation- of monopolies, repeal of the anti-union penal clauses, peace and socialism. Amongst the biggest displays were the building unions and railway workers. Large three foot diameter balloons carried slogans for a 35-hour week and peace. A jazz band on the back of a small truck led the Teachers' Federa tion: "Be In The Swing, Be An Ac tive Unionist," the teachers said. More than 50 psychiatric nurses marched in their dark blue uniforms. Two carried the sign, "Exploited." 