 "Aborigines wont equal j pay : leader back j from Kenya 8 DARWIN: The rising demand for the right of Aboriginal workers to equal wages with white work ers has been pinpointed by Mr. Phillip Roberts, a well-known Northern Territory Aboriginal leader. on his retun from a special visit to Kenya as guest of the Kenya Govenment. HI told the Press here: "Un- 1 til we Aboriginals have eco nomic as vyell as other equality with white Australians the words 'Advance Australia Fair' are just not honest," He said that Australia should follow Kenya's example and employ Abo riginals in clerical and administra tive jobs. Mr. Roberts, President of the NT Council for Aborigine Rights, who has devoted most of his life to the cause of his oppressed people., was one of two Aboriginal leaders who, with their wives, were invited to Kenya by its Justice Minister, Mr. Tom M'Boya, who visited Australia last year. Accompanying Mr. Roberts to Kenya was Mr. Davis Daniels, NT Secretary of the Federal Council for Aborigine Advancement, and three Members of the House of Assembly of Papua-New Guinea. (See Page 3.) On his return to Australia, Mr. Roberts said the progress of the Kenyan people running their own country, had inspired him to fight harder for a new deal for his people. "I saw a lot of things there that throw light on things in Australia. "While there's an official — and that includes -some in the police — who look on half-castes as yellow fellas and us as boongs or niggers, real progress under the new deal legisla tion will be pretty difficult", Rob erts said. "We know this attitude prevails in some quarters. "We also know the vast majority of white Australians are on our side even though not many are prepared to do very much about things. "We should all be able proudly to call ourselves Australian— white, yel low or black," Mr. Roberts said. Employed by the Health Depart ment, Mr. Roberts became a highly competent medical assistant. 5/- a week "The most - money I ever earned in my life until I joined the Health Department in 1953 was 5/- a week," he said. ' Mr. Roberts wants equality for Aboriginals in all respects. "Ke know it will not all happen in a few weeks," he said. "But this sham pretence of full rights must end. i "Education is the major objective now — without it our people can do nothing. .- "You can't expect a people treated ' as inferiors, paid poor wages and generally restrained from getting anywhere for so long, to -make a per fect job of things all at once." In an editorial headed "A cheap citizen", on January 7, the Sydney Sun said — "Law which allows Aborigines to drink like white men but denies them the right to earn- money at the rate i of white men is questionable law. "In a money dominated society and civilisation it is discriminatory in the worst possible way. "An Aboriginal may be allowed in pubs, to worship God in his own way, to own land, to vote and to do many other democratic things. "But if he cannot earn money at the same rate as the white man doing the same work shoulder to shoulder with him, he is a second class citi zen in law and in fact. i "The Australian Workers' Union in Darwin has just revealed that a & Northern Territory Ordinance not | only countenances lower pay for Aborigines but regulates it. "The interest of the AWU in this matter is mainly industrial, which is as it should be. The issue for the country at large is a moral one. "The lives of Northern Territory Aborigines are regulated by two im- > portant Ordinances so contrasting that they could almost be a way of not letting official right hands know what official left hands are (, doing. t I; "One' of these — the Social Welfare \. Ordinance, passed last May — is a / sort of Magna Carta for Aborigines. The rights it confers, which include ;= b e'er-drinking and pleading in courts, have been hailed as full citizenship. "However, there is also the Em- ployment Ordinance, which pre- scribes that the highest wage an | | Aboriginal can earn is £11/12/3 a j| | week, and for some industries the maximum is only £2/8/3. jJ ! "Aboriginal women are allowed to ! earn only 25/- a week. M "Being a full citizen, even on the || i humblest scale, costs money. fi | "Without minimising the. problem j| of leading Aborigines to citizenship, | one wonders how a man on £2/8/3 a vf week can even have a glimmering of what citizenship means. "How can he possibly relate tlieo- | retical rights to the facts of his life. How can a man be dignified and free on £2/8/3 a week? | "In NSW we don't h"9 ordinances J which produce second class citizens. s| We achieve the same result by u ' written laws," I 