 [?] Metal delegates want I j campaign for £22 per t 1 week and £10 margin I SYDNEY: A conference of 200 metal trades union delegates last Wednes day in Sydney called on the Australian Council of Trade Unions to cam- naio-n for a £22 a week basic waffe and a £10 margin for a fitter. THE conference, called by the NSW Branch of the Metal Trades Federation of unions, condemned and completely re jected the Arbitration Commis sion's recent . wage decision. "The judgment provided further evidence of the futility of relying solely on Arbitration as a means of achieving a measure of wage justice. "It becomes increasingly evident that a vigorous, widespread and united campaign is required if the workers are to improve their living standards," the meeting declared, A resolution said the judgment:— Completely rejected the ACTU principle of fixing the basic wage on the needs concept and relies solely on the Commission's erroneous esti mates of capacity of industry to pay. Denied the Commission's own past practice of giving unions the right to seek annual reviews of the basic wage based on price movement and productivity. Reduced wages below that of even the 1964 level. Endorsement was given to the ACTU Executive's decision to seek a review of the Commission's decision and for the holding of workshop protest meetings and a mass rally of workers to be organised by the NSW Labor Council. The meeting called on the ACTU to impliment its decision, to organise mass protest rallies through the various Labor Councils. The Federal and State Govern ments were also called on to inter vene in support of the ACTU's applh cation to review the Court's decision. An all-day conference of metal trades delegates has been called by the Federation for August 25 in the Sydney Town Hall. Last Wednesday's meeting called on metal workers to ensure that the maximum number of jobs are represented. The meeting asked the State Branch of the Federation to under take a survey to establish a minimum basic wage in preparation for the August conference. in a report to the meeting, the. Federation secretary (Mr. C. Brown) said that many shops have called for a 24-hour stoppage of metal workers and have raised the demand that metal unions withdraw from Arbitration. "Protest meetings should be held in every workshop and wage demands raised with individual employers. "On August 17 Menzies' budget will take from the workers the lousy 6/- granted by the Commission." Mr. Brown called on delegates to be represented at the budget depu tations in Canberra. Mr. H. Hatfield (Sheet Metal Workers' Union) said that monopolies, both local and foreign, were amass ing record profits at the expense of the Australian workers. "Arbitration judges have proved to be the faithful stooges of monopoly." He said that workers on the Job have, by winning over-award pay. ments, showed the way to get what they want. . Mr. H. Wilson (Amalgamated Engl- neering Union) said only two coun tries in the world function under the Arbitration system (Australia and New Zealand). "Workers in Britain and the United States would hot- have a bar of it. "W© have reached the time when we must begin to campaign against this system." He said that in Birmingham a i fitter gets £25 a week, which is equal to about £30 Australian. If — ; I 