 [?] We have forgotten the taste of paw-paws and other native fruits' £OME with a pensioner and shop for a week's food and you will find out whv doctors have been saying that practically all their pensioner patients are under-nourished. There are always cro#wds of elderly people outside butchers and green grocers' shops, standing and staring and wondering just how they will best be able to obtain the meagre necessary food. But with the cheapest steak at 5/11 per pound, and "1/6 for one- quarter of a cabbage, you will find many wage earners also looking and wondering how to make the most of their money. I have spoken to many pensioners and, like myself; they have nearly forgotten the taste of paw-paws, pineapples, grapes, cherries and many more of our native fruits. By the way— what is bacon? Lay-bys are essential if pensioners and others are to keep themselves decently clad. With two together on a pension it is slightly better, as only one bill has to be paid by both for rent, rates, etc., but for one alone ; it is pretty tough to say the least. Here is a representative week's outlay: PENSION PER WEEK IS £6 £ s, d. Lay-bys and/or some hire- purchase 10 0 Rent, rates, elec. and gas bills, repairs or main tenance, etc. 200 Butcher (2 lb. coarse mince steak, 4 chops 11 0 Vegetables (onions, beans quarter cabbage) 5 0 Fruit — (apples and oranges only) 4 6 Bread (more than is good for elderly people, but must be bought to fill up) 4 0 Groceries, eggs, mar garine, etc. - 12 0- Milk (most pensioners have to. use skim milk) 7 0 Fish— when cheap enough to buy 3 0 Fares 4 o ' ' | £511 0 I I | Nine shillings over? NO! ; j Out of this must come writing I paper, stamps, TV and radio fees | newspapers, denture cleaner, shoe I repairs, stockings, that tiny gift for I a grandchild (must we be deprived I of all our pleasures?), fees to O.A. I I Pension groups or "some other non- | profit seeking group, etc. I And to do any of these little I extras, outings, etc., we must rob I Peter to pay Paul, and Peter is I usually on the food list. I ,n - this the chain stores ve r&ised the price of their boiled sweets from 1/6 for % ozs. to 2/- 1 vTr ® 0zs" anc fr one refuse to | nuy them. 1 tu- was ky one attendant that I ms was preparatory to changing fit the currency and — she pointed - out — they have increased the weight. Yes, this was true by one-half ounce and the rise in price was 6d. This is a "crime and should be punishable by law. Again the' pensioner is the hardest hit. One well known shop offered cooked corn beef at 5/11 per pound. But a 'pensioner trying to buy half a pound was told she must buy the full pound to get the re duced price! Again — a crime against pen sioners Would any member of parliament like to live on the above. Without being impudent but maybe partinent I would like to ask Mr. Menzies if our charming Dame Pat- tie could face the existing deal for pensioners? E. Leahy Ramsgate (N.S.W), Member of O.A. Pensioners' Union of Australian Women. 