 | PRISONS CAN'T 1 STOP REVOLT INS. AFRICA I By ALF WATT I j While in East Africa recently, we were asked by I several people — "If your government does not like J what we may do here, will it send troops as it is ! doing to South Vietnam?" J | HIS concern is not so far-fetched as it may i sound, when one recalls that American extreme rightist Richard Nixon, in | one of bis recent speeches here, linked .the African continent with South East | Asia as an area being | threatened by Communism. j The tenor of Nixon's speeches i does indeed point to the danger | of Australia being dragged into j military action against any revolt ! that develops in South Africa, j and Southern Rhodesia as well. I Another top leader of US militar- ! ism, "General L. :Norstead (NATO C-in-C), went even further in identl- ! tying himself with the South African white racists. I "I have full confidence in South k Africa, a country with the same stan- I dards, ideals, .principles and objectives !as the rest of us in the West," he said frecently. j White Paper j In view of the proposed ! Government "White Paper or Communism"in Australia it is I important to understand that the | Government terror against .all g South African freedom fighters j is conducted under the slogan of | the "suppression of Conamun- i ism." j The brutality and terror in ! South African Premier Ver- I woerd's jails is such as evokes j the horror and indignation of j ;every decent person. ! Another "Brown Book of I Hitler Terror," and one equally j as damning, could well be writ ten about, what is going on in the South African police state. There -are many thousands of political prisoners in Verwocrd's jails. These are strictly political prisoners, and do not include the 200,000 and more Africans who, arestcd for breaches of the pass law, arc work ing as convict labor on white farms. Mor docs it include hundreds of thousands who, by other means of compulsion, are forced to work in the mines ot an average of £4 per month. Britain's John Collins, address ing the United Nations General Assembly's Special Committee on Apartheid, as chairman of the International Defence and Aid Fund, said that the need to care for the families of political prisoners in South Africa had become "So vast that -it is assuming the proportions of an aftermath of a disaster such as an earthquake." He quoted "conservative esti mates" that there are between 15,000 and 20,000 wives and children with a breadwinner an jail, and, in addition, there was the need to care for the families of the "underground resistance," he said National Congress In two townships in the .Port Elizabeth -area, 918 people have been arrested in the last .18 months in a police crack-down intended to crush the 50-year-old illegal African National Congress. So far 452 people have been sentenced to a total of 2,339 years' imprisonment on charges, under the Suppression of Com munism Act, of membership in the A.N.C., collecting funds for it, distributing leaflets, attend- ing meetings and allowing premises to be used for meetings. 2 Those awaiting trial are kept | in custody; Tommy Charlieman ! was held for 19 months before j being sentenced to eight years' j imprisonment. | More serious charges .elating f to sabotage and other forms of j violence are heard in a separate g court. I It has cost the Defence and Aid I Fund over £12,000 in the last 12 j months to provide defence coun- sel for these trials alone, and it | has been unable to meet ill the j needs. | Participation in this humani- I tarian and democratic defence g and aid activity does not go j unhindered or unpunished. | For instance, Mrs. Laura Hit- 2 chens, the Johannesburg Fund g secretary, was served with re- S striction orders under the Sup- I pression of Communism Act. g She must now report each 2 week to the, police; she is pre- | vented from attending social or | political gatherings, communi- I eating with any banned persons I or .persons listed as Commu- | \ nists; she is barred from any | ' African or colored (mixed races) g l residential, any factory or com- 1 pound and any university, col- J ; lege or other educational insti- I tution. | Torture I State -evidence in this 'vast wave f of political trials, much of it g false, has been gathered mainly I by torture. I The complete isolation in g which .90-day detainees are held I for interrogation is itself a cruel J ordeal intended to break the | morale of the victim. g Detainees have been forced to j stand for hours while being I interrogated by changing shifts j of police and security officials. 1 They have been assaulted, and | given electric shock treatment. g Some have been driven insane, 1 others have suicided. Many have 8 broken down and made "suit- f able" statements. UN evidence Considerable evidence on this i matter was collected by a special sub-committee of the UN. Among other disclosures it reported the complaint of a lawyer, Mr. V. Berrange, that 20 witnesses in a case had told him of "gross brutalities" to make them talk. They were told to undress, made to jump up and down till exhausted; they -were then manacled in a squatting position, blindfolded, and given electric shocks until they lost conscious ness. Demands for a judicial inquiry ! into the South African prisons i have been made by the African National Congress and other bodies an people, but the , Government has stubbornly re jected them. j . Despite this terror, the fight ing spirit of the South African people is unbroken. Duma Nokwe, a. leader of the African National Congross, told us in Dar Es Salaam of the in- - terest and enthusiasm -created by leaflets, lightning demonstra tions, and other acts of struggle against the Verwoerd . fascist government. | 