 " ' -v: " ' . ' - I TRIBUNE | I i I I 3 ' | I Impending attacks j | on living standards j | Any worsening of Australia's balance of payments 1 ! problem will not be met by cuts in heavy war expenditure s I but by "adjustments to the domestic economy". j This was one of the as- g surances given by recleral | treasurer Holt in America, j which should alert Austra- i lian workers to impending j new a. tacks on living stand- i ards. I As predicted by Tribune, I Holt failed to secure any definite guarantees on the | three main issues discussed. | , On the issue of Australia being exempted from Presi dent Johnson's restrictions S on dollar investment, Holt's | maximum achievement was a | "hot line" between Canberra iand Washington. According to the Finan cial Review, "This would enable the Americans to be g kept completely up-to-date | on Australian developments I — such as the fact that the f country's external position | was becoming less satisfac- | tory oiuing to falling res- erves." j On the issue of American | tariff and quota restraints g on Australia's exports of ! wool, lead, zinc, meat, sugar ! and butter, Holt obtained | no more than a promise of a ! "fresh study." On the issue of the inter- | est equalisation tax, Holt met with a complete wipe- off. | The interest equalisation tax applies to foreign loans j where the rate of interest is g higher than the current rate I in the U.S. f Thus, the Menzies Gov- j ernment's dishonourable po- f litical bid to obtain special I dollar favours, immediately f after its announcement of | the decision to send combat g troops to the dirty war in j Vietnam, is unlikely to sue- j ceed. J Cost of maintaining the ! . 1st Battalion in Vietnam j will come from the mainten- 6 ance sector of the defence f budget, which is expected to j rise by £30 million to £228 j million, in the total war g budget of £370 million. I Projected war expenditure S for the three, years 1965- j 1968 has already been lifted | £404 million above the ori- J ginal 1963 estimates. j With half of Australia's j regular army now committed j to overseas service in Malay- g sia and Vietnam, another I upward revision in war ex- S penditure, accompanied by ( heavier tax burdens, can be | anticipated in the coming | Federal Budget. j The Labor movement j should respond to this j threat by intensifying the g struggle in defence of peace j and living standards. I 