 European Communist Parties meet, and ... . Pledge "concrete'! solidarity action | with Viet people | From RUPERT LOCKWOOD | MOSCOW:- An appeal Issued from the Brussels I conference of European Communist Parties has I pledged the Vietnamese people solidarity actions of .If "the most concrete and effective forms". ff "THE Parties also pledged themselves to develop acti vities for an American with drawal. , The appeal warns that the war in Vietnam can lead to a third world war. While welcoming the broaden ing of the movement against the aggressors, the appeal stresses that the movement is not yet wide enough to cope with the danger of a world war, and that huge efforts are necessary to expand this movement and make it more active. To the workers of western Europe, to all cultural workers, women, youth, the socialist and Christian masses, to all progres sive and peaceloving forces, the appeal says: "Universal' peace is in danger. The struggle for peace and the struggle for independence and freedom of the nations are in separable. Not a minute shou'd be lost, no effort should be spared" The second Afro Asian con ference of over 50 States, opening in Algiers on June 29 is expected to widen the front against apar- theidists and warmakers. Pravda says "A situation has taken shape when the success of revolutionary, democratic prog ressive forces throughout the world for many years ahead depends oil the rebuff by the peoples to :m. perialism." Pravda also says "The liquid ation of racist regimes in some African countries is a major task of the anti-imperialist forces to day." Pravda hopes the Afro Asian conference will promote unity and solidarity against the aggres- - sors. "The conference must hot turn into a field of battle between the various forces attending it. "The conference is called upon | to serve the strengthening of the entire anti - colonialist front' || . Pravda says. Jq Efforts : being made to ex 'il elude the ooviet Uuion and pre I vent " the , conference being ; f second Bandung for rallying till peoples against imperial menaces -fe The Ghanian "Evening News' I emphasises that it is the 'mai; I purpose of the secret diplomacj1 ; of the United States, Britian anil 1 Fr&nce to prevent Soviet participH ation, but, understanding its im If portance, the Afro Asian majority i wants Soviet participation. j The Dar es Salaam papei "Ngurumo" says any attempt tllf bar the .Soviet Union "will bull: play into the hands of imperial- I ists who seek to split the united I front of countries fighting coloi U . alism and neo-colonialism." v 