 New ship freight robbery: "nnnnanaBmnnainMBiBBBnaBDnni ... A naive Harold Holt receives a rude iolt By E. W. CAMPBELL Federal Treasurer Holt's naive faith in America's "good intentions'' towards Australia must have received a rude jolt with the announcement of a 10 per cent increase in all shipping freights from North America to this country. IT was most awkward for Mr. Holt that the public an nouncement of the freight rise coincided with his report to Parliament on the results of his American mission. Mr. Holt told Parliament: "I was repeatedly assured that it is far from the intention of the U.S. Ad ministration to do any harm to the Australian economy." With a probable £170 million de cline in Australia's overseas balances by the end of the financial year, the freight rise, which will cost an extra three million dollars in over seas exchange, can hardly be des cribed as unharmful. Nothing gained Holt did his utmost to paint a rosy picture of his American visit, but the cold fact is that nothing tangible emerged. Australian woolgrowers, who face a probable £100 million drop in the value of this year's clip, wiil not sell a single bale more in the high tariff protected U.S. market as a result of Holt's visit. Nor will Australian exporters of butter, sugar, metals and meat, find any relief from restrictive quotas. In fact, while Holt was still in America, several more U.S. States adopted restrictive measures against Australian meat. There will be- no amendment to the interest-equalisation tax, which keeps Australia out of the New York Loan market. Although it is likely that some direct investment from U.S. may con tinue in mining ventures in W.A. and North Australia there is still a large degree of uncertainty about the volume. Holt's fear Despite his outward show of con fidence, Mr. Holt betrayed his under lying fear for the future in his ' statement to Parliament. "It would be a mistake," he said, "to rush to the conclusion that all our apprehensions have proved , quite groundless." Export prices were falling, as was the level of Australia's overseas, reserves. The deterioration in the balance of payments was likely to continue in the year, ahead. Holt indicated while in. America that any adjustments that this made necessary to the Australian economy would not be at -the expense of heavy war expenditure. The clear inference is that the Menzies Govenment will seek, a solution by higher taxation, and tighter clamps on consumer : spend ing. The labor ; movement should not wait until the Budget is brought down in August but should press forward with its own demands right now. Shipping line One of these demands is for the expansion of Australia's National Shipping Line to encompass an over seas fleet — a demand that is common to the Communist Party, Labor Party and the national trade union movement. Such an overseas line, operated in the efficient way being demonstrated in the Tasmanian ferry run and around Australia's coasts, could save the nation tens of millions of pounds per year by eliminating the overseas monopoly control of freight on all Australian export and import trade. 