 [?] New US weapon doesn't scare American President Johnson's announce ment last week of plans for a new submarine missile with twice the destructive power of the Polaris throws an odd light on the peace professions in his State of the Union speech. IN that message, delivered on January 4, Mr. Johnson had much to say about the need for yeace, a spirit of friendship and mutual understanding. "With the Soviet Union we seek peaceful understandings," he em phasised. By way of assisting peaceful under standing, Mr. Johnson announced, on January 18, in a special defence mes sage to Congress, that the newly- planned Poseidon missile would have twice the power of the Polaris and greater accuracy. Boasting loudly that America was twice as strong as any combination of other nations, he announced a further series of developments to in crease American imperialism's killing- power. This sabre-rattling doesn't scare the socialist world. It only serves to expose the hypo crisy of U.S. imperialism's peaceful professions and strengthen the case for disarmament. Besides the horror-weapons men tioned by Johnson, American Asso ciated press reported late last year that "the U.S. and . West- Germany are now deeply involved in the joint design of a battle tank for the 1970's." The details are still secret, says AAP, but "it is reported that the tank has been designed to operate effectively on a battlefield saturated with atomic, chemical and bacteriolo gical weapons." Rightists multiply As Soviet New Times comments: "That terse report tells us more about the foreign policy plans of the two xeauing inaxvj paiuntus txiaii lujug and eloquent statements and com muniques. "Looking ahead to the 1970's, the chief NATO allies are thinking not of peace but of 'a battlefield satu rated with atomic, chemical and bac teriological weapons." " Pushing the U.S.A. along the path of war are the multiplying forces of the ultra-Right whose threat was not removed by the defeat of Goldwater. Senator Frank Church, Democrat, of Idaho, said last week that the membership of the ultra-Right organi sations had been growing 22 per cent every year since 1955. Big business, he said, was boosting their financial position. Senator Church said that 30 big ultra-Right organisations had in creased their spending from about 5 million dollars in 1958 to 14 million dollars in 1963, and to 30 million dollars, according to preliminary data) in 1964. Twenty big publications with a circulation of more than a million copies and 7,000 radio broadcasts every week help to poison the atmos phere with their hysterical ravings, Senator Church added. (Among the pay-offs for this has been the renewed prosecution of the U.S. Communist Party and the con tempt charges against the Women Strike for Peace leaders). In stark contrast to this pro-Right trend, and showing the conflict shak ing the U.S. ruling class, is the move for more socialist trade. Switch to caution Newsweek says that President Johnson is "clearly determined" to open up socialist markets for the U.S. — "a mouth-watering prospect for the market-hungry businessmen, with some 230 million potential cus tomers in Russia and an additional 120 million in Red-bloc countries." Realisation that it's bad for busi ness to threaten customers with annihiliation by super-weapons seems to be promoting what Time maga zine admits is "a growing debate about U.S. foreign policy." Opposition to the crudest forms of U.S. world-domination attempts is showing up in the form of com plaints that "perhaps the U.S. has over-extended itself." Time quotes senate majority leader Mike Mansfield as saying that if the U.S. had to honour all its "security" commitments together "we'd be in a pretty precarious situa tion" and Republican Senator George Aiken as saying: "We're trying to police the world and we can't do it." Time notes the "sudden and sur prising" change of view by Senator Richard Russel, of Georgia, till now a fervent supporter of a strong U.S. position and a close friend of the President's. Russell now says that U.S. interven tion in Vietnam was "a terrible mistake" and the U.S. should "shun designs for saving those who are a little bit indifferent to their own fate." Most academic experts, says Time, violently oppose escalation in Viet nam. Failure of the big-stick policy ought to be obvious when, as Time admits: "In general it is a rare week when some U.S. embassy in Africa or Asia is not surrounded by demonstrators -hurling rocks or at least carrying anti-American placards." 