 Ho Chi Minh — flame of Vietnam's | independence I I JO CHI MINH was born I Nguyen-van-Thanh in the village of Kim-Lien, in Nohe-An province, Cen- ! tral Vietnam, on May 19, ! 1890. I From the earliest days of his I youth, Nguyen-van-Thanh hated i French colonialism. He pledged : himself to fight against it. ! When twenty he left Indo:- j China, worked as a cook's help j on the "Latouche-Treville," a I® French ship, and travelled to Algeria, Tunisia, the Congo, Europe and then to London, i A friend, Mai, recalls "Ba": I "It was he who helped my illiterate friends to write letters | home. He worked very hard hauling heavy sacks of vege- 5 tables, meat and ice up the j narrow, slippery gangways from j the hold to the kitchen, but I never complained. "At night while we slept or played cards he would be study- ing and writing." I In Dakar, Africa, French sent I Africans to swim a line out to I the ship. g "One, two, three, four of S them, one after another jumped j into the racing sea," Mai recalls, "and one after another they, were 1 drowned. It was quite a com- I mon sight, but 'Ba' was deeply 8 moved, and wept." | Then "Ba" said: "In France ! the French workers are good. But the French colonialists are ' just animals in uniform. They | drown Vietnamese like this in I Phan-Rang, and think it's fun- | nier than a circus. i"To them the life of an Asian or African is not worth one cent." j Shovelled snow | In London "Ba" worked I shovelling snow and washing j dishes in the Carlton Hotel. J He went to the Conference of I Versailles to defend the rights | of the Vietnamese people. I He participated in the Socialist j Congress of Tours in 1920. It ! was now that he. discovered j Marxism the key to the apparent | riddle of social development. He attended the founding of the French Communist Party, | and was one of its first mem- | bers. He was the very first | Vietnamese Communist. I While a photographer in Paris, j he founded and directed the | Inter-Colonial Union and pub- I ushed its official paper, the | "Exile." j He was simultaneously the 0 editor, director, administrator, f treasurer and distributor, He j sent it into Indo-China through 1 J thousand secret channels, with | French seamen and Indo-Chinese | tads, unnamed heroes. j It was forbidden for the Viet- « naijiese to read the printed page, I out permitted to learn by heart j at school "our forefathers the | Gams were tall, blond and had nfUfLeyes ' t0 ve a map | i the country in your posses- | si, on a sign of nationalist senti- j head WaS enough t0 lose your I he was in Moscow, for I mn flfth Congress of the Com- l International, and then I went to Canton to be close to I JS? Yn country where the Lmahst savagery was making j People nS' f reVOlt among his He escaped in 1927 when Chiang Kai Chek began killing Communists, both Chinese and others. He went to the USSR, Bel gium, again to France, Switzer land, Germany and Italy. He returned to Asia, this time to Siam, where he founded another paper ' for the Viet namese at home and abroad. Condemned to death He went to Hong Kong and Macao where, in May 1929, the Association of Revlut i o n a r y Youth held a Congress. There were three different groupings of Communists, and he led them to unification. And so, in 1930, they formed the Communist Party of Indo-China. He led the Party from Hong Kong, where the police arrested him and prepared to hand him over to the French (who had already condemned him to death). He escaped, officially executed. He re-entered Vietnam only, in December, 1940, after thirty years of exile. From a cave in the mountains of Cao Bang, he directed the formation of the first political and military headquarters, and the foundation of the League . for Independence, the Vietminh. He set out for China to meet the Chinese revolutionaries, but was arrested by Chiang's men and held for two years. He was moved continually from one prison to another. He was in 30. jails in 24 months. They | walked from one to the other, | covering as much as fifty kilo- | metres in a day. f The only time there was a j chance for him to travel with- « out fatigue was during the cross- 1 ing of a river, but the jailers I . hung him from the roof of the junk by his" feet and he did the crossing upside down. Against' the Japanese When free, he immediately re turned to Vietnam to begin the battle to beat the Japanese in vaders and the former French colonialists who collaborated with them. On September 2, 1945, on the Ba' Dinh square in Hanoi, he could proclaim to the world the birth of the Democratic Repub lie of Vietnam. "Vietnam," he said, "has the right to be free and independent and, ir fact, has become free and independent. "The Vietnamese people have decided to mobilise all their forces, spiritual and material, and to sacrifice their own lives I and well-being to safeguard this right of liberty and independ ence." f But in November, 1946, the | French attacked and occupied I Hai Phong and Langson (with | a terrible massacre), and on December 17 opened fire on j Hanoi. , ! On the 19th began the national 8 resistance with a proclamation 1 by the President. ! The same can be written today ! about the situation created in I the south and in the north by j American aggression. . ; | "We want peace, we have ! made some concessions. But for | every concession that we make I the French colonialists profit j from them more by infringing | o; - rights. They have" decided I to re-conquer our country. We j will sacrifice everything rather S than lose our independence and I live as slaves. - . - 8 "Compatriots! Whoever has a j rifle, use the rifle; whoever has j a spade, use the spade. And if ! you have no spade, use your hoe | and clubs. I "We must sacrifice our last j drop of blood to defend our j country. We are prepared to ! make every sacrifice." j The French were finally j routed and hurled out of the j country at Dien Bien Phu, in" I 1954. It cannot be any different I with the Americans because the 8 Vietnamese people are the same j and with the same traditions. J At 75, Ho Chi Min can look J back and think honestly that he I has played a "big role in the j history of his country and the I history of the world. | wo&lt;M.OI»o«B»UIMH»O. an | | recently the Soviet press agency TASS interviewed Ho Chi Minh. One of the questions asked of the President of North Vietnam was: "What is your _ opinion concerning the strength ening of Soviet-Vietnamese friendship and the significance of the relations of friendship and co-operation for the victory over American aggression?" Ho Chi Minh replied as follows: "the PARTY, the Government and the people of Vietnam are expressing their profound grati tude to the Party, the Govern ment and the people of the Soviet Union for their solidarity, support and valuable assistance in our struggle against aggressive American imperialism. "We shall exert all our energies to' strengthen the bonds of fra ternal friendship, co-operation and mutual assistance between Vietnam and the Soviet Union, fully realising that these efforts are an important factor on the road leading to the victory of our 1 revolutionary cause. 1 "In this context I would like on | behalf of the Vietnamese people 8 to convey the warmest greetings p to the fraternal Soviet people. f "I am expressing the wish that p the Soviet people continue gain- 4 ing ever more greater victories 1 in building the material-technical 1 base of Communism and in the 1 struggle for the maintenance of p world jpeace." J| HO CHI MINH makes a point in discussion with the late | Palmiro Togliatti, secretary-general of the Italian Com- j munist Party. j 