 I . , _ - [?] [?] RHODESIA, the white-rac- ialist police state which causes Menzies such agonies to criticise, has more political prisoners than any other Afri can state. v It has more even than the notor ious fascist South African Republic to the south, according to the Zim babwe Review, published by the Zimbabwe African People's Union in Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania. South African dictator Verwoerd is "credited" with some 5000 politic al prisoners whereas (says the Zim babwe Review) the two main "re striction" camps and five main "detention" camps in Rhodesia hold between them 18,000 prisoners. Zimbabwe is the African name lor Rhodesia. The Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU) has been banned by the white authorities. Main political prisoner is the lead- er of the ZAPU, Joshua Nkomo, who, without any trial, ' has been detained for four years because : he is said to be "a danger to peace and security". Now his legal adviser, Leo Baron, a vhite liberal has been seized and- jailed, also without trial. To force through his policy Rhodesian premier Smith also had to sack the army chief of staff, the head of the civil service and top police officials before declar ing "inrYipendence" for the white minority rulers. A typical batch of news-items from the Zimbabwe paper tells of the people's day-to-day struggle against the Smith terror. Seven ZAPU freedom fighters were sentenced in Salisbury to three years' jail for carrying on activities of the banned ZAPU. They had held a trial on behalf of the ZAPU and fined an informer £59. In Umtali five ZAPU revolution aries, were jailed for terms ranging from 18 months to three years for actions in support of ZAPU. In Bulawayo Rhodesian siettler police ranged through the town look ing for ZAPU members who had at tacked white racialists' cars. Shots were fired, but the patriots escaped. A religious body, the Zimbabwe Church of Orphans, was declared an unlawful organisation by the act ing Law and Order Minister who declared it had been penetrated by elements of the banned ZAPU. Also in Salisbury a 17-year-old youth was sentenced to eight strokes of the cane and six months' impris onment with hard labor because of alleged attacks on white settlers' cattle. Meanwhile police with tracker dogs were searching for the killers of a Rhodesian policeman found dead near a Salisbury school. A band of freedom-fighters blew up the oil pipeline from Mozambique to Umtali. Such are just a few of the Inci dents occurring in the Smith sla-e state. The ZAPU paper says: "We have always been willing to cooperate with any government elected under the one-man-one-vote-one-value prin ciple, but not a government elected on a qualitative franchise which ex cludes the bulk of the population from participation in matters af fecting them. "We have suffered oppression and humiliation for the past 75 years and this cannot be allowed to con tinue. "We believe that the settler-minor ity. regime can only be overthrown by force. This calls for a practical revolutionary approach which, if backed by other world revolution ary forces, will lead to the achieve- ment of true people's power." 