 i Soviet - Vietnam j I call for unity ! i ! "WE believe in the I strength of the I unity of socialist coun- i tries and we shall fisrht J for it", Soviet Premier j A. N. Kosygin told a j mass rally in Hanoi on j February 7. | "The enemies of Com- j munism hope in vain that j their machinations would j disunite the socialist coun- j tries," he added. ! "The consolidation of the rela | tions of fraternal co-operation j between members of the single I socialist family, the increasing J closeness between them, constitute | a logical historical process. | "And although this process de- j veiops in complicated conditions, | and" invoke the overcoming of | serious difficulties, in the final i count it will lead to the victory of the Leninist principles of inter- ( nationalism. j "Our parts and the Soviet Gov ernment see their primary task in ' consolidating the unity and co- j | hesion of the sociaiist com muni7;. ? in every way." | Mr. Ko>cgin said the Commun ! ist Party of the Soviet Union ( firmly opposed all attempts to j weaken the unity in action of the I world revolutionary forces. j "We fight both against revision- | ism and against dogmatism which | distort our revolutionary teaching. | "We are fully convinced that j creative Marxism-Leninism, the j brotherhood and solidaritv of the I Communists of ail countries, will | triumph." j iiifls socialism i I i j Mr. Kosygin told the meeting j that the USSR had served notice | on the USA that the USSR could not be indifferent to the fate of a I fraternal socialist country and was | ready to render necessary help to j the Democratic Republic of Viet- I nam if aggressors dared to en- | c roach on its independence and I sovereign tv. I w ' i Invariably following the Lenin I ist policy of peace and peaceful j co-existence of states with different | social systems, the USSR threat- I ened no countrv, Mr. Kosvgin de- j clared, I | The Soviet people regarded the j people's struggle for peace as a j struggle for creating the mosi | favourable conditions for the con | -olidation and development of tin j socialist community, for promo tins | the revolutionary workers' am ! uuional liberation movements. j Mayor's thanks j President Ho Chi Minh of th- j 'RY was on the platform wit; , ther high DRV officials. Thorn .luds attended the rally. 1 Hanoi Mayor Chan Zui Hviu aid that in the course of socialist j onstruction the DRV was getting c \ tensive help from the USSR am I ther socialist countries. "Many industrial plants, cultura. ;k1 municipal enterprises havt men built with the valuable help S 1 vhe USSR and serve as the base j >r increasing the socialist indus j nalisation of our countrv," he \ Ided. I Soviet specialists "work shouldei j. > shoulder with our workers am | -ecialists, sharing with them then 1 nowledge and experience. I "This is a graphic demonstration | ol the warmth of Soviet-Vietnam | ese friendship." Ma;. or Chan expressed the deep gratitude of all Vietnamese to the USSR for its support of the people's struggle for reunification of their country, for the expulsion of foreign invaders from their soil Inspires Seufh Noting Mr. Rosy gin's pledge to safeguard the DRV's sovereign;;. . he ""said- .Soviet support of the national liberation struggle '.vas "a source of great inspiration for out patriots in the south and tor aii Vietnamese people in their struggle against American imperialisTs". Earlier, at a reception held b; Premier Pham Van Dong. M: Kosygin said: "Your heroic an:: imperialist struggle, vour successes in socialist construction are exeit ing a revolutionising impact cm the entire situation in south-eas; Asia whose peoples are more am more emphaticallv voicing ther insistence1 on their right to set'' their own affairs." Pham Van Dong praised S-- \ : upporr for Vietnam and addc ' that US imperialist splitting :.n tics "demand of us a strengthen ing of the cohesion of the sociali>' camp -and the international com munist movement on the basis o: Marxism-Leninism and prole tartan- internationalism, on tire basis o: the revolutionary principles ru i 'aimed in the Declaration of !UV and the Statement of I960". Talks were held in Hanoi lv. tweeu the Soviet delegation and . DRV delegation headed by Pico dent Ho Chi Minh, "The sides exchanged views on juestions of relations between the two countries and on internation.n problems of interest to both sides -aid a communique. "The talks passed in 3 friend h and cordial atmosphere." MR. A. N. KOSYGIN I HO CH! MINH j 