 1 " tribune 1 2 ' V . _ I- I I . , . _ . Stop this war'! I I | THE India-Pakistan war is extremely dangerous to both g j countries, to Asia and to world peace. j | Death and devastation is adding to the misery of the ! I poverty-stricken peoples. Seeds of conflict between the ! g two nations, which won independence only id years ago, » j were sown by Britain in its long imperialist rule. I 1 The United States continues this tactic. Its. policy is f S: summed up in the maxim: Get Asians to fight Asians. | J The USA from 1954 supplied £535 million worth of | 1 military aid to Pakistan, and then from 1962 supplied £89 g | million worth to India. g j The US has continued to stir up division and conflict g between the two countries, while pursuing its overall aim S j to direct the military potential of both against the socialist | j countries. A bitter fruit of this policy is the present war. j | Disclosure this week of plotting by the US Central | 1 Intelligence Agency shows direct complicity of this sinister j f organisation in efforts to shape the regimes in both coun- g j tries to US imperialist aims. g | This exposure by Victor Anant (Australian, Sept. 14) t g comes only a few weeks after Lee Kuan Yew's devastating ! j proof of CIA activity in Singapore, open admission of deep f j CIA commitment in Vietnam and persistent allegations $ ! that Diem's overthrow and mgrder was plotted to keep the | | US war in Vietnam going. | I The ordinary people of India and Pakistan have nothing J j to gain from the conflict, and can only lose by the serious | | new threats to their political independence and the weaken- g j inq effect of divisions between their two countries and j g within the Afro-Asian bloc. ? I j SOVIET OFFER ! I j The Soviet Union's offer to mediate in the interests g |. of a ceasefire and a settlement of differences by peaceful g I means conforms to the needs of the Indian and Pakistani j peoples, and the aims of all peace forces. It also cor- ! I rectly shows the communist movement taking initiatives I j in defence of peace. I \ It is United .States and British imperialism which causes j I and keeps alive war situations in Vietnam, Malaysia and | now the Pakistan- Indian conflict. j j The Australian daily press tries to justify imperialist | j ooficy. To confuse the issues, ' they take advantage of g g Chinese statements which support Pakistan. . | j A genuine socialist foreign policy should be decided 1 j upon definite principles. Some aspects of Chinese for I j eign policy, appear to be guided by opportunist concern for j | narrow national interests. Only this can explain such ! events as the undignified scramble to support the Bourne- j | dienne military coup in Algeria, now followed by uncon- | I ditional support for Pakistan in the present conflict. | J. This only helps the imperialists in their efforts to j evade responsibility. I j DICTATORSHIP | j Pakistan has for years been a military-type dictator- | j ship and is one of the few Asian members of the American- g j inspired SEATO arid CENTO military pacts. j g The Communist Party is banned and communists and I j other patriots are imprisoned and tortured. ! I This is not to imply that the Indian Government is I g worthy of support. Although India has followed an official 1 | policy of non-alignment, rightwing and militarist national j I forces are increasingly dominant. Although more demo- j !S cratic in its political system, India has obstructed the demo- j cratic aspirations of the people of Kashmir: j The fact that war has broken out between these two j ! regimes, both members of the "British Commonwealth", j | reveals not only the contradictions in that grouping and j | in SEATO itself, but also the emptiness of the Menzies j | Government's claims that communism is causing war in j I Asia. ! AUSTRALIA'S NEED i 1 j j. Australian national interests demand the scrapping of j (the Menzies foreign policy, now in serious crisis. j Australia must break with the United States policy, j 1 which is lighting the fires of war all over Asia, and work j i out its own realistic foreign policy based on friendship with j 1 Asia, and the right to national liberation. v ;r Australia must Support; an immediate ceasefire between j Pakistan, self-determination for the Kashmiris ; and of all foreign military forces from Asia. i i. n.r it. i ii i. i in.. jtiL.ii._r---. ! j! .j...." 