 SA Liberals bang en te tbefr newer S. A. Correspondent ADELAIDE: After the per formance of Liberal Party Opposition Leader in the SA Upper House (Sir Lyell McEwin) recently, it would not be sur prising if Labor members sit ting opposite him . are not pro vided with protective clothing to combat the blasts of hot air. QIR Lyell (without flinching) 1 said that there was ho Party Partisanship in the House. This amazing statement was made just after the Liberals in the House had rejected a Labor move for three Labor MLCs and two Liberals to form the Standing Orders Committee and insisted on four Liberals and one Labor member. Other committees arava frpuffiri Rimilp.rlv "They did this despite the election of a Labor Government by the over whelming majority of SA people. In the Upper House, there is a combination of electoral gerrymander and restricted franchise. Hence there are 16 Liberals and four A.L.P. mem bers. Amongst the Liberals there are some direct representatives of SA's wealthy families, such as Sir Frank Perry and Sir Arthur Rymill. h Amongst Labor's policy points en dorsed by the people at the last el ections was the idea of having one roll for both Houses as a step towards abolition of the Legislative Council (Upper House). Sir Lyell said that the SA people did not appreciate the importance of the Council System and how it operated. . Here is an admission that the SA people are becoming a wake-up to the undemocratic nature of the Up per House and how it served big bus iness interests. Yet Mr. Story, Liberal MLC, said that if anyone tried to abolish the Up per House they "will have to deal with the people of SA-" To whom does he refer? The SA people have already indicated how they feel. If he means people like Sir Lyell McEwin, then, surely, such people will have to be dealt with, and firmly too, if democracy is to be served. Mr. Story said that the Up per House in the, next two or three years would prove to the people of SA that it was a "very useful, and fair body." Useful anr: fair to wnom? To the Bank of Adelaide, the Advertiser, AMP Insurance, SA Brewing Com pany (Rymill interests)? To Perry Engineering and Wilkinson and Company (Perry interests) To big business as a whole? The facts show that the Upper House has already proven itself use- ful and fair to these. If it means useful and fail to the people of SA, then it would do well to remember the words of senior tutor in politics at the Adelaide Uni versity (Mr. R.' Hetherington) that the Council remains "the amply conservative body it was when it was first elected in 1857 — a relic of the 19th century— its franchise re mains restricted — the council can veto any. measure passed by the House of Assembly-" What's useful and fair about this? Then there was the gem again from Sir Lyell when he said that the council would continue to exercise the same discretion and tolerance it had shown in the past. The same tolerance as was shown in the election of the Committees! Just like Sir Arthur Rymill's threat to oppose Labor measures in the Upper House, published recent ly in the press! 