 IMSIPE— SPECIAL SUPPLEMENT OH JriSlftaiM FEDERAL GOVT. ADMITS THREAT TO THE ECONOMY Major economic dangers, threatening the wellbeing of every Australian family, are revealed in the ex change of letters between Prime Minister Menzies and US President Johnson, made public last week. Menzies' letter in effect confessed that Australia is about v t to reap a bleak harvest from 1 5 years' dependence on Ame rican capital inflow to bolster the national economy and | cover up its basic weakness and instability. | President Johnson, on February 1 1 , in a move to redress | American's balance of payments crisis, called on US business- j men to cut back foreign investments and remit more of their f overseas profits to the USA. | "THIS so seriously threatens ' Australia's own balance of payments and business inter ests that the Menzies Govern ment, usually so subservient to American policy, could not re main silent. Menzies, on March 12 wrote to Presi dent Johnson pleading for Australia's exemption from the restrictions on capital export. Menzies' letter reveals the under lying instability in Australia's econ omic situation and betrays growing apprehension in government and busi ness circles at the consequences of his government's policy of one-sided dependence on the United States. In the eight years from 1956-57 to 1963-64 Australia's accumulated deficit on current account, (i.e. the excess value of imports over exports), amounted to 2,417 million dollars. This huge trading loss has been up to now concealed by the heavy inflow of foreign capital, including the undistributed profits of foreign mono polies operating in Australia. During the eight year period this capital inflow amounted to 3,022 mil lion dollars, of which 1,147 million came from North America. The consequences of any abrupt I cutting back of this . flow would be disastrous. In its trading relations with the United States, Australia occupies a most unequal position, worsened by America's restrictions on the admis- \ sion of several commodities vital to f Australia's export trade (including | wool, meat, sugar, lead and zinc) \ which account for 81 per cent of ex- \ ports to the USA. \ In 1962-63 Australia's Imports from \ the United States were valued at 478 \ million dollars, while exports amount- \ ed to only 297 million dollars, leaving | a deficit on current account of 181 | million dollars. " | This deficit was doubled by the ad- I dition of 181 rhillion dollars "invisible I exports", consisting in the main of I remitted profits; | If GMH, Mt. Isa and other wealthy | American monopolies operating in | Australia carry out President John- f son's edict and begin to remit even | more of their super profits, Aus- | Continued on Page 12 | _ __ A Due to Easter, Tribune will appear next Tuesday. HUNDREDS of Sydney workers and students, in separate demonstrations, greeted Prime Minister Menzies appearance at Sydney Town Hall On Monday with demands to stop the American ; intervention into Vietnam, and to end discrimination- against Aborigines. Men kes was making probably his Only personal appearand© In the NSW Libels' Stat ' GarTioaip-; ' Continued from Page 1 Tralia's position will be further worsened. In 1963-64 Australia's trading posi tion with the United States further deteriorated. The value of imports rose by 43 per cent while the value of exports dropped by 15 per cent, lifting the unfavourable balance to just on 442 million dollars. War expenditure attroad is the main cause of America's balance of pay ments crisis and the same factor is beginning to operate more strongly against Australia. Menzies acknowledged this in his letter 'to President Johnson, wherein he said: "For the financial year ahead, the signs point to a continued drain on our external reserves. "We have greatly enlarged our defence programmes and this will entail substantial additions to over? seas payments for defence equipment and supplies. . "Overseas expenditure in 1965-66 and later years arising from existing defence commitments and the new three year defence programme is estimated at about £400 million, of which about some £250 million or 550 million dollars will relate to pro curements in the United States." Menzies continued that additional commitments in the coming period were £200 million ioans maturing in the United States and £130 million re payments to the International Bank. President Johnson in his reply gave no guarantee that these restrictions would be lifted, nor did he hold out any promise that Australia would be exempted from the restrictions on capital export and remission of pro fits. , ' The letter reveals once again that Australian and other interests must give Way to US' interests. Such is the Government's panic that it instantly despatched Federal Treas urer Holt to fly to Washington to pursue this matter further. Footnote: For the past 15 years the Communist Party and Tribune have warned consistently against the dangers inherent In the unres tricted inflow of foreign, mainly American capital, into Australia and the privileged treatment and free dom extended to foreign monopolies to take over vital sectors of the Australian economy. The labor movement should take strong action now to halt this pro cess before economic calamity results. 