 Rail men concerned at delay CYDNEY: Railway workers in New South Wales are con cerned at the delay by the State Commissioner for Railways, Mr. McCusker, in giving a decision to a claim for increased wages. The government transport work ers are demanding wage increases in the form of an incremental scheme for service. A deputation to the Premier from the N..S.W. Labor Council and the Australian Railways Union early in February proposed that this scheme be based on a payment of 16/6 per week after one year's sev- vice, 33/- after two years, and 49 6 after three years and that payments be based only on service and nor skill or classification. Last October the Victorian rail way workers were granted wage in creases following a struggle which lasted 14 months. A representative meeting of the ARU recently expressed strong concern at the delays and called on the government to endorse the claims drawn up by a Labor Council sub committee of Transport Unions. t Last December, a conference of delegates and union officials called by the NSW Branch of the ARU and representing about 30,000 NSW rail way workers, endorsed a proposal for a 24-hour State-wide stoppage failing early satisfaction on these demands. The state secretary of the ARU, Dr. L. Ross, has circularised all Gov ernment MLAs. on behalf of the union's executive. Members were told that the ARU will co-operate with the NSW Aus tralian Labor Party in working for the return of a Labor Government and that a substantial grant will be made to election funds. "However, it would be misleading to avoid stating that railway work ers are expressing increasing disap pointment, with the failure of the Authorities to solve the serious labor problems, which face the in dustry," the circular said. The members were told that last year 3,500 workers with less than six months' service left the indus try and another 3,400 with over six months' service also left. Poor wages and conditions are given as the reason for this staff shortage. 