 Perth protests at war in\ Vietnam PERTH: Two demonstra tions opposing the war in Vietnam were held in Perth during the week. Students from the A.L.P. Branch of the West Australian University, demonstrated in front of Council House (central Perth) during the lunch hour last Wednesday. Students with posters demanding the end of war and criticising the intervention of the U.S.A. engaged in a verbal match with a counter demon stration of students from the Univer sity's D.L.P. Society. Dr. Alistair Rae and A.L.P. senator- elect John Wheeldon addressed the meeting, although much of what Dr. Rae said was drowned by a small hut very vocal number of well known D.L.P. disruptors. Mr. Wheeldon said that the meeting had been called to protest against the J killing and maiming of young Austra lians in a war which has been con demned by such people as General de Gaulle as well as many of Ameri ca's leading citizens. Eight hundred Australian troops only constituted a "murderer's token" and would not make any difference to the final outcome in Vietnam ex cept to make the Vietnamese people hate Australians. Communist Party and the EYL Thousands of shoppers in two busy J city blocks last Saturday morning watched as over fifty members and supporters of the Communist Party and Eureka Youth League demon strated against the sending of Aus tralian troops to Vietnam. Communist Party members wore white smocks with slogans saying: "No Aussie Troops for Vietnam". Eureka Youth. League black jerkins lettered in white said : ' Life not death— No Aussie troops for Viet- j nam". Thousands, of leaflets were distrib uted to passers-by. The Eureka Youth League distributed their own leaflet reproducing a cartoon from the "Aus tralian" showing Holt returning from j the USA (after the dollar talks) and Australian troops embarking. The leaflet posed the question "How many US dollars for an Australian digger?" The demonstrators proceeded to Newspaper House, the headquarters of W.A. Newspapers, who controls three out of. four of Perth's daily and weekend newspapers. A joint deputa tion interviewed the Chief of Staff of the "Weekend News," which was in process of production. They made a strong request for W.A. Newspapers to change their present policy of sup port for ther sending of Australian (troops to Vietnam. 