 | Take control of | prices , marketing Recently newspapers featured Woolworths' bulk pur- | chase of South Australian oranges direct from the growers | for the Sydney market. As a result, shoppers flocked | to buy what they thought would be cheap, good quality | rruir. I "THEN came complaints, j The price was no cheaper j than local oranges, the j quality mostly poorer. | Probably this bulk purchase j paid off for Woolworths. They S sold one million oranges in a I week. But it did not "pay off for | consumers. How different if such purchases were handled by State-controlled I municipal markets as advocated | in Communist State election pol- | icy. I Municipal markets could and S should benefit both1 growers and I consumers. D | They could challenge the pro- fiteering of middlemen and the j chain stores. j At the moment, hulk buying direct from producers only helps ! swell chain store profits. Wool- I worth made a record profit of 1 £3,353,688 this year, while G. J. I Coles' 1963-64 profit was £3,900,000. ! Communist policy is to take I marketing of fruit and vegetables | out of the hands of private mon- j opolies. It should operate on a non-profit basis, controlled by a committee representing growers, trade unions, consumers' organ isations and local and State Gov ernments. Municipal markets are but one of a series of policy points around which Communist candi dates will campaign to control and reduce prices. The campaign, which will con tinue before, during and after the State elections, also proposes: Federal price and. profit con trol, through Commonwealth States agreement. Immediate pegging of prices on a number of basic commodi ties, including meat, which has soared in price in recent months. Public inquiries into cost structures of many products, . with a view to having prices re duced. BELOW: Scene of con gestion in Sydney's present fruit and vegetable markets, as seen by artist H. Mc- Clintock. ; LIFE-SAVING | Mr. Copley has raised a claim | for better beacli facilities and more I assistance to surf life savers. | Over the last 50-odd years life j savers have pulled 140,000 people f from almost certain death. About | two per cent of Australians have been helped at some time by mem- I bers of surf clubs — 400 people were I rescued from the surf in the New- | castle district by qualified life | savers in 1962-63 alone. ! The Communist Party states: — | Commonwealth annual grant | to the Surf Life Saving Associa- | tion should he increased to £25,000. J Even this would only provide the | 262 clubs in Australia with about £100 each. ? Ten per cent of the Common- J wealth revenue should be made available for local government pur- | poses. This would enable the New- ! castle City Council to provide the I necessary works at all beaches from I North Stockton to Merewether. | The State Government to make j an annual grant to local government !to improve the beaches and their facilities. Life assurance companies to contribute to the surf life saving 1 movement on the same basis that J they pay' to fire brigades. Clubs | would then be provided with pro- perty accommodation (including S social facilities) and equipment (in- I eluding surf boats). | Essential steps should be taken i to see that pollution of beaches from all sources is eliminated. 