 Australians in discussion on | JEWS IN THE SOVIET UNION SYDNEY: During their recent overseas visit j representing the Communist Party of Australia, 1 Mr. Eric Aarons and Mr. Pete Thomas had dis- | cussions with representatives of the Central Com- mittee of the Soviet Union on the position of | Jews in the Soviet Union. I LAST week Mr. Aarons answered a number of ! questions put by Tribune. j Question: What is your view of I recent developments in this field j in the Soviet Union? i Answer: I Informed the repres entatives of the CPSU that Com- I munists and others in Australia j warmly welcome a number of | measures announced over the last ! few months. s I These measures include the j proposed publication of Hebrew | prayer books, expansion of a I religious study centre for train- j Sng of Jewish youths, an increase 1 in the amount of cultural mater- I ial published in Yiddish, cri- i ticism in "Pravda" of anti-semit- | ism and the decision of the Kiev 1 city authorities to erect at Babi l Yar a monument to Soviet citi- I zens who perished during the | war. I Assimilation ' | Q: "What do you think is the ! attitude of Jewish people to as similation? I A: We gained a strong im- I pression that the process of assi- | milation of Jewish people had I gone very far, was continuing at I a fast pace, and was what the I great majority wanted. I Fewer and fewer observe the Jewish religion. Virtually all Soviet citizens speak and read i Russian, and the vast majority of Jews wish to share in the general culture. One fact which came to our notice was that all magazines and papers had, by decision | taken in 1964, been freed from (restrictions on circulation which had existed before due to limita- I tion of paper supplies. I The monthly Yiddish language cultural magazine "Soviet Home land" was therefore now avail- I able to all who wanted it, yet the circulation up to recently was | stated to be only 25,000. A cam- I paign to boost the circulation of the magazine was recently launch ed by a conference of readers. I This, in my opinion, must be taken as one objective measure of the existing demand which is | often the subject of unsubstanti- Iated assertion and speculation. Q: It is true, as is sometimes stated, that few Jewish people Iare able to leave the Soviet Un ion, even to join their relatives in other countries? A: I was informed by repres- | entatives of the CPSU that all I nationalities were treated alike, j that there was certainly no dis- | crimination against Jews who S wish to emigrate to join their kinsmen in other countries, and that there has recently been a considerable liberalisation in handling such applications. We welcome this on humanitar ian and general grounds. Articles Q: What about reports of con tinued publication and circula tion of articles with an anti- semitic effect? A: I told the representatives of the CPSU that we condemned such articles and would welcome a more vigorous campaign against ithem. We raised specifically the case of such an article which ap- Ipeared in the Byelorussian paper Zviazda in February. We were inTormed that the | CPSU shared our view as to the 1 nature of such articles, and had | taken up the case of the Zviazda jj article with the Central Commit- 1 fee of the Communist Party of v Byelorussia. | It was also pointed out that I not all articles appearing in the fi vast number of papers, mag- | azines and books published in I the Soviet Union could possibly | be taken as representing the | views of the CC of the CPSU. | As a further example of this | a recent article in a Soviet mag- | azine circulating internationally I was quoted. This article tacitly | supported the Arab position on I the Jordan waters. This did not 1 accord with the position of the | CPSU, which recognised the right 2 of national existence of Israel, 1 and the question had been taken fi up with the author of the article. g UN speech | Q: What is your opinion of the | report of a Soviet delegate at the | United Nations supporting a pro- | posal grouping Zionism with g nazism? I A: I heard of this on my return | to Australia, and understand that 1 . this incident took place in a UN g Commission discussing racial g discrimination. | I have not of course had the ! opportunity to examine the de- I tails, but in my opinion it i jj certainly wrong to link Zionism 5 with nazism in such a connec- | tion. | The fact that the USA has been attacking the Soviet Union 1 in pursuance of cold war fi does not alter the fact that | the formulation was wrong S and appropriate steps by the | Soviet Union to prevent the g possibility of such a mistake in | future would be beneficial to the I communist movement. g Q: How do you think the state- | ment of the Political Committee | of the Communist Party of Aus- | tralia of June last stands up now? I A: I believe that what has hap- 1 pened and what I have seen and | heard confirms the substantial £ correctness of the principles and | views expressed in that state J ment. |- ERIC AARONS j 