 [?] The time has come for community action ion the medical funds i The announcement by the Medical Benefit Funds of a new medical fable costing a NSW family 6/- a week and the increase 1 in the present table from 4 /- to $/- per week for a family „ again ,j focusses attention on the cost of medical services . THESE Fund changes and 1 the almost certain increase in doctors' fees in the near I future make it urgent that 1 something be done to halt the I upward spiral of medical i costs 3 Trade unions, professional mid i other organisations, concerned with m the welfare and health of the com- 3 munity, should profnote discussion 3 on this question. 4 The responsibility of the Govern- t ment to the community for the health of its citizens could well he | the starting point for these discus- sions. s The need to provide adequate re- .vl numeration for medical practioners while providing the best possible services for the patients also needs r' to be considered. The position of the Medical Funds, their high administrative costs and |I complicated methods of assessing Jj payment to the contributors, should be considered in the light of the Government's use of the Funds to pay Commonwealth benefit to fund members, which must certainly con- | tribute to the complexity of asses- | sing what benefit to pay. | A person not belonging to a m Medical Fund is not eligible for any m Commonwealth benefit, so it would II appear the Government uses the f| mask of voluntary health insurance 1| as a ruse, to divert public attention if away from its own failure to pro- M vide an equitable health scheme. 1 Urgent action is needed to assist m low income groups and large faxni- ;;i lies. if The establishment of Government M owned clinics, providing facilities ;J| for general practitioner, specialist, jyftwiu.iugy, idU-iuiugy, eye »bt?x VIVAS&j || minor operations, etc., in centrally :|| situated places, completely free of SI charge deserves consideration. The full weight of the trade i unions in friendly co-operation with | Ja the medical profession should he j brought to hear upon the Govern- | J ment to force immediate action -! uPon such projects. Invitations to some medical prac- M goners to attend union meetings H to discuss the points mentioned HI surely lead to better under- ||| standing of all the problems in- volv®d in providing the highest III quality health services that the » nation can afford. gg Fay (Sydney) 