 Aboriginal delegation was "shocked and appalled" at shanty town SYDNEY: "We were shocked and appalled at the living conditions at Gulargambone (NSW)— the sanitary dump for the town is only 100 yards from the Aboriginal reserve", Mr. Charles Dixon, who was one of the all-Aboriginal delegation to Wal- gett (NbW) recently, said last week. i AD mvnv i , /y\,N- n was one or tour members of Aboriginal Waterfront Committee who joined a delegation of 20 to the segregated town of Wal- gett, in northern NSW. Other members of the Committee included, Mr. H. Jard, Mr. Jack Has- sen, ex-light-weight boxing champion of Australia Barred from pub Until Aborigines broke the color bar at the local cinema a few weeks ago, they had been barred from the Dress Circle and now the proprietor of the Oasis Hotel, Mr. Athol White, has bar red Aborigines from the hotel. Leader of the Students Action fox Aborigines, Mr. C. Perkins who was refused service in the hotel says he will sue the proprietor. At a public meeting held in the town the Aborigines' Progressive As sociation called on the NSW Govern ment to legislate against racial dis crimination. The waterfront delegation stopped at eight different Aborigine camps on five different reserves on the way back. They saw "The Island" at Coon- amble, the Talbragar Aboriginal Reserve at Dubbo, and the reserves at Gulargambone and Wellington. "If they want medical treatment they have to go to Coonamble twenty- six miles away. All Gulargambone has is a chemist. "The average worker, in Sydney" Charlie said, "does not realize how bad these conditions are because he's never been out to see them." "Appalled" "We were shocked and appalled at the living conditions," Charlie Dixon told Tribune. He said that the sanitary dump at Gulargambone was a furrow plough ed in the ground. It was left open until another furrow was needed. "After the Easter conference of Aus tralia-wide Aborigine organizations in Canberra last Easter, Air. Dixon re ported to 5000 waterside workers at the Town Hall. He told them what the delegates from the Northern Ter ritory revealed at the conference. "They said that some Aboriginal stockmen receive £2 for a 6i day week. The only place they can spend it is the station store. They get half a day off on Sunday to wash their gear. "They charge them 12/- for 2 ozs of tobacco, 1/- for a packet of papers, and if and when they get a bottle of beer it's 12/-." "The state laws are the worst feature in Queensland. If you are "under the Act" you get less money lilro in tV>D "WrvrfrVinTT-i foTrnt-rkTTT "The Department of Native Affairs is the trustee for the money. If a woman wants to buy some things, she's got to go to the police station and detail what she wants, under clothes and so on. Ifs humiliating to the women. "And if anyone ever makes any money they can take it off you by declaring you a ward of the state . . . like Ron Richards when they put him back on Palm Island." 3/- an hour Charlie Dixon's first experience of the "money bar" was at Taylor's Arm, Macks ville, near Bowraville Mission when his wages on a banana planta tion were 3/- an hour. "In the town we could buy a soft drink in the cafe hut we couldn't use the glasses . . ." Well, how silly can you get! There was practically no discrimin ation in Charlie's home town Port Kembla. "If a kid ever calls me a Talack- fella' I just say to his mother: Madame, your child is certainly not colour blind, but is lacking a bit on manners." Charlie was one of thirteen chil dren. His mother, who was from Wallaga Lake Mission, spoke the Gungutti dialect. But Charlie, regretfully recalling that he knew only a few words of his mother's tongue, has learnt with many others like Harry Jard, to speak effectively the sharp language of to day. Aboriginal wharf ies at last month's Budget deputation to Canberra. The Namoi River Reserve at Walgett ... a typical fringe town dwelling. "The Island" at Coonamble, alongside the Castle reagh River. 