 ! Katharine — " — j Prichard and the .v.; | - | J revolutionary hero Should a writer falsify reality for a political ! purpose? Is there a " typical Australian worker"? I I 1 By FRANK HARDY || -pHE review by W.J.B. M and the letter by Kath- Jj arine Susannah Prichard 3 in Tribune commenting m on Jack Beasley's "The I Bage For Life" are of I great interest. II Jack Beasley's booklet is a S useful contribution to what 1 will undoubtedly be a study m by many critics (only begin- |i ning) of the life and work of i this remarkable woman who If straddled like a giant the two HI main epochs of Australian I literature. ||j in my opinion, "The Rage for Life" II is, however, blemished by a certain fj dogmatism, a certain tendency to fig force life and literature into the :-m frame-work of pre-conceived ideas, mg though this tendency is less marked !|l than in some of his earlier writings and statements on literature. J| While agreeing with W.J.B. that the ill section of the booklet dealing with I® "the problem of the creative artists tfig in portraying the political . activist ?|fl or revolutionary hero . . . may be $$8 the subject, of further useful discus- sion and controversy". I feel that 'fJI this section is one marked by dog- ||| matism. ;S Katharine Susannah's letter is un- answerable especially when she re- ill jects Jack Beasley's criticism of '. .fig "Winged Seeds" and her alleged fail- |!i ure to "create a vital revolutionary ;||| hero" to take the weight of the novel 'ill from Sally Gough. "Was I to falsify reality _ and pro duce one, when the conditions did not?" she rightly asked. "Besides, Sally is the monolithic figure around whom the narrative is built." ; '4 Historical perspective, measuring i by now almost , twenty years, has al- ready vindicated K.S.P. and her tril- ogy. | In her trilogy K.S.P. artistically | heightened reality, she stopped short t of falsifying it. Her achievement , I stamps her, not only as a fine prose i writer and observer of human be- | . havior and society, but as an ideol- v| ogist of the highest order. The latter quality is often overlooked probably ; | because of the perverse belief per sisting in the Australian left-wing movement that cultural intellectuals are inherenfiv uoor in ideology. His meaning is not always clear, partly because he has a single dog ma to fit all contexts. And partly because he contradicts himself more than once: on page 34 he states that the revolutionary hero, Mark, in Working Bullocks, "faithfully reflects the conditions of the time and is artistically necessary" then on page 60 etc., he advocates the inclusion in Winged Seeds of a revolutionary hero who does not reflect the time and is artistically unnecessary. Again after several assertions about the "revolutionary hero" (pages 56, 60-62, 66) he ends up with (page 66) a statement with which, all will agree, but which seems to contradict all his earlier theories: "But it seems unlikely that this (the creation of the revolutionary hero) will happen with full success until the writers no longer need to be concerned with political analysis of their created characters." How an active revolutionary hero can be created without political analysis is not explained. W.J.B's review further complicates the matter with the reasonable as sertion that this section of 'Jack Beasley's pamphlet might well be studied by all Australian writers who are tackling contemporary social themes and trying "to interpret the emerging and nascent rather than the established social type." Again, Jack Beasley's meaning is far from clear. In the context of his earlier arguments, however, he ap parently means to indicate that the established type is the non-revolu tionary worker and the emerging type is the revolutionary activist. Yet on page 61 he states that "the revol utionary worker is the type of Aus tralian today . . and further, on page 60, he describes the revolution ary hero as "the most advanced representative of the working class organised in the Communist Party". Apparently we are asked to accept the astonishing assertion that the typical Australian is a Communist worker. This argument is reduced to absurdity by several facts of life: there is no such thing as a single typical Australian; Australians are, like other peoples, of varied social and psychological types. They have characteristics in common with other peoples and their national characteristics are not the monopoly of politically active people. Again Australian Communists are not of one type. The Party has ex isted for more than forty five years and has already produced several discernable types. Australian Com munists share common characteris tics with Communists of other coun tries and share Australian charac teristics with other Australians. ? \A/E get into even deeper water when we consider the "nascent and emerging rather than the established social types." Even to pose the question of the established social type as a non- revolutionary and the emerging type as a revolutionary is to reject it out of hand. There are established social types in the community at large, there are established social types in the Communist Party and, no doubt, there are emerging types in all strata of Australian society including the revolutionary workers. This whole theory of emerging so cial types, like everything else has a history and had validity until reduced to dogma. The first reference to emerging types in literature appears in the Marx-Engels correspondence about Balzac. Marx praised "old" Balzac's ability to portray types only just emerging in French society (I' have not the exact quote handy at time of writing). Balzac wrote in a period when French society was undergo ing swift changes, new social strata and characters were emerging. He held no theories about "emerging and nascent types": he merely stu died people and society and created his characters. To take this reference and elevate it to an all-embracing principle does no service to Marxism. Of course, Jack Beasley is not by any means the first to have done this. Some measure of the ideological confusion into which dogmatism led Stalin, Zhdanov and Co. can be gain ed from their insistence on the no conflict theory of literature at the same time as they argued that class struggle became sharper as Social ism grew stronger. Mao Tse Tung's so-called Yenan talks on literature and art were even more narrow and dogmatic; and the modern Chinese have made a dog matic interpretation of the "Com munist hero" theory the very corner- stone of their literary system. Judging by the Kruschev-Ilichev speeches on literature and art (1962- 63), it is apparent that there is still in the CPSU a trend of the old dogmatic narrowness in this field in spite of great strides made since the 20th Congress in ideology gener ally. They argued several concepts that are quite harmful to the develop ment of Communist art theory' » narrowing down of the range and concept of realism, an implication also of forbidden subjects (differences between generations, etc.), an in sistence that writers create within already defined spheres and limits instead of being innovators and an attempt to resolve genuine processes of growth within the Soviet art world by clumsy administrative measures. ? "J"HE important positive thing about Jack Beasley's book let is the real attempt he makes to apply Marxism to the Australian literary scene. Far too often in the past we have debated literary questions on the basis of foreign texts and experiences. What we need to do next, it seems to me, is to approach the Australian scene free of dogmatism in the true spirit of Marxist enquiry. The importance of portraying posi tive heroes, Communist characters, is acknowledged by all left wing creative writers in Australia and we have a record of some achievement in this field. Of course, we can and must do better. And we will do, if we free ourselves of dogmatic formulas and observe and create typical flesh and blood people in typical dramatic situations. What we need is the true artist's ability to see the unusual in usual people and a compassionate desire to tell their story and immortalise them. This way we will create "post tive heroes", bv rvhservir>» life |N the section of "The Rage -for Life" under discussion, Jack Beasley makes several references to the "problems of creating the revolutionary worker hero." KATHARINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD \ 