 On the spot in Mt. Isa "The Company's the real trouble" Fromjpffl ra@MAS Isa ! ""fHE company is too | high and mighty", said j a Mt. Isa miner's wife; j "The real obstacle is the stubbornness of the com- j pany", said Mr. J. Eger- ! ton, Queensland Trades | and Labor Council Pre- j sident. I These were among the com- j ments in Mt. Isa late last | week, in the spring-taut sit- I uation created by foreign- controlled Mt. Isa Mines and ! Tory State Government act- | ions which went even to the J extent of preventing Mt. Isa working class identities J ! McMahon and P. Mackie from ! coming- back to their own | town and homes. j The town exists around the I fabulously rich Mt Isa mine, from | which Mt Isa Mines (54% owned by | a US monopoly) has been ripping out J millions of tons a year of ore rich in | copper, lead, silver and zinc. f Since December, the mine has been | idle: father than concede the claims I of the workers for. a better reward for I their labors, the company sacked the | workers and has been threatening a j complete closedown of the field. | The company's actions and its I threat of a full closedown — tanta- I4 mount to a threat of a death sentence to the Mt Isa township, with a com- I muiiity that has numbered 15,000 to 86, 000— are charactei-istic of monopoly cold-bloodedness. I What, does a US monopoly — such I as American Smelting & ' Refining, i Which is the controlling power in Mt | Isa Mines care for tire welfare of | Mt Isa anu its people, or the develop | ment of Queensland or Australia? American Smelting 8c Refining in- | tcrests came to Mt Isa to get profit ! for themselves. They have made j millions. And have shown that, they i are prepared to adopt whatever mea- ! sures — however ruthless and what-" | ever the, effects to Australians — - in | pursuit of that aim of profit. Such is S monopoly's way. As in the 1961 dispute, Mt Isa workers see themselves confronted by an alliance of monopoly and Govern ment. On Friday night, at a press con ference in a Mt Isa hotel bedroom jammed with newspaper, radio and TV men, Mr. Egerton said that the T&LC representatives had come to try to settle the dispute on just and honorable terms, on the basis of the six-point claims raised by the unions (which include higher wages, bonus, shift allowance and contract rates; re-employment of Pat Mackie; full recognition of the Mt Isa Labor Coun cil, and amendment of the Arbitration Act). , Mr. Egerton said that the. company must agree to recognise the central trade union organisation in Mt Isa (the Labor Council) and confer with it on problems affecting all the unions; it had to reinstate Pat Mackie, and it had to convince the unions that the rest of the outstanding problems would be discussed in a genuine way. On Saturday, after a meeting be tween Messrs. Egerton, Hanson, Devereux and Thompson and Mt Isa Mines' general manager (Mr. Foots), Mr. Egerton said; ' "In view of the widely-held opinion that the actions of the Government have made settlement of the dispute more difficult, the unions have sug: gested that the company join with the unions in a joint approach to the Government for a Government employer-union conference, with all the unions involved present." The eagerness of the unions for a settlement by negotiation is thus manifest; But (in Mr. Egerton's words at thai Friday night press conference) "the Nicklin Government's Police State proclamation is a serious hurdle and, beyond that, the real obstacle is the stubbornness of the company". 