 [?] " Wffi ; SYDMEY: The year 1964 closed! with a rising wave of police bru tality in Australia, including the callous killing of a 19-year-oid lad in Melbourne, three days after Christmas. | — jE was Ian Tivendale, of Ringwood, and it was | first reported that polue j shot him in the back as he I ran from a car he and an- j other youth had. allegedly j stolen. . | Later, however, a statement | issued by the Victorian Chief I Commissioner of Police, Mr. R. fl H. Arnold, completely contra dicted that police statement. The Commissioner said the bullet which killed the boy was fired acci- dently from close range. He said the shooting took place beside a station waggon which it is alleged Tivendale had stolen. Conflicting First Constable Ronald Phillip Hennings of the Wireless patrol walked up to search Tivendale and as he was reaching out to search him a pistol was accidently discharged. It seems hard to reconcile that there could be two such conflicting statements over such a serious and tragic happening as the killing of a young man, . in connection with a simple offence. Had he been arrested and found guilty, he possibly would have receiv ed a good behaviour bond, a fine or at worst a short sentence. Qld. case Towards the end of December, top brass in the Queensland Police were investigating a statement allegedly made by a prisoner who died in the police lockup at St. George, Western Queensland. The statement was signed "Mel ville Dalton Lane", purporting to be the signature of the dead prisoner. The statement claimed that Lane had been kicked, punched and assaul ted. He died on December 15. In Sydney, Mr. Norman Allan, N.S.W. Police Commissioner, is in vestigating reports that a man was taken injured and unconcious from a cell at Paddington Police Station on November 30. His heart had stopped beating when he reached the hospital two hours after being put in the cell. The man, Robin Shaun Moody, 30, spent the next three weeks in a coma. . A Sydney Sun reporter interviewed Moody in St. Vincent's Hospital. A small bespectacled man, Moody is reported in the Sun as saying he was left battered and unconcious in the cell. Doctors opened his chest and mas saged his heart to start it. They also performed a major head operation to treat his injuries. While he lay in a deep coma doctors battled to save his life. What was his crime? He was arrested by a civilian and handed over to police for allegedly using offensive words. It has been reported that Mr. Allan said, "it is patent from the investigations that this man sustain ed injuries before he got to the police station." These are but three cases; there were many more reported? But these three cases are enough to justify a through public investiga tion into the activities of the police. 