 US has rejected j i Hanoi's terms for a peaceful settlement ! A CONSISTENT press campaign claiming that the United States is "ready for" negotiations over Vietnam but that there is "no one to negotiate with" is a clear-cut misrepresen tation of the facts. Allegations that the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam has refused peace discussions are refuted by the record. As early as April 8 last DRV Premier Pham Van Dong set out the basic points of a Vietnam solution in a speech to the DRV parliament. While purporting to be ready for "unconditional discussions", US pre sident Johnson has since refused to discuss Pham Van Dong's proposals, which are based on implementation of the Geneva agreement. President Johnson has also made it a condition of the "unconditional dis cussions" that he would not discuss anything with the South Vietnam Lib eration Front — the opponent he is actually attacking in South Vietnam. Pointing this out the American "Na tional Guardian" notes that Johnson "rigidly continues to impose condi tions on the nature of the final settle ment (no representation for the Na tional Liberation Front in a South Vietnamese Government) and to pro hibit any negotiations with the NLF whatsoever. 'We will settle for no less' he announced." Vietnam's four points In his speech of April 8 Pham Van Dong said that DRV policy was to' implement the Geneva Agreements and listed four points as the way to achieve this. "1. Recognition of the basic national rights of the Vietnamese people: peace, independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity. According to the Geneva Agreements, the US Govern ment must withdraw from South Viet nam all US troops, military personnel, and weapons of all kinds, dismantle all US military bases there, and cancel its 'military alliance' with South Viet nam. "It must end its policy of interven tion and aggression in South Vietnam. According to the Geneva agreements, the US Government must stop its acts of war against North Vietnam, completely cease all encroachments on the territory and sovereignty of the DRV. "2. Pending the peaceful reunifica tion of Vietnam, while Vietnam is still temporarily divided into two zones, the military provisions of the 1954 Geneva Agreements on Vietnam must be strictly respected: the two zones must refrain from joining any military alliance with foreign coun tries, there must be no foreign mili tary bases, troops and military per sonnel in their respective territory "3. The internal affairs of South Vietnam must be settled by the South Vietnamese people themselves in ac cordance with the program of the South Vietnam National Liberation Front/ without any foreign interfer ence. "4. The peaceful reunification ot Vietnam is to be settled by the Viet namese people in both zones, without any foreign interference. "This stand unquestionably enjoys the approval and support of all peace- and-justice-loving governments and peoples in the world. "The Government of the DRV be lieves that the above-stated stand is the basis for the soundest political settlement of the Vietnam problem. "If this basis is recognised, favor able conditions will be created for' the peaceful settlement of the Vietnam problem and it will be possible to j consider the reconvening of an inter- ! national conference on the pattern of I the 1954 Geneva conference on Viet- j nam." ' I 