 Upper House victory is Labor's chance to block Liberal schemes State Political Roundsman SYDNEY: Loss of control of the Upper House by the New South Wales State Liberal Government last week has opened the oppor tunity for effective Labor opposition to unjust Liberal schemes, provided the Labor leaders throw weight info real public cam- paigns around the issues they are fighting in Parliament. yms. could ensure massive public support for chal lenges to the Askin Government plan to restrict local- govern ment democracy, and for. the implementation of price con trol.. Mr. J, Renshaw— leader of the' op position has stated that Labor will now use their Upper House majority to review legislation for which the Askin government has no mandate — i.e., issues not raised before the elec tion. The Askin Government lost con trol of the Legislative Council (Upper House) when the Labor Party candi date, Mr. J. Cahill, was elected to fill the vacancy left by the death of Mr. M. T. Quin (Independent Labor). ALP control The ALP will now control 30 votes against the 20 of the . combined Liberal-Country parties and the in dependent Labor group. The last, time Labor held a majority in the Upper House was in Decem ber, 1959. Labor then lost its majority when seven of its members refused to support the abolition of the Upper House, "defected and formed an in dependent Labor group that supported the Liberals. No mandate Issues for which the Askin Gov ernment has no specific mandate in clude amendment to local govern ment election procedures. Its aims to abolish the proportional representation system, compulsory voting and the election of mayors by popular vote. The measures are aimed at strength ening business influence over coun cils. The Government is also proposing to abolish juries in accident cases— a step trenchantly criticised by Ren shaw as a move instigated by insur ance companies. Labor will also have the opportunity to block drastic government amend ments planned for the Landlord and Tenant Act. . . Already Askin 'has given every land- lord the right to investigate the finan cial affairs of every tenant. However, Labor should not only use its . new majority to block legislation for which the government has no mandate, but should also use it to help force the Government to accept other vital policies of the trade union and labor movement, such as the re- introduction of price control and the restoration of quarterly adjust ments to the basic wage. 