 THE UNRMNl FMNr | : A short story by BILL SUTTON QNCE upon a time there was a man who owned and dwelt in a pineapple and banana jungle.. He seemed a nice old gent on the surface, but as a well- known philosopher once re marked; "Who would think to look at a drop of water, that it consists of two highly explosive gases". This-....fenow..„.whQse„._name was Prank, also had a philosophy; he believed that if you were an employ ing property owner, everything on your estate was under your com plete control, man, woman, dog and cat. Despite this old-world woolly thinking, he became popular by at tending weddings, kissing infants and interesting himself in the prob lems of the local populace. After a while of kissing babies and not getting paid for it he decided to go in for it professionally and enter ed Parliament. Now the set up in which he was involved was a strange one. He belonged to the countrymen's Party which had formed a coalition gov ernment with the Liberals, who were not really liberal because the big manufacturing interests who financ ed them, got their dough back with interest, by charging king size prices for their machinery, fertilizer and other et ceteras which are essential for the farmers and other folk. The Liberals while pretending to love Frank tried hard to maneouvre one of their own mob in for the leadership but the Country men had the numbers, and by one of those flukes of history Frank became Premier. His slogan was "Develop the State", and he mainly set out to do this by inviting foreign capitalists to invest. Such things as giving away oil to overseas concerns, providing they slung ten per cent of the cop back was considered super patriotic, and if any of the multitudes spoke against this, they were told to quit their subversive activity, or expect a visit from any given branch of the five existing divisions of security police, or possibly all of them. After a few years Frank became well known. He opened fetes, facto ries and flower shows with regular monotony. He toothily appeared on telly almost as frequently as the ad verts. Seme people remarked "He's not as bad as we thought". "Harmless old coot", said others. But some of the mob still said ... Than a change came over the scene. The workers of a distant vil lage called Minetuwn had been pati ently observing for a long period how much profit the mineowners were making out of their labour. Even though none of them were mathematical geniuses it became painfully apparent to them that they were being touched off something terrible. Rising like lions they demanded more money. The mineowners crying poverty, said that the miners were a lot of ungrateful mugs and refused to grant the rise. The miners responded by electing a leadership from their midst, the spokesman for this group being a colorful character called M. Frank's government . was aghast, and called for a report from Flat- foot Flanagin, the chief of the State security police who informed them that Minetown was so full of reds that there were even citizens in that town who wanted to nationalise the mine. He also named M. as an agent of an unnamed foreign power. M. took the attack by reminding the people that the Minetown mine was seventy per cent controlled by a foreign power. Now the mineowners had always dealt severely with blokes like M. and running true to form they sack ed him. The miners knowing they lived in a democracy decided to go on wages instead of contract, so the company, no doubt imbued by the festive spirit locked them all out just be fore Christmas. The mineowners were now faced with one of the facts of political economy. This being that as there were "' not enough mineowners to work the mine their source of pro fits were cut off. Of course the miners were also . short of chips, so they decided to send envoys far and wide to collect money from their sympathetic fel low workers in other parts of the country. Now Franky really became cranky, he waited till M. and his team had left Minetown on the money raising tour, then bared his fangs and brought down such laws as would stop these miners' leaders from go ing back home. At the same time he dispatched a large contingent of plain clothes and other police - to Minetown to democratically enforce these laws. This legislation was so restrictive that one wag was heard to remark . that a person practically needed a legal opinion before one dared to breathe. A nationwide hunt went on for M. Murderers, burglars, shoplifter had an open go as all available police searched for public enemy number one, Mr. M. Road blocks were set up, air lines were told not to carry M. and his pals back home. But eventually the police had to report failure. This was hard to understand as M. was a most cons picuous figure. Big, with an accent quaint and wearing a bright red baseball cap, it would have seemed even Blind Freddie could have loc ated him. But night and day detec tives with many years training and equipped with all the technique of modern science (plus hand-cuffs and batons) could not sight the red- capped one. The multitudes cried out for the repeal of the standover legislation and demanded that the united front between Frank's Government and the . mineowners cease. But acting like "little boy lost" Frank dug his toes in and got tougher. The police were ordered to tight en their, nets. All baseball players over ten stone were shadowed, and prowl cars incessantly patrolled shops selling red dye hoping to get information on the "M for Premier" club, whose symbol was red base ball caps. Frank, deluged by letters and tele grams of protest, and with a twenty- four hour stoppage of industry on his now shaky hands, was forced to take water, and drop the hot potato law. The townspeople of Minetown cheered loudly when they heard this news, but when M. appeared in town a few minutes later, and an nounced he'd been in smoke in his own house, there was really "a hot time in the old town tonight" spirit abroad. The keepers of" the law scowled. Silently most of them packed their tape recorders, fingerprints kits, two-way radio wrist watches, Dick Tracey comic books, and stole away into the night, wondering which of them would be banished to Lake Eyre or some such similar place where police political prisoners, are sent as scapegoats. As for Frank-the-Failure, he is a broody boy these days as he know pi he'll have to keep an eye on his |1 fair weather friends the Liberals |1 who, knowing he is on the nose at B the moment, might give him the old m political stab in the back treatment and push one of their team in for i"l Premier. And of course he has an appoint- ment to keep with his electors soon- % er or later. NOTE: Bill Sutton's collection of short funnies "Leave the Heads on , 'Em" has now gone into its sec ond edition. Available from all progressive bookshops. — Editor. / 