 II G White Paper Joes n:t justify aggression against Vietnam L J THE official American White Paper, "Aggres sion from the North", which DurDorts to Drove that "North Vietnam" is aiming to conquer "South Vietnam" in fact sug gests just the opposite. This is shown by an. analysis of the Paper by I. F. Stone's Weekly, published in Washington. , Issued in Washington last February, the White Paper has been used ever since by the US and the Menzies Government as their main propaganda stock-in-trade to "justify" their own Vietnam aggression. Key points in its are brought out effectively in an article in the British Communist weekly, "Comment," praising Stone's analysis. The so-called evidence of "aggres sion from the North" is offered in Appendix D of the White Paper. "Comment's" article says: Weapons Appendix D provides a list of weapons, ammunition ancl other sup plies of Chinese, Soviet, Czech and North Vietnam manufacture, with the dates and place of capture from the Viet Cong guerillas, covering an 18- month period from J' ne, 1962, to January, 1964. This is the list: 72 rifles (46 Soviet, 26 Czech) 64 sub-machines guns (40 Czech, 24 French but "modified" in North Vietnam) 15 carbines (Soviet) 8 Machine guns (6 Chinese, 2 North Vietnamese) 5 pistols (4 Soviet, 1 Czech) 4 mortars (Chinese) - 3 recoilless 75mm. rifles (Chinese) 3 recoilless 57mm. guns (Chinese) 2 bazookas (1 Chinese, 1 Czech) 2 rocket launchers (Chinese) 1 grenade launcher (Czech) .179 total. Yet, according to Pentagon figures, an average of 7,500 weapons were captured from the guerilla forces each 18 months in the past three years. 179 out of 7,500— that's only 21 per cent. Note that Hanoi's "elaborate pro gramme" consisted of 24 French sub machine guns "modified" in North Vietnam and 2 machine guns made in North Vietnam plus 16 helmets, a uniform, and .an undisclosed number of mess kits, belts, sweaters and socks. 'Stone's suggests that judging by this tally, the main retaliatory blow should be against North Vietnam's clothing lactones. 600 rounds a minute Reports of guerilla attacks suggest a considerable use of mortars. The Americans also captured 183 Chinese . shells for a 60mm. mortar. This mortar fires about 20 shells a minute. So that was just about enough am munition for 10 minutes' firing. The capture of 100,000 Chinese cartridges for 7.2mm. machine guns looked more impressive. These ma chine guns fire 600 rounds a minute. One machine gun platoon with 4 machine guns would thus use up this lot in 40 minutes' firing. I. F. Stone's Weekly comments: "If the ratio of Communist-made weapons captured is the same for weapons used, then only 121 days of those 18 months were fought by the guerillas on the basis of Communist-made supplies." A very great deal was made by the US Government and the press of , alleged gun-running by sea from North to South Vietnam. According to the White Paper "dramatic new proof was exposed just as this report was being completed" by the dis covery of a suspected arms cargo ship on February 16. The New York Times (28/2/65) said: "Apparently the major new evi dence . . . was provided by the sinking in a South Vietnamese cove of a 100-ton cargo ship loaded with Communist-made small arms and ammunition. A ship of that size is not much above the oriental junk class." Just about the size of Sir Francis Drake's "Golden Hind" in fact. In an earlier New York Times story (22/2/65) it was reported that: "About 12 000 vessels are searched each month by the South Vietnamese coastal junk patrol force, but arrests are rare and no significant amounts of incriminating goods or weapons ever have been found." The lone gun-runner conveniently turned up just in time to be "dra matic new evidence." Who are guerillas? It is an essential part of the US Government's case that the guerillas are almost all from North Vietnam. The White Paper claims "that as many as 75 per cent, of the more than 4,400 Viet Cong who are known to have entered the South in the first eight months of 1964 were natives of North Vietnam." A table in Appendix C of the White Paper gives the number of "confirmed military infiltrees" per year from the North. The total for 1959-64 is given as 19,550. If this were true it would mean 19,550 Vietnamese moving from one part of their country to another com pared with the close on 30,000 Ameri- can "military infiltrees" in South Vietnam. But is it true? The White Paper says its figures are "based on information from at least two independent sources." They don't of course name either the sources or the nature of their 'independence." Getting down to cases — no informa tion on how many men infiltrated from the North have actually been captured. One part of the White Paper gives "individual case histories" of North Vietnamese soldiers "sent south bv Hanoi." But all nine are of South Vietnamese origin! A following sec tion headed "Infiltration of native North Vietnamese" names five, but one of these also is from the South. Appendix C gives the case histories and photographs of nine other Viet Cong sent south by Hanoi. Checking of their birthplaces showed that only two of the nine were born in North Vietnam. So— five years of fighting and the US White Paper can cite only six North Vietnamese infiltrators! It was in 1961 that a US Govern ment Blue Book mentioned the elec tions which recording to the Geneva Agreements should have been held m 1956 to reunify Vietnam. The Blue Book said: "It was the Communists' calcu lation that nation-wide elections scheduled in the accords for 1956 would turn all of South Vietnam over to them . . . The authorities in South Vietnam refused to fall into this well-laid trap." Australia An article by Sandra Silverman in the Australian paper Outlook also "iticises the US White Paper. She says: "The main legal argument of the US is that it has intervened in- the country at the request of a legally- established Government. 'But, as the New York Times (Feb ruary 21, 1965) pointed out, 'there have been eight governments in the last 16 months, most of them estab lished by force'." Since then, fall of the Quat Government brings the total to nine in 18 months. "On the legal score the White Paper is deceitful. "It tells that the 1962 Special Report by the International Control Commis sion declared . that the North had in specific instances sent men and ma terials south in violation of the Geneva Agreement. "But it fails to mention that part of the report which condemned South Vietnam and the US for enter ing into a military alliance in viola tion of the Geneva Agreements. "At that time the US was criticised because it had 5,000 military advisers in the South; the Geneva Agreement had limited the number to 684 at the time of the 1954 cease-fire. "The US and the South Vietnamese were also criticised by the Commis sion for ham-stringing its efforts to check on arms imports in violation of the agreement." South Vietnam today: Areas in black are controlled by the National Liberation Front. 