 [?] I With Tribune's Industrial I Roundsman "T"HE Boilermakers' Federal Conference last week in Sydney called for a wide repre sentation of boilermakers at the Conference of Aboriginal . Welfare to be held in Canberra over the Easter weekend. "The denial of human rights to the Aboriginal people, despite the many requests made to governments, both Federal and State, is a disgrace," the boilermakers said. A call was made to all sections of the trade union movement to intensify the campaign for the granting of full citizens' rights to the Aboriginal peo ple. The Boilermakers also decided to increase their contribution to provide for two scholarships for ' Aborigines per year. ? An elderly gentleman, homburg hat and all, walked too close to the demonstrators who spent, an hour last Thursday walking around the block containing the US Consulate in Syd ney. A top brass police officer told him ... "to get into line!" "But I'. . .," he started to say. "Don't argue and get into line," re peated the officer assisting him to carry out the "request" with a move ment of the elbow. Maybe the old gent hadn't come to the demo but he learnt something anyway. ? Last week's demonstration of Syd ney wharfies outside the Common wealth Arbitration Commission took place on the 19th day of the - present basic wage hearing. RnmA credulous neerolfi !n the labor , movement thought earlier that the un- ioris claims, were so modest and the arguments so good that it was just a matter of walking up and getting quick justice. The wharfies vocal request of "we want more pay," started at 11.30 a.m. as the judges adjourned for a morn ing break. By 12 noon, when they had not re turned, one wharfie in .the court re marked that no foreman on the water front would tolerate a 10.30 morning start and then a half hour smoko at 11.30. "We would all be sacked!" he said. ? The present Easter bread dispute shows the one-way justice of Arbitra tion. The carters according to an order from Mr. Justice Sheehy are instruct ed to deliver the bread, if asked to t, do so, or face a fine of £100. The master bakers on the other hand are not even threatened with a fine for refusing to grant penalty rates to the bakers. 