 McMAHON CHAIRS PRO-FASCIST MEETING SYDNEY: A Federal Cabinet Minister recently chaired a public meeting whose sponsors included organisations of wartime pro-nazi collaborators. "THE meeting, held at Latvian House, Strathfield, was ad- dressed by the Federal minister for Labor (Mr. McMahon) who also introduced all the other main speakers. Members of the audience included the Vice Consul of Nationalist China. The organisations who called the meeting were the Anti Bolshevik Block of Nations, the Union of Baltic People and the Christian crusade. The whole tenor of the meeting was aimed at stirring the audience to demand war against the Socialist countries now especially against the Soviet Union. Professor R. Dragan, a top Austra lian official of the Anti-Bolshevik Bloc of Nations (ABN) organisation "appealed for mobilisation of all anti-bolshevik forces and for active struggle against the greatest world evil, Moscow." The meeting demonstrated once again that the Menzies Government has very close ties with these organi sations, especially the ABN which includes the notorious . terrorist group, the Ustashi. The ABN was formed in 1943 in the Ukraine by a conference of puppets of Hitler. The world president of the organi sation Jaroslav .Stetzko, who was the head of a ' Ukrainian . puppet Government during the Nazi occupa tion visited Australia mysteriously last December. On December 16, reporting on his visit, Tribune said, "it is believed that he is negotiating with represen tatives of the Menzies Government over a new scheme to intervene into the affairs of Asian Countries." Stetzko on his arrival in Aus tralia on a visa issued by the Menzies Government, told reporters that one proposal of the A.B.N, was for an internationally based volun teer army in the Asian area to "fight Communism" in North Vietnam, North Korea, and mainland China. At about the same time, an ap proach was made by the South Korean Government to the Men zies Government and other govern ments to join in a scheme of this kind. The South Korean Government, an arm of the U.S. State Depart ment, is known to be supporting the activities of the A.B.N, and other such extreme rightist bands. Mr. McMahon's name can now be added to the list of guests at pro- fascist celebrations, that includes Mr. Opperman (Minister for Immigra tion) and W. C. Wentworth. [?] 