 9 fclH 9 Vietnam rally / 2 ; m I BBS dffik S Y D to fc' Vffl I 500 at consulate; answer to Johnson SYDNEY: More than 500 Sydney people last Thursday gave their reply to American President Johnson's continued air-raids and so-called "offer to negotiate" in Vietnam, by I surrounding the entire city block containing the U.S. Con- I sulate for a full hour of peak traffic time. , /,T WRS hinncicrf rlomnnctra. | "'3av'" tion yet seen in Australia over the war in Vietnam. Placards including demands for US troops to leave Vietnam and for ap plication of the Geneva Agreement- (1954) were displayed by people of many walks of life, including many young workers and students. Next Thursday Afterwards the demonstrators, meet ing in Wynyard Park, unanimously demanded that the Geneva Agreement be honored, and called for a still big ger demonstration at the same place and time this week (5 p.m. to 6.15, Thursday, Wynyard Street). In Queensland, hundreds joined in an Ipswich-Brisbane peace march, a Brisbane demonstration and a deputa tion to the US Consul. In Adelaide, some 50 men, women and children demonstrated in frP.t of the US Consul's office in Victoria Square in protest against US actions. Earlier, the Communist Party and the Eureka Youth League both sent dep utations to the Consul. In a new letter to Menzies, Austra lian Anglican bishops this week ac cused him of concealing the truth about South Vietnam and asked him again to change his policy of armed force against Asia. Statements from the Socialist coun tries and also from American and British press spokesmen have already focussed on the fact that the Johnson speech last week means no change in the US war on Vietnam, north and south, and was made merely in an at- . tempt to quieten world-wide public. anxiety. The same point was grimly em phasised by the US administration over the weekend when it ordered the biggest raid to date on North Vietnam and provoked a clash with Chinese planes on the border of Chnia. Replies Spokesmen for the Soviet Union, the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and People's China have made it clear there will be no "peace talks" while US explosives, napalm and phosphorus continue to rain on Vietnam. They all demand the withdrawal of US forces from Vietnam, under the terms of the 1954 Geneva agreement, which declared that Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia must all be free of foreign troops and military bases. On the day after Johnson's speech the Vietnamese newsagency released the text of an interview given earlier by President Ho Chi Minh in which he said: "To settle the South Vietnam ques tion the US must first of all withdraw from South Vietnam, let South Viet namese people decide their own af- Continued on Page 12 VIETNAM Continued from Page 1 fairs for themselves and stop their provocative attacks against the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam. "This will bring, about favourable conditions for a conference along the lines of the 1954 Geneva conference. This would be a reasoftable and sen sible approach, beneficial to peace and the US people". Soviet view In Warsaw, where the Soviet Polish alliance treaty was renewed for an other 20 years, Soviet Communist Party secretary L. Brezhnev said: "We want to make it clear to all that the USSR will render all aid neces sary to strengthen the DRV's defences and beat back American aggression. We have not been found wanting in this respect before and we will not be found wanting now or in the fu ture." Pravda commented that Johnson's speech showed no change of heart and despite the widespread use of the phrase "no conditions", indications of what in fact the conditions were, had quickly appeared. The 2500 American ministers, priests and rabbis, in a full page advertise ment in the New York Times, said in part: "Let us declare our intention to withdraw our troops, calling on other states to do the same, thereby allowing the Vietnamese the right of self-determination." Bishops' letter The Australian bishops' second let ter to Menzies says:— "Two serious breaches' of the spirit and letter of the Geneva agreements have been committed by the South (Vietnam) with full acknowledge and active approval of the United States. "They are the continued refusal to hold free elections and the grant of foreign bases to a military power." Both the British and US press con firmed the Soviet, Chinese and Viet namese view that the Johnson "peace offer" doesn't mean peace at all but rather intensified war. The Washington correspondent of -the London Financial Times said that "the State Department had grown in creasingly uneasy about the damage which had already been done to the American image in the uncommitted world . . . embarrassing criticism from American allies also seemed to be growing". The London Guardian in an editorial notes that the "unconditional discus sion" offer has in fact several condi tions, or "strings" attached: (1) em phasis that US troops will stay in South Vietnam; (2) denial of the right of the South Vietnam Liberation Front to participate in negotiations although it is the "main belligerent" in the South Vietnam war; (3) stress on the necessity of "the independence of South Vietnam" despite the Geneva stipulation that the 17th parallel "must not be taken as a political and ter ritorial boundary." The Geneva Agreement should be respected, says the Guardian, and the reunification of Vietnam not ruled out. In America United Press Interna tional reporter Stewart Hensley said Johnson's speech was a "skilful ef fort to quieten mounting criticism abroad . . ." Johnson "made it clear that military attacks must be continu ed," he said. The alleged "new posture", said the reporter, was adopted just to "make the American position easier to defend before the bar of world opinion" be cause there had been "mounting criti cism, some here, but mostly abroad." 