 ' ' I ' ' H There's a luxuru tax on alarm clocks i "|"HERE are two kinds of Mexican labor. The legal ones are paid half the going wage, with good beds, food and doctor. And the "wetbacks", who are supposed to swim the Rio Grand River, get half the wage and no condi tions. Didn't- you ever join a union? "I worked in Elko, Nevada, as a plasterer's laborer. We got 84 dollars a week, 10 dollars tax, paid the union fee, 50 dollars. The rep came back, we asked for our books. He never brought 'em. When he came back the next time, we ran him off the place with re inforcing steel. Can't they vote them in or out? "There's voting, yes, but no elec tion. V "In the States there's either a good union, or no union' at all." Did you ever see the Ku Klux Klan? "I never was in the deep' South. I went to Texas, that's semi-South, and that's far enough. "But the Ku Klux Klan is not working people. . It's business people. - "After working hard all day, they're not going to burn fires all night, are they?" How does the farmer give you your wages? "You're paid by cheque on the Fri day; some of them bounce. Unless you're known in the town, you can't cash 'em till the bank opens on Mon day : — ancl then you're back at work. What about taxes? "There's a sales tax on everything except the grocer. "In California it's 1 cent on 20, 2 cents up to 60, and 3 cents over 60 and up to a dollar. "There's a luxury tax, too, on jewel lery, luggage, picture shows, even on the alarm clock that gets you up to work for the boss. It's classified as jewellery. "Agricultural worker pays no tax on wages. How about medical? "If you get knocked down in the street, they won't touch you until they see your wallet. If you've got no money, you've got no doctor. "The county ambulance'll give you a bandage. "We were better off setting our own. arms. Is produce destroyed? "Farmers are heavily subsidised. If you're a wheat farmer in a surplus, x they'll subsidise you so much not to plant. You'll get your profit without turning the .soil. "I've seen subsidised potato farmers in Idaho pouring blue dye on potato crops. It makes 'em unfit for human consumption. Did you ever strike it rich? "An oil pipe burst, in California, I think. "The police stopped my car and asked me if I wanted a job. They said if I didn't want to work, they'd book mc for vagrancy and I'd have to work without pay. "I took the job. "They took our matches, the buckles on our belts. We had rope round our trousers and brass shovels and brooms. "I got 250 dollars for 36 hours' work, and a new suit of clothes. You always tell 'em your new suit and shoes were damaged while you were on the job. . "Forest fires, too, pay well. They can ' draft you to fight 'em. I" once drove 400 miles to fight a fire. It was out when I got there." Did you ever sell blood? "In Lance, Michigan, I was working as a 'pearl diver' (washing dishes). "I had a bad toothache so I sold a pint of blood for fi'dollars to pay the dentist. The blood is sold to the hos pitals, and if you're in a hospital, they'll sell it back to you for 35 dol lars a pint." Did you see any way out of this? "I thought riots. That is, take the food if they won't give it to you. It was like that in the South just before the Korean war. "They put on extra police. "I never considered to take the wealth off the rich, only food." Do you think things have improved Is since you left? '1 "I'd say they've got better for the j 3 better man, and worse for the worse r "5 man." \ How did you come to Australia? "I met an Australian, jockey, shovel- ling peas in California. He said, 'Go 'j out to Australia, you don't have to | work there.' 7| "I came here chasing rainbows. I || wanted to buy a farm, but I didn't ,|| know the ground was .gold." Jg Do you like conditions in Australia? S "I reckon if a country's good f| enough to make a quid in it's good || enough to live in." M :i lllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllil Ulllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillll The second and final story from DENIS KEVANS, who interviewed an American migrant worker recently ar rived in Australia. Mllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllll JII!llll!!llllllllllllllllil!il!l!I!!lllll!l! 