 Building workers threaten to stop over PWD sackings SYDNEY : Building unions have threatened a State-wide stoppage of all workers in the Public Works Department over sackings in the school build ing and maintenance section. RECENTLY "1 1 workers were I dismissed from this section and a further 1 60 are threat ened with dismissal early in the new year. The sackings followed announce ments by the NSW Liberal Gov ernment of its plan to drastically cut back expenditure on school building and maintenance. (See teachers story this page). Protests A meeting of the Building Trades Group of uniors last week in Sydney demanded of the State Government to stop any further sackings. The NSW Labor Council has also been asked to arrange ' r - it deputation with Education Minister, Mr. Cutler. Failing satisfactory replies from the Premier (Mr. Askin) and the Minister, the BTG will consider a State-wide 24 hoiir stoppage early in the New Year. A 24-hour stoppage of PWD workers at Wollongong on the NSW South Coast ' was held a fortnight ago in protest against the sackings. The South Coast Labor- Council alt' its last meeting condemned the Government for cutting back the school building program. - South Coast unions together with Parents and Citizens Associations are seeking a deputation with the Minister. Delegates said . the Government had cancelled the building of any new schools and that no extensions will take place in the Wollongong area until May next year. It was reported that ; building has stopped on the new Oak Flats Public School although children are now forced to do their lessons in unsuitable places. Work was also stopped at the Bulli Public School which means one class wi)l again be forced to use the church hall "Shocking" Mr. E. Boatswain (acting NSW assistant secretary Building Wor kers Industrial Union) said the director of the PWD told the union that all districts have been sent modified finance allocations for schools over the Christmas period. In Moree alone, £48,000 allocated by the Labor Government for the eight schools in the district has now been withdrawn. - Mr. Boatswain said "this shock-, ing situation not only affects the; . jobs of building workers and and places added burden oh teachers, but further lowers the standard of education our children- - are getting." - . . o . 