 Bombs answer to Christmas truce appeal :7 Offers of a Christmas Eve truce from the South Vietnam National Liberation Front brought only a new escalation of the war from the US imperialists. THIS took the form of an air strike against the Hanoi- Haiphong "industrial complex" and an announcement from US Defence Secretary McNamara that more such raids were planned. Attacking the Hanoi-Haiphong area, which has the greatest concentration of civilians, inevitably means more civilian casualties. The suggestion from the Viet- , namese patriots seems to have brought only sneers from US leaders. According to the Sydney Morning Herald's New York correspondent, "rumors" that President Johnson might order a Christmas Eve pause in bombardments (the South Vietnam National Liberation Front having intimated that it will suspend opera tions for 12 hours to allow Christian services to be held in peace) were contradicted by Administration sources. Press secretary Moyers said the President had no plans for making "any startling announcement of that kind." A pause in bombings, it was stated, could allow the other side to dov something which would "make it difficult to renew the bombings if necessary" — a disaster which ap parently has to be avoided at all costs. Such a pause would, at any rate, definitely spoil Christmas for the arms-making millionaires in the (JSA who strive at all costs to prevent any interruption of the flow of profits the war is providing for them. ' Before last week's attack on the Haiphong power station, Johnson made another of his routine appeals for "peace," and the story was put around that an approach was being made through the US Ambassador in Warsaw. It is obvious now that while John son was speaking and while the Warsaw "approach" was being made (if it was) the top military men were working flat out on the plans for the escalation raid. Church plea In America the National Council of Churches, representing Protestant and Eastern Orthodox churches of 30 denominations, with a membership of 40 millions, condemned the escala tion of the war in Vietnam. It called for an end to the bomb ing of North Vietnam, for a cease fire and a peace conference. The Council was meeting in Madi son, Wisconsin. This is the first statement on the Vietnam war to be made by a major US religious body. (Speaking in the Sydney Town Hall a week later,, Mr. Francis James, publisher of The Anglican, said there was now no major body of church opinion anywhere in the world that had not condemned the Vietnam war.) In a television interview Senator Robert Kennedy, brother of the late President, has called for a full discussion in Congress before any more US troops are committed to Vietnam and before any extension of the war by bombing new areas. Behind the raising of the discount rate by the US Federal Reserve Bank last week is uneasiness in financial and . governmental circles over the effect of the Vietnam war on the US economy. This caused annoyance to the Ad ministration, which hopes that a buoyant econorqy will deflect public attention from the human and ma terial costs of the war. Bombs don't help Two British journalists who inde pendently visited North Vietnam have reported that the US bombardments are only serving to united the Viet namese more solidly behind their leadership in resisting US aggression. They are Felix Greene, writing in the London Observer, and James Cameron, whose articles have ap peared in The Australian. Greene says he found that the North Vietnamese were "solidly together." He added: "This small, backward country of 17 million people is pitting Itself against the richest and most powerful nation in the world, yet is utterly confident of ultimate victory." Mr. Cameron has stated that even if the US virtually wiped out North Vietnam's industrial resources it would still fight on without them as it had done against the French. 