 TBWTmfflniiwwwimMwwMBHTiiT-MrTrwinHiw mi W. GERMANY LIGHTS THE FIRE AGAIN By a special correspondent NYONE would think that, after what hap pened to Germany in the last two wars, militarism would be finished there. Were the West German generals of today about to point to a glorious record of achievement their attitude might be comprehensible, even if still inexcusable. In fact they and their predecessors led Germany, twice in a half century, to catastrophic defeat. Instead of finishing up as master of Europe and the world, Germany was destroyed and dismembered and had to sign humiliating terms of sur render. Even the worst of the militarists, it might be thought, would choose another path for his country in the future. But that is not so in West Ger many. Once again the jackboots are starting to move. Steel helmets are being dragged out of cupboards, flags waved, war songs sung at nationalistic rallies and the old slogans associated with the Kaiser's (and later Hitler's) Drang nach Osten (Drive to the East) given an airing on platforms and in papers.. Sudetenland Hitler's old claim to Czechoslova kia's Sudetenland, which led up to the last world war, has been re vived and endorsed at Government level by an Erhardt cabinet minister, Seebohm. Talk of war to "regain" east Ger many (now the German Democratic Republic) and the Polish territory "-eyond the Oder-Neisse river frontier fixed at Potsdam in 1945 is common place. And this time the militarists are threatening to say it with nuclear weapons. They are not satisfied with having the biggest army in western Europe and a dominating position in NATO. Recently, writes the Manchester Guardian, West German foreign min ister Schroder "frightened every body" by outlining his government's attitude on nuclear weapons, "A form of nuclear organisation must be found which satisfies the security requirements of NATO's non-nuclear members. "If this is achieved by the creation of a multi-lateral nuclear deterrent force or an equivalent solution, then (West) Germany could offer to renounce the acquisition of her own nuclear weapons". Ultimatum This is an ultimatum. West Ger many wants nuclear bombs and will renounce their acquisition" only if she can get a finger on the trigger of the proposed NATO multilateral nuclear force's nuclear bombs. No wonder the Manchester Guard- J?n,ls scared. Pew Britons will forget that Hitler wrecked London's East End and Coventry Cathedral long USSR the firSt bombs fel1 on the The Manchester Guardian also sug- S? .edorially that the German attitude blocks any hope of a "non- fvnl on" agreement emerging smSL toe recormawd Geneva disarm ament talks. As the Guardian says, Schroder's remark means that "Germany would not be prepared to sign a non- proliferation agreement until some positive decision is reached on the various proposals for a multilateral nuclear force". And of course a "positive" deci sion can only mean a decision that would put the weapon firmly in West German hands, without any non sense about having to ask the Danes or the Dutch for leave to use it. Hence daily press statements that the West is trying at Geneva to "prevent the spread of nuclear weap ons" and is being frustrated by "Russia" ("Russia shatters West plan to Stop Bombs") are misleading. The West Germans would never accept a plan that did not "spread" possession of nuclear weapons as far as to themselves, at least. And the West could not offer such a plan without breaking their alliance with the West Germans. And since their whole post-war policy since the cold war began has been based on rebuilding West Ger man militarism as a menace to the socialist world, the US and British Governments are not yet prepared for such a break. In fact British Labor Prime Min ister Wilson's recent visit to Bonn (followed by that of the Queen) was meant as a demonstration that the British Government today supports West Germany's aims. . President Johnson's statement on the 20th VE Day anniversary last May even more emphatically under lined American support. Such support fully explains and reinforces the arrogance of Schro der's nuclear ultimatum which understandably frightens the Man chester Guardian. How the west Germans will aim- to use the nuclear bomb if they get it is no secret. German elections With the September elections ap proaching the militarists are having a field day, with "Christian-Demo crats", "Liberals" and Rightwing Social" Democrats vying with one an other in threats to invade Germany's neighbors. "The Australian's" Bonn corres pondent last week reported that "militant nationalism is a growing political phenomenon in West Ger many today". Quoting the threats against Poland and Czechoslovakia by cabinet min isters and political leaders he describes the burgeoning of the "National Democratic Party"— -most militarist of the nationalist groups —and of "nationalist" newspapers like the National Zeitung and Deutsch Nachrichten. "Returned soldier groups are re surgent and politically active . . . former Hitler SS veterans are emergent and two weeks ago pub licly honored fallen comrades at Munster-Eiiel. "The National Democratic Party has six former nazis among its top 18 men . . . many more Germans are wearing their uniforms off duty these days. Nazi killers convicted by the courts normally receive aston ishingly light sentences". In leading the fight to keep, atomic weapons out of the hands of these ruffians, the USSR is serving the cause of pecae, not obstructing it. In saying that access to nuclear weapons for West Germany could lead to nuclear war, Soviet Geneva delegate Tsarapkin is not overstating it. That, at any rate, is the way it will be seen by many Australians whose land is so liberally dotted with memorials to the 90,000 of their kindred killed in the two world wars started by the German militarists. To steps aimed to allow the same people to do the same thing again, this time with nuclear weapons, there should be no doubt of this nation's response, particularly on this anniversary. Even children were their "enemies" 