 ,! Talk off "piracy, cruelty"... J ""Whale gossip" says Soviet whaling capt. i — j SYDNEY: "Harpooners in the Soviet whaling fleet are subject to ! fines and loss of bonus if they violate the international Whaling ' Agreement", Commodore Alexei Solyanik said in Sydney last week 0 i THIS fact was made known to Tribune (and possibly to all other press representa tives) following press reports that the Soviet Antarctic whal ing fleet were taking under sized whales. The fleet of 22 ships sailed into Jctaey last Wednesday after seven months whaling in the Antarctic. With the entry of the huge 44,000 from "piracy" to "cruelty . During an interview in one of the TTkraina's staterooms, Commodore Solyanik described those allegations as "whale gossip". He said that the Soviet whaling fleets strictly carry out the agree ments of the International Commis sion and that there is an inspector who checks the catch and sends a full report to the Commission. Under the agreement no more than 3 per cent of the catch is allowable as a margin of error for taking undersized whales. "If our harpooners exceeded this margin they would be fined and also lose their bonus," he said. Commander Solyanik said that the inspector on board the Sovietskaya Ukraina is a Russian. He said the Soviet Union has pressed for many years to have inspectors interchanged between nations and not work with fleets of their own country, but this has been opposed by the other coun tries. Captain Herman Kirjukhin of the whale chaser Mirny told Tribune what the fine and loss of bonus would mean in money terms to a harpooner. The fine is 50 roubles and loss of bonus could be anything up to 1,000 roubles. In Australian money this is about £525. This staggering figure led to an other topic which was conveniently forgotten by the Sydney dailies . . . that of wages. Captain Kirjukhin explained that the harpooner received 1,200 to 1,500 roubles per month (£600 to £750) when at sea. "This is the same as I get," he said. Seamen, engineers and other mem bers of the crew of 31 receive about 600 to 700 roubles a month. He also explained that after this trip of seven, months at sea the crew will get three months shore leave and after every three years they all get a full year's holiday. While ashore they are paid the basic rate of pay, which on the aver age is equal to £100 a month. "Incidentally," he said, "the money the crew members were given to spend in Sydney does not come out of their wages. "This is a special bonus paid to seamen by the Government as an away from home allowance." Answering the allegation of cruelty", Captain Kirjukhin explain ed that compressed air is used inter nationally to keep dead whales afloat. "It would be impossible to put this air into a wounded whale as they need to be brought close to the small ship." "If they were not dead such a practice could cause damage to the ship and possible injury or death to the crew. "Harpooners are very skilled men who usually only need one shot at the whale, which is killed instantly with an explosive charged harpoon," he said. He said "the Soviet Union, which has only entered the whaling indus try since 1946, takes every precaution tc protect the industry. "This is in line with the moral sndardis of Socialism." He said that several 'ypes oi whales, including the "Moustached Whale" and "Greenland" Whale, have been completely destroyed due to in discriminate killing of the mothers and their young. "These were destroyed before the Soviet Union entered the industry and that is a tragedy for the whole world," he said. - JIM STEVENS. Commodore A. Solyanik Captain H. Kirjukhin 