 Support for 1 victimised 1 SA migrant i ADELAIDE : Support for the stand of Senator I Cavanagh in publicly exposing the Government \ over refusal of naturalisation for a Greek worker ! of 37 years' residence in Australia, has been widely j acclaimed. The case was publicised in Tribune on January 13. The Traffic Branch of the Australian Railways Union whose own State President is a Greek migrant (Mr. N. Alexandrides), has called upon the Union to ask the State Council Of the A.L.P. to take up the case of the Greek worker, Mr. Steve Pappas. The Union has also congratu lated Senator Cavanagh on his action as did the Executive of ! the Greek Workers' Organisation I (Platon). | Platon has also protested to | the Minister for Migration and I has decided to discuss the case j at the general meeting of the | organisation to- be held shortly with a view to further action. j In a letter to the Sunday Mail the Rev. S. H. Mayes of Ado- I laide disclaimed sympathy with | Communism, but noted the alle- | gation that Mr. Pappas had "dis- ! tributed Communist literature." \ Mr. Mayes commented: | "If the selling of Communist j literature in a bookshop is legal, | the distribution of it in other j ways is legal, and a man ought not to be penalised for doing it. "Again, why accept his taxes and his law-abiding citizenship, j and then refuse him naturalisa- ! tion? I "Civil liberty is being tarn- j pered with most seriously in this S case, and common justice denied, j "If one accepts injustice to j another as the price of one's ! own safety, there comes a time I when we are not safe at all. j "Mr. - Hubert Opperman's I authority depends on its ability I tion is great, but, in the last | analysis, that and all other j t )«»&lt;> 1 mm authority depends on its ability | to command moral support. | "Can the support be given, if, | as in the present case, the j Minister is withholding facts to I buttress his stand against Mr. j Pappas? | "If the Minister has a fool- | proof case, public disclosure of | the facts is all to the good," said j " the Rev. Mayes. | 