 Poland warns "never again!" Auschwitz and the ghettoes "WE coulcl cry at the very thought of ' the W est German militarists get ting their finder on the nuclear trigger", Fran- ciszek Skwierawski, vice- director of Gdansk Har bor Authority,, said to us. Skwierawski, former printer and underground worker, is himself lucky to be alive after incarceration in the Stutthof concentration camp. Newcomers were met with this greeting: "Now you have only one single right, to go up this chimney." He had been telling us about Poland's devastation at the hands of the Nazis, and his 'story was sufficient justification of his ap peal. On the eve of the 20th Anniver sary of the defeat of Hitler the facts deserve to be recalled for the benefit of a new generation that can scarce recall those terrible but heroic years, and to strengthen the determination to do away with atom bombs and war". The Nazis were unable to make the atom bomb, but nevertheless 1,700 cities and towns, and 70,000 villages in the occupied part of the Soviet Union were destroyed, and 20 million Soviet lives were lost. The whole of Poland was occu pied, and the devastation propor tionately greater, and six million . of. its 30 million people met their death. History surely has no parallel for the insenate destruction of War saw on Hitler's personal orders, an oction without any military justi fication but carried out so ruth lessly and methodically that in one of his last speeches he was able to say that "Warsaw remains nothing more than a name on the map. Poland, too, w.as chosen as the main site for the "final solution of the Jewish problem," "by the com plete extermination of European Jewry. From all occupied Europe they were 'brought to Osweicim Treblinka, Maidenek, and other camps set up on Polish soil. Ten thousand concentration camps were established throughout occupied Europe, but the biggest and the worst were in Poland. Of the 12 million victims that these camps claimed, four million per ished in Osweicim (Auschwitz) alone. Not only Jews perished there, but victims from all nations. This was the way Eastern Eur. ope was to be "Germanised," with the, survivors turned into menial laborers for the master race, and the young doomed to perpetuate this role with an education that, according to Himmler, would en able them to count up to 500, sign their name, and be obedient to tho Germans. . But few of the scars of war are left on the Polish cities today, and fewer still in the hearts of the people. They are happy, and far better off than before the war. They are joyous because, under the leadership of the Polish United Workers Party, they have created and are creating a new life and a new Poland. They flocked back to the almost deserted Warsaw . after liberation, in such numbers that within 12 months there were one million liv ing in the ruins, nearly as many as lived in the city pre-war. Almost barehanded, and with but a small food ration for wages, they tackled the superhuman- task of shifting 30 million tons of rubble to clear the site for rebuilding their capital. In Warsaw, Gdansk, Gdynia, Stettin and Posnan we saw the scars that still remained; the old historically precious parte of these / cities has been rebuilt along the original lines, though with the hi- . teriors modernised; we saw the his torical monuments and churches that had likewise been rebuilt. The new blocks of flats, the new suburbs, factories and shipyards, that make socialist Poland a mod ern industrialised state. We saw some of the 1000 new schools. built by public subscription to mark the soon-to-be-celebrated 1000th anni versary of the first Polish State. "We have built a new Poland which possesses a new production potential, a new social structure, a new culture, a . Poland bubbling with new life and educating a new man, a Poland with a new Social ist society. "From the viewpoint of economic development, Poland has advanced as much in 20 years of planned socialist economic development as the highly developed capitali ,t countries have done in centuries," Wladyslaw Gomulka, first secretary of the PUWP, said recently. Naturally, the Polish people are emphatically opposed to the West Germans' territorial claims for north and west Poland, for Eat Germany and part of Czechoslo vakia. - They are appalled at the thought of the Bonn militarists getting j their -ringer on the nuclear trig- j ger, and protest indignantly at the decision to stop prosecution of Nazi car criminals after May 10. ; This last move is being made to \ provide security for the old Nazis who riddle the Bonn state appara tus and are. in fact its backbone, and to strengthen them in their via avc i&lt;ji wie i ii a u twu cuiiio ; t \ Very few of the Nazi war crimin- j als have been prosecuted in the j FGR. V. Chkhikivadze, Director of j the Institute of State and Law of f the Soviet Academy of Sciences, f charges that there are still 160,000 | former Nazis, people suspected of f crimes against peace and human- j ity, in hiding in West Germany Only 20,000 people have been pro- secuted there for war crimes. Only j 400 -of the 6,000 SS men guilty of j. killing four million prisoners to | Oswiecim have been brought to | book: " 1 I All that has been created in the last 20 years in Poland, in the | Soviet . Union and other socialist | countries, as well as in western | Europe is at stake. It is a dan gerous situation in West Germany, j That is why Poland, the Soviet jj Union and. other Socialist countries 1 are indignantly denouncing Bonns 1 decision to grant absolution to the 1 war criminals, and voices, high and | low, are being raised in protest I ever Europe. $ The struggle for &lt;-_ j| meted out to the war criminals | also a struggle against fascism ana | war, for — "rraey and peace. . I 