 jmmmm v. with Noel Counihan GUTTUSO pAMOUS painter Renato Gut- tuso is a member of the national committee of the Italian Communist Party. Extremely successful in Italy he has recently held another exhibi tion in London at the McRoberts and Tunnard Galleries. Writing in the Studio Interna tional G. S. Whittet , described Guttuso as representing in Italy "the rejection of the academic abstraction" and as one who sees his art as an instrument in empha sising the human condition. Whittet strongly extolled Gut- tuso's masterly draughtsmanship, his ability to animate forms by plastic modelling and to instil into even the simplest themes a dynamic intensity. SPANISH ARTISTS The August issue of Studio Inter national featured five young con temporary Spanish painters, Millares, Munoz, Jardiel, Mompo, and Saura. introducing their works Marc Berkowitz stresses their apparent concern with the most serious, even tragic aspects of our time and of Spain herself. These savage expressionist, some times semi-abstract images are motivated by such themes as Martyrdom, Hiroshima, Czarist pogoms, Auschwitz and Belsen. Of one work by Millares, The Victims of Peace, Berkowitz asks: "Peace, where ? In Spain, after the Civil War? Throughout the world, after the last war ? There is Millares' endless procession of victims, mutilated, bloody, in , pieces". El Greco, Zurbaran, and Goya are powerful influences active in such art, art which leads to inter esting speculation on its relation to life in Spain today. On the other hand a cabled news item (Melbourne Age, October 9th), from London made distasteful reading and leads to speculation of another kind, not flattering to- the painter concerned. Young Australian ex-patriate artist Brett Whitley, who had been enjoying considerable success in London, is showing at the exclusive Marlborough Galleries fifteen of his new works of which the major theme, according to this report, is John Christie strangling some of his victims. i I FAIRWEATHER The gifted hermit Ian Fair- weather, because of his flight from our commercial Philistine society is often likened to Gauguin. It seems to me the differences between them are of greater interest. In Fairweather's art the human image has consistently retreated to a semi-abstract, calligraphic sym- bnltCIVl DVDVQCelxra Af V»ie flirtVif v»r\4- VJ. augiiu iiuv just from capitalist society but from people. Gauguin's imagery steadily gained in warmth, power and humanity as he identified himself more and more with the Marquesans in struggle against their French colonial exploiters. The islanders' natural dignity and beauty emerged ever more strongly in his art. He simultane ously flayed their exploiters in his own newsheet and he caricatured them mercilessly, in the persons of the Police chief and the Bishop, in sculptures he erected outside his home, One loves him all the more for this. 