 [?] ' . 'ii v" % in \ !as By Rupert Lock wood, who is now on his way to represent Tribune overseas. Late in 1960, several thousand workers at Singa. pore Glass Manufacturers, subsidiary of Australian Consolidated Industries, struck against low wages. A RESTRAINED report from . AAP-Reuter In November 1960, qave an inklinq of what happens to those who demon strate against Australian ex ploitation in Singapore-Malaya: "Fifty striking workmen of the Australian -owned Singapore Glass factory clashed with police this afternoon. The strikers were attempting to prevent 40 of thefir fellow workmen from returning to work. Two of them were taken to hospital and other received minor injuries." Australian Consolidated Industries operates glass and other container plants in /Singapore, through Singa. pore Glass Manufacturers Co.; hi Kuala Lumpur, Malaysian capital through Malayan Fibre Containers Ltd. and Malayan Containers Ltd., and in Thailand, near the Bangkok H.Q. of SEATO, through Thai Glass Manufactures Co. Expanding horde Of course, ACI is only one of a rapidly expanding horde of Aus tralian companies whose profits and ambitions in Malaysia are a large part of the reason why the Menzies Government has deeply committed Australia to help hold the imperialist grip on that part of the world. In Malaysia today there are some 150 manufacturing, financial and commercial companies that arc sub sidiaries or part-subsidiaries of Australian parents or have -a sub stantial Australian minority invest ment. In addition there are some 50 tin and rubber companies in Malaya- Thailand that are either controlled from Australia or have attracted significant Australian minority share outlay. ACI links The Southeast Asian factories of A.C.I, and the influence of those who lead the integrated ; monopolist structure of which A:C.I. is the prop and pillar give one clue to Menzies Government policy toward Malaysia and the Thai dictatorship. The monopolist partnership .in which A.C.I, plays a key role covers manifold products — glass, fibre "and plastic containers, heavy engineering and construction, mining,- drugs, medicinal and industrial gases, build ing materials, metal products, real estate and general investment. Territory covered . by .A.C.I. ex tends from Thailand to New Zealand and all Australian States, and A.C.I, has such strong British and American links that its ' bankers are the E.S.A. and A.N.Z. (the two British-owned banks in Australia), the Chartered Bank in Southeast Asia and the Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York. The monopolist partnership' refer red to operates mainly "through A.C.I., Drug Houses of Australia and Commonwealth Industrial Gases. Melbourne capital, associated with Collins House and sometimes with the B.H.P. Circle, dominates A.C.L; the Grimwades and Collins House allies lead in Drug Houses, and the Grimwades of Drug Houses are easily the largest Australian shareholders in Commonwealth Industrial Gases, about 60 per cent of whose capital is held by the octopoid British Oxvgeft Co. of U.K. Sydney capital generally . was ift the minority, and included W. J. ("Knockout") - Smith, A.M.P., DixsOh Trust, clients of the Bank of N.S-.W-. and Perpetual Trustees, Sir Edward Knox, Sir Frank Packer, Denzil Ma£ arthur-Onslows and others of the old rum-and-milk dynasty of the ' Cowpastures, Fairfax, Say well, Fai- kiner ... Big glass container users, such as Washington H. Soul Pattinsoh, Bonnington and Co. tmanufactur'irig chemists), Marchants and Kia-ota . Industries (soft drinks), . Fenfo'ld Wines, the Macarthur-On slows (coil11 . siderable . stake in Dairy Farmers milk distributors) , and the Crem « tf oh Society of N.S.W., ware all sh"v-r-«oid evs in A.C.T., along with f.be ' Crim wades of Driig -Houses end C.I.G-. 