 An Invitation to an Inquest A book with this title has recently been published in New York, and should do more to vindicate Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, electrocuted, as "atom spies" in 1953, than any single effort since their death. The book is long, has a long list of "Sources" covering statements and conclusions made in each of its chapters, and the result of the five years' work that went into it was to convince the writers, Walter and Miriam Schneir, that justice had terribly miscarried in a time of political hysteria. This book is an overwhelming testament to the danger to a country and its people when fear and ignor ance are allowed to take over. The Schneirs tell the fascinating story of the growth of nuclear physics in the years before the Second World War, when each new step forward was exchanged freely between the world's scientists, and when in fact any country able to muster the physical resources and huge amounts of money would have been able to make an atom bomb as the U.S.A. did. But lack of knew- ledge of or interest in this infor mation, the wartime security clamp- down and the impact of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs impressed the majority of Ameri cans that the atom bomb was an exclusive American secret, only to be won for another country by i,ts theft. ? On or about August 29, 1949, an atomic explosion took place in the Soviet Union. The American atomic bomb monopoly had ended, and the American people flew into a panic and wanted to know "why." The Schneirs say, "Unfortunately, the cries of alarm that filled the press soon after Truman's an nouncement (of the bomb test) indicated that many politicians and journalists were neither emotionally nor intellectually prepared for the news. They quickly declared that America's atomic "secrets" had been , stolen and, as Edward U. Condon had predicted three and a half years earlier, they cried "treason" and looked around for somebody to blame. "Charged Senator Carl Mundt: 'It now appears that earlier and pre vailing laxity in safeguarding this country against Communist espion age has permitted what were once the secrets of our atomic bomb to fall into the hands of America's only potential enemy. "Even more partisan were the remarks of Richard M. Nixon, as reported in the U.S. "Journal Ame rican': 'Representative Nixon, mem ber of the House Un-American Activities Committee, said today Russia's atomic know-how was "hastened" by the Truman ad- ministration's failure to act against red spies in the United States.' "The. sad truth," the authors con clude, "was that the nearly unani mous public estimates of the scien tists in 1945 — that Russia would have the bomb in five years or less —had been taken with a generous grain of salt by American policy makers." From the mass of evidence in the book, it . emerges that the F.B.I, arrested and interrogated swathes of people in a method reminiscent of the Gestapo (not its torture, but its inference of guilt by association, long interrogations, holding in jail without charge, and duress to im plicate "accomplices" on promise of leniency). ? Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, and later Morton Sobell, were arrested as a result of such implication. It is hard to believe, reading the story of their trial, that they could have been found guilty by any court of justice. Undoubtedly, the jury were influenced by the preva lent hysteria and the newspapers, which labelled Sobell as an atom spy when nothing but innuendo W CIO WlUUgUb tu piUYC UHD, Once the Rosenbergs had been found guilty and sentenced to death, it is incredible that efforts for a new trial, made over and over in the next two years, could have failed utterly. The international outcry against the severity of the sentences, for "conspiracy to commit espionage in wartime" for the benefit of a great ally and involving preparations to pass to that ally crude drawings of dubious value, was the greatest such protest ever mounted. The book includes the moving letters that passed between hus band and wife to the time of their electrocution in June, 1953. They were only in their early thirties and their love for each other, and their children, was at once their susten ance and their greatest grief. On April 11, 1951, Ethel Rosenberg was transferred to the women's section of the death house at Sing Sing. She was its only occupant, save for her guards. She wrote to Julius: "... The bars of my cell hold several books . . . the lovely, color ful cards (including your exquisite birthday greeting to me) . . . the children's snapshots are taped on to a 'picture frame' made of card board and smile sweetly upon me . . . and within me there begins to develop the profoundest kind of belief that somehow, somewhere, I shall find the 'courage, confidence and perspective' I shall need to see me. through days and nights of bottomless horror, of tortured screams I may not utter, of frenzied longings I must deny! Julie, dearest, how I wait upon the. journey's end and our triumphal return!" Five days after they had been sentenced to death, Julius wrote to her: "Ethel, my darling . . . tears fill my eyes as I try to put my sentiments on paper. I can only say that life has been worthwhile because you have been beside me. I firmly believe we are better people because we stood up . . . through a very gruelling trial and a most brutal sentence and all because we are innocent. It is difficult for people who are uninformed and who have no feelings to understand . our stamina. Our upbringing, the full measure of our lives, based on a true amlagamation of our Ameri- , can and Jewish heritage which to us means freedom, culture and character, has made us the people we are. All the .filth, lies and slander of this grotesque political frameup . . . will not in any way deter us but rather spur us on until we are completely vindicated. We didn't ask for this, but the gauntlet was laid down to us and with every ounce of life in our bodies we will fight until we are free. "Honey, I think of you con stantly, I hunger for you. ... It is so painful that such a great hurt can only mean that I love you with every fibre of my being. . . ." This book describes the eleventh hour efforts made to free them, the crime in perspective, an analysis of the credibility of the prosecution witnesses. Almost every page has something this reviewer would like . to quote here. The great lesson of this book is not just that two innocent lives have been taken, or even that one, Morton Sobell, still lies in prison after serving twelve years of a thirty-year sentence and by public outcry could be set free. The thing that glaringly stands out from his deeply understanding ap praisal of the Rosenbergs and their time is that ignorance is the enemy of humanity, and when wedded to fear and hysteria, becomes the gross wet-nurse for fascism. It is important that the Schneirs did not set out to prove a point, but to find the truth; in finding it, they have contributed to the under standing and humanity of their generation, and to the ultimate vin dication of Julius and Ethel Rosen berg, and Morton Sobell. "INVITATION TO AN INQUEST" by Walter and Miriam Schneir, 467 pages, Doubleday and Compar.y Inc, New York, 1965. "Invitation to an Inquest" may be ordered from SOBELL COM MITTEE, 150 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. ($5.95 each plus post age app. $6.50). 