 [?] Changes in UN "|"HE year 1964 brought new developments -in the United Nations Organisation, including sharpening struggles in the Security Council at the end of the year following the American- Belgian-British airborne invasion of the Congo. ine uinu was set up nearly 20 years ago on the basis of I the wartime anti-fascist alliance, with the agreed aim of uniting the nations to prevent war. Then,- there were 51 member states. Now, there are 115 members. Almost all of. the additional members are countries that have won their liberation from colonial rule in that period. As a result of this internal change, the United Nations today is not what it was in the immediate post-war years. Then; particularly after the onset of the Cold War in 1948, it was easily dominated by the United States and its main imperialist partners— Britain and France. An example of this was the manipulation of the/ UN organi sation to cloak massive armed intervention . into Korea in 1950, leading to a long and fruitless war which cost many countries dear, particularly Kprea. Another was the cruel intervention against the independent Congo Republic in 1961. Since then, however, the UN has become more and more an additional arena of struggle between the old imperialist powers and the growing forces for peace, peaceful coexistence and national independence, reflecting and supplementing the direct m?ss struggles of the people of the various countries. The UN Genera.! Assembly decision calling for the immediate ending of colonial systems everywhere did much to Atirnulate j the liberation struggles of subject peoples and to win support for them among the peoples of advanced capitalist countries — such as Australia. If has helped the rising struggle of the people of Pa'pu'a-New Guinea for self-determination. In 1964, an attempt to use the UN Security Council against Indonesia jn the interests of the British and American backers of Malaysia was foiled by the struggle waged by the Soviet Union and other member states. More recently, American attempts to use the UN to white- V/asfi its new Congo Intervention and to attack the legitimate national revolutionary movement I that country were success- fully barred, and the path to fr-ther interference was made Fnore difficult The tabg struggle to win a l'v! majority for the seating of China's representative came c'--n to success In 1964, and could break through in 1965 Such a development would signify a fundamental shift in the balance of forces In the UN, opening p6sibiiitles for its use much more effectively !?Y pSace and freedom, against the resistance .weakening imperialism. These progressive forces would then be in a better position ?P _ necessary changes jrr the structure, and procedure of theJJN to meet the needs of a changing worid. - _Thif'.;.tHref6re, is a moment, not for weakening, confusing ?r ths world forces, against imperialism ana war — whe- ther inside b- oi'fsMa fez UNO— but rbt'f for strehbthehihd t'-eir uhify. - public .action for peace and prepress' in ApJraii| snows that the UNO cannot be ignored as an TrnjeorrTnt. arena ot struggle against imperialist War, intervention and | 