 1 I TRIBUNE / INDUSTRIAL | VFSURGE The cur/ent upsurge of united working; class action and demands for bigger action on the wages issue signify two very important things. ' One. is that the erosion of Australian living standards, aggravated by the costly burdens of the unjust, military adventure in Vietnam, is clearly not going to be accepted meekly by the Australian working people. This; conclusion is supported by increasing evidence of the populiariity.1 of the: Communist Party's main economic. demands. A £22 family minimum basic wage,, and government price control. The Menzies Government and its apologists, are, working hard against great odds to "sell" its aggressive foreign policy to Australians, in preparation for taxation increases in the forthcoming Budlget. - ' - But even those who may be misled by the: Government s. propaganda on Vietnam are well aware that big company profits are. higher than, ever. The war situation is being ; used for a profit bonanza that runs, all the way from aircraft i and missiles to cynical' promotion of war toys. - Because of these factors and because Australia's overall economic difficulties are deepening, the class struggle is growing and will grow. This in turn makes it inevitable, that there will.be. intensified efforts to weaken and divide the workers move- | ment. The role of unity This underlines the second point of significance in current industrial actions. The breadth of trade union unity in; opposition t.o last week's, basic wage judgment was perhaps most cleanly shown- in the decision of the NSW Labor Council not under Left leadership — urging a nation-wide stoppage. Throughout NSW, many unions, combined this week ; under Labor Council authority to demonstrate determina- \ i tion. to fight in unity for better living standards for the : thousands of underpaid and essential workers of rail and j road transport. The unions themselves are demonstrating in practice the | indispensable- character of trade unionism, in Australia- — its independence and it's essential function of uniting workers according to occupation, irrespective of political i views, color, creed or sex, for action in their common interests. It is precisely these principles that are under attack by j Federal: Labor Deputy Leader E. G. Whitliam and his right-wing . associates, in preparation for the August ALP Federal: ! Conference. They are seeking to "collar", tame and divide the trade, unions for narrow party political purposes. Parallel moves, are under way to weaken trade union influence, on: ALP' policy through schemes to reorganise and reconstitute its Federal Conference. IrresDective of the personal motives of Mt, Whitlam: ; and others concerning positions of leadership,, these moves. j1 are p laving right into the hands of the Wealt.hv employ1 no i class and the Liher?|-Countrv Party governments. , j lit is. essential: that the deeoenina unity of the: Australian s labor movement- in action against attacks on living standard0 ; pnd: thio. condinn; of trooos, to Vietnam should be brought j fi-mby to bear now aaainst alii conspiracies to weaken and j tbp t?de unions, and other organisations: of the 