 Wool Bill rocks the Liberal -CP boat £ANBERRA: Sir R. hAenzies' statement in Kooyong on Friday night that he would not be retiring in the near future wi 1 1 have cheered up Govern- . ment supporters; Menzies' retirement and the struggle over the. succession that would follow might break the Lib eral-Country Party coalition, now strained as never before in its; history. ' N - v Country Party MHR's have joined Labor MHR's iri' denunciations of ' the Liberal backbenchers- who are trying to block the. wool res-, erve price' scheme. In reyly W. C. Wentworth,. Lib eral MHR who led the attack on the scheme, denounced Wool Board Chairman Gunn, chief promoter of the. scheme and high in favor with the Country Party as "this synthetic hayseed". Lib erals and . Country party .backer: exchanged fc":er interjections ac l-oss. the floor of the chamber. . Chief spokesman for the ALP. ir. 1-oliard of Victoria, said tiu. the Committee, , for the retention of the. Free Wool Market, strdngh backed by the Packer press lr . Sydney, . which leads the anti- reserve price fight, comprissc "nearly all brokers and merchants, — not woolgrowers at all. The Committee included a Mac arthur Onslow .and a Mr. Davi: who were both directors of th Australian Mercantile Land an Finance Com . any, which in th&lt; . >ast year made a profit o '.1.010,000 out , of Australian woo' , rowers. "This profit went back to Grer Iritain because there are no Aus kalian shareholders in the con- any". Mr. Pollard said that Mr. J 'cLeod, general manager, of Pitt ton and Radgery (a woolbroking firm) was best man at Sir Frank Packer's wedding last .year, (Sir Frank owns the Daily Telegraph and Sydney Bulletin). Mr. G. Ashton, a defeated Lib eral candidate and another oppon ent of the reserve price scheme "operates in a big: way in the futures market", to the creation of which the Government had consented. "This means, interposing between .. grower and buyer, : another lot. of bloodsuckers" said Mr. Pollard. "Mr. Ashton is one of these". Later in the debate Mr. R. S. .King, Country Party, Victoria, said he would like to know who was financing the big campaign against the reserve price scheme. One publication was said to have cost something like £5000. It was said that only 10 percent of the finances for the opposition campaign was . co: 'ng from wool- growers, the rest f-bm "vested interests" who were not wool U'owe:"!. Mr. Allan Fraser Labor, NSW, said that "city Liberal Paladins of the wool growers" who had op posed the wool scheme in the de bate had actually no wool growers in their electorates — though thev bad wool-brokers, wool buyers, wool agents and dealers in , wool futures. Sir Frank Packer, who was cheering . them on in the Tele graph, had just "made" the um- mittee of the Australian Jockey Club. "I think he will feel that, membership of the 'Tnion Club will >e sufficient reward for his, efforts o defeat the res ve price scheme. ' When it went to. a vote only 'our Liberal MHRs — Wentworth and Turner (NSW) and Buchanan and Irwin (Victoria) — went into the opposition benches. However the fight will go on and so will the Liberal - CP - division. The Liberal rebels know they have the secret sympathy of the leadership — that was indicated by Minister FairhaU's "leaked" letter declar ing his opposition to the plan and Menzies'; refusal to discipline Fair- ' hall (as, earlier Bury had been temporarily ousted from the cab inet on the Country Party's de mand when he supported the European Common Market). 