 J ' &lt; ' I for r' pry book shelf ART — Sis Oriins and Social Function By Paul Mortier, 1/6 &lt;1/11 posted ) rpHOSE who distort the true role art in all its forms would have us believe that we should rely on instinct in the production and understanding of art. This concept is neatly exposed in this little booklet. Art as part , of the superstructure' ' V; whose base is the production relations within a given society and art, therefore, as a means of changing society in the pro cess of crystallising reality is clearly explained.. More than useful, considering the confusion surrounding art .in capitalist society. ? COOLIE By Mulk Raj Anand, 6/6 ( 7/5 posted) tt IS own experiences in a period of violence and unrest in India made it possible for the author to write this book. A' deep love for India and nis people make it natural that he should write with t compassion and understanding ' of the life of Nunoo from the hills of India, forced to earn a living in Bpnibay — a city in which it is not easy for the foreigner to make his way. THE DESCENT By Gina Berriault, 6/6 (7/2 posted) pLACED in the future, this book is a dedication to the struggle for peace. A future President of the United States creates a new. post— that of Secretary of Humanity. The man chosen for the job was an honest man -who hoped for and worked for a future free from war. His experiences and final degrada tion have an' immediacy which makes it impossible to put this ' book aside until the very last page. ? LABOR MOVEMENT AT THE CROSSROADS By Laurie Aarons, 6d did posted pOLLOWING the seventh unsuc- cessful Labor bid for electoral office since 1949, the press , urged the ALP to move further to the Right as their only chance for power. This booklet, written early in 1964, set out to demonstrate that this was not the road to power for - the ALP and that a united Labor Movement with a Left policy was the only real .alternative. Highly topical, as the battle still . rages for an ALP way forward Available from — NEW WORL1 BOOKSHOP 425 Pitt Street, SYDNE 