 Soviet scientists put the Lysenko argument into perspective from RUPERT LOCKWOOD Mention controversy about the Soviet Union and the name Lysenko is almost sure to come up. Trofim Lysenko was one of Stalin's favorite scientists because of his claims on the breeding of new fruit and vegetable strains, based on Michurin methods. Some Soviet scientists who (like many abroad) challenged Lysenko's claims, suffered repressions. On the other hand, Lysenko, with official backing, achieved world publicity, and was seen by many Communists and others for a period as one of the symbols of socialist creativeness. However, as' this report shows, objective scien tific discussion has been eliminating this illusion, together with others. The launching of the Soviet magazine "Genetics" brought a local foreign subscriber rush four times above normal for a new periodical and the final erasure of genetics from the list of . dirty words. Issue No. 1 of "Genetics," 1965, carries Gregor Mendel's picture as frontpiece and several articles favorable to his theories— a far cry from Lysenkoist epithets about bourgeois decadence — and discus sion Of plans for Mendel centenary celebrations. To mark the advent of "Genetics" fresh from the Academy of Sciences publishing house, Deputy Editor S. I. Alikhanian gave a press confer ence at which he pulled no punches. For over two decades, he com plained, few Soviet geneticists were trained. Today most were either very young or ageing — and the Soviet Union had been deprived of initiative in this field. It had been decided, Alikhanian said, to send 25 to 30 Soviet students abroad to study genetics and help recover the ground lost in the Lysenko era. One student has already been sent to Britain and one to America. The Odessa University was the Lysenkoists' only surviving citadel. The Ministry of Education had instructed all universities to resume teaching of modern genetics, but Odessa University professors could not carry out the instruction be cause they were ignorant of modern genetics, Alikhanian said. Two articles in the new magazine are by the late N. I. Vavilov, a brilliant scientist who in Stalin's time "disappeared from public life." . Stress is laid in various articles on the value of genetics to agricul ture—to plant and animal breeding ; — and to understanding of various human processes. No article comes from the pen of the once-famous and voluble T ysenko and some of Michurin's basic theories' of course receive no attention, for they tumbled with Lysenko's, though not quite the same distance. The editorial board of "Genetics" includes previous supporters of Lysenko who repudiated his theories, but more prominent are survivors of those who led the struggle against Lysenkoism. What happened to Lysenko? The easiest answer is "nothing." Alikhanian, obviously no fan of the discredited scientist, gave a frank version. Lysenko and dogged Lysenkoists had not been subjected to any "administrative measures" (.unlike some of their leading op ponents). Lysenko was not sacked. He works for the Genetics Institute where he heads one laboratory. However, Lysenko still claimed that; he was the victim of administrative measures, that criticisms of his theories and past conduct were "personal attacks and survivals of idealism." ' Alikhanian was asked whether Lysenko ojr any of his followers had ev.er expressed regret over the per secution of some of their leading opponents. The reply was "No. they always claimed they had nothing to do with the persecutions." Geneticists, he added, wanted > Lysenko to write for the new magazine; they would be glad if he wrote articles defending his beliefs. Alikhanian's invitation to Lysen ko highlights the spirit of Soviet science — discussion without fear. Lysenko is not blamed for making errors but for having exploited the . personality cult to impose them without allowing freedom to critics and for having been a guilty part ner in "administrative measures" against critics. Not all his theories, in fact, are rejected, particularly some of his ideas in the field of wheat breeding. Lysenko now has full opportunity if he is prepared to defend his views and actions without fear of retaliation of the kind suffered by those who opposed Lysenko. Deputy Editor Alikhanian said ( things about Lysenko that should encourage him to write. He called Lysenko's doctrine anti-genetics— the opposite to modern Soviet genetics. Xlikhanian related delay in re habilitating genetics to the situation in Soviet agriculture which always needed scientists who could raise productivity. Scientists with ideas for improved production could find I sympathetic ears. || Lysenko premised Stalin he would I cultivate in two years a wonderful I wheat cross. "We haven't seen this new wheat yet," said Alikhanian. Former Premier Khrushchov was influenced by Lysenko— sufficiently to make certain promises that cou a not be fulfilled. Once Khrushchov claimed the Soviet Union would overtake Ame rica in . butter production in four years. Economists c ' not see how, but Lysenko clan.d that n had developed a new breed of catue giving record butterfat. Milkmaids are, of course, still awaiting the wonder cow. When the Ministry of Health was conducting experiments into pa less childbirth, Lysenko opposea them, claiming biological repro tion was a pleasure. Told that women cried out in pain in maternity wards, Lys said, "They're fools." B How could Lysenko achieve the m influence he did? Lysenko was n g only a master of science he | master of the science of promis | The main issue is not charges of those opposed to Lyse are fully justified, but that thy have full freedom to make t and Lysenko has full opportune , to rebut them if he can. Soviet science Is no longf of I the deadly burden of suppression | criticism as in the past. Re | free scientific debate are . | becoming manifest in ag | . and industry. | 