 I TRIBUNE i Foot-in-mouth disease sufferer , CIR ROBERT MENZIES opened his mouth at his press I conference last week— and then put his foot in it. He talked for 25 minutes on Vietnam but failed to produce any convincing answer to the widespread public criticism of the Government's Vietnam war policy. Trying to explain the reasons for sending Australian : troops there, Menzies said: "Why are we there? Obviously, , ito resist armed aggression and subversion". But last year,, more truthfully, he said: "For purposes of cold war and counter-insurgency". Last week as Menzies spoke, American clergymen ar- rved from a visit to Saigon and added to the political ; controversy by blowing sky-high the Menzies line of "Chinese communism sweeping south through Vietnam and Thailand until it is almost on our shores". The Prime Minister also stung Australian Christians by ; wt another of his sneering references to churchmen cri- : tfcising his Vietnam war policy: "Strange Christian senti- i menb. indeed" Menzies revealed that, so far as he was concerned, ! the so-called Commonwealth Peace Mission on Vietnam . was a manoeuvre for propaganda purposes, thus confirming Tribune's assessment of June 30.. . He summed it tip this way, after an attack on China: ! "This mission has not achieved anything positive but it has shown where the objection to peace exists and who are the people responsible for carrying on this dreadful operation of war in Vietnam." "Anti-negotiation" Most serious is what Bishop Moyes rightly described as Menzies "anti-negotiation" stand. Asked how far the government would go in Vietnam, Menzies replied: "Let's win first". Even while he was speaking, declaring that the Viet namese liberation movement was "not interested" in nego tiated solutions, the Government of the Vietnamese Demo cratic Republic was reaffirming its four-point plan for a solution (see Page 4). Further, it was reported to have invited President Nkrumah of Ghana to visit Hanoi. Menzies completely flunked the job, pointedly spelled out for him by the Sydney Morning Herald before his press conference, of convincing the Australian people to support the Vietnam war. No wonder the Herald took pains to quote a London University Asian expert (Dr. M. Caldwell) describing Sir !; Robert as "Australia's greatest handicap in attempts to accommodate itself to the new world of Free Asia." (July 10.) An over-simnlification. yes. It is, as Menzies plaint- ; ively declared, the foreign policy not of one man but of tuo whole Government that sent yuno Australians to suffer and even die, intervsninq in what Mr. Calwell (July :! 14) dSTibed cor'ecth' as a "civil war". But that decision IS reversible- The coming weeks of increased public action for peace and of opposition to the ' war budoet's economic burdens can do much towards implementing the correct and feasible demand: bring At'sfwlian forces owf of Vieffiam! 