 / ' ' — Dam attacks could drawn millions ;J North Vietnam | THE bombing by American: planes last week of a hydro-electric dam in North Vietnam's vital Red- River. irrigation system was "a grave new escalation of the war"., This comment was, made- by the London Daily Worker's diplomatic correspondent. He says that bombing of the Red River dykes would be equivalent to the Nazi destruction of the Dutch dykes which caused widespread flooding in the Second World War. The US attack on August 21 on a dam 80: miles from Hanoi was the first US raid on the irrigation sys tem. Eight planes dropped 21 tons of bombs and claimed to have damaged the dam wall, destroyed nearby locks and destroyed part of. a hydro-electric installation in the Phat Diem area. The. raids were repeated during the week. Indian Deputy Foreign Minister " Dinesh Singh told Parliament in Delhi that it was "most regrettable" if the US had started bombing North Vietnam dams. British Labor MP Norman Buchan has" written to Foreign Secretary Stewart protesting against the bombings. Now that the monsoon season is nearing its end, the waters are at their highest level. Blowing up the great dykes could flood the entire delta drea,. wiping out the summer rice crop and drowning anything from two: to three million people. The attack on the. dam system and the threat of further attacks shows again that the Americans are moving on to a policy, of total extermination of the Vietnamese. It is similar to the policy oper ated by the- Hitlerites which resulted in the concentration camp horrors exposed at the Auschwitz trial (see story this page>. An American authority told News week magazine (reported on August 230.: "Out to kill" "There is little talk any more of winning over the Vietnamese people. . . . The new. attitude is 'we're out to kill the Vietcong and we're not worried: about, winning friends'." In line with this attitude is the burning down of Vietnamese homes in Chu. Lai by US Marines— pictures of which aroused widespread, wrath; in the USA. As at Auschwitz, the- line is that the opponent, is sub-human and should he destroyed like verrpin. Everything is justified under the' flag of anti-Communism. Thus on July 21; last a Sydney Morning Herald correspondent in South Vietnam wrote of an opera iion: "... . Phase two is to-be; the cap ture of known Vietcong strongpoints. Phase three will he the herding of the surviving Vietcong into the kill ing ground— an overgrown coconut plantation — where they can be burned with napalm." In similar vein last week the invaders" press gloated over the bodies of the Vietnamese slain at Chu Lair -The bodies o£ the eMmv . j in pieces from trees and heLl or lay charred in their tunne Jl caves," wrote Time MagaS 1 August 27. "The Marines" b J hundreds more were entombed ! tayto seated with flame andJ : According, to Newsweek on A„«n, 30. US General Karsch with satisfaction as he said- -S probably never know how Vietcong we killed." "What the generaT apparently J does not know, or care L hatred for the- USA which sud actions are. building up throughoJ Asia and elsewhere. @erm war next? The North Vietnamese Governmei has. protested to the Internation Control Commission against tl setting, up of a US mobile researc institute for bacteriological ail chemical warfare in South Vietnam . . The North Vietnamese newsagent quoted Western reports as sa jiM . that, the 406th Bacteriological i3 Chemical Warfare Task Force il Japan had been moved to Sottll Vietnam. . 1 