 I A veritable feast j I at the Festival j j "THE "Festival of Perth" I surely implies some- I thing more indigenous I than ' the mere fact of its locality, which this year | could have been Golders I Green just as happily. | We had a feast of world cul- I ture but missed the good healthy I bread that could have been pro- I viaed by ";tralian writers and Is dramatists, many of whom live in this state. The Festival organisers appar- j ently see their tack as bringing | the culture of other lands to be- | nighted West Australians rather J than assisting our own vigorous | creative talent, which often has I to go overseas for recognition. | . We need a balance of both, to ! give the Festival character, to I attract audiences from wider | sections of the Perth public, and | to give Australian creative art. 1 ists a much-needed opportunity | to have their work Tormed. I Even the "Poets' Choice" night | which attracted an audience of ! 200, suffered from half-hearted- I ness of direction. The local | poets were asked to read three j poems, including only one of I their own, and two which they I felt had influenced their work. I There was good film fare, the | best of whi ("The Loneliness I of the Long Distance Runner" | and "Dr. Strangelove") had very I restricted screenings. Such films, | spread out in the suburbs, would | draw more ordinary people into ! supporting the Festival. "The Long Distance Runner" ! was a faithful and sensitive film | of the Sillitoe story of the Bor- | . stal rebel and his protest against 9 ttlwownwowuMtoMiiMilMrMilwnwu, class society and slum environ | ment squeezing the goodness out f of human lives. | "Dr. Strangelove" delighted j capacity audiences for two j nights with its outrageously | truthful parodies of bomb-hap. I py American generals tripped I up in their own brinkmanship. I Made on a shoestring in Eng- | land, its sardonic honour .must g have set top-level American | teeth gnashing in impotent ( frenzy, for it was beyond thei: j censorship g The Japanese film "Utar- j maro" was notable for its breath | taking colohr and honest ap- I proach to the life of a great j Japanese artist. ! The Children's Theatre pre- I- sented by Mr? >uan Pope was I a very fine innovation for chil- j dren, successful despite its out ! of the way venue at Dalkeith | Hall, 5/- entrance and stiff j fares. g Highlights of the Festival were f the two productions in the Shakespearean surroundings of j the New Fortune Theatre at j W.A. . University. The Robin I Lovejoy production of "Othello" | surmounted many difficulties g caused by lack of co-operation i and poor dressing ro' " facili- I ties. | The Festival presented plenty g of good music. The ballets "Cop. | pelia", "Once Upon a Whim" j and "Seadrift" (the last two I drew on the talents of Laurel S Marten, James Penberthy and g Ray Powell) were well received. 1 One of the best things of the J Festival comes at the tail end j — Bsrtholt Brecht's bitter anti- j war Dlav "Mother Courage." 1 — J.W. j 