 AFRICAN SONGS By Richard Rive, 5/6 (3 '2 posted). COLLECTION of short stores which are rather out of the or dinary. There is pity but tempered humor; there is satire but offset by in sight; there is violence but a violence which is understandable. Dawn Raid a story about just that, could happen here— but there is a difference. An African can be arrested just for being present at an outdoor meeting and he can be kept in gaol, for a long, long time. ON STRENUOUS WINGS By Katharine Susannah Pri- chard, 7/6 (8/2 posted). MOT for Katharine Susannah Prlchard a life of ease and Indif ference — but involvement with the stuff of life and the resultant fight for the future— on strenu ous wings. Excerpts trace Australia's early his tory, particularly in the gold fields, opal fields, pearling grounds and timber Industry. Behind the scenes pathos of life in a circus, and the tragic life of young Coonardoo are mem ories which stay with us. The short stories and poems in this edition are realistic and earthy and defy cynicism in all its guises. ,THE HATCHET By Mihaile Sadoveanu, 5/- 5/11 posted). A CCORDING to one of the daily papers a few months ago this book is one of the best "Who Done Its" ever written. It is a Rumanian publication and gives a fascinating picture of life in a mountainous village of shep herds and their families. The mystery revolves around one Nechifor Lipan husband of Vitoria who disappeared while on his way to see his son. Vitoria her self sets out to find him. Having found him dead she determined to discover why. STORIES FOR CHILDREN By Leo Tolstoy, 2/6 (3/2 posted ) . /"THIRTEEN delightful tales from the pen of one of the most famous of Russian classic writers. The stories are close to the hearts of children, for they describe things that happen to children. Lavishly illustrated with lively line draw ings. LEFTY By Nikolai Leskov, 6/- (7/2 posted). QUBTITLED "The Tale of Cross eyed Lefty of" Tula and the Steel Flea." A colorfully illustrated edition of Leskov's famous story of how the Russian smith Lefty shod an English flea for Tsar Alexander and what Lefty received for his pains. FINANCE AND CREDIT By V. Pereslegin, 1/9 (2/5 posted). A SHORT summary of the structure ! and functioning of the Soviet finance, budget and credit system. Some comparisons are made with the method of operation of these systems in old-established capi talist countries and in newly- developed countries. Available from — " ' , NEW WORLD BOOKSELLERS 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 