 | The great , freight- robbery! | j _ ..._..j i J"J trrm JJWiafc-TiHg'wa''fl"#1'' . — _ I Whan men canvass i country for support By Tribune's Industrial Reporter | f SYDNEY: "Hovi much longer must the Australian people be . j subjected to continued freight increases, when already the rotes | now operating on CQirgoes to ani from Australia are among the j highe st in the world?" j "THIS is a fair question asked by Sydney Branch of the Waterside Workers' Country , Committee in letters sent to country centres throughout New South Wales. Co-operative societies, graziers and primary producers' associations, fruit growers, chambers' of commerce, trade union organisations, country press and radio are included in the Sydney waterside workers' wide field of contacts. Few, if any, of those contacts would disagree with the waterside workers that "the alarming decline in the Australian export trade emphasises more than ever the fact that we are gradually being priced out of world markets. "The foreign conference lines per sistently discriminate against Austra lia because of the Federal Govern- ment's failure to compete against them." The waterside workers' letter to the countryside follows the recently an nounced freight increases by the foreign shipping companies to operate from July this year. The freight increases are: Ten per cent on cargoes from the East and West coast of North Ameri ca to Australia; 1\ per cent on car goes from Australia to East and South America; 7i per cent on car,,. res from Australia to Ceylon; 10 per cent on cargoes from Australia to Far East and 5 per cent on cargoes from I-Jong Kong and Japan to Australia. These new increases follow recent freight rises of 10 per cent on wool shipments to North America and 5 per cent on canned foods and general cargo to South East Asia. They were also announced only a few days after the Director of the Associated Chamber of Manufacturers (Mr. R. Anderson) called on the Federal Government to take action to reduce freight charges. "The Federal Government has the power to halt this freight piracy be ing enacted against Australia for the past 30 years or more," the Sydney waterside workers said. They propose as a first step the removal of section 7c from the Indus trial Preservation Act. "This section of the Act makes shipping monopoly legal and allows the conference lines to use freight piracy against Australia," the Country Committee said. The waterside workers propose two further steps the Government should take to overcome the monopoly grip on Australia's trade. These are: ® To build and then extend our national fleet into the overseas trade. ® To nationalise the stevedoring in dustry. The waterside workers had earlier warned country people that prior to increasing freight rates, attacks would be made against the W.W.F. "This is a method adopted by the foreign shipowners to divert attention | away from the real issues . . . a g smoko screen to cover freight piracy g and to hide their thirst for even I greater profits. j "In order to defend ourselves | against these attacks we have been S forced from time to time to hold | short protest walk-offs or stoppages g as discussions and negotiations with jj both the shipowners and the govern- | ment to solve existing problems have jj proved fruitless," the Sydney water- | skiers said. I Federal officers of the W.W.F. have ! called stopwork meetings for today \ (Wednesday) to discuss their demand j for a pension and mechanisation fund = and to answer the recent attack I on the Federation by Mr. Justice j Gallagher of the Commonwealth Ar- j bitration Commission. ; The judge said that waterside j workers who support stoppages of j work on political matters should be dismissed from the industry and urged the use of the Crimes Act against workers who demonstrate on political matters. The chairman of the Association of Employers of Waterside Labor (Mr. C. Craig) this week threatened penalties if the stoppages are held. The General secretary of the WWF (Mr. C. Fitzgitabon) said Mr. Craig represented in the main, overseas cartels of shipowners. "For years they have extorted from the Australian economy freight charges that have been unnecessary and out of proportion to those charges in other areas such as New Zealand and the Far East." "When Mr. Craig talks of dangers to the Australian economy he speaks as a representative of an organisation that has done more damage to the economy that any other group of em ployers in the world. "Those employers who are so hostile to the federation over claims for a non-contributory pensions scheme are the same ones who provide such a scheme in the United States and ' elsewhere," Mr. Fitzgibbon said. 