 ' ' ' ' 0 H i His work lives on... I S j "Scottie" Davidson, one of the best of Tribune street | 1 sellers, was a familiar figure on his stand at the entrance j 1 to the Central rail subway for years up to his sudden death' J ! last December. j I i HE stood there and on other I street corners, hail, rain or ! shine, his broad Robby Burns burr simply announcing ... "TRIBUNE" | Si Scotch was "Scottie's" ac- | cent that one passing acquaint- ! ance was given to describe him as "that New Australian"! But it was not his accent or ! nationality or stature which left I its mark. . It was his unswerving I determination to do all within his S power to spread , the views and I news of the movement against j exploitation of man by man, and I the crimes committed against j humanity under the nanie of I capitalism. j Among the stream of people ! scurrying past , him, there." were I who called him "oddity, fool, I traitor". I But despite the hammering from I press, radio and ' TV, there are I many who are not prepared to allow others to do their thinking J for them. a These were the ones who came | to "Scottie" to inquire, and to buy Tribune and learn of the I deeper realities of present-day I society and why it is "neces sary" and profitable for the daily papers to concentrate on rape, | murder, hangings, divorce, sex. I The job of carrying on where I "Scottie" had to leave off makes g fully worthwhile any inconven- jiences it may cause. The experiences on his stand | show the depth of attraction of I the ideas contained in Tribune — particularly the idea that working people must stand in unity to- i gethex- against their common ex- j ploiters. . . : i From the bus driver who is ! prepared to halt the traffic briefly, | lean from his driver's cabin, get S his 'Trib' and say "keep the I change" to the Jack who, suffering j from 'itchy feet' decides to move | on again and leave his treasured I books and art work to the Trib | seller to do what is thought best 1 with; to the young Bill, with a J newly acquired Trib under his | arm, missing his train to help a | crippled pensioner up the steps I with a sugar bag of bargain ne- I cessities; to the young and old g 'New Australians' who say "best J paper"; to Nance, who while prac- j tising her Catholic faith, is pre- | pared to read her Trib openly, at I work or home and defend the . | truth of Tribune; to the Margar- ets, lovely young women, who I have found a new and true j meaning in life by joining the pro- I gressive forces of history. 2 "Scottie's" endeavor, and the | sacrifices he and his wife and I family, who played their loyal I parts, made over the years are j continuing to yield unmeasurable g results that will, in one way or I another, live on forever in the I great stream of human conscious- j ness and activiy. 5 NELL McANALEN (Sydney). j EDITORIAL NOTE: The writer ! has taken over "Scottie's" stand. g and is herself sellfng Tribune 1 every, week there, "hail, rain or | shine", a courageous example to 1 the whole working class move- ment. j 