 'Only Communist policy offers a real alternative' SYDNEY: 'The Com, munist Party has a very important role to play in this New South Wales State election", said Mr. R. Dixon, President of the Communist Party of Australia, at a spe cial "Meet the Candi dates" night in Sydney last week. "The leaders of the two major parties — Labor and Liberal — have made speeches, including many promises, that are quite similar in many respects. "Only the Communist Party's, policy is fundamentally different, a real alternative". "The Communist Party stands for development and improvement of living standards, democracy and freedojm, and peaoe." "It demands real progress on the many immediate needs of the peo ple, from wage increases and price control to education, housing and roads." "But at the centre of its program and policy, it stands for uniting the people against monopoly, and its social systeln that imposes burdens and rules the people and deprives them of their rights." "At the same time, there is a dif ference between the Liberals and Labor. The Liberals are the party of tmonopoly capital. The Labor par ty is based on the trade unions yet doesn't really serve the working class." "Thus there are many reasons why the working people should vote for the Communist Party." "But some people say that Labor might lose if workers 'vote Commun ist, so they advise a number one vote to ALP and No. 2 to Com munist." "But this is wrong. People who say such things are deluding them selves." "The only way to rote for a cor- re?t policy for the working people against monopoly is to vote. No. 1 Communist (the genuine working class party.) No. 2 ALP (this ensures no split ting of the vote.) Put the Liberals last. There is need for a new kind of Member of Parliament, a Communist Member, close to the people and able to use the added authority of an MP in consistent work among the people for peace and socialism. Jvfir. W. Buckley, leaser of the Communist team, & candidate for Phillip said that Communist MPs, as demonstrated in a number of countries, would bring life to the workers' demands, and would mob ilise action of the people for their demands, both inside and outside Parliament. The members of the Communist teaim are men and women: who have proved themselves by consist ent work for the workers' interests, without opportunism or careerism. They stand too, for the party's ultimate goal of socialism. This meant that the factories, mines and other means 'Of product ion would become the property of all. Such public ownership of the means of production would be the real guarantee of a much higher level of ownership cf personal prop erty. These are reasons why the Com munist Fforty is the subject of [mas sive attacks today by the organs of Big Business, who are trying to dupe people with talk of "saving Aust ralia from Communism", just as Mussolini, Hitler, Tojo and Franco had done. Menzies — Hitler's admirer — and other Liberal leaders such as Askin, are the true inheritors of that trad ition. The Liberals are acting in the interests of huge monopolies which extracted big profits from every em ployee: Mt. Isa Mines, £1,800 profit per employee per year, GMH £1,400, Broken Hill Pty £1,200, John Fair fax Ltd (Sydney "Herald") £1,000. Mr. A. Elphinston (Communist I candidate for Cronulla) said cam. paigning in his electorate showed that bmany working people are at tracted to the Communist policies, and are beginning to understand that the Communist how-to-vote meant support for the best policies, and also a united labor movement vote. Dealing with education, he said that only communist policy could guarantee a really free, secular edu. cation system, including: Free text books, free school trans port, adequate materials and equipment (particularly for sci ence), full State education services for all handicapped children, bet ter buildings and playgrounds with assembly halls, weather sheds and gymnasia, full development of nur sery school and kindergarten edu cation, after-school centres and facilities, technical schools in coun. try centres and extended evening - facilities. The Party supports the demand of the teachers Federation for full implementation by the Menzies Gov ernment of the Martin Report's pro posals for teacher training, as well I as its other positive proposals. Mr. W. Bucklev Mr. A. Elphinston 