 television and the monopolies kAR E. L. WHEELWRIGHT, M.A., Associate Professor of Economics at Sydney Uni versity, said "private enter- Drise" competition could not benefit TV. ''I never cease to be amazed at the naivete of a society which pass es legislation like the Broadcasting Control Act, with its high-flown phrases about 'adequate and compre- hensive programmes in the public interest"; and the Broadcasting Control Board which lays down programme standards, which it admits depend "on the good will and high purpose" of those who operate the stations — and then entrusts these stations to business enter prises whose purpose in life s make a profit. "There is a four-letter word which describes this, and it was used by the redoubtable Dr. John son in the. 18th Century." It is C.A.N.T. In order to indulge in clean thinking, he said, "first rid your mind of CANT". "If we rid our minds of CANT we can readily see that this prob lem also occurs because, in -the folklore" of our society which passes for serious thinking, it is assumed that competition between private enterprise will ensure the best product and therefore the best service to the public. "There is some vestige of truth left in this argument as far as the production of commodities is con cerned, although the limited exsent and nature of . competition that is now possible in wide areas of the economy makes the argument of yery limited application. But it is fallacious as far as the ' production of services which have ..to do with the ideas, values, cultural . and entertainment standards etc. is- concerned. > "Even ifi. it did, the - extent of competition in commercial tele vision is severely limited." "The logic of the allocation of TV licences is that it limits the number of operators, treating legal ised monopolies in some cases, and legalised private oligopolies in others. "One ' candid television tycoon in England said in that a TV licence in U.K. was in effect a licence to print money. "This may well be true in Aust ralia, because the 1964 report of the Control Board records that the Gross earnings from Televising advertisements increased from £693,000 in 1956-7 (4 stations) to £11 million in 1962-3 (22 stations). "Commercial television is big bus iness; in 1962-3 total revenue was £182 million-larger than that of the ABC. Listeners and viewers licence fees came to £13.3 million. Mr. Wheelwright said that in America there had been a public outcry after exposures of the tele vision industry by Mr. Newtown Minnow. Mr. Minnow's book "Equal Time; The Private Broadcaster and the Public Interest." (Athenaeum Publishers 1964) told the story. Mr. Wheelwright felt that the recommendations of the Vincent Report did not recognise the en ormous potential of the A.B.C. as an instrument of countervailing power to the commercial stations. The ABC could be made so good that the commercial TV stations would lose their audiences. "An ounce of hitting at the hip pocket nerve is worth a pound of moralising and regulation he said, said. "Or to put it less vulgarly, if better programmes of; all kinds be come essential for the stations to make money, then better prog rammes will be provided. 