 Demonstrations bring Johnson's war policy under heavy attack |-jUGE peace demon- strations in Janan, 'Bri tain and the USA, in , which thousands have taken part, have given a new impetus to the forces demanding an end to the . US aggression against Vietnam. In Washington alone some 30,000 people held a demon stration over Easter, while in Britain 20,000 at each parti cipated in a big Easter march and Trafalgar Square rally. This was followed this week by a vast orotest demonstration in which at last 25,000 Japanese besieged the US' Tokyo Embassy. In the US, says Time magazine, professors at Harvard, Syracuse and Western Reserve universities held all night "teach-ins" protesting against US policies in Vietnam. On the international front, France snubbed the US by announcing that it would send only an "observer" to the SEATO meeting in London— a decision that led to protests and regrets from the pro-US British and Australian Governments. Many negotiation-minded nations were still urging Washington to be gin talks with Hanoi leading to nego tiations. President Johnson, said Time, ap peared to be getting fed up with "all the unsolicited advice pouring in" and showed it by what amounted to an insult to both the Indian and Pakistani Prime Ministers. They were told in effect that John son had better things to do with his time than talk to them. "Shortly after Pakistan's President Mohammed Ayub Khan and Indian Prime Minister Lai Bahadur Shastri demanded an end to American bomb ings of North Vietnam as a pre condition to peace talks, the White House asked them to postpone the trips to the US that each had plan ned this spring." says Time. Shastri, at once cancelled his visit to Washington. He was reported from Washington to be furious. He will still visit the USSR in May as arranged. Johnson's rudeness load the sole effect of impelling Shastri to say in public what he had intended, per haps, to say in private. Speaking in New Delhi he demand ed that the US stop the bombing. He said there was no point to the offer of "unconditional negotiations" while the bombings continued. The Manchester Guardian, of Eng land says that if Johnson continues this way the only advice he will get from Asians will be that of the South Korea, Formosan and Thai dictator ships— "hardly representative of Asian opinion." Johnson could keep the Asian Prime Ministers out of America, but could not evade the anti-war students who. picketted his Texas ranch and others who waited for him to return to the White House. For three days in succession stud ents demonstrated in front of the White House, declaring that they would not end their vigil till John son returned and they could hand him an anti-war petition. The really big demonstration, how ever, occurred on Easter Saturday when 12,000 surrounded the White House carrying peace posters. They had arrived in Washington from all parts of the country. They included students, several hundred school teachers and univer sity lecturers and tutors, war veter ans, members of youth and women's organisations. One demonstrator was a five-year- old girl with a poster saying that a child of her age in Vietnam had never known peace. A Soviet TASS newsagency com mentator said the capital had never witnessed such a demonstration — not only massive, but with a clearly expressed political character. After picketting the White House for four hours most of the demon strators headed in long columns for the Washington Monument, where 30,000 gathered to hear and listen to freedom, peace and civil rights songs sung by Whites and Negroes. Organiser of the rally, Paul Booth, said this was the beginning of a national protest campaign against American foreign policy. Senator E. Gruening and author I. F. Stone were leading speakers. The vast meeting unanimously adopted a petition to the US Congress urging it to stop the Vietnam war at once. The petition says that the war brings untold suffering to the Viet nam people. After the meeting thousands of the demonstrators took the petition to the Capitol, where Congress meets. Similar demonstrations were heid in other US cities, notably San Fran cisco. . When Congress met next week Sen ators responded to the demonstra tions by renewed calls for peace ac tion. Voices silent since Johnson's phony "peace offer" of April 7 were raised again. Senator George Aiken, a Repub lican, said that umess reason return ed "we are heading for the most devastating conflict the world has ever known". Democratic leader Senator Mans field warned against "delay in get ting to the peace table" which could result in the development of a gen eral war in Asia. Senator McGovern also expressed fear of further escal ation. In Newsweek magazine widely- read columnist Walter Lippman warned that "bombing can't win". He said he was "inclined to think that Hanoi will endure all the pun ishment that we dare to inflict". He says that the Vietnamese' cap acity "to do without the product of their industries is quite different from that, let us say, of a well-to-do middle-class American community in an affluent suburb. "Provided they get some food, which they can from China, they are not likely, to quit and to do what we want because their power plants and bridges and factories are demol ished." In London a march thousands- strong from Naphill, headquarters of the British V-bomber command, was headed by a group of Labor MPs who later addressed a Trafalgar Square rally at least 20,000 strong demanding peace. South Vietnam troops raid a house in one of the "protected" hamlets in South Vietnam. 