 Heavy attack on the WWF Melbourne waterside workers last r riaay were penalised aboui £ 60,000 by the Stevedoring Indus try Authority over a stoppage held earlier in the week. fWER the recent period the Waterside Workers' Fede ration .and its members have been fined and penalised by the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission and the Stevedor ing Authority amount ex ceeding £1 ?0 000. The penalties imposed on the 5000 Melbourne wharf ies represents the loss of nine days attendance money or about £12/14/3 a man.. Earlier the WWF was fined £2,000 plus costs by the Arbitration Commis sion. Most members throughout Australia were penalised three days' attendance I money for taking part in a national stoppage. It was called by Federal officers in support of increased wages, pen sions, a, mechanisation fund and to answer an attack made by Justice Gallagher of the Arbitration Commis sion. ' On that occasion members of the union protested against the double penalties inflicted for the same "of fence". Protest meetings were held through out Sydney and protest .stoppages were held in .Melbourne and Port Kembla. The Arbitration Commission fined the Federation a further £1,000 plus costs over the Melbourne and Kembla stoppages. The present onslaught against the Federation by the shipowners, the Authority and the Commission .lends weight to the belief, that the Govern ment inquiry into the waterfront in dustry will not -serve the interests of the workers. The ACTU executive last week in Melbourne endorsed an earlier deci sion by maritime unions that the in quiry be boycotted. The executive said it considered the inquiry was for the purpose of im posing further restrictions and pen alties on the WWF. As a ruse to sidetrack attention from the huge freight profits and to deny ''the granting of the Federa tion's wage, pension and other claims, the shipowners have intensified their provocation against the waterside workers. A good example of this was the background to last week's stoppage throughout the Sydney waterfront. A stoppage occurred on two ships, the "Tagus" and "Pioneer Surf", be cause the shipowners refused to allow the ships to be worked by the normal number of men required. Instead of the Authority insisting that the employers provide replace ments to bring the jobs up to mini mum strength, about 200 men were sacked and suspended for three days. This penalty sparked off a protest walkoff by the whole port. The Sydney members are now facing a penalty by the Authority for the mass walkoff. About 2800 Melbourne wharfies walked off on Monday afternoon in support of the Federation's wage and other claims. 