 Women's lobby against conscription I CANBERRA: Sixteen women , representing hundreds in the Save Our Sons movement and thousands of electors f lobbied for three days in Canberra last week against Government policy of conscription for overseas service . J-HE women, who were from Queensland, Victoria, Syd ney and Newcastle, yoted the th ree days activity a huge suc cess. In that time they interviewed doz ens of parliamentarians, mainly Government Members, held two dem onstrations, addressed a students' meeting at Australian National Uni versity and held interstate discus sions about the rapidly growing S.O.S. movement. Barred from Kings Hall Delegates were welcomed at Can berra station by Mr. A. James, MHR. Subsequently he and the other La- ber Members gave delegates after noon tea. Just before they entered Parlia ment House, the women demonstrat ed with placards and flag on the lawn outside. Placards read "No Conscripts for overseas", "Join S.O.S. Move ment. We oppose conscription for overseas service." At Parliament House delegates were shocked to find that Kings Hall, traditional venue for lobbying, was barred to them. This instruction had been issued at 12 noon that day. Instead they were ushered into a small room just inside the entrance to Parliament House. For the next three days this became their "office" from which they organised almost non-stop deputations. Commenting on the interviews, Secretary of SOS, Mrs. P. Ashcroft said: "The overall result has yet to be estimated. We did not have time to collate reports from all delegates. "However, it seems to me a pattern soon emerged in interviews with Government Members. They all up held conscription for overseas on the grounds that Communism was threatening Australia. We went to ar gue against conscription for overseas. We found ourselves forced, by the Government Members attitude, to debate also the issue of Vietnam. " ffl zuidn't win vote" "Our delegates were representative of a wide cross-section of the com munity. But all there told Govern ment representatives they were not at all convinced that the Vietnam situation warranted the sending of our boys overseas. "I consider significant a comment by Dr. Malcolm Mackay m answer to our claim that the Government had po specific mandate to legislate f-or conscription for oversees by way of referendum. "He replied that a referendum would not be carried . . . they nev er were.' We pointed out that the referenda had been carried when the people were convinced an issue was correct. We considered his reply further evidence that the Govern ment itself was not convinced it had che support of the people on this question. ! "Perhaps the greatest impression we made at Canberra was to con vince some Members that Govern ment policy had lost votes even among their supporters," said Mrs. Ash- i croft. J "When Mr. Turner, MHR, told one Member of our delegation she was a Communist stooge' she quickly re- torted that up to now she had been a "Liberal stooge' but would not be I any more. Victorian delegates told Members tha-t many in their organisation had up until now been Liberal in out look. Now they were participants in the Save Our Sons movement. "For most delegates this was a first experience in lobbying. The attitude of some Government Mem bers astounded us. "One MHR suggested that boys who did not want to serve overseas were were 'slobs'. He retracted when we protested, but this and other insults to the delegation have been noted and will be reported to the electorates of the Members concerned. Where a courteous hearing was extended, this will also be reported, along with an accounted of the Member's attitude to our policy. Mrs. Ashcroft said SOS delegates took authorisation to speak for elec tors from every metropolitan elec torate in Sydney, many NSW coun try electorates, and from electorates in Queensland, Victoria, South Aus tralia and Western Australia. A re port would be sent to each elector concerned. Thus results would be made known to thousands. In addition SOS delegates took a petition with 800 signatures addressed to the Prime Minister — this was in addition to 1,200 presen ted previously. Silent Vigil at GG Ceremony With Parliament House closed to visitors during the Governor-Gen eral's investiture, SOS held a silent vigil outside for over an hour while public and officials awaited the ar rival of Lord Casey. In dignity and silence the women stood in a row. Each had a small placard carrying one or two words pinned to their frocks, making up a ; whole message which was observed and photographed by hundreds of vis- ' itors and reporters. The whole mes sage read : "SAVE OUR SONS. NEXT INTAKE SEPTEMBER 29. WHY OUR 20-YEAR-OLDS FOR UN DECLARED WAR. THIS IS A VIO LATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS. JOIN US TODAY." Meetings Meetings on peace themes: - A distinguished American, Mrs. lucile Green, professor of human ities at Merrett College. California and active for peace in the USA | will speak next Wednesday, Ootebe: J 6 at 8p.m.. at a pvblic meeting at the rooms of the Association for Internal 'anal Co-rperation and Dis- 1 armament. 17 Parker Street on I "Why World Law is also Women's 1 Law". B Friday, October 1. Public meeting on Vietnam, Masonic Hall, Double Bay. Spea- : kers: Senators J." Cavanagh and L. Murphy, i Organised by the Wentworth ALP federal j electorate council. Monday, October 11, 8 p.m. Forum-Rally on Vietnam, Paddingtcn Town Hell. Speak ers include Dr. J. Cairns and Mr. W. C. : Wentworth MHRs. Organised by the East- i em Suburbs Sponsoring Committee with ! the co-operation of all eastern suburbs peace groups. Some 60-80 people attended a i debate on Vic loam in Manly last | Friday organised by the Mosman Debating society. Mr. H. B. Turnei MHR and Dr. H. Hoffman took part, with Alderman Frank Prea cher in the chair. Printed and published by D. Young, 168 Day Street. Sydney; at 31 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. 