 [?] Do you like to see cliche-spouting humbugs get taken apart? Well, see Max Firsch do it in New Theatre's latest production "Andorra". "yNDORRA" is a logical ex amination of the psycho logy behind prejudice. Set in the imaginary Republic of Andorra it shows what people will do who believe propaganda. The Soldier, The Doctor, The Car penter and The Innkeeper walk round repeating cliches till they kill Andri. Of course, "they" are not to blame. The Teacher has always said that Andri is "a Jew" whom he rescued do" ."» the : ' and brought up as his own son. In fact, Andri is his real son. His mother is the Senora, who lives "across the frontier." The Soldier's thinking is confined to obeying orders and preparing to fight "till the last man." "Better dead than a slave," he repeats. Andorra's official line is that "the Blacks" are going .to attack them at any tick of the clock. All foreigners are spies. La Senorra when she arrives is called a "spie-ess." Now and again the village idiot weaves through a scene nodding his head just a little faster than the rest of the respectable citizens. brought up to belt" — is "a Jew" or "one of them," tries to become a carpenter. He is tricked by The Carpenter and The Journey man and forced to leave. "You ought to be a salesman," The Carpenter says; "that's what your 'kind' are good at." Andri wants to marry Barblin, who is The Teacher's other child. "That's impossible," The Teacher says. "No. It's because I am 'a Jew'," says Andri. The Teacher tells Andri the truth, that he is Barblin's brother. He won't believe him. Amidst mounting tension La Senorra, "the foreigner," is killed in the square. ' The mob wants Andri's blood. "He never makes a mistake," ays The Doctor as the "Jew detector" condemns Andri by the way he walks. The soldiers lead Andri away, hack ing off his finger to get his mother's valuable ring. As the citizens slink off The Car penter says, "The business with the ring was going a bit too far"— faith- ful to the old cliche to the last. Norman Phillips (The Priest) and Robert Bruning (The Teacher) were outstanding. Eric Long (as Andri) needed more control of his lines, but otherwise good. Dennis Lloyd, as the pear-shaped Carpenter, added the note of caricature which could be made stronger among the cliche spouters New Theatre maintains its fine record with this modern masterpiece by Max Firsch. D.K. 