 DOCTOR SAYS POLICE PUSHED HIM OUT SYDNEY : A Sydney doctor said in court last week that, after waiting more than three hours to get his son released on bail on a charge arising from a demonstration against the Vietnam war, he had been pushed out of the central police station charge-room by several policemen. HR. J. WADDY was appearing in Central Court on a charge of offensive behaviour. He said in evidence that he had fallen down after being pushed out. Police statements that he had fallen deliberately were untrue, he said. Dr. Waddy's son Alan was one of 51 people arrested during the anti-viet- nam war demonstration, corner of King and Pitt Streets, Sydney, on October 22. In police evidence, Detective- Sergeant Longbottom (NSW Special Branch) said that Dr. Waddy had hurst into the charge room on Octo ber 22 at 10 p.m. and said: "You told me a pack of lies sergeant!" Cross-examined by Mr. R. J. B. St. John (for Dr. Waddy), Longbottom continued: "The defendant came to me in the charge room and said: 'Sergeant, why are all these delaying tactics going on?'" Longbottom had told Dr. Waddy there- were no delaying tactics. That was about 10 to 10.15. Mr. St. John asked the detective if he remembered being told by Mr. May, solicitor, that he had been in touch with a Supreme Court Judge and that if the people weren't bailed out immediately then habeas corpus proceedings would ensue. The detective said he recalled that about 10.45 to 11 p.m. Sergeant Tickle stated in evidence that nobody had been bailed out in t>iA &n minntps hfitwp.fin 10.20 and 11 p.m. that night. The four policemen on duty "had been working all the time." Sergeant E. Wood described Dr. Waddy's entry into the .charge-room: "I heard the defendant call out: 'I'm going in, they're not going to stop me. It is a public place'. The defend ant then pushed his way past me. I tried to reason with him saying: 'Please stay outside.'— He said 'I'm going in' and pushed past and went to the counter. "I want him" "Hp said to Sereeant Tickle behind the desk: 'I demand release of all : these people they have been here far too long. My son is in here and I want him out now,'" said Sergeant Wood. Sergeant Wood also said: , "I took him by the right hand and he struggled violently Constable Ryan took his other arm and we then took him struggling to the door. As I relax- ; ed the hold for him to step down | the steps, camera flash-lights began i operating; the defendant then sudden- j ly threw himself to the ground and ! lay prone." j Cross examining Constable Ryan on j the same matter, Mr. St. John asked: | "You didn't push the defendant put j the door?"— "No." Mr. St. John: "You just took him | to the door and let your hands drop | and let him go out himself?"— "Yes.' | Mr. St. John: "Then he threw him- | self onto the ground?"— "Yes." | Mr. St. John: "Neither you nor | Sergeant Wood helped the defendant | through the door?"— "No." N Mr. St. John: "Not the gentlest | guidance?"— "No." s Dr. Waddy in evidence said he ar rived at Central Lane at 8.30. He . was told by a police officer that the people would he likely to he releas ed "in an hour's time". Dr. Waddy said he waited on the footpath till 11.30. He had entered the station and several policemen had tried to ston him. He asked the desk sergeant and Detective-Sergeant Longbottom: "Could you tell me how long it will he before my son is released, the time seems to he excessive?" He had further said: "I consider that the time being taken is deliber ate." Sgt. Longbottom had said: "Mr. Dawson, your son will he released last." "I said my name is not Dawson it is Waddy. Are you threatening me, I said. There, is a witness here," the doctor said. Slow manner Dr. Waddy said he observed police behind the counter for about five minutes and it seemed to him that they were not busily engaged and he considered that they were behaving in a deliberately slow manner. "I left the charge room and stood at the gates till 12 p.m.," Dr. Waddy said. "I re-entered the charge-room and again I was obstructed. I again asked the reason for the delay and repeated that I considered th'e delay deliberate. "Then I was grasped by several poli cemen, hands came from behind and I was pushed out the door. "I turned to see who was pushing me out and I fell down. Mr. St. John: "You've heard the evidence that you deliberately fell down?" Dr. Waddy: "It's untrue." Mr. St. John: "You've heard also that you were released before the doorway?"— "It's false." The case is adjourned till Decem ber 20. 