 ; ICaneer in '.fthe air 3 tp RECENT World Health Organ? M ' nation survey has again direct - -(lied attention to atmospheric pollu- Mtion as an increasing cause of lung Iicer. W.H.O. stated that chemi- analyses of urban and rural air e shown the presence, in pol- 2&lt;1 .air,, of" .known carcinogens neer- producing agents), lemedies suggested by W.H.G. in- cles : & greater use of electricity 'and natural gas to replace oil and coal as domestic fuels; ® elimination of smoke from these! engines loy careiui con trol of operating conditions, in cluding engine maintenance; 6 development of exhaust control devices for motor cars, and & establishment of green belts between industrial and resi dential areas. (Reference — "Australian" page 7-12 1964. _ C.W.). The incomplete combustion oi tvoleum products, like petrol and fuels, in our still inefficient terna combustion engines, adds ese carcinogens to our atmos- ieie by way o£ the exhai: ankcase breather tubes. Sei ious attention given i.. the A, Japan, Italy and Great Brit, n and many other countries where toi vehicle density is high has legislative action to con- this health hazard, reliably as- sed as Increasing the industrial inspired air pollution factor lay as high as 25 per cent of all the assessable means of air-pollution. In Australia, our big car makers pay scant attention to the urgent need to equip new motor vehicles with cheap, efficient and proven air — pollution controls. Federal and/or State Governments ,here may have to compel them by legislative action,, to equip new cars and trucks with such devices, if they will not help to protect public health in a voluntary way. A study of our motor vehicle con centration shows that the density . is heaviest in the inner ring of 12 municipalities of Melbourne, with a resident population of over half a million people (536,500 — 1962 statistic). Motor vehicles, registered at their garaging point, at December, 1962 (latest available statistic) shows that the - Melbourne inner area of 51 square miles held 175.796 regis tered motor vehicles. This figure must have exceeaea zuu,uuu an vaac last two years of booming car sales, giving today inner Melbourne an average density of 4000 motor ve hicles to the square mile. When Los Angeles, California, USA found their car density of 2,000 to the square mile in 1957, prompt action was taken culminat ing in legislative action to compel car-makers to fit crankcake breath er controls on new cars by January, 1963, and for exhaust control de vices by 1966. Australia, now stands in third position in world ratings for use of motor spirit for capital. We use 140 gallons per head of population each year being exceeded only by the USA and Canada. (Reference — Petroleum Industry Information Bureau) . I know of no Federal Laws on Air pollution in Australia and they are certainly needed to back up the many weakly empowered State Clean Air Laws. It should be remembered that air-pollution whether its sources be industrial or from vehicles does not recognise municipal or State boun- daries and foul air is an mcx eas ing health hazard in this country, as it is ail over the industrialised world. The increase in respiratory ills, like asthma and bronchitis' in Aus tralia, demands an active drive to clean our air. People need to make Governments act to fulfill a fun- damental duty — the . protection of p public health. I — Colin Willman, Melbourne Trades j Hall Council representative on the | Victorian Government's Clean Air | Committee. 1 c 