 Speaking out 111 "II 'I II Hill I"" '"i-Tpi num...!! I about Socialism JUTIL about 50 years agt. socialism was a theory under stood by few workers. Lenin and his close associates U'ftV i-vUl . . . incr T e adapt it to the prevail- s time and to convince the Russian ot the need to do awa5> k + old system and put social ism work. of practioa?n ther-e has been a lot cal experience of socialism, built by the workers of many coun tries. There are also capitalist countries with mass Communist parties and others, including Australia, with a comparatively small party. Why should numbers of workers join the CPA? The Australian capitalist class is becoming relatively smaller, with capital concentrated in fewer hands, and the working class growing larger. Production per man in creases daily and the price for our labor power is becoming relatively less. Only a single man can earn enough in a 40-hour week to buy the commodities necessary for his subsistence. Despite medical benefits, family illness generally creates a difficult financial situation. Increased productivity is not being put to use for the benefit of society, say for a free health ser vice or adequate education. In a system which is rapidly be coming obsolete, our problem is to make it possible for Australian workers to understand what social ism can mean in our conditions. We know it can mean, for example, no more fear of unemployment, better and, more education; improv ed and free health service, increased social activity, greater development and enjoyment of the artistic talent still lying dormant in society. We must do more with our books which explain things so clearly. We must outdo the anti-socialist propa ganda that convinces workers that they may get a decrease if they read such things. The worker is no fool; he is well aware of faults and injustices in this society, but doesn't yet know that socialism is a better system. Our- Communist educators should come forward more on public plat forms and explain to the people what is socialism. Discussion groups can be very effective and should grow into well- organised classes of political educa tion. What about other readers writing in their ideas on ways to increase the membership of the Communist PflrHrV Leo Martin (Kings Cross, NSW). 