 Dr. Cough's pathetic, brutal | & report on Vietnam yERY big-scale desert ions from the ranks of the South Vietnam pup pet army to those of the National Liberation F ront ("Vietcong") bring into ridicule propa ganda claims of "big victories" for the US forces. A reported 1 60,000 desert ers have produced a build-up of NLF forces which has re vealed the whole of this year s US air aggression against North Vietnam (allegedly to prevent "reinforcements from the North" ) as a military failure. The new wave of demands from American militarists and right-wing politicians, for bombing raids on Hanoi and Haiphong and extending the war to Laos and Cambodia, are therefore not only inhuman and dangerous but without any military Meanwhile . American journalists on the spot are protesting more bitterly against the censorship which , is concealing the facts of American battle losses „ and giving the people false hopes of easy vic- tory. .A conspicuous victim of this U.S. brasshat propaganda is the Austra lian primate, Archbishop Gough who returned to Sydney last Saturday to say there was no question of who would win — "it was just a matter of time." Facts published Descending to the hate-influenced jargon of the Democratic Labor Party and Rightwing Liberals, the Archbishop added: "The trouble has been to find the Comms., hut if they come out and fight it could be over very quickly." Pathetic illusions such as those voiced by Dr. Gough were exposed in a front page-main story in the Conservative Brisbane Sunday Mail the next day. The paper's Saigon correspondent reported that "South Vietnamese soldiers are deserting at the rate of 200 a day . . . More than 160,000 Vietnamese soldiers and militiamen have deserted in the past two years." (The Sydney Daily Telegraph's Saigon correspondent on Monday gave the south Vietnamese desertion rate as 87,000 this year so far com pared with 72,000 iri 1964). The Brisbane Sunday Mail adds that three prominent U.S. television journalists, whom it names, recently returned from Vietnam, - "ha&lt;e harshly criticised attempts to mani pulate news and suppress unpleasant facts by American officials, both military and civilian." "More than ever" One such "unpleasant fact" is that the defectors are passing over to the National Liberation Front, taking their weapons with them, and that these "deserters" account for the massive build up of "Vietcong" strength which is admitted by the U.S. leaders. Thus a writer on The Australian on Monday admitted, "There are now more Vietcong than ever be fore." Official stories that the build-up from north Vietnam are refuted by fighters on the spot. (The Sydney Bulletin quotes (on November 20) the Australian Army's Adjutant-General, just back from Vietnam, as saying that the "Viet cong" was "a formidable enemy fighting on his home territory"). With more experience than Dr. Gough, Denis Warner wrote in the Herald that the same day of the Archbishop's boast: "There are doubts whether the U.S. can win ! in the acqepted sense of the word. Political, economic and social prob lems are grievous and becoming worse." Dr. Gough's thinking is an example | of the illusions being spread by the | military against which, the U.S. T.V, | journalists especially warned, | Dr. Gough was in Vietnam during | the battle of Chu Pong which was | hailed at first by the generals as a | huge U.S. victory. 1 "Red Troops Retreat After Mauling | By U.S. Cavalrymen"; "Americans 1 Win Bloodiest Fight"; "North Viet nam Troops Fed Into American Meat-Grinder" were headlines typical of the propaganda which apparently influenced Archbishop Gough. Only later did the military chief tains admit that the U.S. had suf fered its heaviest losses of the war; that the Vietnamese troops had s "ambushed and mauled a battalion j of U.S. cavalrymen"; the battalion | was cut to pieces, with dead and I wounded lying all night on the | ' battlefield, the wounded crying tor | help. | Dr. Gough was not induced to | the U.S. captain who said, We ha no idea what was going on; it was | awful". it This capiain, along with the more || than 1000 American and Australia | dead and more than 5000 wounde . g| did not echo the Archbishop s com g plaint that "the trouble has been g find the Comms." 1 The tragic slaughter on both sides does not seem to have be noticed by the Archbishop who or fered no words of sympathy to the bereaved in the interview Q So far are the U.S. leaders from believing with him that t could be "over very ?uicfk5 nd they are plainly planning t . it to Laos by means of stories of "North Vietnamese inter vention" there. 