 [?] nnunvjA M l &mm uHHHUw f HPvmvnsH. :mv/'i.l IKlllA . ¥ Eight out of ten under 25's, interviewed by the Syd ney "Mirror" (9/12/65) said, that Australia should not have . troops in Vietnam. The Australian military recruiting campaign has con sistently failed in the recent period. The Federal Government has had to amend legislation to close loopholes being used by 20-year-olds to evade con scription. These and many other pointers are ma'king it clear that the Federal Government's efforts to dragoon Australians into unquestioning support for wars of intervention into Viet nam and other Asian countries have certainly not succeeded with the younger generation. ? -fHERE was a time when if you waved the Union Jack in Martin Place you'd be run down with volunteers wanting to go and make some corner of a foreign field forever England. The "young, the young, the splendid young" are no longer agitated about war; - rather they are getting more and more edu cated about it. In the commercial field, how ever, the picture is different in deed. " The entire post-war period, particularly since the early fifties, has seen the emergence or a highly successful promotion of a multi-million "teenage mar ket" in all the main capitalist countries, including Australia. ? SENIOR lecturer in psyr chology at Sydney Univer sity, Mr. R. Thomson, had this to say to Tribune last week about mass-media and the teen-agers : "There is a continuous and never-ending indoctrination of false values into the teenager. It . is the gigantic promotion of con ditioning the teenager and selling the 'affluent' ideology. "They're got our society thor oughly impregnated with capitalist values. The modern gimmick is the "fast buck" gimmick. It's the race to get the commodity re ward and the 'smart' bloke is the bloke who gets it. . "For big numbers of teen-agers work is easy. They do not see themselves as workers but as consumers The mass media soc iety says we will give you so much wages and this is what you can spend it on — and then you could list thenr all — soft drinks, ice cream, aphrodisiacs, reversible brassieres — the cult of immed iate personal satisfaction. "Consumer products are all sold with the secondary re-inforce- ment of sex. "She's got it, he wants it" — "Round and smooth as I like them" — "With the petal that never droops" — and so on ad nauseam. "You are told day in and day out that if you dress this way, wear this sort of thing, you are likely to achieve success with the opposite sex. "There is a fetish created around objects of clothing like bras, panties, swim-shorts and so on, debasing sex, and lowering the political consciousness of people so that they can't get motivated to achieve a new form of society. "They make the imitation of mannerism of "pop stars the ideal for the teenager. "They create personality cults around the freaks of behaviour of the stage idol, who is only a small time replica of the big power boss right up on top. "But all this is an empty sort of quest.'- And just before they become adult, the teenagers wake up with nothing. They, wonder are there any values? "They reject the society they're in and adopt an anarchist pos- ition. This society has misled me I don't know what's gone wrong. The values of this society have betrayed me. I reject these sym bols and this society. I won't accept this society. "They become 'cynical'. It is an immature and ill-informed cynicism. They haven's got the political consciouness to see through to the cause or source. They can't see any satisfaction in their own lives. "But the youth feels there must be something more. The capital ist exploitation of sex in not valid, but sex is a valid experience. I know women by advertisements, now I would like to know her as she is.' "So the more and more the youth become enslaved to an affluent economy the more and more lib erated they will become, and the more they will seek for an alter native. "And all this is a curtain-raiser to individual self-expression. "The capitalist thinks he can cut this off at ar.y time. But our society is in momentum, This particular society forces an accel eration of commodity exchange and on an international pattern and Australia has to accept the Amer ican momentum and the culture that goes with it. "People who blame bad, homos, ' and so on, are pleading philosoph ical r/:ceptionalism "We've got a: good society but bad homes which are increasing" — They think perhaps, like Charles Dickens, that some benevolent philanthro- pist will chance along and change it all. "It is a bit of a buy-off of the capitalist system which breeds this kind of home. They should ask what kind of society breeds this kind of home, not 'if we could only get rid of these bad homes!' "What we do need to get rid of. is this self-vitiating form of society. "These people want to patch up this and that. It won't be patched up but it will be made better. "And the people who can make it better are the youth. They don't give a dacnn about communism or capitalism. All they care about is life. "Capitalism and fascism care about death, the teenager cares about life. "Man will beat alienation, he will beat eny social system not con ceive to his happiness. "This happens after you've been ' through all ' the fetishism, the perversions, after you've enjoyed 'satisfaction' in an ever-increasing degree of alienation. "Youth will wake up that its not acceptable for us to have fifteen flavours of ice-cream and the Vietnamese to have napalm. "They will wake up that cap italism is the denial of man's nature and a denial of progress and that we must fight to change it," he said. MAGAZINE PEOPLE 