 Paris Communist councillors get things done i SYDNEY : Communist councillors in local coun cils in Paris had demonstrated for many years how the people's living conditions could be transformed by taxing the powerful business interests, Mrs. Freda Brown told Tribune tbis week. MRS- BROWN, who is vice- president of the Women's International Democratic Fede ration (WIDF), had just re turned after attending three major women's conferences in Europe in October. "In the St. Ivry ward In Paris," she said, "there has been a Com munist majority for 40 years. "Big blocks o£ . riats, new schools, ; sports' stadia and clubs that belong to old pensioners are some of the results of their work. "All this is financed from the people who've got the money— I mean commerce and industry. "Local government has the right to tax big business and Communist councils do not hesitate to do so. "President De Gaulle has com plained about "excessive" taxation of industry and commerce by the coun cils and may try and remove this right if he is re-elected as president. "But there is a unity among all councillors and councils from the left across to the Gaullists themselves, pressing for the retention of the right to tax big business. "Communist-led councils make full use of their responsibility to plan layouts for suburban areas and shopping blocks in the interests of health and future development. German women in councils Mrs. Brown also visited the socialist German Democratic Republic (East Germany) where, because of the needs of re-construction "over 80 per cent of married women are working." "In -these conditions the work of women at municipal level takes on special importance and women's or ganisation in the councils has deve loped varied and effective means of assisting married women workers." "There is a paid half-day off every month to help working women do their shopping. Mrs. Brown attended the Council meeting of the WIDF in Salzburg (Austria), a conference of Christian women for peace held in Rome, and the 20th anniversary of the founding of the Union of French Women in Paris. "The main demand of the WIDF conference," Mrs. Brown said, "was for a cease-fire in Vietnam." The conference made first steps for a conference of South American peas i; ant women in Latin America, a day V"- of protest against all military pacts - and bases, an international children's T- conference in October, 1966, in Switzer land or Sweden to include mothers and specialists, and a meeting of women from NATO and Warsaw coun tries in Finland. A section of the Women's International Democratic Federation (WIDE) council meeting in Salzburg (Austria) recently. The women in the fore ground are from Vietnam. 