 WHY DID THE MLC. BUY H.G. PALMERS? Forestalling a big takeover? n—— MM — — — IMMIimm !!» IIIIIIIIMLIIIilMBMMMM— — BB — OM1I—BB — SYDNEY: The crash of the H. G Palmer empire in the electrical l appliance trade , involving as it did the big MLC organisation , may, bring still greater shocks than those already reported . ALREADY raublic confid- ence has been shattered by the news that leading Australian financial insti tutions made big invest ments in H. G. Palmer when it became known that MLC Ltd. were taking over that company. These institutions included the AMP Society, Colonial Mut ual Life Assurance, the NSW Superannuation Board and Gov ernment Insurance Coy. and the Medical Benefit Coy. Still the question is being asked: Why did MLC Ltd. take over a com pany that was so soon to prove un able to meet its commitments? Some financial circles hold the view that' the MLC takeover, of the Palmer firm was to ward off a pos sible takeover of M.L.C. itself, and was not concerned with reaping any investment benefits.. These financial circles believe that the taking over of Palmers put a large parcel of M.L.C. shares into what were considered safe hands, that could have an important influence favoring the interests of some big MLC in vestors. Ironically, the fact that H.G. Palmer crashed so soon afterwards has ex posed M.L.C. itself much more to the possibility of becoming a "victim" of a takeover. The financial writer in the Sydney Sunday. Telegraph (Nov. 28) write: "Last week 71,000 M.L.C. Ltd. shares were purchased on the Sydney Stock Exchange against a background that hardly called for enthusiasm. I "This is a bigger turnover than recorded even in the more hectic days before the appointment of a receiver to its subsidiary H.G. Pal mer Consolidated Ltd. on Oct. 25." . There have been strong rumors for some time of moves to take over the M.L.C. It's suggested that it may come from an Australian bank, or a Un ited States insurance office. The Sunday Telegraph quotes a Mel bourne broker who recently, in a special brochure on M.L.C., wrote: "In assessing the upside potential for M.L.C. shares, attention should be paid to the current low price for the shares attracting a takeover bid from a local or overseas group." The prize is certainly big M.L.C. Ltd. is the holding company for the large Mutual Life and Assurance group which controls assets worth £250,000,000. The holding company has a cap ital of 3.6 million £1 shares. Only three investors have 100,000 shares or more. They are the Uni versity of Sydney, Palfam Invest ments Pty. Ltd., and FAME Insur ance N.Z. Palfam which is the family com pany of H.G. Palmer sold 26,500 shares since M.L.C. paid its last dividend in June. The very large holdings . also in clude those of A.F. Deer and Duncan McCorquodale. Mr. A. F. Deer is general manager of M.L.C. 