 "STUPID", says Soviet economist _ it true that, as the Soviet Union becomes more prosperous, It is becoming more j ' >- like capitalism? ; > , | - Is It true that the Soviet Union is going to adopt the capitalist ideas of profit? - "NO" . .. . says Alf Watt, who recently returned after two years in the Soviet Union, ! where he was Tribune's correspondent. . J One simple illustration of the great gulf between the socialist and capitalist systems is that there were no meat and food price rises as a result of tfie 1963 drought, the worst in Soviet ristory, and no farmers were forced off their land. The Third Program of the GPSU, adopted at the 22nd Congress- in 1961, said "The material and technical basis of Communism will be built by the end of the second decade (1971 -80) , ensuring an abund ance of material and cultural values for the whole popula tion." Soviet society will come close to the stage where it can introduce the principle of dis tribution _ according to needs, and there will be a gradual transition to one form of own ership — public ownership. Thus a communist society will in the main have been built in the USSR. The construction of communist society will be fully completed in the subsequent period." This program is ignored by the capitalist press writers who try to "prove" the superiority and eternal existence of the system of private profit-making; but we saw more than enough to prove that the ideas of the Communist program have become the property of the whole people. A surplus Except in special cases, Soviet enterprises Jiave. always been ex pected t®. achieve a surplus of income over costs of production, and in the main have done so. So "profit" is not a new phenomenon. Previously, however, the results of a factory's operations were measured by its fulfilment of a number of norms (basic plan figures). Central planning organisations set norms for the volume of production, wages fund, number of employees, total material stocks, amount to be spent on repairs, and other things, includ ing profit. This system came into existence in , 1929, wnen the great industrialisation program was launched, which by 1941 had changed the Soviet Union from one of the most backward countries in Europe to one of the most advanced and, furthermore, one that was completely independent, economically, from the capitalist countries These first Five-Year Plans were carried out with great sacrifice by a people who had only a small hand ful of engineers, scientists, adminis trators and even skilled workers. New conditions These conditions, and the subse quent years of war, called for a great measure of centralisation in planning and administration. Because in the war the -Soviet Union lost 20 million lives, including much of its trained labor force, and factories with a total employment of four million people were destroyed. The need for a high level of cen tralisation continued into the post war years. Capitalist critics sneer at these methods, call them "bureaucratic" and other names; but the fact remains that they corresponded to the con ditions of the time and without them the industrialisation program and fuot-wai uuixauiiuatiuu ui ouuialibXli would have failed. New conditions have now been created, calling for new methods of economic planning and management, and these have been the subject of the discussion of the past three years: — Industry has grown ; till it now produces approximately 75 per cent, of the US output, and is growing at the most rapid rate in the world. It is modern, diverse' and decen tralised. . - >, ' The time when production in quantity was the overriding factor- in some cases at the expense of quality, design and finish— has now passed. The internal market for both producer and consumer goods has expanded enormously. The market is demanding quantity, quality and variety. A vast army of highly trained and skilled scientists, engineers, econo mists, administrators and workers has been created. New methods In the long debate on new methods to fit these new, conditions, no «ut and dried schemes have emerged, though general agreement has been reached. "It is the practical experiments and experience that we are now interested in," said Professor Liber- man, the economist wrongly reported by some papers as wanting to intro duce the "capitalist profit motive." Essential features broadly agreed upon include: — Factory directors will have far more responsibility and room for initia tive, and will be freed from much of the detailed directives from the central planning authority. They will have to report in far more detail to the organisations of the workers in the factory. Profitability will be the main gauge of a factory's efficient service to . the community, but not the only one, because a factory's particular interests may not always coincide with the lational interests. Bonuses will be awarded, for overfulfilment of production tar- gets, timely delivery of orders, and so on; and penalties will ' be imposed for defective work. Instead of selling to a central pur chasing agency, factories will be placed in direct relationship with their customers (retail stores in the case of consumer goods in dustries) and will manufacture according to their orders. Price control, administered by the State,, will be made more flexible, allowing for a higher price for better quality goods, or where necessary to encourage the pro- ' diiction of new lines. A higher proportion of the profits than in the past will be reserved lor the workers housing, sporting and cultural facilities, pioneer camps, kindergartens, and so on, as well as for, cash bonuses over and above wages.' State-owned The factories are owned by the State in custody for , the people; the profits will continue to belong to the State, and will provide the great bulk of State revenue.1 Central plan ning will continue. The State will still control capital investment, bank credit, and other means for guiding the economy. Professor Liberman said recently: "Socialist profit is entirely different , from capitalist profit. In a Socialist isociety it arises solely from better and more efficient production, H'» i ducing more , goods with less expen diture of time, power and raw ma- : terials, and .that's all. "But capitalism extorts profit from . exploiting -labor, cutting wages, jacking up ; prices. "Capitalist profit also comes from non-equivalent exchange with the colonies and ; under-developed coun tries. The Soviet Union bases its foreign trade solely on mutual benefit, and it grants credit at tne lowest interest rates. "Capitalist profit goes wherever It may be profitable for the capita1 1 » even, abroad, quite regardless of B national interest, as well as on gj luxury living. B "Here In the Soviet Union we spend B our surplus product on the socia services, on education and health, on expanding production, on administra tion and on defence. I "Money is the means and the entJ 1 for capitalism. But to us it is jus B a means, a way of evaluating work done and the material use "We have prof it,, but we 1 the profit motive, which is the mo B force of capitalism. Because B talking much more about profit B in the past, some people th » are going over to a free 10 jl economy- That's stupid. ft 