 IIPOLICE ABUSES MUST CEASE! j Inquiry needed j i J j; SYDNEY: Police abuses, including brutal viola- I tion of an arrested person's rights during interro- || gation, -have been exposed in several cases in j' Sydney in the past week, raising the demand for an 2 ! impartial public inquiry at least at the level of that I recently held in Victoria. jj This situation, together with curbs on police interrogation I introduced by the South Australian Labor Government, puts j into focus a dangerous anti-democratic trend among Austra- lia's large and growing police forces. = pTJBLIC feeilmg over certain - police practices in Victoria ? ran so high recently that ;the I Bolte Government had to ap- I point the Solicitor - General | (Mr. B. Murray, QC-) to make j an inquiry which has led to a | ' public report. | ' In .'Sydney, Ithe case of William Leon- ii i 'ord 'Sfetnvics last week drew press j ! /attention and forced JRolice -Commis- ; I I /sioner Allen to take refuge .in the I usual inner-departmental inquiry. ! j Next, /on Monday the Commissioner I I ordered an enquiry into allegations j 1 that three police sergeants had shown | _ favor to certains persons /seeking bail. j! Bashed in cell, : j man says -i j Stinvics was this week lying in Syd- 1 j ' ney Hospital seriously ill after an ! emergency operation on a ruptured : j ! kidney.. I , He was taken direct to Sydney Hos- | pital "from the cells at Central Police 1 i Station, having been arrested outside j / a hotel on Monday night, November '8. , Stinvics claims that his injuries | : were caused when four policemen bashed him. The Sydney daily Telegraph, /a thick- 1 1 and-thin supporter of the Askin Gov- ! 'eminent and the Police Department ; chiefs, wrote an .an editorial last Fri- . day: '"In /hospital last night two /experi- ! enoed Daily Telegraph reporters and ! ;a veteran photographer observed Stin vics and listened to his /story . . "These men believe Stinvics' story that he was bashed by the police : . "If he was bashed in a manner : which gave Mm a ruptured kidney, then the men who bashed him must be found and punished. "It is not a matter for a smooth enquiry conducted by the police on the police. It is a matter for a thor ough, unbiassed enquiry by an in dependent man appointed toy Mr. Askin." /Stinvics has been charged with as saulting a policeman, resisting arrest and using indecent language. The Sunday Telegraph last -Sunday quoted a medical authority who said that a man with a ruptured kidney would have been "physically incapable of attempting to resist arrest." The man could not have stayed on his feet and aimed a blow at anyone if he had been suffering from the internal injuries Stinvics had when admitted to hospital, Hie authority added. Medical authorities -denied that Stin vics' injuries could have caused hy "eating a pie" as claimed by police sources. Stinvics condition was critical on entering hospital, but was described as comfortable after the operation. Brutality to Aborigines ' Last Wednesday a Sydney District . Court jury awarded Mr. Kenneth BrincY.e, an Aboriginal, £400 against j detective Robert Armour for malici ous prosecution. He alleged that on June 4, 1963, he | went to Newtown police station, as a j member of the Aboriginal Australian1 Fellowship, to get /some information about a fellow Aborigine. ' He said that while at the station ! Armour punched his face, cutting the | inside of his mouth, and later i wrongly charged him with having used insulting words. This charge was dismissed last year and last Wednesday a jury awarded Mr, Brindle £400 damages when he sued for wrongful arrest. However a charge of assault against Armour was not upheld. These cases recall the serious ehaiges against the police made some years ago by the late Mrs. /Gertrude Melville, Labor MLC, apd the Studley- Ruxton case in 1954. Last month's conference of the Ab original-Australian Fellowship car ried a resolution asking the Chief Secretary to hold an official enquiry ' into allegations of brutality and dis- ! crimination on the part of police officers against Aborigines In ; country areas, j The Victorian Solicitor 'General, Mr. ! Murray, last month issued a public report _ which confirmed that abuses; in police questioning of citizens was ! more "than an isolated occurrence. j Mr. Murray made it clear that some police use violence or threats of viol-1 ence in interrogating suspects. ' He also said that "there is very || good reason to doubt the veracity of ff police evidence!" of admissions by ac- || cused persons. || Few people in NSW will doubt that || what Mr. Murray had to say about |l Victorian police also applies in NSW. || The South Australian Labor Gov- If ernment last month introduced into || parliament a bill designed in part to |! protect the rights .of arrested per- || sons being interrogated by police. || It adopted for South Australia a || new set of Judges' rules adopted in || Britain in 1963. m SA Attorney General Dunstan said p that in a number of cases in Australia g| it had been held that police question- || ing was unfair and prejudicial to an m accused person. ?I The new rules would provide that 8 accused people knew they were not B obliged to answer questions by the 1 police. m The Murray Report in Victoria pro- if posed that solicitors have the right g| to be present during the police ques- I| tioning of accused persons. S| 