 [?] [?] Unions to confer on conditions, rights | PERTH: A conference of Federal and State trade unions will meet in Perth on November 22 to formulate effective policy on employment condi tions and r«»de union rights for developmental pro jects in West Australia. JHE West Australian Trades and Labor Council has called . the conference to discuss the iron ore projects in the north west being developed mainly by overseas firms and capital. These projects include the construc tion of new ports, railways and town ships. Already thousands of workers have been engaged to carry 'out this work. "In recent months the unions have experienced a determined policy of opposition by employers in the areas concerned to recognising the normal code of working conditions and the rights of unions to organise the work force involved," Council said. The Labor Council is strongly op posed to the active support given by the State Liberal Government to moves for the recruitment of indentur ed and imported labor on short term contracts from Malta, Turkey, Mexico and Lebanon. The move to recruit imported labor is being made by the Employers' Fed eration of West Australia who in March this year urged their members to resist paying over-award wages. This move has also been encouraged by the Minister for the North West, Mr. C. Court, who said he was op posed to the movement of WA work ers from the South to the Northern projects. It is anticipated that about 20 Fed eral tnd an equal member of State trade , unions will attend the confer ence. - Mr. Monk CACTU president) is also expected to attend. Th- exploitation of the rich iron ore fields in West Australia has been des cribed as a greater bonanza than the. gold rush days. In the main United States finance interests have moved into the area to share in the spoils with the BHP. Since last December, Japanese steel interests have concluded deals to pur chase WA iron ore amounting to £1,140 million over the next 22 years from mines in the North West. The WA Premier, Mr. Brand, has stated that the investment program could reach £300 million. What he does not say is that for this £300 million these foreign interests will grab about £2,000 million in pro fits. It is also stated that the royalties to the West Australian Government for this ore will be as little as 1/- a ton. A scene from New Theatre's current production of j Max Frisch's "Andorra". The Senora (Gail Dav- ! | idson) tends the injured Andri (Eric Lang) 1 watched by the innkeeper (David Colcott). The j j season concludes on December 5. j 