 Biggest roasting of career.. CYDNEY : A proposal that some proceeds of RSL clubs' poker machines be used for peace got the longest applause at' last week's Sydney University Union debate. The speaker said a world confer ence of students for peace could be financed from one year's proceeds of RSL poker machines. This proposal brought deafening applause from the 1,000 or more stu dents who attended tine debate, held In the Union Refectory— a crowd much bigger than usual. But it was not endorsed by the two leading RSL members present, Sir W. Yeo, state president of the RSL and Mr. Eric Baume, TV and radio- commentator. The debate was on the motion, moved by Sir W. Yeo and supported by Mr. Baume, "that this house should never forget". It was over whelmingly defeated, on a show of hands. But the real defeat was that in flicted on the two leading speakers themselves, particularly Mr. Baume who, as a Union spokesman said lat er, received "the biggest roasting of . his career." Baume jibbed Many students carried copies of the student newspaper Honi Soit which had front-paged the fact that Mr. Baume had threatened to with draw Sir William Yeo and himself from the debate rather than speak on the same platform as Mr. A. Rob ertson of Tribune editorial. Mr. Robertson had been invited by the University Union and public ised to appear with Mr. P. Simpson, chemistry lecturer, in opposition to the motion. as stated m nom ooit, ivxr. jxuu- ertson withdrew on learning of Mr. Baume's attitude, to ncnn'.- the. ac hate to proceed on schedule. How ever, he condemned the action of Mr. Baume, whose policies were con sistently pro-militarist and anti-dem ocratic. The resentment of many students against Mr. Baume's action was clear when he stood up at the debate, as revealed on national TV ("Four Corners"). "Dogs — rats" He was received with a hostile demonstration and the waving of a red flag by someone in the audience. He made a reference to the Bel- sen concentration camp which was received with respect, but soon after wards shouted angrily that inter jec- tors were "Australian Vietcong". Uproar followed, during which Mr. Baume could be heard shouting "Dogs rats!.... Be quiet, children and listen to someone' who knows". He was then heard appealing to the Speaker to "control the rabble", a term which, on request, he withdrew. In replying to the discussion, Mr. Simpson protested against Mr. Baume's refusal to take part in a debate with Mr. Robertson. A voice: "Robertson fought in the war!" Mr. Simpson said he had been told Mr. Robertson was a member of the RSL, which led to a new out burst of cheering and laughter. Students asked Mr. Baume his rea sons for objecting to Mr. Robertson's presence and appeared unimpressed by Mr. Baume's statement that the RSL banned Communists and he did not want them near him. Uproar was renewed when Mr. ' Baume replying to a facetious en quiry as to whether he would "rather be killed by a Communist or a fas cist" replied "I'd. rather be killed by a gentleman— a fascist". Most speakers used the subject t» support world peace!;- One-; protested- ® against the "jingbistic""- rfepoigOfV? the- Vietnam war; ; v 