 U.S.S.R: brands war I policy of Johnson Govt. NUCLEAR THREAT TO GDRj MOSCOW: A warning about the policy of the Johnson administration in aggravat ing the international situation was issued by the Soviet TASS newsagency in commenting on President Johnson's speech on the 20th anniversary of the victory over nasi Ger many. "THIS line is inreasingly get ting the upper hand in Weshington, says Tass. TASS adds that Soviet official circles consider that US leaders will be responsible for the possible con sequence of this line. "The USSR stands firmly on guard over peace. But it is ready for any turn of developments. Those who want to revive the bankrupt 'positions ! of strength' policy ought to make no i mistake about that," says TASS. | It points out that in speaking on g the second world war, Johnson said I nothing about who started the -war j or that it was fought against German t fascism and Hitler's tyranny. S "It looks as if in Washington they g want to wipe out all memory of the j anti-Hitler coalition and the comrade- S ship in arms of the USSR, the USA, j Britain, France and many other j countries who joined forces to smash g the common enemy." | Johnson said not a word in tribute ( to the Soviet Union's role in the war j or the millions of Soviet citizens who' g died in the struggle. On the contrary, | he claimed that the dawn of 20 years | ago was "a grey dawn" and talked | about the "shadow of Soviet ambi- S tion" falling across Europe. I By contrast, TASS recalls the I words of President Roosevelt: "Honor I and glory go to the Red Army and j the Soviet people who wrote immortal S pages in the history of the struggle | against tyranny and oppression. Their 1 example and selflessness are an in- | spiration to all the forces united in | the joint struggle." \ Encouraging West German revanch- ism, Johnson said that all NATO countries, and above all West Ger many, "have a right to share in collective nuclear defence. What does this mean, asks TASS, but paving the way to nuclear weapons for the West German mili tarists, those who brought Hitler to power, unleashed world war II and now are capable of plunging Europe and the world into another catas trophe to revise world war II's results? In effect Johnson joined in the West German revanchists' demand for the liquidation of the German Democratic Republic. He said the US was ready "to play its full part" in measures to end the system exist ing in the GDR. TASS warns that it is not for the UjS President to dispose of an inde pendent sovereign state which has existed for 16 years and is part of a defensive alliance — the Warsaw Treaty Organisation. The GDR fron tiers, says TASS, are as inviolable as those of the USSR and all the socialist states. Showing that he wants to oust socialism from Europe, Johnson called for "a Europe one in purpose, hope and temper" — of course on the Western pattern. TASS reminds Johnson that he is "by no means the master of Europe. . . . The peoples who established a socialist order at home did this by their sovereign will and for all time and they will not allow the US or anyone else to interfere with their internal affairs. Any attempt to raise again the banner of the anti-socialist crusade in Europe, or anywhere else, would end in inglorious failure." TASS notes that, along with talk about "serving the interests of free dom," Johnson extolled the bombing of North Vietnam. Warns USA "The lessons of the last decades have passed him by," says TASS, noting Johnson's use of "iron curtain" and other stock anti - Communist phrases. Yet with all this, Johnson stated that the US , will work towards . agree ment with the USSR to end tensions —a statement, says TASS, which looks strange in the light of a speech rid dled with hostility towards socialism and national liberation. TASS comments: "The USSR has already shown itself ready for serious negotiations and conclusion of agree ments aimed to avert war, ease tension and strengthen peace and security. "Nobody should think they can interfere in other states' internal affairs, provoking armed conflicts I here and there and committing J aggression against socialist countries | and at tlie same time talk about | 'agreements with the USSR'." j 