 U.S.A. ADMITS MAKING AIR ATTACKS [?] yiRTUAL admissions by the United States that it has been bombing Laos and helping South Vietnamese forces bomb K I a— \ / 1 1 I a iNuun Vietnam last week brought closer, the growing danger of big-scale war in South-East Asia. After a briefing by State Secretary Dean Rusk, the chairman of the US Senate foreign relations committee, Senator John,. Sparkman, said last Thursday that the US had been carrying out , air operations over Laos since June. American United Press Inter national correspondent Arthur Dom- men reported from Saigon on January 14 that since last June, US' jet fighter-bombers based in South Vietnam have been atacking supply lines, anti-aircraft batteries and other ground positions in Laos. "Well qualified sources revealed the series of suppressive strikes in the wake of the shooting down yes terday of two US jets over Laos." These attacks, said the correspon dent, are part of "a continuing de monstration ofl American military force in this part of the world." Last Friday the same source ad mitted that US planes and warships had been giving protective cover to South Vietnam forces attacking North Vietnam. Conscious step These attacks have been made in face of repeated warnings by the Soviet Union and China, that they will give North Vietnam whatever aid it needs to defeat US aggression. The attacks therefore represent steps taken consciously by the US in the direction of a general war. In this the US is being aided and abetted by the Menzies Government wmcn has now announced that it will sink more Australian resources in men, money and materials in a war widely admitted to be impossible to win. Thus General Maxwell Taylor, US ambassador in South Vietnam and main advocate of US intervention there, admitted to the press on January 11 that there was "no im mediate end in sight to the war" — which the US has been waging for three years on an expanded scale. At- the same time, American opinion is hardening against the Vietnam war. According to the US journal News week last Monday "the call for with drawal (from Vietnam) is now be ginning to come from voices ranging beyond the predictable groups. "Two weeks ago in Washington 105 religious leaders joined forces to urge Mr. Johnson to seek a negotiat ed peace in south east Asia. "Arid just before Christmas an advertisement in the Boston Globe asked the President to call for an immediate cease fire agreement in Vietnam. "Listed among the sponsors of the advertisement were such impressive names as Cabot, Bainbridge, Forbes, Amory and Coolidge." "We believe we have neither wis dom nor strength enough to play God's policemen in South east Asia", said the advertisement. "We believe that unless we find immediate, posi tive and honorable solutions to this war, we can be locked on a course leading towards that final conflict which overshadows all our thoughts." There are now at least 13 senators favoring either immediate with drawal or peace by negotiation. Newsweek alSO lists n. shrine nf US provincial papers — often the closest to public opinion— which are now telling the Administration to get out of Vietnam. They include the Milwaukee Journal, the St. Louis Post-Despatch, the Indianopolis Times and the Chicago Tribune. , The trend of British opinion is similar. Thus Mrs. Lena Jeger, British Labor MP, calls on the Labor Government to reconvene the Geneva conference to end the "cruel, use less and hopeless" war in Vietnam. Base at Darwin The past week has shown that, the Menzies Government has agreed to establishment of a second foreign base on Australian soil— a British V-bomber base in Darwin for attack against Indonesia. As the Sydney Sun wrote on January 14: "Behind a charade of defence exercises it is now quite clear that Darwin is to be turned into a base equipped to handle a British V-bomber force for an in definite time ... a base permanent ly suitable for V-bombers whether they are actually stationed there or not." The London Daily Wortcer com mented that the despatch of these nuclear-capable bombers to the In donesia-Malaysia area is "in the worst tradition of bullying imper ialism." 