 Matriculation moves mean MORE LOCKS ON VARSITY GATES SYDNEY : Last week fhe New South Wales univer sity' joint committee on matriculation fixed new, higher matriculation standards for university en trance. yHESE standards will be ef- j fected when the Leaving Certificate is replaced by the Higher School Certificate as recommended by the Wynd- ham Report. The Higher School Certificate will have three pass levels which Dr. Wyndham, the Director General of Education, stressed would correspond to the present "Honours", "A", and "B" Leaving Certificate passes. However, it has been reported that the Universities of Newcastle, New South Wales and New England have already set a minimum of four "se cond level" (old "A" pass) and one "third level" (old "B" pass) for their matriculation requirement. Teachers' Federation Publicity Of ficer Mr. D. Broadfoot commented last week: "It is not unreasonable to say that the universities are jacking up their standards. "At present it is possible for a stu dent with five "B" passes to get his matriculation and enter university. "Now it appears that some univer sities will only take students witl four "second level" and one "thir&lt; level" pass. "It is obvious then that the stan dard has been lifted above Dr. Wyn- dham's proposals. i "As well as this, the Wyndham re port is designed to ease the burden j on the 17 and 18-year-olds who have to face the emotional and physical i ordeal of a final examination. "Experience also shows that the ! Leaving Certificate has never ben a completely satisfactory means of predicting subsequent performance at the university. "The decision will kill the spirit of the Wyndham Report, which was intended, among other things, to re organise the examination system to give students an all-round education. "The extra year at school provided by the Report should give the student more time to mature and give him stability in the face of the ordeal of examinations- "This would therefore raise the level of all the students passing the Higher School Certificate. "The decision of the universities' joint committee on matriculation points to the fact that there are sim ply not enough places available at . I university. I "The State and Federal Govern- 1 ments are not spending anything like | enough money on education," Mr. I Broadfoot said. 