 [?] Keep Australia for the whites!— Govt, policy cECRET instructions by the Menzies Govern- nicnt to its overseas lepre- on-nfatives to disguise the racial discrimination being practised in its immigra tion policv has been ex posed in New Zealand. Mrs. Marjorie Crocombe, a Cook Islander and a highly educated research anthropolo- aist and author, has written to the Auckland "Star' givina the facts of the obstruction ot her own entrv to Australia by the Government on three oc casions. She wrote to the "Star" from the Department of Anthropology at the University of California where her husband is a Fulbright exchange lec turer She wrote following publication in the "Star" — and in Tribune — of the refusal to allow Mr. Nooroa Tuaiti, a Cook Islander from New Zealand land in Australia.. In her letter she says — "I am a Cook Islander, too, and my entry to Australia has been obstructed every one of three times that I have wanted to go there — and as we have to pass through there again later this year I will probably be obstructed again. "Two Cook Islands friends of mine have been treated in the- same insulting way. "In 1958 I bought tickets several months in advance to go to Austra lia by TEAL. Nobody said anything about an entry permit. "Only a few days before I was to leave New Zealand, they told me I could not go." "The Australian trade commision- er's office than started to put a number of obstructions in my way. (I later found out that this was in accordance with the standard list of obstructions that Australia's overseas offices are issued with to apply in the case of applicants who are not white). "First 1 y as required to get a fur medical examination, including tests that took some time. "Then I was told I would have to pay a return fare to New Zealand before I could leave. Then I found that other requirements were to fol low. "When I asked why these thir.0s > were required, the Australian trade commission staff said it was be cause "Cook Islanders have a low standard of living" and that Cook Islanders 'may not know how to be have' in Australia. Mrs. Crocombe said that an Immi gration official in Canberra told her husband that Cook Islanders were not admitted to , Australia because of the "low education", "When they were told that I had considerably more, education that the average Australian, they brought -up other equally silly arguments," she ! said. Pointing out that other New Zea- landers can stay in Australia indefi- nately, Mrs. Crocombe said that when she and her husband were re turning from a research trip in the Pacific in 1960 it took about a month for the Australian Govern ment to issue her with a permit to enter Australia. On arrival she was told that she could only stay for two years and then would have to apply for an other permit to stay. With her husband she left Austra lia temporarily in 1961 to attend a science Congress in Hawaii. They went from there back to the Cooks Island to gather material for a book that is' now being published by the Australian National Univer sity. When they were about to return .to Australia, Mrs. Crocombe was again told she could not go to Aus tralia. "By this time we knew the offi cial instructions which was signed by Mr. Downer, the Australian Minister of Immigration, to Austra lian offices overseas. "The instructions said first that Australian officials were always to deny that the immigration policy was based on race, but that any person who was not white was to be obstructed in a number of ways, which were listed -down. "These included involved medical check-ups, requiring return passages to be paid, requiring people to have guaranteed accommodation before they arrived in Australia, requiring a guaranteed job before they ar rived and a lot of others. "The instruction is very confiden tial and the Australian Government will deny that it exists, but in fact some of the originals issued by their Canberra office are held by people outside the 'system', who can ' admit to holding them. "When they were challenged with these facts the official admitted to my husband that they were ture, but said he personally did not ap prove of the instructions. They issued a permit immediately. Mrs. Crocomhi said that like all Cook Islanders she is a British sub ject and asks, "Why am I humi liated each time I have to go to Aus tralia?" And answers, "it is because I am not white. In past years Australia has tried to block Maoris from the New Zealand r ainland from getting into Australia a number of times. "Australia has the same prejudices at home too. I have visited Abori ginal reserves and seen the shocking way these people are treated," she says. "I lived over two years in New Guinea and saw how the Papuan people, who are Australian citizens, are not allowed into Australia ex cept in special circumstances and with special passes. They are not allowed passports. "Fancy not being allowed to : enter the only country of which 1 you are a citizen! But it is true still today." 