 The irv : J 1 " ||MMM people jSr i mi won 't forget "THE whole democratic world rejoiced loud and long when Algeria won her independence in July 1962 after 130 years of struggle against fhe French invaders. The last eight years of that struggle alone had cost Algeria one in nine of her 9,000,000 people. Two million more were in French - jails and concentration camps when the French rulers finally had to admit defeat. French patriots, with the Com munist Party in the vanguard, had also fought long and hard for Algerian freedbm. French soldiers refused to serve, French workers went on strike, French women lay down on railway tracks so that the green-and-white flag of Algeria might replace the French tricolor on the Governor's pala- 1 in Algiers. An ill-fated French putsch One of the final actions to clinch independence was taken by the French people — 100,000 of them, headed by the Communists— who marched through Paris in a demon- " tration against the threat 1 the "Secret Army" (OAS) organised by the French Fascist generals centred in Algeria to stage a coup against the granting of Algerian independ ence. "We are building socialism" Many walls now carry such slogans as "We are building social ism." As Soviet journalist Kudryavtsev on a recent visit to Algeria notes, the linking of national liberation with social and economic changes in the people's interests was a characteristic of the revolution. "The battle for a new life was fought by the most exploited and oppressed classes of colonial Al geria, who bore the main burden of the anti-French colonialist struggle." Meeting in Tripoli in June, 1962, the National Council of the Algerian Revolution adopted a program of democratic reforms, proclaiming the need for a "revolutionary change of society." "The emergence of the Ben Bella Government determined the coun try's future course," says Kudrya vtsev. The revolutionary leadership of the NLF decided that, besides being what the people wanted, the building of socialism was the best way to restore the shattered economy. Estates were given to the peasants Nationalisation of French property In March, 1963, Ben Belial Government began to nationalise the property left by the French emigres Factories were turned over to com mittees of the workers, who soon brought them to maximum activity. In foreign policy Algeria has played a progressive part, maintain ing friendly relations with socialist countries and joining hands with Africans- struggling against the South African apartheidists, the Rhodesian racists and the Tshombe Govern ment in the Congo. Whatever the immediate results l last week's upheaval, the Algerian people will be determined not to sacrific any of the hard-won gains their revolution. 