 MURDER TRIAL LINK WITH WAR CRIMINAL HERE By a correspondent ' A murder trial being held in Sweden recalls the fact that the Menzies Govenment continues to shelter in Australia one Ervin Viks, convicted by an Eston ian court as a war criminal with maior for the death of 120,000 nazi victims in that count in World War II. country yHEN Viks was convicted in TT 1962 in his absence he was already in Australia. The Men zies Government refused re quests for his extradition, de spite wartime agreements cov ering the allied responsibilities for the trial of war criminals. A number of Vik's former assoc iates, hiding in various countries, '"either suicided or scuttled for cover to such countries as West Germany. Now comes word that in Sweren, one of the accused in the murder trial is Johannes Raaga, who has been revealed as one of the brutal guards and executioners who ser ved under Viks in Estonia. The story is that on September 21, 1950 a Swedish ship "Energi" owned by Estco sank in three min utes a few miles off the Swedish coast, with a loss of 10 lives. Most of the crew lost were Est onian. Six of the crew were able to save themselves, including the second steward Johannes Raaga. The cause of the disaster was said to have been a floating war time mine. Two weeks later Lloyds of Lon don paid Estco a sum of 385,460 Swedish crowns in insurance. In February this year the Swed ish Criminal Investigations Branch received this letter: "Fifteen years ago, my now div- orced husband Johannes Raaga' confessed to me that on September 21, 1950 he sank the S.S. "Energi" with a charge of dynamite, ten members of the crew perished as a result. Johannes Raaga received an honorarium for the. deed." The Swedish CIB commenced an investigation. They established that in 1945 he was employed as a lab- ourer blasting tree stumps and had purchased 401bs. of dynamite. Johannes Raaga was arrested for deliberate sinking of a vessel and manslaughter of lo people. Reports indicate he has confessed that the shipping company director, Arved Magi, a fellow Estonian proposed that he sink the ship and offered to pay him half the insurance money. Finally Raaga accepted a lesser sum of 50,000 Swedish crowns. The directors of the shipping company, Raaga stated, watched the sinking of the ship from a pleasure boat some three miles from the j scene. Magi with two other directors j of the company have been arrested for insurance fraud and suspected manslaughter. From the investigations the Swedish State Prosecutor has learned that the shareholders of the Estco oampany numbered some hundred or more Estonians connected with a fascist emigrant organisation and part of the purposes of the com pany was to be in readiness for "X-day". That is when a general war broke out the intention was to sail with NATO forces to "liberate Estonia from the tyranny of communism". 