 Wide protestsj on migrant | discrimination I 1 By a Migrant Worker ! Most people taking part in the recent j Citizens' Convention in Canberra took the theme of the Conference "Every Settler a Citizen" seriously. There was clear opposition to any form of poli tical discrimination in the acceptance of migrants for naturalisation. Immigration Department officials, after trying to dodge this issue, finally admitted that -326 migrants had been refused naturalisation on security grounds, but would not give the reason. This sparked off the strongest and broadest demands yet seen to end such political discrimination. /""N January 21 the Sydney Daily Mirror commented regarding Sir Charles Spry, director-general of the Aus tralian Intelligence Security Organisation for the past 1 5 years. 'He has either failed to keep out or get rid of a potentially dangerous enemy in our midst, on he is witlv holding citizenship because he doesn't like the colour of their politics". The Sydney Daily Mirror on January 26 printed a statement by Mi\ Mourikis (a job delegate and member of the Waterside Workers' Federation) challenging the Govern ment to deport him or state the rea son Why he had been refused citi zenship. A spokesman for the Immigration Department replied "that they can't say why he had been refused". Professor A. K. Stout, president of the N.S.W. Council for Civil Liberties, said the Council was /"con cerned that there was no machinery for an appeal". The Sydney Daily Telegraph (Janu ary 28) wrote: "'There are disturb ing implications in the case of a Greek migrant who had been refus ed naturalisation three times. "The statement made at the re cent Citizens' Convention indicated that there are more in a similar position. "Surely in logic and justice a man who is good enough to remain a resident in the country and who meets the normal requirements for naturalisation is good enough to be a citizen. '"The elements of secrecy add a distasteful flavour to an apparent injustice." After the Minister for Immigra tion publicly upheld the decision of the two previous Ministers, the Syd ney Sun wrote (29/1/65): "As .a result of some kind of closed (or secret) consideration 'by some unknown persons he has been rejected as a would-be Australian for unstated reasons. "For centuries secrecy in this sort of thing has been anathema to the English speaking people and it in stantly arouses sympathy for the man and hostility to the authorities. "The Professor of Moral Philoso phy at Sydney University Professor A. k. Stout has urged that any migrant refused citizenship should have the right of appeal. "Ordinary people will support the Professor but it is a safe bet that officials will say this is not pos sible on security grounds." Strong opposition to political dis crimination against migrants becom- ing naturalised also appeared in the interstate press and on radio and TV. All tnis is a clear' recognition that such discrimination is an import ant factor holding back many mi grants from . applying to become Australian citizens. A Communist Party spokesman this week said in Sydney that such political discrimination by the Men- zies Government could be ended by a sufficiently strong protest move ment. The CPA program, he said, de clared "that citizenship rights should be granted without political discrimination." 