 Resignation over racism From a Melbourne Correspondent MELBOURNE: Just for a change from a new "Four Corners" scandal (the ABC's battle-scarred Saturday night documentary is in recess any way) Melbourne radio and television circles over the holiday period have been chew ing over the Tennison Resig nation Case. The case concerns the action of radio-TV personality, Patrick Ten nison, in resigning in mid-Decem ber as producer of the high-rating Norman Banks Show on Channel GTV9. Although no open acknowledge ment of the fact has ever been made, the motive behind Mr. Ten- nison's resignation was his re fusal to be associated any longer with the racist propaganda aims to which Banks was increasingly de voting the program. Mr. Tennison himself holds rather conservative political views. He resigned after weeks of public comment on the program, reflect ed in letters to the press and questions by Labor M.P.'s in Feder al Parliament. Key aspects of Bank's activity have been:— Outspoken support for South Africa's apartheid policies. Propaganda against the Negro freedom movement in the U.S.A&lt; Hostile outbursts against Aus tralian Jewish citizens who ventur ed to criticise his racism. Banks first ran into really hot water in September when he had as guest on the program Mr. Eric Butler, leader of the fanatically anti-semitic and racist League of Rights. The following week he invited Liberal M.H.R. Mr. J. Killen to appear. Mr. Killen's views are not too far removed from Butler's. Strong protests from ,the Jewish Board of Deputies and other bodies followed. Banks quickly found himself curbed by the GTV9 management as far as the TV program was con cerned, but apparenly had a free hand with his "I'm on Your Side" morning radio program on station 3AW. Using this medium (.directed mainly to housewives) he increas ingly gave an anti-semitic slant to his comments. (A sample Banksism from his session of November 11 . . . Australians will not tolerate persecution of any of their kins men by fanatical Semites . . ."). In a signed article on December 18, the Australian Jewish Herald claimed that the Butler interview had been the "last straw" for Mr. Tennison, "who- felt that his public standing and reputation was being tarnished by continued association with Banks's political, agitation." The article said Tennison "de spised the racist political philosophy which has been a recurrent theme in Banks's public activities." The paper said in an editorial in the same issue: "GTV9 has a pub lic image to maintain. It is an un pleasant fact that the Norman Banks Program has probably done more than anything else to tarnish Channel 9's otherwise good standing and image in the general com- -v munity". To this can be added the con clusion of an article in the current issue of the Sydney fortnightly Nation: "Currently, odds are shor- tending that the program can last much longer, lengthening that Banks will ever get any addition to the- OB.E. he already holds for "services to broadcasting." . Banks has been a leading radio personality in Melbourne for three decades. . The anti-left, anti-communist bias of his qestioning of Australians returning from overseas trips (in the radio program, Voice of the Voyager, and others) clearly be trayed these sympathies. It is not clear when Banks estab lished his close connections with,; the South African Reich of Dr. Verwoerd. But. as long ago as 1956 at the Olympic Games held in Melbourne, Banks was the official representa-. = tive of the South African Govern-: ment in . the Olympic host city. . 