 D.L.P. push is to right CYDNEY: The real aim of the campaign launched by Senator Kennedy for "unit/" with the DLP was to push ALP policy further to the Right and bring it under grouper domination. Mr. E. Aarons said thV in a lecture to the Amalgamated Engineering Union education conference at Cur rawong recently. It was said this would result in a Labor election victory, but the groupers record as election winners was not impressive, said Mr. Aarons. They had dominoed the Labor Party at the time of the Chifley Government's defeat in 1949 and had lost a whole number of elec tions till the breakaway in .1955. , Bygane age He said that M'enzies and , the groupers were living in a bygone age in relation to the main issues far ing the Labor movement, particu larly on the question of peace and foreign policy. The attempt to turn back +he vast historic movement of peoples in South East Asia was doomed to failure as the collapse of US policy in Viet nam showed. The futura of the Labor movement as of our country itself, depended on facing 'this issue squarely and taking initiatives to develop rela tions or. friendship based n the right of other peoples to ohe inde pendence we demand for ourselves. Socialism, said Mr. Aarons, was the stated goal of the ALP, ' the ACTU and the Communist Party. It meant the transfer to public ownership of the monopolies, home and foreign, which now dominated this country's economic and political life. Nationalisation presented some cr stitutional problqpis, but- these would be solved by an aroused people. The future of the Labor movement was bound up with the rapid and strong development of the Left wing in the ALP and. the unions This was due- not to any "commun ist intrigue" but reflected the woric decline of capitalism, the growing power of socialism and th tremen dous urge of the people for peace. The Communists, said Mr. Aarons, stood for one party of the working class but were flexible in the ap proach to the question of how and when it might apr?ar. A coalition -of Labor movement forces was quite likely to develop along the road of realising and building socialism. "The task today", said Mr Aarons" is to unite all forces for objtctives that could be tgreed on and to carry on a debate earnesLy and in friendship, submitting all views to the test of time and ex perience". 