 No squeeze-freeze for socialist! |N its third major attack since October on the peo ple's spending and social services, the British Govern- ment on July announced "freezes" on the housing hospital and school programs. Almost simultaneously the US' Central Statistical Board show; that the socialist economy of th USSR is expanding at the rate » 9.3 per cent per year with cr responding rises in real wages v improvements in social services Also the Congress of the Rumar Communist Party in Buchan adopted a resolution to lift all war by at least one fifth in the rtr five -years. Neither socialist country s econ&lt; shows any sign of a squeeze &lt; freeze, but only of rapid expans- in the people's interests. Announcing the new Briti; "freeze" Chancellor Callaghan delay ed fulfillment of more electiot pledges when he said the cabinet had decided to postpone the promis ad income-guarantee and cheapet lome loans schemes. The remaining' lealth Service charges would b- ept on for at least another year. The announcement follows Calla an's tough measures of last No nber and of his April budget. Many forms of spending by Go nment and local authorities are t j cut. These authorities are ask: stop employing new staff. The Daily Worker says: "Life ; itain is just one squeeze aftc other. We had them under th Ties; now we are getting ther m more frequently under Labor' The workers, it says are beir ied for sacrifices to help tb onopolists and their imperial! >licy. "The social services suffer so th: tore troops can be sent to Malaysia lome loans are cut to keep the Adei lilitary base going," says the Vorker. In Moscow the USSR Central St- istical Board announced that tb :conomy's rate of growth had in creased. Industrial output in the firs calf of 1965 went up 9.3 per cen omp'ared with the first half of 1964 Housewives were conspicuou- ainers through the big price cut: >f the past half year. The cheapenin: f cloth and made-up garments sav d them the equivalent of £A556 mi' ons. Fruit and vegetable prices also ft 5 per cent and meat 2 per cent- hile the collective farmers' net r mes rose 10 per cent. Purchase of clocks, watches, ret: ratorsi, radio and TV sets, an ashing machines rose by 20 to 3 3r cent, compared to the first s \onths of 1964. Half a million new flats wei . uilt in the .half year. The averag, ash incomes of office and factor .vorkers rose by 6 per cent and cash payments to collective farmers by 10 per cent. 