 Martin Report i an Insult' to Tasmania HOB ART: The Hobart Trades Hall Council lias branded the failure of the Martin report on tertiary education to recommend any grants to Tasmanian technical colleges, as an "insult to Tasmania". OUNCIL said that there was an urgent need for the Tas manian technical education sys tem to be recognised by the Federal Government. Industry in Tasmania was called on to join with the trade union movement to impress on the Federal Government the desperate need for immediate J itn/ f ei m. Ctl IU LUMUIIUIIiy 111 ICI I iv lai Jwp port for this aspect of educa tion. The Tasmanian Minister for Educa tion (Mr. Neilson) has strongly opposed the "discrimination" against Tasmania. Last week's Trades Hall Council meeting unanimously backed the Minis ters action. Mr. Neilson said that 7,500 technical college students were seeking something better in Tasmanian technical educa tion, and that the State had shown its readiness to help by constituting a Board of Technical Education and pre paring for new staff and accommoda tion. "Tasnv had not been considered among the States recognised for interim capital grants to colleges for 1965 and 1966," he said. The Minister said he would visit Canberra as soon as possible to seek a reconsideration of Tasmania s posi tion. "The most serious aspect of the Commonwealth's attitude to the report is the complete disregard of the recom mendations on teacher training, which it is obvious the Martin committee con sidered were of prime importance," he said. Tasmania urgently needed a great deal of, help in this field, he said. The report showed that by 1975 prospective enrolments in universities would rise by about 400 per cent, enrol ments in the proposed new sub-univer sity technical institutions would rise by more than 400 per cent, but enrol- ments in teacher training colleges, ever! on the basis of two-year courses, would rise by 2,500 per cent. If Tasmania did what it should, and what the committee thought Govern ments should — institute three-year teacher training courses — the enrol ments would increase by 3.800 per cent. "Yet in the field of teacher training, where the figures show that the need is by far the greatest, no help wilt be given to the States," the Minister said. 