 Some views on the famous [?] 'Bradfield Scheme' By BILL MOUNTJOY "Given wafer. Central Western Queens land and the Lake Eyre basin could be made a veritable garden capable of producing everything required for the sustenance of man" I Dr. J. J. C. Brad field I. "THE late Dr. Bradfiefd, well known to Australians for his association with the Sydney Harbor Bridge, fired the imag- ination of all those who dreamt of water for Australia's inland. Even earlier than Dr. Bradfield, Ion Idriess, author and traveller-at-large, had advocated a similar scheme Both proposals commanded much attention, aroused widespread controversy and today are recalled by people who are witnessing the devastating drought now afflicting Australia. But are the schemes ot Bradfield and Idriess practical? The sources used in this examina tion are as follows: "Water for the Inland" by J. Burton, an Australian scientist and lecturer in Ciyil Engineering, University ot N.S.W. ; "How Big is the Future for the North" by Cliff Colder, a Mel bourne journalist writing in the "Age"; and relevant extracts from the Australian Encyclopedia. The scheme The Lake Eyre basin which covers the proposals of Bradfield and Idriess has a total catchment of approxim ately 500,000 square miles, almost I of Australia Its average annual rainfall is no more than 9 inches and big section receive no rain for months on end The main rivers are the Finke, the Diamantina and Cooper's Creek (ac tually a large river). By contrast the tropical North East ern section of Queensland has a catch ment area oi 375,000 square miles with an average rainfall of. 31 inches It contains some of the highest rain fall areas in Australia The annual average in the rully River is 179.26 inches and in 1950 310.92 inches were recorded at this point J?h£ rivers ol this North- Eastern region may be divided into two groups — one flowing North into the Gull ot Carpentaria and the otheT irio the Pacific on the East The Northern section has a prob able yield ol 5,523,000 acre feet oi watei annually The Fc-tp-rn section has a probable yield ic -;;;,000 acre feet and, by contrast, the rivers oi the Lake Eyre system thai rise in land of the Great Dividing Range a probable yield of 2,35u,uuu acre feet The Finke section of the Bradfield scheme can be entirely disregarded as this one-time great river ol remote antiquity is now but a desiccated ghost. Dr. Bractlieid pruposea thai the flow of the rivers oi the North Eastern section be diverted to the Lake Eyre system -and Ion Idriess proposed, m addition, that the waters of the Gulf rivers be used foi diversion into the Lake Eyre system Dr. Bradfield proposed that a dam 120 feet high be built on the Tully River above Tully falls, that the im pounded water be diverted to Biundei Creek and thence into a dam on. the Herbert River, 100 feet , high Frqni:.,tiie, Herbert tt the . Buidekin . the wjater ' would -be , taken, to a dam 400 fee£, jbigh.at Hell's, Gate and urri tl"-ere'::.j jjgjtbe Flindeij .where a,, number oi reservoirs or ",pj3larnns, ,'..a wojjld . bft built from which' waiter would" be'"' released as required through an open cut into the headwaters of the Thomp son River, a tributary of Cooper's Creek. Dr. Bradfield estimated that after allowing for distribution losses 2.9 million acre feet per annum would be available for irrigation. But investigations by Queensland engineers have led them to conclude that Bradfield 's plan is physically im possible. They say a 400 feet high dam can not be built at Hell's Gates noi could water be gravitated to the Flinders Modified plan A modified plan has been put lor ward by W. H. Nimmo, a prominent civil engineer, whereby water might be diverted from a smaller dam high er up the Burdekin via a 200 mile long channel, half in tunnels and all concrete lined, to a storage dam at "The Rockies" above Glendover on the Flinders River. This would yield less than one-fifth of the water that Bradfield claimed would be available The cost, estimated in 1947, would be £12 per acre foot and this figure did not take into account the cost ol water delivered to irrigation farms By comparison, water for toddei pro duction in N.SW and Victoria costs 6/ to 10./ per acre toot in 1947 Although this is not a valid compai ison, since the price ot water deliver, ed ; to NSW and Victorian farms does .no.t .include all capital cnarges on Idarns; and diversion -works it still,- shows, that irrigated agriculture would be,, ; highly uneconomical undei ,4;he IBradfield scheme. Dr. Bradfield also advanced ah al- | ternative to his original scheme which, while physically possible, would be more costly than the Flinders River proposal. Both Bradfield and Idriess believed that a large volume of water would improve the climate and produce ad- d -. .onal rainfall This contention was rejected by a special panel of meteor ologists appointed in 1945, though there was one dissentient, Mr E. T. Quayle. The Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology also took careful and ex tensive records at Lake Eyre at the height of its water level in 1950 with negative results. j Modern meteorological science is J generally agreed that rainfall precipit ated over continents is derived prin cipally from large maritime air masses which are formed over the sea and carried inland by prevailing wind systems Any increase in the evaporation rate irom land surfaces over which these winds have been has a negligible ef fect on rainfall. (Witness the deserts which surround the Red Sea' and the Dead Sea -and in Australia the Nulla- bor Plain). What- -con - be- done Despite weighty findings that ap j peai to refute the Bradfield and Idriess schemes on scientific -and eco I nomic grounds, we do owe apprecia- tion to both authors for their arousal i of public interest. And all is not lost. There is scope fciij ?,H2'pnservation schemes as proposed by Michael Sawtell which would allow for limited irrigation for specialised pastoral purposes. The improvement of the native Flinders and Mitchel grass pastures by the use of the new tropical Legume Townsville could mean that fodder conservation is possible. Concrete might be better used in building silos than dams. It does not mean that rejection of the Bradfield scheme (and Dr. Brad field himself in ..later, years saw that high evaporation rates- sounded the death knell, of. his hopes) ends the , question., .. There is still need ' fof a National Water Plan. There is still need for a comprehensive and accurate analysis of water resources based on adequate rainfall and modern stream flow tech niques. And there is need for cheaper atomic and nuclear power although already researches in Sydney .have-sho-fan thaLi water -can be produced by- desdlinatior for £12 per acre foot. 