 1 TRIBUNE 1 No excuse in 1965; CVEN 25 years ago, the control of major drought was, perhaps, "beyond the capacity of the small Australian community. But today, with highly developed science , and trained (personnel in the fields of meteorology and water conserva tion, and with rapid and high-capacity transport and com munications, there can be no excuse for the present disas trous situation in eastern Australia. Drought can be identified and its extent estimated fairly early in the piece. In any case, the present drought was even publicly recognised as extremely serious at least I three months ago. The Menzies Government in . that period I brought down a Budget oriented not to drought relief but | to the biggest scale of warlike preparation and activity ever known in Australian peacetime history. What is lacking is not just a matter of , relief for drought- stricken farmers, of emergency water and fodder supplies, and cheap finance for rehabilitation, vita! though these things are. More profoundly, the Governrhent's failure lies in refusal — or inability — to harness the capacity of our nation to the great task of water 'storage and general conservation, so that drought can be — if not eliminated — at least greatly minimised in its effects. The recent virtual sacking of Dr. Rex Patterson from a high. position in the Department of Northern Development, on the excuse that he proposed to stand as a Labor candidate in a by-election, raises the question: why did he choose to oppose the Government so openly? There can be no doubt the answer was that this man, highly trained in the sciences of national conservation and development, found the Government's lack of policy too frustrating. Yet this Government boasts of "national growth" and "national security" as its twin policies. j In place of coordinated development there Is what I I Country Party Leader McEwen has. called "selling a piece I of Australia" each year, to big overseas private interests. I The steady infiltration of American, British, Japanese and I other elements into the control of Australian resources is one 8 of the most disturbing aspects of the nation's security. 8 The voices of real national security are to be found, I not in the Government, but in the Communist Party, the I Labor Party and the Country Party, from alJ of which have 8 come this week specific demands and proposals for the 8 tackling of the drought. I 