 i The change is from quantity to quality and sophistication By ALF WATT I MOSCOW: "Quality" is the' j word on everyone's lips in ! in the Soviet Union today. In | : the newspapers, in the great public debates, everywhere, the word "quality" denotes the I massive public campaign to I raise the quality of consumer goods throughout the coun- , try. ' As usual, the criticism of defects Is vigorous and sharp. D. Zasloysky, a fitter in the Kharkov electrical mechanical plant, wrote last Decem ber that his fellow workers became indignant when they found a switch had only onertenth of the life it should have had. . "We argue about many things, but most of all we argue about quality," be wrote. The unwary and the prejudiced may think, from the sharpness of the criticism, that nothing produced ; in the Soviet Union is any good. Nothing could be farther from the truth, as is shown by the quality of sputniks and space ships down to cameras, watches, radios and jrnany other things. Some western writers, of course, have seized on the criticisms to. say, in effect, "see what comes from not having a capitalist master". "Yeah, we' vie had 'em," was the | eloquent reply of one Russian | ' friend of ours to this assertion. Nor do these scribes mention the huge amount of . shoddy goods on the' capitalist market, or such gentle devices as 'planned obsolescence' and 'inbuilt mortality'. Interestingly enough, these things are ignored also by the Soviet people, who are comparing their products with the very best produced in the capitalist world. " This development opens a new chapter in Soviet history. Gone are the days when a scarcity of goods and low purchasing power made the Soviet consumer glad to take what ever was on offer. For the first time in the history of their country they are able to pick and choose, and they .celebrated their new freedom by re fusing to buy a vast quantity of apparel whose fit, fashion colour and quality they did not like. The rejected items are now being sold at cut rates, and now the manu facturing firms supply direct to the shops and on shop orders, instead of supplying warehouses on orders made by the planning authorities. Nearly 400 factories have now been placed on this footing. This is a modification of the methods of central planning used so far, but not a renunciation of them. Centralised economic planning is one . of the great achievements of Socialism, and, despite the Kremlin- ologists, will not be discarded. About 20 large enterprises -in Mos cow and Leningrad, followed by others in Riga and elsewhere, have pledged to lift the quality of their production to top world standafds 'in three or four years. Factories making textile fabrics, radios, electrical and engineering goods are among their number. Their pledge covers not just a small part of their output intended for an exclusive well-heeled market, but their ordinary average product in tended for the ordinary average con sumer. And the pledge has been made by the workers themselves as well as by the managements. V. Tyurin, secretary to the Central Committee of the Society of Ration- alisators and Inventors, explained to me that there has been an argument about the highest world standards and "whether to take the top quality goods actually being produced, or whether to take those patents and processes which would result in a' yet higher quality product but which have been suppressed by the monopolies for their own private reasons. "We have decided on the latter," he said. "What has been started is not a campaign, but a policy, a settled feature of Soviet economy for the foreseeable future." The Society of Rationalisators and Inventors now has about 3,500,000 members, and is already planning its contribution to the "top world qual ity" policy. Its efforts hitherto have been directed towards the saving of materials and lifting the quantity of output. (Zaslovsky, in the letter re ferred to above, complained that there had been too much enthusiasm for quantity. We should not make two tractors when we could make one to do the same job, he wrote.) Society members bend their efforts to proposals that arise from the ideas and experience of the workers, and are not included in the enterprise's own program of technical innovation on which its technical specialists are employed. Their work is supplementary to this program, but is carried on in close co-operation with the adminis tration. They are helped as well by 20,000 Public Design Bureaus which, consisting mainly of . engineers and " technicians, help the' workers " with technical information and advice and with drawings. It is indicative of the growing maturity of this movement that over. 100,000 teams have now come into existence, made up of engineers, tech nicians, foremen and skilled workers, and giving their attention to complex problems that are beyond the scope of individuals working alone. Inevitably a large number of their proposals are rejected by the experts, but a large number prove to be use ful and original, and the use of these is not confined to the factory of their birth. The originators are sent on demonstration tours to kindred fac tories and to exhibitions. No class of private owners could tap this great reservoir of creative activity. Only where the workers are owners of the factories and masters of the country can this be done. Their efforts for higher quality all round will have a big effect on world trade and world affairs as they strive for new successes in the peaceful competition against the capitalist system. 