 THE DEMAND WAS EQUAL PAY' I i£QUAL Pay Week last week saw many I activities in all States ! sponsored by the Aus- ! tralian Council 01 ! Trade Unions around | the equal pay demand on behalf of women workers. In Sydney women members of I the Sheet Metal Workers' Union I (pictured at right) at Cadsden | Hughes' canister factory at Five- 1 dock in Sydney gave speakers I an attentive hearing during one of the many lunch-hour factory I meetings held. S Speakers at this meeting in- ! eluded Mrs. N. Hewett,. editor I of "Our Women" national jour- | mal of the Union of Australian | Women. S The week was opened in Syd- ) ney with a dinner. Other activi- | ties included a special session of 3 the NSW Trades and Labor I Council and a discussion or- | ganised by Commonwealth Public I .Service Unions. J Equal Pay Committees in all I States are pressing the Federal ! 'Government to establish the principle of equal pay by legis lation and for the Government a to honour, its obligations and s carry out the decisions of the J International Labor Organisation. J These decisions call for the I -Government to encourage full J acceptance of the principle of I economic equality for women by I setting an example and awarding a equal pay to employees of the S 'Commonwealth Public Service j and its instrumentalities. j Deputation I In Adelaide, a sucessful public ! j forum, a deputation to the Pre- | I mier (Mr. Walsh) and the distri- j bution of literature to workplaces were features of Equal Pay Week. I I Despite poor weather, nearly 1 300 people attended a public forum in " e Trades Hall'. ; | The forum was an important J landmark in the equal pay .j struggle in SA as it was spon- j sored by the ACTU, the Austra- ! lian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, the | SA Equal Pay Council, the SA I Institute of Teachers and the j Public Service Association. Be- I -tween them they represent about j 80,000 women workers. j Speaking on behalf of ACSPA, j :the secretary, Mr. Krantz, point- I ed out that equal pay in SA was mainly a matter for State legis- | lation as the main female work J force came under State awards j arid that the Government could j act immediately to implement it I for its 15,000 female employees. I I iThe organisations which spon- - sored the forum also combined | J .to hold the deputation. They put j j a proposal that equal pay be : I introduced progressively over ! j the next five years. j | Mr. Walsh assured the deputa- I i tion that the plan would be put before Cabinet. 1 Dinner j In Perth, the week was marked | by successful dinner debates J and discussions organised by the I WA Council for Equal Pay and J Opportunity. I Last Thursday the Council , chairman (Miss N. Harken) wel comed the statement by Federal ! Labor and National Service i Minister McMahon that the ! Government would like to see j equal pay introduced gradually. "We would be grateful if Mr. | ! McMahon would take steps on ; .this," she said. j 