 On-the-spot interviews reveal that . ... I UNIONS MUST PAY MORE ATTENTION TO THE YOUTH By JIM STEVENS SYDNEY: Two out of nine apprentices inter viewed by Tribune last week were members of trade unions — none had heard of Trade Union Youth Week — most thought that appren- . tices' wages were too low. -J"HESE facts came to light during off-the-cuff discus sions with apprentices last Thursday at Ultimo Technical College in Sydney. The second Youth Week to be sponsored by the Australian Council of Trade Unions will be held throughout Australian from July 26 to 31. If the views expressed to Tribune can be taken as the general situation among young workers, then the unions have a lot of leeway to make up if they want to influence this im portant section of the Australian work force. ACTU Program The important aims of Youth Week are to publicise the ACTU pro gram for young workers and to join and activise new young members into the trade unions. It is estimated that by 1970, the average annual influx of young people into the work force will be about 116,000, and because of this the suc cess of future trade union campaigns will be substantially influenced by the extent of their participation. Many young people today do not know the history of the trade unions or that most of the conditions enjoyed by the workers are a result of long and sometimes bitter struggles of trade union members. Most young people, once it is ex plained to them, will support the ACTU youth program. This program includes: higher wages rates for apprentices and greater apprenticeship opportunities, the full adult late for the job at 18 for unapprenticed juniors, equal pay for girls and the right to skilled training. The payment of. union dues is not the barrier preventing juniors from joining unions. A few shillings usually covers an apprentice for his five years appren ticeship and in some cases the cost is nothing. One of the - biggest factors keeping young people out is the small atten tion the unions have given to this section of the work force even dur ing the preparation for this year's Youth Week. "We don't know" "We don't know anything about unions," said Denis Abraham a first year automobile body builder get ting £6/10/- a week. His mate, Neil, who is in the same year said he was clearing £9 a week. Roy McAuley and Barry Smith (apprentice coach painters) said they were getting :"well above the award." Roy, £13 for second year and Barry £18 for third year. All four lads said they worked in small shops. They thought Youth Week was a good idea. Mick Andrews and Graham Atkins are first year motor mechanics. Mick receives £6/8/- and Graham £7 plus about £2 overtime each week. "We don't think our wages are high enough," they said. Mick said he has to work Saturday and Sunday mornings once a fortnight selling petrol "to get a hit of extra money." Both boys are not members of their union, but thought Youth Week "OK". Graham Aldridge and Bruce Mc- Gavin are both third year motor body builders and are members of their trade union. They get £9/16/- a week. They fully supported the demand that their wages be based on a per centage of the tradesmen's rate in stead of the basic wage. "We are doing the same work as a tradesman getting about £28 a week with overtime," they said. Bruce said his low w .ges means, "I cannot pay my way and my mother has to subsidise me." He plays third grade Rugby League for Western Suburbs. "This also prevents me from work ing overtime." Harry Freeman works for his father who is a small sub-contract ing bricklayer. He is in second year and said he clears £16 a week. He said his father does not be lieve in unions. All the lads knew little about the situation in Vietnam or that the policy of the trade unions was opposition to conscription for overseas service. Barry Smith said: "Most young people don't know much about Veit- nam. "The papers only tell you what they want you to know." Tribune interviews (from left to right) Barry Smith, Ray McAuley, Neil Clifford and Dennis Abraham outside the Sydney Technical College at Ultimo. 