 Federal Government criticised : I NG Parliament moves towards | By JIM COOPER Things are not moving quickly enough towards the independence of Papua-New Guinea, Mr. John Guise, leader of the Papuan Members of the House of Assembly, recently told a Sydney "Herald" cor respondent. "INDEPENDENCE or self-gov ernment will come and it will not depend on whether we can afford it or not", he said. Strongly pressing the recent House demand for the drawing up of a Constitution for the territory, he condemned the Federal Government's refusal to listen and "lack of under standing". Mr. Guise also implied clearly a desire to find a peaceful relation ship with Indonesia which shares a common border. These and other statements reflec ted the sharpening tone of recent I debates and decisions in the House I of Assembly at Port Moresby. 1 Despite fierce resistance by | Federal Government appointee- | members, the House majority has | now carried an amendment to the I Act covering New Guinea adminis- 1 tration, arising from the savage cuts in salaries of New Guineans In the Public Service last Septem ber. This decision, unless blocked by the Menzies Government, would transfer from Canberra to the Ad ministration in New Guinea! © The responsibility for salary classification of public servants. © Power to create and abolish de partments of the Public Service. © Control of recruitment outside the Public Service. This move has been -described as the most outspoken demand for the transfer of authority from Canberra to the Territtory ever raised in the House of Assembly or its predeces sor, the Legislative Council. The salary cuts ranging from 40 to 45 per cent had brought angry responses from the New Guinea members of the Service and protests from trade unions in Australia. It meant that officers in the lower brackets of the Service with good educational qualifications would he working for as low as £3 a week. Mr. Downs, a European Member, introducing the amendment put the full responsibility on the Territories Minister, Mr. Barnes. He stated that the regulations gazetting the salaries were presented in an inept way and informed that the Minister was indifferent to the situation he had precipitated. The South Pacific Post in an edi torial said that there has been an extraordinary inertia in all but nega tive decisions relating; to the Terri tory since Mr. Hasluck had retired from the Ministry for Territories. Judging by developments in the House of Assembly, and Mr. Guise's own statements, the Federal Govern ment will not much longer he able to fob off the demands of the New Guinea people for independence. 