 "Alt' let fixture i take its rnurse" This is the second story in a series of recollections /'T urning the Pages" By JIM HAWKINS AND here we are. About half-way down th%= next page is a cha racte r you' 1 1 j ust have to meet. Jimmy Rigg, about 5ft' 4in.—- built like a tank and just about as strong. . As I pull him up to have a bit of a yarn, I notice he is carrying a half rotten piece of timber from some old three-railed fence. Fancy he's taking it home for fire wood. He stops and grins. Standing the rail on end, he half leans on it. He asks, "How's it?" I said, "Fair. : And you?" He says, . "'Bout the same." Now Jimmy Rigg, despite his gentleness and lack of height, was quite a character in those days. In my book, he held quite a number of records— some of them unique in a bloke of Jimmy's nature. For instance, he'd served a few short sentences in the 'Peter' for tangling with the coppers. You'd never believe it just to look at him and listen to his quiet way of talk ing. Then, he'd been evicted more than any other joker I knew — and I knew plenty. He'd 'picketed' on more evictions than any other bloke I'd known, too. To my knowledge he had neither 'religious or political views— or at least, he never express ed any. He neither smoked nor drank and he was a great family man, the father of four bonzer kids —all boys ranging in age between eight and two years. He also had a lovely, good-looking woman who was probably the only human in the world that really understood Jimmy Rigg. - / Like many another in those days, Jimmy's only crime was lack of a job. This enforced idleness, these months and years of being a, mere number on a 'dole coupon,' gave rise to the desperation and bitter ness which occasionally burst into open violence— even in placid blokes like Jimmy Rigg. Herice the occa sional splurge with cops who had a habit of pushing people around those days. Despite his size, Jimmy went well with the big boys in blue, too . . . He wasn't really skiting when he said that he could spot most of these big boys up to three stone— an' do 'em— providin' everything was fair dinkum an' above board. It looked to me that he could have been right, too, because a lot of those big young coppers sidestep ped Jimmy when he shifted into top gear. And so here we are. Jimmy, lean ing on a rotten old fence rails, says, with a wry grin, "I s'pose you heard —I'm— we — I mean— me an' the missus an' kids are gettih' chucked out again," "No, I didn't know, Jim," I said sympathetically. Ar — don't worry, mate," he said, "If I could only get my missus out of the way for awhile they'd know they was putting' Jimmy Rigg on the street. But, that's how ;it goes—" "Where you goin'?" (what a stupid bloody question but T asked more to make conversation than anything else). There was nothing you could do 01 say that would help a bloke in Jim my's predicament. Blokes and their families being tossed put on to the street in a community where empty houses were plentiful, seemed to b&lt; a bit of a contradiction— but there it was.' \ "I dunno where I'm goin'," he said But I can tell you when." "Tomoi row, sometime. I can't risk a run-r with the cops— my missus is carry n' another kid. So I'm gettin' out : '.ay early — " "I'll come around to give you a land," I volunteered, "What time?' "Any time," he said dryly, "m be there." Silently we. stared at each other for a while. i "Christ," I thought, "What do you say to a bloke in these circum stances? How do you walk away and leave him?" -j -. To break the silence I said; "You don't want to- be -lugging too much firewood home, Jimmy, not till you get settled down again anyway." "You're dead bloody right," he said. Swiftly he changed the sub ject. "You know bloody ole 'Misery', the bloke that owns the house I'm livin' in— an' a bloody lot more houses in this district?" The fellow the unemployed had dubbed 'Misery' was a local citizen by name of Flint. He owned a lot of houses in the district and was generally known, rightfully or wrong- ly, to be a very wealthy man. He had earned the pseudonym 'Misery' with his general attitude towards people — particularly unemployed people. He was a lay preacher in the town j and usually displayed a long, sad visage. When he spoke, his voice was droning and very sad and he gave one the impression that he would welcome the opportunity to leave this vale of tears. "Like I was sayin'," Jimmy went on, "I went an' seen ole Misery yesterday. Tried to get him to call off the eviction for awhile— asked him for a bit of work— anything at all. Told him how it was with the missus— but no go. He just said he couldn't interfere with the process of the law. He was dreadfully sorry, he said. I reckon he might preach a sermon on it next time he gets a chance. He finished up tellin' me to store up me treasures in Heaven- riot to bother about this life too much— it was ' just a fleeting few moments in Eternity, and the Lord would provide accordin' to my worth an' faith." I grinned. It was about all I could do, the way Jimmy was putting it. But he continued. "That pious, bible bangin' ole . .bastard's got no idea the trouble he's storin' up for i himself on THIS earth, never mmd J the hereafter." I His . eyes were flashing savagely I now. I "You see that?" he demanded,, pat- I ting the rotten old fence-rail, "That I ain't WOOD, Billy' boy, That's slow, silent, scientific DESTRUCTION. I She's three part full of bloody white I ants. When I get home, I'll whang her straight up ole Misery's man hole. An' tomorrow will go quiet an sensible — an' let nature! take - it's course." Without another word, he eased the .rotten rail on to his shoulder and strode off. As I watched him go, I thought— . "There goes a bloke who'll be re- - i.nembered — one who'll leave his mark on Society." 