 Australian Workers0 Union ; Federal Exec, reverses S.A. | ballot result ADELAIDE : Members of the Australian Work ers' Union are strongly protesting at the move by the Federal Executive to take over the South Aus tralian branch of the union. TWELVE members of the SA executive recently elected by the members in this State have been charged by the Fed eral Executive and suspended from office. Those charged are the newly elected secretary Mr. D. N. Cameron, presi dent, J. D. Wright; vicepresident R. W. Groth and L. E. Dunford; organ isers A. S. Begg, A. W. Chandler and E. E. Gehan and executive members C. E. Brine, R. C. Way, M. J. Young, A. S. Bright and H. J. Rayner. They have been charged with breaches of the union rules. Mr. Cameron stated that none of the charges could be substantiated and were based on false interpretation of the rules. The Federal Executive has ordered the suspended members to refrain from holding meetings to present their case to the members. It will hear the charges on May 3. "We are denied the right of vindicat ing ourselves in the eyes of the mem- bers who recently voted for us in a union election" said Mr. Wright. The Federal Executive has installed the defeated secretary E. O'Connor and two members of the Federal Ex ecutive in the SA branch office. The Federal Executive's actions are an attempt to destroy the democratic decision of the members of the SA branch who recently elected officers by record majorities. It is also an attempt to over-ride the decision of the Chief Justice of the Commonwealth Industrial Court Sir John Spicer, who had upheld the election. Mr. O'Connor had attempted to up. set the ballot ia which he had been defeated, by appeal to the Court. He claimed that there were irregularities The Judge found that minor irregul arities in the ballot involving some 70 votes could hot have altered the result. ! The SA branch delegate to the ALP Conference Mr. M. J. Young who is also assistant secretary of the Labor Party in SA said he was deeply shock ed to hear the charge laid against r: mxu uy uie x-eaerai .executive of the ; Union. He had not been called by the in- vestigating committee to answer any t of the charges or to give evidence v before the enquiry. , He said that Mr. Dougherty had thrown down the gauntlet and "he for one" would he willing to pick it up. I : 