 [?] N ur sing doctor-patient relationships can be very expensive! ""HE Australian Medical Association justifies the decision to increase doctors' fees (from Nov-" 7) by an economic sur- j vey which, it is reported, j in NSW showed need for j a 4.8% increase in gen- j eral practitioners' in- j come. j The increases decided on by the j A.M.A. vary from 10% to 19% ac- | cording to the service. j This rise is announced within a : few weeks of a Federal Government ! decision to increse rebates to doctors for service to pensioners. These in creases averaged 5/- and at a con servative estimate would add £6 per week to the G.P.'s income. Workers may well compare this i Government handout to medicos with the 6/- per week granted them by the Arbitration Court. Fellow professionals such as Vic torian teachers will wryly assess the treatment of their claims with the Government blind-eye to the A.M.A. . highwaymen. . A Melbourne University Survey (reported Melbourne Age, 14.6.1965) I shows that of all professions medi cine returns the highest of all in comes by far with an average of £4,400 p.a. Few indeed are the medicos who may be hard-up. The high skill and long hours of doctors is certainly due for adequate recompense, but the Increase im posed by the A.M.A. in face of its own survey whose claims have been more than met by the Government increase for treatment of pensioner 1 patients, is indefensible, must be condemned and popular pressure ex erted on the AMA. to review its decision. The A.M.A. leaders, representing the wealthiest and most conservative circles of medicine, are demonstrat ing for all to see the arrant hypocrisy of their opposition to a universal health scheme which, they say, would violate the sacred "Doctor- patient relationship". Patients who subscribe to Medical Benefit Funds will have now to pay the doctor fee increases because the Federal Government has frozen rebates. This will really make the patient love, revere and have trust in a doctor! The Federal Government health scheme, too, is revealed as a fraud Supposed to insure the patient whf subscribes to it against medical cost it does nothing of the kind. Sub scription rates to Medical Benefit Funds recently increased, so the patient is paying more to the fund and now more to the doctor also! The issue of increased doctor'? ees and failure of the Government to interfere in this important socia' problem shows the rich man's Gov ernment to be very indulgent to r small privileged strata highly organ i tsed as a monopoly. I v,n!y, decisive action to make th&lt; I s,healtl1 a social responsibility I tw e ifc Possible to deal with I wf /onscienceless groups that I nrivaf manufacture, insurance, I thai to hospitals and the A.M1, I othoT-f health and accident in fient 3 SUrCe f private en" I Im— Patient, Victoria. 