 — » i w i »/ w -w m W wu n uwn Sydney Symphony Orchesfra on tour irra I ATER this year the Sydney Symphony Orchestra goes on tour overseas. This will cost the ABC a tidy sum. It is rumoured that the tour will be paid for by sacrificing local drama on both TV and radio. No one disagrees with the orches tra going on overseas tour, but if it is true that local dramatic programs are to be reduced to pay for the tour, a strong protest should be made. Why should Australian actors and actresses have to suffer? The ABC always makes cuts in the locally produced programs in stead of dropping some of its ex pensive overseas shows. The ABC funds should not be drained to pay for this overseas tour. It is the duty of the Federal and State Governments to subsidise the tour as well as sending abroad the Australian Ballet Company and other groups. The public pays licence fees to receive programs on local radio and TV channels. There must be no inroads on these funds. = During recent weeks it has been difficult to recommend any new program. Most of the old series are being dished up with little change in the quality. It is usually the docu mentaries that give the most satis faction. On the last two Sunday evenings ABCTV2 has shown two contrast ing films. "The Puritan and the Cavalier" last Sunday week was introduced by Sir Ralph Richardson, who, to gether with several other fine actors, gave extracts from the English classical works of Chaucer, Milton, Congreve, Gold smith and others. Their sensitive delivery and characterisation brought new in sight into the works of these writers. "Culture in Transition — Africa" last Sunday was a program in fas cinating contrast to Richardson's readings. The people of Nigeria recited their poems and presented their plays and folklore in English. Several of the artists matched Richardson and his colleagues with the beauty of their voices and speaking of the verse. > - = # Channel 10 has two programs worth viewing. "Walk a Young World" (Sunday, 5 p.m.) could become the best youth program on TV. "Globe Theatre" (Tuesday, 9.30 p.m.) is an English series. The first two plays were excellent. Next Sunday evening at 9.45 Channel 7 will present "Ruggles of Red Gap". Don't miss this famous. comedy. Eileen Allison 