 nil .i g I Matilda hangs on the peg" . by Tom Doran | FIRST saw the light of day .at the Nonentity Gold Mine, five miles from Eskclale, and some- how have remained somewhat of a nonentity ever since! Mv "old man" worked in the Nonentity until the gold cut out, and we then headed for the railway construction work that was taking place in Victoria. There were seven of . us in the family. I have a dim memory of the construction camps that consisted of tents and bag humpies. The wages were 7/- per day and "buy your own shovel." There was 6d refund on the shovel if one left the job before it wore out. How that 7/- a day managed to keep the lot of us will always remain a mystery to me. It must have had more value in it than the present quid. Schooling on those jobs was an impossibility, but we did learn how to write our own names. But child hood soon passes by, so at the age of 14 years I moved out of the clan to make my living in this callous world. My first job was working for a, cockey, "syphoning out" cow.s, the wages being 5/- per week and "sign for it on the dotted line." It was no time before I put on a one-man strike against such conditions and the cockey and I parted company. k: 1. now made my first per sonal acquaintance with "Matilda". "Matilda" was not entirely un known to me, as I had seen plenty of navvies arrive on the construction job and they always carried "Matil da". I will never forget that morning in the cockey's chaff house when I rolled "Matilda" for the first time! It was a three-strap "Matilda" with a well-balanced nose-bag attached, And with a swing "Matilda" landed nicely on my back. The cockey threw open the gate and I was out on the King's highway with my dog Spot in close attendance. About three weeks later I got a job digging out, trapping and doing a bit of fox shooting on the side. Skins were bringing a good price and I was now earning nine quid a week. This was the first time a bad thought entered my head. I toy ed with the idea of going back and buying the cockey out, and then sacking him, just to be nasty. But the youthful brain does not harbor animosity for long, and today I look back with humor on what was con sidered a serious situation then. After all the cockey had six kids to keep and it is doubtful whether he was better off than I was. ? By this time 1 was growing into manhood. I had already had a number of fights and had been drunk several times. The navvy blood was tingling in my veins and the tinkle of the picks and shovels made sweet music in my ears. So I settled for a job in the Pub lic Works Department. Those were the days of the bowyangs, blood, sweat and tears, horses and drays and mad gangers! You had to be a left and right shovel-man, and had to bury the maker's name every time you drove it into the ground. But why worry? We had been told in our youth that hard work would hurt no one, so we took this as the gospel. But with the temperature 120 degrees in the water bag and a mad ganger on the bank I began to doubt this philosophy. It was with deep regret that I parted friends with the pick and shovel and climb ed aboard a steam locomotive as driver. But not for long, as four 'blokes' who had never done a day's work in their lives arrived out from "the Old Dart". They were known as the "Big Four". Will we ever forget 'em? Well, it was the open road for me again. Not only for me, but for 300,000 more. Through the out-back of N.S.W. "Matilda" and I drifted along. Down along the Darling and the Murrumbidgee! This was the big station country, and the squatters, to avoid a handout to swagmen, devised an ingenious idea of rolling a "Matilda" and leaving it near their front gate accompanied by a black billy. But this did not deceive the eye of an experienced swagman. We marched past the imitation "Matil da", and asked for our hand-outs. ? Years on the track with my old friend "Matilda", she never deserted me! Many the "bridge hotels" and hol low logs "Matilda" and I camped in. Then one day word reached me that the old man had struck gold on the Hume Weir Hills and he wanted the clan to assemble. My three brothers who were also out on the track, came in from different points of the compass. Yes, it was gold all right. One of the best shows struck in the Albury district for years, going eight ounces to the ton. I will never forget a quid's worth of groceries in those days. You needed a horse and dray to bring them back to camp! But all good things come to an end, and three years later the gold cut out and so did the money. Then it was the open road again with "Matilda". The bush telegraph had told me that there was a job open ing up in the north of the State. I made it allright, but so did 500 others. I remember that job very well. The small shopkeeper there let out too much credit. A week later a telegram from the Government stop ped the job. Next morning the shop keeper rolled his "Matilda" and join ed us in our tramp around Austra lia, looking for work. Then one day a few months later a lone figure appeared from out of the trees on the banks of the Mur ray River at Euston. He was limping slightly and a dog followed closely on his heels. Putting down his "Matilda" he climbed down the bank and filled his billy. Yes, it was me! I was on the construction site at Lock 15, where I obtained work for a number of years. ? Then came the stamp of Hitler's storm troopers. The measured steps could be heard in Australia. Jobs closed down, then WAR. "Matildas" were put aside, and rifles swung in their places. Thousands of men moved out of Australia to meet the common enemy, Fascism. The strains of "Waltzing Matilda" were sung around the world and many thousands of those singers laid down their lives with this song upon their lips, so that we could be free. For, those who did not make the grade, including myself, jobs were plentiful. All hands were needed to help supply ammunition, food and clothing for the troops in action. After the war I became interested in small shops. I bought Wirlinga Store 18 years ago. As for old "Matil da" she hangs on a peg in the back shed, her leather straps are perished and the old black billy is being slowly eaten away by rust. "And he sat and he watched and waited till his billy boiled. You'll come a Waltzing Matilda with me?" FOOTNOTE: Matilda— the swag of a swagman or bagman looking i'or work in the bush. Cockey— small farmer. NEXT WEEK: Tom Doran's story "The Australian" — how Jack Dennis fought four rounds with "Tiger" Payne in Jimmy Shar- man's tent and survived — to give the four pound prize to his hag man mates. 