 Behind the TV smile of Tricky Dick VN/HY did Richard Nixon, former US Vice-President and representative of the ex treme rightwing in the Ameri- can Kepublican party, pay a hurried visit to Australia last weekend? Was his purpose to stiffen the Menzies Government in its resist ance to those who want peace in Vietnam and the end of Australia's involvement there. At Easter, Australia was visited by another U.S. Republican Henry Cabot Lodge, now U.S. Ambassador in Saigon Now, in September, apparr tly, someone thought Australia needed someone even more violent and picked on the man who has always stood on the extreme Right of the American Rightwing. Nixon hacked the late Senator McCarthy. He went all the way with General MacArthur, when he wanted to bomb China during the 1 Korean war. " | From the start, Nixon was a backer of the extreme rightist pre- I sidential nominee Goldwater. - ! He supported Goldwater's demand I for an outright invasion of Cuba j and condemned the Kennedy pledge not to invade Cuba which ended the . j missile crisis of 1962. ! . He oacked Goldwater in the 1964 I ' presidential election and actively j campaigned for him, denouncing > those who, like Rockefeller and I Lodge, hung back. | Nixon was one of the earliest to j call for the bombing of north Viefc- | nam arid extension of the war to j China. - | In his recent brief visit to Aus- tralia he apparently confined his I attention to a private briefing of i Menzies, and conveying U.S. war propaganda to the Australian people through the big press, radio and TV coverage he was accorded. This was to the effect that there must be no end to the slaughter ("no negotiations") until the Viet namese surrender or are wiped out, even if it takes up. to four years. The consequence of the Geneva principles being implemented in peaceful negotiations would, he said (or threatened) , be a world war. Neutralisation — suggested by De Gaulle again — was unthinkable; it would mean "we get out". The discredited "domino" theory got an airing — despite the near- collapse of the Malaysia "domino" without waiting for outh Vietnam. In the background of his visit came new fanfares about America's inevitable victory in Vietnam — a thesis Nixon endorsed. He now be- lieved military victory was pos sible. Just what the French said for 10 years right up to their total surrender at Dien Bien Phu! On Indonesia, Nixon echoed Dul les' line in its crudest form: "We can't let Communism take over." Intervention in other countries is still his policy despite Cuba's Bay of Pigs tod all the other failures of that period. While Nixon was here more Americans landed in Vietnam and more Australians were dispatched from Sydney to join in the same war. That is the reality behind Nixon's smiling face on TV, his false claims of "victories" past and equally false assurances of "vic tories" to come. 