 "Drought" is no excuse for the poor wages of NT Aborigines By' ROBERT JACKSON A STUDY of the total value of the North ern Territory's primary production will show that it hinges mainly on Aboriginal labor. Because of this, opposition from NT pastoral ists to pro posed equalisation of wages -for Aborigines must be viewed with suspicion. Southern press statements, radio arid television have distorted the actual situation in the North, par ticularly regarding the drought and current markets for N.T. primary production. Very little reference has been made to the meatworks established in Darwin and Katherine and their increasing, production, or the impact they have had on production of cattle in the N.T's "top end." Reports of the drought have been distorted to imply that devastation has embraced the whole of the Ter ritory. In fact, the top end of the N.T. has had average to better than average rainfall for several years past, as have the Barkley Tablelands, south-west N.T. and the Kimberley regions. The central and lower sections of the Territory have always been deserts and rainfall in those regions during the past few years has not been very much below average. To use so-called drought conditions and marketing as reasons for paying the Territory's Aborigines' under-' award wages is a travesty of -the truth; Let us look at a few' figures. Cattle population in the N.T. for the years 1959-60-61-62-63 was 1,099,000, 1,110,000, 1,154,000, "1,063,000, . 1,055.000 respectively. (It is worth noting that the cattle population at December 31, 1954, was 968,775 head.) No current figures are available, but any large-scale decrease during 1964 must be matched against a vastly ' increased market and not against drought, as some cattlemen would lead us to believe. The total number of white people employed by the N.T. pastoral in dustry at June 30, 1961, was 1,558 males and 131 females. To imply that such a vast area with such huge cattle populations is worked by this number plus a "few Aborigines" is a total distortion. No data is available after June 30, 1955, but then there were 2,438 Aboriginal males and 697 Aboriginal females employed within the pastoral industry, with a further 149 males employed in agriculture. Missions in the N.T. which derive their income mainly from pastoral and agricultural pursuits controlled 2,617 adult Aborigines. Industries such as timber, mining, hunting, municipal, marine and do mestic service rely almost totally on Aboriginal unskilled and skilled laborers. Before any decisions are made in this wage case a full enquiry should be made in order to reveal: Cattle populations over the past 20 years; total value of cattle exports for each year since 1945; annual rain fall measurements since 1945; extent of development by pastoralists and total annual value of other primary industries since that year; amount of Aboriginal labor used in each industry; total value of primary pro duction by Missions; total extent of foreign ownership in the N.T. The present situation within the N.T. would show that the Aborigines are in fact subsidising the primary production by working for under- award wages. It would appear that the Govern ment finds difficulty in subsidising primary production in the North to any great extent because most of the N.T. is owned by American and British interests. It is known ' to the writer that several leading N.T. cattlemen are blatantly color prejudiced' and many of them hold' executive positions on the two main cattlemen's associations. Some even hold judicial positions and in recent years have shown their viciousness by giving extreme sen tences for minor offenc Aboriginal people marching in Darwin's May Day last year 