 Basic readina for 1 965... iwwm— nui — i MuannaHHnnuHHBnuMuaMaHBHnHMnRmnMMmnM The Mt. Isa book l#W The Queensland Tory Gover nment has launched a new attack on Australian democracy by abolishing the right of, workers la t Mt Isa 1 to demonstrate peacefully in support of their gust demands on the wealthy American-dominated company . At this moment there comes from the press a new booklet by Communist journalist Pete Thomas which, like his earlier exposure of American profiteering at Mt . Isa, will prove to be a long-range weapon against all monopoly in Australia . "CTORM IN THE TRO PICS", by Pete Tho mas, records, without em bellishment, the vivid story of the great 19b4- 65 Mount Isa struggle, which has gripped the imagination and won the unstinted sup p o r t of workers throughout Aus tralia and many far off countries. Pete Thomas is well quafi- . fied to tell this story. His earlier booklet, "Buried Treas ure . . . What Everyone Should Know About Mt. Isa Mines", sold out two editions in 1964. "Storm m the Tropics" is more than a first-hand account of the dramatic conflict between Austra- ' lian workers, by birth .or adoption, and the Yankee controlled Mt. Isa Mines. It is a penetrating class analysis of the issues at stake, 'he force arrayed and the respective roles played by employers, Govern, ments, Courts, political parties union officials (right wing and progressive) the workers involved and their allies, direct and indirect- Pete Thomas shows that while the immediate economic and industrial issues involved — wages rates, word ing conditions, trade union rights — are vitally important; there are still broader issues which transcend these in significance, not only for the working class, but the whole Australian nation. Australia has long since outgrown the period of being a mere "wood and water" Joey for British imperi alism, but, today faces a new threat of becoming a vast quarry for for eign-owned mining companies, who contribute nothing to Australia's industrial development, but drain away millions in profit. Pete Thomas reveals that the American owned ASARCO, which controls Mt. Isa Mines, held shares to the face value of £3.1 million in 1953; in the ten years to 1964 it received cash dividends amounting to £9 million, and at the same time, through free bonus issues and capi- tal appreciation saw the value of its shareholding increase to £117.7 million on the stock exchange. The profit per worker employed increased from £831 in 1951-52 to. over £1290 in 1963-64. The demand by the workers for a share in this vastly increased profit is an immediate cause of the present dispute. One might gather from the exces sive zeal shown by the Nicklin Tory Government of Queensland in de fending Mt. Isa Mines that the Company is a major contributor to the State's revenue and conse quent economic development. Pete Thomas cuspels this illusion. In 1963-64 Mt. Isa's mining re venue amounted to £29.3 million. The amount paid to the State in royalties was a mere £270,000 — less than 2Sd. in the £1. Pete Thomas traces the origins of the dispute back to 1961, when the State Industrial Commission in. creased the bonus of miners at Mary Kathleen by 25 per cent. Before the Commission coulil arbitrate on the bonus claims of Mt. Isa miners, the State Govern ment rushed through amending legislation to prevent the Com mission from increasing bonus, rates, but leaving it free to de crease them. This slammed the door to arbi tration, while at the same time the company, refused to negotiate direct. This led to the sharp Mt. Isa struggle late in 1961, when the com. pany shut the gates on the work ers. After eight weeks the Government proclaimed a "state of emergency" and ordered a resumption of work on the company's terms, without any increase in the bonus, thus leaving the issue unresolved. In 1964 the Mt; Isa unions went to the Industrial Commission with a claim for a £4 wage increase. The Commission ruled that this was a claim for a prosperity bonus, which, under the 1961 Act, it had no power to grant. Mt. Isa workers then exercised a right they had under their award to revert to wage work instead of contract. The Industrial Court next held that because the men acted in con cert this constituted an "unauth orised strike". It issued restraining orders, breach of which could bring a fine of £500 for a union or £50 for individual members. The Government again declared a "state of emergency" and ordered . Mt. Isa workers to work under con tract or face the penalty of £100 fine or six months jail. This failed to intimidate Mt. Isa workers, who decided to defy . the Government edict and to con tinue to work for day wages and not contract wages. The company then locked the men out and closed down the mine, as it had done in previous disputes in 1933, 1948 and 1961. Police state law The Nicklin Government again came to the aid of the company by issuing an Order-in-Council, unique in the annals of strike-breaking re gulations. ' The Queensland Trades and Labor Council declared that this proclamation "would rank equal with any repressive unde mocratic legislation introduced any. where in the world during the last 50 years". Pete Thomas, says that the Labor Council's declaration "was the pow erful opening salvo in a counter- offensive which was to take on nationwide proportions and which was to win a democratic triumph of historic quality". This triumph came on the Aus tralia Day weekend when, con fronted with a nationwide upsurge of working class anger and threat of a Statewide 24-hour strike, the Nicklin Government was compelled to back down and suspend its re gulation. An earlier casualty had been its 13G1 Act to prevent the Court from granting any increase in the Mt. Isa Spinas.. It has been the long-standing practice ol Industrial Tribunals tlu-oughout Australia not to adju dicate any claim, until there has bmm, return to wk. Bnat en December -24, with the Mt. Xsa snea s&JJ cut, the Queensland Industrial Commission, reversing an earlier decision, granted a £3 a week "prosperity loading" 'to all Mt. Isa workers. Throughout the dispute the dahy press featured prominently cue slanderous attacks made on Pat Maclcie by Tory politicians from the shelter of their cowards' castle of . parliamentary privilege. Pat Mackie has been depicted as the deepest of deep-dyed villians, standing over a wnole township and preventing a settlement of the dispute To their eternal shame, some right wing officials of the Australian Workers 'Union have joined in this chorus. Pete Thomas clears away this smokescreen and tells the real story about the vital trade union principles involved in the demand for Pat Mackie's re-employment by the company Pete Thomas points out how Mt. Isa Mines aided by the class colla boration policy of the top leaders of the A.W.U. has a long history of destroying leadership that emerges from the ranks of its employees, Seldom has this class collabora tion policy been so clearly and thoroughly exposed as in the cur rent Mt. Isa dispute. A new unify Pete Thomas concludes by point ing out now the 1964-65 struggle has brought a new unity against Mt. Isa Mines and how this unity surmounted distinctions of work and callings, how it transcended differences of national origins, poli tical affiliations and religious be liefs, how it was built across State boundaries and even extended across the seas. Unity is the most powerful force possessed by the workers their struggle against monopoly exploi tation. That is why the forces of re action strive by all means to disrupt unity and turn worker against worker. No matter what short-term suc cesses reaction may have in this direction, in the long run such ef forts are doomed to failure. The unity forged at the height of the Mt. Isa struggle can be come the foundation for a broader and stronger unity of the working class, creating conditions for a de cisive challenge to the rule- of monopoly-capitalism . in Australia. No activist in the labor .and de mocratic movement, no student of labor history can afford to be with out Pete Thomas' latest booklet. RTniMVf IN TEE TROPICS. 27- at all piosressive Looksliops, — JE. W. CAMPBELL. PAT MACKIE . . . major role PETE THOMAS . . . author ifcit.. iiisa fttae &iirr 