 [?] I "We are at the | mercy of 1 the weather" IT By Tribune reporters ! ! henry McCarthy f \ (story) and NOEL HAZ- i j ARD (photos) who visited I | some flood and drought I a areas of northern NSW S , | last week. ! 1 Dairymen and small farmers in northern NSW, I neck deep in debt through drought, many with their 1 I credit already stopped, have been placed in an even I 1 more desperate plight by flood, rain and freezing I 1 cold, killing their depleted stock and destroying 1 their struggling crops. j Flooding rains broke the drought which had already j destroyed and weakened stock in the north of nsw. I Then two weeks . ago, as the Richmond River broke its m banks and turned the barren, dusty paddocks linto lakes, H farmers suffered further crippling stock losses. 1 Throughout the Lismore I district, which supplies half J of the State's butter and one- | third of its ijtalk, death is j biting deep :nCo dairy herds I already weakened by the long I months of drought. It is impossible to estimate I the exact losses there yet, but I by the end of last week it was £ over 1000 and still rising. . Around Casino, too, almost I 1000 cattle had died in the H wet, cold conditions. | The main killers have been cramp f, and pneumonia. Too weak to stand, | the cattle fall and are drowned, or | they are too helpless to move to high- | er ground. f| In the Hogarth Range area farmers if say they cannot remember a flood H with such disastrous results. | As the flood waters recede they ride I or walk through the mud and slush I that was dry-baked earth a few days I previously, hopelessly trying to get I the dying cows on their feet. One farmer in this area has now lost three quarters of his herd. Another farmer kept 15 cows In his yard for milking one night. When he went to milk them the next morning they were all dead. At Dyraaba Creek the death role of milking cows is about, 200 or more. One farmer lost 46, half his whole milking herd. Other losses so far have been from 14 to over 20. Mr. Eric Senz, a dairy farmer in the nmiMfiil Greek area nf the T.ismnro district said that probably hundreds of cattle had died within a few square miles from where we spoke to him on the side of a hill. "A mother and son battling on a farm here, have lost 40 of their 60 cattle so far and, with others, they stand to lose more if the cold cyclonic winds continue. . "Other losses to farmers just around here have been 47, 40, 27, 18 and 17. Losses like this if they continue, are wiping out the dairy industry in this district. "The time for talking and promises by both State and Federal Govern ments is past, what we want is straight out cash grants and quickly, if the dairy industry here is to sur vive/ Mr. Senz said. "After over 12 months of drought, farmers are heavily in debt to the banks. They have borrowed to the limit to hand feed their starving stock and now the herds are dropping dead and drowning in the paddocks. "How will they replenish their herds in the spring? In the face of a national catastrophe, i consider the Government's efforts completely in adequate," Mr. Senz said. Vietnam a better investment When Mr. Senz was asked whether he thought some of the money spent on war should be channelled into aid for farmers he said— "The Govern ment obviously considers Vietnam a better investment than the dairying or farming industry in Australia." In some cases where farmers have just repaired fences at heavy cost, they have been now washed flat to the ground. In areas where useful rains had fallen some weeks back and feed was starting to grow, the grass is now covered with a coating of thick mud— good soil eroded from else where. Farmers need warm weather to grow grass so, until the summer, hand feeding will have to continue, if they can afford to , buy fodder. If they can't, their stock will die. But as one farmer put it: "What will the summer bring— drought, flood or good weather for sowing? No one knows, but there's one thing we do know— we are at the mercy of the weather." Dozens of banana farmers around Lismore have lost their whole crop. . Fftst the heavy rains softened the ground and then , high winds flattened r;r; (One %iji$er saide >would: have to walk off his farm and join his brother who is a fisherman. He added that he suffered from chronic sea sickness, but he had no alternative as there was nowhere else he could find work. As the people of Lismore scraped the mud and debris from their homes and shops, and farmers tried to save the lives of their remaining cattle, away from the coast with some ex ceptions, the rain barely laid the dust. According to the latest Common wealth Government drought survey the northern NSW wheat belt is faced with almost complete failure. Expert opinion is that good rain must fall within the next two weeks for sowing to begin. Grazing areas around Moree are as bald as a billiard ball and in Gun- nedah only one per cent of the normal year's crop has been sown. Generally as far as stock and milk production is concerned the position has worsened. In these pitiful conditions many farmers have reached the end of the road with their credit stopped and heavily in debt to banks and feed merchants. Unemployment is growing rapidly in the countryside generally and the swift fall in cattle and sheep is drastic ally reducing labor at ail of the abat toirs. The end of the road for many Midco Abattoirs near Casino have cut their staff from 305 to 240. Many farmers who found jobs at these abattoirs during the drought are now being laid off to return to ruined farms. Drought and flood in country dis tricts has worsened the already tragic plight of Aboriginal people. The whole picture we gained reveal ed the complete lack of a Federal Government policy of effective assist ance to fanners in their time of real need, and lack of action to remove or mitigate the tremendous, recurring darnagedfrom flood in particular. ABOVE: Lismore farmer Eric Lenz . . . "straight-out cash grants". LOWER LEFT: Common sight near Doubtful Creek. 