 S.A. Lib, defeat— now for a N.S.W. repeat! — — — Wm—JlluMIM«JiJUUUJIIlUmiWUgWWWi| I I ——— Will I III LI L i L..I.»WMB-«BgBgMgaaa«aWUl 1IJMMI1||ii.|)L |W|||M LIMJIUIMU. JLIIMlLUlMUlllMlum. IL III III. mi I XBPr \Sjrma C'wealth action sought on BUSH FIRES An immediate Com monwealth Government survey of the bushfire menace on a national scale was demanded this week by Mr. Les Kelton, campaign dir ector for the Commun ist Party of Australia in the forthcoming New South Wales State elec tion. | I E said that the Government must then provide the fin ance to the States for the most modern equipment to prevent as well as fight the fires. The NSW State " Government- should double the amount of money available for bushfire prevention. He was not aware of the position in this regard in other States, but felt that much more could be done by all State Governments. Mr. Kelton made these points as part of the campaign to prevent and fight bushfires. © Where water mains are not available or water pipes not ' large enough, special action should be taken to remedy, this. © Bushfire brigades outside the metropolitan area should be supplied with modern fire engines and water tankers. All metropolitan brigades to be manned by adequate full-time personnel. ® Voluntary bushfire brigades to be supplied with the most modern equipment available for their work and training. © Fire-fighting lookouts should be established .and helicopters should be used for spotting and fighting fires as they are in many other countries with great success. © Local Government rubbish tips should be supplied with the proper fire prevention apparatus and be under constant supervision during the bushfire risk periods. These tips eventually should be replaced with incinerators. Mr. Alec Elphinsto'n, Communist candidate for Cronulla, said the tirqe f had come when the apathy of gov ernments On this question must be overcome without delay Communist Party policy favored the immediate setting up of a per manent 24-hour nation-wide fire spotting network served by centrally placed, adequately equipped depots covering all possible danger areas. Such a service, as seen in Canada and the Soviet Union, brings local and higher governments into action swiftly to ensure that any fire is WAUII annua u nmuuLUiAteiy. rue- spotters, working from a network of vantage points report any outbreak immediately by radio to centrally placed depots. Helicopters are needed to bring fire fighters, to inaccessible areas. "Here in Australia," said Mr. El- phinston, "many of our services are totally inadequate for the areas they service, particularly in outer areas of our cities, on the fringe of bush areas such as Liverpool and ..Sutherland around- Sydney. "Many thousands of our firemen do a marvellous job in the face of . this position," he said. "Instead of wasting hundreds of millions of pounds fanning the flames of war in SE Asia, Mr. Men. zies could spend a few millions to subdue the flames of fire in our own country. S.A. NIGLECT yDELAIDE : Fire precaution meas ures and fire fighting equipment and organisation urgently needed in South Australia have been neglected in the long years of Liberal rule. Appeals to tackle the fire menace have been made, not least of them from the Communist Party, which has pointed to the need for expen diture of the -necessary money by the Government on a full-scale ami- bushfire project. All appeals have been ignored. The Clare fire caused at least H million worth of damage to stock, houses, fencing and equipment. One fireman quoted the case where at least one house ;ould have been saved if firefighters had been supplied with pumps. In previous fires "Tribune" has quoted cases of lack of equipment hampering fire fighters. On top of its nee'ect, the Play, ford Government then p-ovided £10,000, obtained £10,000 from the Menzies Government, and then threw the burden on the public. South Australia will expect a better approach to the bush fire problem by a new Labor adminis tration. 