 A.L.P. DEMANDS AIR INQUIRY £ANB£RRA: The Labor Party is following up its defeat of the Government in the Senate over the I PEC issue oy demanding a sweep- til ing inquiry into civil aviation in Australia and its territor- wlies. s4 -to the Senate the acting Minister p or Civil Aviation, Senator Pal- ap -ridge, confirmed that possibly AA and Ansett were modifying .en heir planes to permit of extensive i t reight-carrying— the field in which i a he independent IPEC company is nterested. Id The Menzies' Government's defeat rvv\ IU. . . ... issue in the Senate 1 a e shcked it because it had ott the usual rebels on side, othe Senator Wood who has sometimes olen jined Senator Wright in objecting 1 ! L- some outrageous Government t " ' was this time in the Govern- wag cuts camp and voted with it. ,ted( > d!d '"dependent Senator Turn- tn&lt; Ml Of Tasmania. Wrecked the Government's a.5®? as the sudden defection of in# an old trusty" Senator D. C. Hanna- i tmio ..South Australia, who this 16 Iahm. 2ined Senator Wright, the 4 on fh arty a"d the DLP senators ctrt on Opposition benches. , GnwL r8SUlt was a rebuff to the indl0ent's decision to block the IPPr a'r transport company, Connn-i t101" appealing to the Privy .„Mif f ,aSa'ust a decision barring rait no!?: ""Porting certain planes that AV 11 needed. r nitho'L ffect was further to boost lDfi>lwhieh S'l10n of the Ansett monopoiy rafl Bv shares this traffic with TAA. Si4n&lt;;e incidence — perhaps — Jllull-nna n Monday came out with a Itouncina fres advertisement an-. > nJbarvair" ? of specialised nd'tiltra-mnrf eighter aircraft and f jlinent" f fn mechanised equip- Ifort JA revolutionise" air trans- 1 m Senatn "Gratia in September, tithe IfZ Labor. W.A. said in ' Intervened6' Government had oir a due process of law when in other respects it is demanding that citizens uphold :.the law" . . "If workers strike, they are 'law less' in the Government's eyes," said Sentator Cant. "They are 'Com munist-dominated'. But is the Gov ernment 'Communist-dominated' when it alters the law to suit its own pur poses?" Senator Willesee, Labor, WA, said the Government's refusal to accept the due processes of the law was dis graceful. Professing to believe in "free enter prise", it discriminated against small companies. Senator Cohen, Labor, Victoria, said that IPEC's representatives were allowed to go to London to appeal to the privy Council only to find when they got there that the law had been altered so that even a Privy Council decision in their favor would have been meaningless. The Government had shown a pro found disrespect for the law and a desire to enforce its own point of view at all costs. On Labor leader , Senator Mc- Kenna's motion the Senate voted to disallow the regulation under which the IPEC appeal had been rendered useless. 