 [?] A FIGHTER WITH PEN AND VOICE FOR PEACE AND LIBERTY "I say whole matter involves a threat to freedom and | believe we can resist the attacks on freedom!" Continual howls, jeers, roars and even whistles from oppos ing benches greeted the Labor leader who said this in the Australian farliament just 10 years ago, but he continued: 'There must be a unity of the people not to be deterred from pursuing peaceful relationships with other countries. That is the spirit of today. The Government does not know it yet but it will get to know it. "That does not exclude Russia; it includes Russia and China." ' THUS with blazing sincerity Herbert Vere Evatt took his stand on the side of peace and civil liberties at the crucial mo ment of the Parliamentary de bate on the Petrov Commission report oh October 19, 1955. Just about everyone on the other side heckled him during that speech — Menzies, Mc- Mahon, Gullett and the DLP renegades who bayed like a pack of wolves. . But his rasping Australian voice carried on through it all: "Secondly, and equally important, we must beware of setting up a security organisation which has political views and which regards the left-wing man at the union meeting who says something, per haps boisteriously and perhaps wrongly, and who goes too far to the left, as being a criminal. "We must prevent any attempt to set up an espionage system for spying on our own people. "The security service was never intended to be a secret police or ganisation. "It was supposed to advise Com monwealth departments, but now it wants to run the police of Canberra and everything else and it is only kept from doing so by public opinion." If H. V.. Evatt had done nothing else than expose the Petrov ' con spiracy and rebuff the secret police's efforts to make themselves the real rulers of Australia, he would have deserved well of his -country. Rallying to defend freedom But the Petrov battle was only one of the many he fought, with voice and pen, for the people's liberties. His successful legal defence of seamen's leaders Walsh and John son against anti-Labor Prime Minis ter Bruce's efforts to deport them ack in 1925 was just the overture 10 his lifetime of struggle. Others have paid due tribute to yatt as a great judge and historian, a noted Attorney-General and External Affairs Minister. But it was as a. fighting platform r.c_,' rallying the mass of the env ' 8 Ji? their freedom in a rp 'f ' that he will be most warmly mbered by very many workers. a HiSh Court Judge appointed rulPrt -early age of 36)> Evatt I" 1934 ' favor f 'Czech anti-Fascist he hnrt ?gon" sch's contention that ; attpnriiv; een imPr9Perly; stopped from: tralia, a peace 'conference in Aus-; Attorney - General Menzies had barred him under "White Australia" racialist laws because he had been failed in an "examination" in Scot tish Gaelic. Evatt helped end a situation which had made Australia a world laughing stock. The war against fascism In 1940, with Hitler triumphing in Europe, Britain facing invasion and Australia menaced by Japan, Evatt could see the peril Australia faced under the Prime Ministership of an outspoken admirer of Fascism. Against Menzies' violent protests, Evatt dramatically left his well-paid High Court position to campaign against the Government in the then safe anti-Labor seat of Barton. He won in a landslide. In little less than a year later he was a Cabinet Minister in one of the gravest moments of our history. When the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor in December, 1941, Evatt was' foremost among, the Labor leaders, who, with the Communist Party, struck at defeatism by declaring for uncompromising resistance to the Japanese. He supported Curtin in appealing to Roosevelt's America for aid "free of pangs" concerning the British connection and he took two steps vital to an Australian victory. : -As External Affairs Minister he established diplomatic relations for the first time with USSR and de clared wholehearted support of the Australia-Soviet alliance and his, admiration of the Soviet war effort. As Attorney-General he lifted the ban on the Australian Communist Party which had been imposed .by . Menzies in 1940. Never a Communist — in fact, strongly opposed to Communism — Evatt could see how important both steps were to the unity of the Aus tralian people in the anti-Fascist fight. He further assisted victory by an announcement in 1942 that, in Aus tralia's view, the Atlantic Charter promises of self-government applied to the Asian-Pacific peoples. This meant that in fighting the Japanese they were also fighting for their own freedom from European coloni 'ism. He took many steps towards a goal still sought by democratic Australians today — an independent Australian foreign policy. Evatt turned the External Affairs Department, which had been a sort of tame appendage of the British Foreign Office, into a fully-staffed organisation capable of developing Australian initiatives. With him in charge, Australia's relations with Asia reached a degree of harmony never since attained. Indonesia selected Australia, as her representative : negotiations leading to complete independence. Australia was invited to ' the pre-Bandung Afro-i Asian1 ConferehCe in ' New Delhi in 'T949V ' - | . Had. Labor, .won. ..the election of that December, it would have joined Britain in recognising the Chinese People's Republic. However, although he took an im portant initiative at least once on the Berlin dispute, as President of the UN General Assembly Dr. Evatt yielded to US pressure to join in the launching of the cold war on the Soviet Union. ' This, and the Government's attacks on the coal miners in which Evatt, as Attorney-General, played a key role, divided the Labor Movement and opened the way for Menzies' hysterical anti - Communist election campaign and the defeat of Labor in 1949. Against the When Menzies brought in his Bill to ban the Communist Party in April, 1950, it was enthusiastically endorsed by every daily paper bar one and accepted by the ALP. Few people outside the Communist Party believed it could be defeated. All the more inspiring to the demo cratic cause was the news that Evatt and Chifley were working to reverse ALP policy and rally the nation against the attempt to establish a reign of terror against not only the Communists but . the entire . Labor and progressive movement. With the death of Chifley in 1951 Evatt became the Federal leader and his opposition to the referendum in September of that year was a decisive factor in its defeat. Having opposed the Bill in Caucus, in Parliament, and in the courts where he represented some "unions in a successful challenge to its legality, Evatt now took his case direct to the people. While the Right-wingers opposed him covertly or openly, and fence- sitters Were silent, Evatt stumped the country calling the "people to action. -Next to the : Communist Party's own campaign. Evatt's inspir ing leadership ' is given by historians the major credit for the defeat of the most odious attempt till then to make Australia a police state. Exposing the Petrov fraud Less than three years later Evatt again "electrified the Labor Move ment," as the Tribune said at the time, by appearing in person before the Petrov Royal Commission to defend two staff members smeared before the Commission. He was quickly ousted by the Com missioners. It rapidly became obvious that neither renegade Petrov nor chief secret police witness Richards would last long under his cross-examination, allied to that of other counsel de fending the smeared witnesses. But in only a few days he was able to lay bear the outlines, at least, of a gigantic conspiracy, in which Menzies was personally involved, to destroy the peace movement, the Labor Party, the Communist Party and other progressive organisations chiefly by means of "documents" allegedly brought with him by Petrov but actually forged by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Revelation that Mr. Santamaria's secret "Movement," sponsor of ; the . "ALP iiidustriai groups" . as they lyee, then known, Was alsoi 'a' participant; in this conspiracy led' tL. a massif drive in the Labor Party, also spear headed by Evatt, to oust these traitors. This , was done, and the Hobart ALP Conference of 1955, under Evatt's leadership, laid down a pro gressive policy which ever since then has helped Labor unity. Reaction never forgave Evatt To the day of his death, reaction never forgave Evatt for this. Even in the past week's obituaries daily press writers pretend that it was he, and not the Right-wing saboteurs, who "split the Labor Party." The answer lies in the known facts. With Chifley and Evatt's initial poli cies prevailing, the ALP won election after election, holding power in Federal Government for eight years, after a long period in the wilderness. At one stage, Labor ruled in Can berra and in five of the six States, with a wide degree _ of unity through out the Labor Movement. The Groupe r-DLP-"Movement" wreckers who destroyed that unity with their rabid anti-Communism were exposed effectively by Chifley in the last speech of his life. Evatt helped force them into the open, where everyone pan now see how, in election after election, Men zies has relied on DLP preferences and election speeches. B. A. Santamaria's refusal to com ment on Evatt's death reflects the guilty hatred such people have for Evatt and other Labor men of strong democratic mould. . if today the Labor Movement is widely united in defence of peace, in opposition to the Vietnam war, in defence of trade union rights and civil liberties and for economic and social advances; if Menzies still hesi tates over his, White Paper threat, it jis;; dyie, in . no ;small: measure to the Paspion. ;for demopracy apd frepdpm $y,att;) did/so;" much. ,to kindle ,a#pl ;keeprpljiye in . Australian hearty 