 [?] I With the State Political Roundsman I' JYDNEY: As reporters read ' a press statement given to i. them in State Parliament last e. week, one said: "But this was printed in the Telegraph this ft morning." "What are you complaining | about?" replied another. "Surely the unofficial govern ment gazette had the right If to publish it first." I ' » I ? || The Government was "trusting the II impartiality of the Courts" in a pro- p Posed amendments to the Workers' || cmpensation Act, the Premier (Mr. Askin) said last Wednesday. | ; Mr. Askin was referring to his an il' nouncement that the government fj would remove from the Act the sec- Mi tion which prohibited reference to benefits under the Act, at Common 1 Law, for damages. 1 Mr. Askin was replying in the Legislative Assembly to Mr. L. J. I Ferguson (Labor, Fairfield). H Mr. Ferguson said the mention H he benefits tended to influence I Ju£es against the plaintiff. || He said the only pressure for the || amendment would come from insur- II ance companies. if 116 &sked Mr. Askin whether the | jLVe,ri?ment was following previous H tin»» government's in"emascuia- 1 Act the orers' Compensation UEALTH Minister Mr. A. H. Jago received tributes from the press when he recently amended the Pure Food Act to specify that meat pies bad to contain 25 per cent meat. Another amendment received no press publicity. "Manufacturing meat, whether or not enclosed in a casing, shall con tain not less than 66 per cent meat. Formerly this read 75 per cent. This applies to saveloys, devon and all small meats except sausages. Previously it was also laid down that 6 per cent of starch was the maximum amount allowed in small goods. Now, there is no limit. A meat firm in protesting to Jago about these adulterations received short change, but the majority of meat firms were in favour. ? A FTER interviewing Mr. E. A. Willis, the Minister for Labor anil Industry, on October 15, "Retail Weekly" wrote: "Sections of the food industry dis agreed that the Minister's viewpoint that food prices generally had not increased." "They supported their comments by detailing of breakfast cereals, canned meats, soaps, detergents, tinned fish and toothpaste and some other H.BJV. items. Retail Weekly is a trade paper circulating in the grocery trade. Over to you, Eric. 