 . [?] I By Tribune's Industrial 1 Correspondent I /QRECERS engaged in in dustrial struggle any where in Australia know they can count on moral and fin ancial suBoort from the whaHiies. Charitable ... organisations, whether caring for crippled children, or the aged',, know i they are never refused by the wharfies. Aboriginal workers have ! learned the. feeling of full equality with their white ; mates when they have become' wharfies. Pacific Island work ers highly esteem, the trade union> aid they have had from our wharfies. Who are these men. once more being attacked by the shipowners, the; Menzies Government and; sec tion of the wealthy press, with in sulting claims that many of them are criminals. Are wharfies different?' No, ex cept perhaps in the fact that they work f6r employers more greedy and ruthless than the normal em ployer. Freight robbers Foreign overseas shipping com panies present Australia with a freight bill somewhere near £450 million a year, with huge profits going out of our economy. And while freight charges, to and from Australia are among the high est in the. world they keep putting them up without any regard to Australian primary producers or exporters. These are the same employers the wharfies have had to fight tooth and1 nail for every improvement in wages and conditions. This is the reason why waterside workers have had to build a milf . tant trade union, continue to elect ' militants as their leaders,, and readily understand others workers' and people's problems. Farmers, graziers, fruit growers, meat exporters are now also he- ginning , to see the truth and wisdom behind the wharfies' long standing demand for a. national overseas shipping line. (The first public conference on this issue was- initiated by the WWF in Sydney Town; Hall in the- late 'fifties. tig t s j Crime- slander The Federal Government and some newspapers hope to turn public opinion against the WWF, with crude distortions about a "criminal element", "communist control" and inferences about shady union elections. These have been, answered, by the. union's Federal Council (see page, 10)',, but. we- may comment,, for example, on a prime example . of slander against waterside workers in a two-page spread in the Sunday Telegraph (Sept. 26) titled. "The Great Wharf Robbery," by a nameless "special reporter". This article, filled with contradic tions, blandly says "£2 milion in goods was stolen last year on the Sydney waterfront" and repeatedly infers that; 90 per cent of wharfies; are responsible. Yet close reading of the article, reveals that: The £2: million figure come? from only one anonymous "insur ance company executive" and. ap patently covers cargo stolen or lost anywhere between Sydney and: the, point of production overseas Only, 11 convictions for pill aging from wharf areas were rev ported in the first half of this. year. No evidence is given to show any of these involved wharfies. The only case detailed involved- two men apparently not wharfies. Half of the Telegraph'? "evidence" consists of "confessions" oy a nameless "ex-wharfie"" which may- or may not be a genuine inter view, with one of the tiny minority of thieves who can be found in any industry. Even this interview suggests that the big "disappear ances" of cargo are organised by company representatives who have control of the documents. While such attacks are going on, many in- Australia will know and remember the truth about the wharfie as a man. The Torres Strait Islanders will he sure that a group of men who recently struck a 5/- levy and raised £5000 to build them a bakery are public spirited men whose actions enhance Australia's inter national prestige. Aboriginal kids going to school on - 'scholarships provided by wharfies will certainly he puzzled by the attacks. So. will the Abori ginal mothers, staying at the cottage in Dubbo built, by the Federation. Before this cottage was built, Aborigine families in transit to the Base Hospital were forced to sleep in the bush or , under the bridge beside the river because no one would give them accommodation. Farmers will remember that members of the Burnie Branch (Tasmania) 'of the WWF offered to work without pay, to load fod der for the drought areas of other States. - The men asked that the shipping companies agree, to the suggestion and also- carry the fodder free of charge. They are still awaiting a reply from the employers! Those who can remember the Second World, War years will know that, the Curtin Government asked the Federation to take over the legal power to- recruit waterfront labour- and to maintain a steady and constant supply of men on all jpbs. At the; end, of the war Chifley commended t e Federation for its apable: orga isation of the indus try — a patriotic effort of vital Importance to Australia as a na ion. Prior to this, the snipowners em ployed men without rosters using the, degrading method of picking up men like catle at a sale yard. No doubt the shipowners hope Menzies' legislation. . might bring back the good. old. days.. 