 ACTU asked to challenge Menzies on Greek migrant CYDNEY : The Australian Council bf Trade Unions has been asked by the NSW Labor Council to challenge the Men- zies Government's refusal to grant naturalisation to a Greek waterside worker. Mr. Christos Mourikis has been a member 'of the Sydney - Branch of the Waterside Workers' Federation for the past eight years. Since his arrival in Australia in 1954 he has unsuccessfully applied for naturalisation on three oc casions. The Federal Government has re fused to give any reasons why Aus tralian citizenship to Mr. Mourikis was rejected. It has been admitted by the Gov ernment that 326 people have been refused naturalisation without rea son given, including 140 Greeks and ;;0 Italians. Last Thursday's meeting of the N.S.W. Labor Council unanimously (ailed on the ACTU to investigate the matter. Acting secretary of the Council, T J. Ducker said that the executive - that should circumstances be sach that a person is refused naturali- sation, then the reasons should be given. "This is a matter of principle and because of this the full weight of the trade union movement must be brought to bear on the Government," Mr. Ducker said. ACTU president, Mr. Monk is a member of the Advisory Committee of the Immigration Board and will be asked to take' up this., matter with the Board. , The Sydney Branch of the W.W.F., in a letter - to Council, said it could verify that Mr. Mourikis has "an un blemished moral and social standing and is an excellent unionist." r "He is also an active job dele gate." The Federation, said it had no hesi tation in supporting his application for naturalisation and view with concern the action of the Federal Government towards migrants who are being denied citizenship without offering any reasons. Addressing last week's Council, Mr. Mourikis said: "This is not a personal question." In my opinion this is an attack on the democratic principles and rights of the individual to belong and be active in the labour movement. 