 AWU battle; ' flBBHBHBHfliBBBBMnBMBto Federal leaders suffer DEL AIDE : The reinstate ment of 10 officers of the South Australian branch 0f the Australian Workers' \ Union is a further defeat for the bureaucratic Federal lead- J ership of this union and a win j for rank and file membership in the long battle for demo- I cracy. | The Commonwealth Industrial ' Court, after a case proceeding for - many months of this year, decided ? that the SA officers dismissed by - the Federal executive council were 1 the rightful officers of the branch I TLey had been elected overwhel- ' mingly by the members in a ballot at the end of 1964. Restored The secretary D. Cameron, pres ident J. Wright, and vice president R. Groth, who were expelled from the union had their membership and positions restored. The other seven members of the executive including three organisers who were removed from office have now . taken up their appointments. At the time of the 1964 ballot the defeated secretary, E. O'Connor, alleged irregularities in its conduct. The Court, however, found that minor irregularities involving about 70 votes could not have altered the result and Chief Judge Spicer up held the election. Despite this decision of the Court, the Federal executive of the union charged the newly-alected officers with breaches of union rules and suspended them from office O'Connor and two other Federal officers were . appointed to take i charge of the SA branch and fol lowing an enquiry described by members as "undemocratic and dictatorial", the elected officers were dismissed and in some cases expelled. Their appeal to the Court was accompanied by protest meetings of the members and leaflets explaining the situation circulated throughout the country. The dismissed organ isers went to work in industry and continued to keep in touch with the rank and file of the union. Mt. Isa In Queensland a strong movement developed in opposition to the Fed eral leadership of the union over the victimisation of AWU mem bers following the Mt. Isa strike The victimised men included mem bers of the Committee for Member ship Control of the AWU — a rank and file movement for greater dem- ocitacy in the union which has members and supporters throughout sfcr&l isi The return of the legitimate officers of the SA branch of the AWU is welcomed by members' in this State as they have many unsettled griev ances which have not been r®cr , during the last year of Fed control. „o1 The union has had no annu meeting in SA despite protests to the Federal leadership to have u. rules carried out. The elected leadership, in,r \Th> ing to office, quickly got down business, called a meeting ol : officers and sacked the industrial officer who had collaborated v the Federal leadership. The win for rank and file w bers in South Australia will oe 'benefit in the general process making Au-vralia's biggest i more responsive to che needs the membership. J 