 [?] BHP Co lures migrants with false promises "They came sailing into Sydney on a flood fide of hope . . . a suntanned hatch of migrants , at the gateway to a golden future. Ships hooted a welcome on the blue spread of water , loudspeakers blared out Waltzing Matilda, handkerchiefs fluttered in a hundred hands of friendship. . s began a recent I Sydney Sunday news paper article concern ing the arrival of mi- j grants being brought to j Australia by the Broken j Hill Proprietary for | employment in its steel- | works. j The article exposed the mis- | representations and deceptions I being practised by the BHP 1 through its recruiting agent I in London, Mr. R. G. Wallace, 1 apparently with the connivance j of the Federal Government. | The letter sent to prospective I British migrants by Mr. Wallace states that "acceptance of our of fer of employment will enable you to travel to Australia under the Com monwealth Assisted Passage Scheme, and you could expect, to embark soon.!' Under the terms stated by B.H.P. to the prospective migrant, they offer to pay the £25 contributed towards the assisted passage and an additional £5 towards medical expenses. A further £20 is advanced on arrival as "settling in" expenses. In return the migrant undertakes ». to "repay the company the sum of £50 in regular instalments of £1 per week deducted from wages whilst in the employment of the company. If he terminates his employment or is dismissed for any reason other than retrenchment before he has repaid the amount of the advance he agrees that the balance then ow ing shall be immediately become due and payable as a debt owing by him to the Company." The £50 is returned if the worker stays 12 months and has repaid the £50. "Yachting" As the article in the Sunday paper stated, the B.H.P. recruiting booklet shows pictures of beautiful "Steel Workers' Homes" and "Yachting on Lake Macquarie" creating the im pression that steelworkers live in beautiful homes and spend their week-ends sailing their private yachts. Such deception does not stop there. "We are pleased to offer you em ployment as a production operator" their circular says, "at either Port Kembla or Newcastle." "We feel sure you would not ex perience any difficulty with the work involved and you would have opportunities for promotion to higher classification. "The average wage would approxi mate £22 per week, including bonus, shift allowances and week end allowances." A Illb lb pxuuauiy UlO statement of them all. for "produc tion operations" means anything from floor sweeper to rigger, and the Steel Awards are notorious for embracing some of the lowest rates of any Award in Australia. In the two Steel Awards covering Newcastle and Port Kembla there are 1450 classifications covering, about 44' differing wage rates. 89 per cent of these classifications covering the majority of steelworkers set out rates of £19/3/- per week or less. 26 per cent of the total number of classifications, and this covers a very large number of steelworkers, receive a rate of £16/17/- per week. Unions fined The B.H.P. monopoly is probably the most vicious opponent of wage increases of any employer. Unions involved in the steel indus try have been ruthlessly fined for struggling to improve their condi tions. With the help of the Arbitration Courts and the right wing leadership of the Ironworkers' Union, this steel monopoly pays the minimum in wages. In May last year, during the hearing of the Steel Award claims. Mr. Shel don for B.H P. stated: "Higher mar gins, (in the steel industry) should not sim.nl v because an indus- try's financial position was better "If prosperity is a. reliable -guide, so must be the poverty of an indus try." But the facts are that the only poverty in this industry belongs to the workers, not to the company who has waxed fat- on low wages and monopoly manipulated prices. The Sydney Morning Herald Finan cial Editor (16/12/64) reveals that wages and salary costs per toi. of steel has fallen from £13/6/- per ton in 1955 t"> £13/5/- per ton in 1964. On the other hand, the estimated "real" taxable profit has risen from £4/7/- per ton to £12/3/- per ton in the same period, nearly a three fold increase. Steel price rise Whilst vigorously opposing wage , increases, the B.H.P. monopoly , raises the price of steel at will — twice in the. last twelve months. Mr. Parish of Australian Iron and Steel stated last year that 900 men were needed in the steelworks. With the low wages paid for such arduous Conditions, it is obvious that they are experiencing difficulty, in times of relatively full employment, to attract local labour to this in dustry. Australian and migrant workers who have been here some time will hardly break their necks to work at the steelworks for the wages offer ing. So the B.H.P. is attempting to entice unsuspecting British migrants to come to Newcastle and Port Kembla by painting a false picture of jobs and conditions. Recently, the Queensland Trades and Labour Council advised British- workers to think carefully before migrating to Queensland and warned them of the low wages being paid A great howl went up from the Nickiin and Menzies Governments and cries of "interference" and "sabotage" were echoed by the daily press. Nothing however, is said of the lying propaganda of inducement put- out by monopoly in order to attract new labour to exploit. Dozens of British migrants are suffering hardships and are coming to the trade union movement for assistance because of this false pr&lt;> paganda. 