 45th Anniversary: | World greetings I for Aust. CP SYDNEY: "The Communist Party of Australia has come a long way and confidently faces its future road in the struggle for peace, a better life and socialism", said Mr. R. Dixon, CPA national president, at 4ie party's 45th anniversary cele bration on Saturday night. ''"pHE influx of new members — some 550 this year — shows that the party is in ex cellent shape for the future," he said. The celebration In Sydney took place at a special cabaret function in the James Healy hall, in the Central Committee's headquarters building. Veterans from the party's earliest years were present, including Harry Denford (an early secretary of the party), Carl Baker (an early editor of The Communist) and Harry Knud- sen. Cables of greetings for the occasion from >other communist parties were warmly applauded. These messages said, in part: — From the Communist Party of the Soviet Union: — "You are the defenders of the in terests of the working class of Aus tralia. You uphold the struggles of the toilers of your country against thj exploitation of the monopolists, fo the democratic rights of the Aus tralian people. "The Communist Party of Australia Is in the front ranks of the fighters for peace, against aggression of the American imperialists and the ruling circles of Australia in Vietnam, active ly upholding the struggle of the Viet nam people for national independence. "The Communist Party of Australia has earned the respect of the world communist movement for its fight for adherence to pure Marxism-Lenin- Ism, for its active support for proletar ian internationalism. "Communists of the Soviet Union, all the Soviet people highly esteem the indefatigable work of the Com- : munist Party of Australia for the strengthening of the ties of friendship between the peoples of Australia and the Soviet Union." Communist Party of France, express Ing "complete solidarity," said:— "We wish your party further suc cess in its efforts to unite the work ing-class and all democratic forces against American aggression in Viet nam and the Menzies' Government's support for it, against atomic weap ons, and for peace, national independ ence and democracy, for economic and social rights, and for socialism. m "We will continue to strive for the unity of the international communist movement on the basis of Marxist- Leninist principles." United Socialist Party of Germany: "We wish the Communist Party of Australia further achievements and greater success in connection with the united actions of the working class of your country for friendship, national freedom and socialism." Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party:— "Your Party is standing decisively against the participation of Austra lian troops in the colonial war which is being waged by American imperial ism in Vietnam. In standing for with drawal of Australian troops from ag gressive military alliances you are supporting the liberation movement of the people. "The CPA is making its valuable contribution to the cause of rallying the ranks of the international com munist movement and all revolution ary forces of today on the principles of Marxism-Leninism and proletarian internationalism in the struggle against imperialism, colonialism and neo-colonialism, for world peace and the security of nations." 