 Tributes to Gheorghiu-Dej U/ORLD Communist leaders are paying tribute to Ru mania's late President and first secretary of the Rumanian Workers' Party, Gheorghe Ghe- orghiu Dej, who died on March 19 after a long illness. Only two days earlier he had been re-elected, amid a standing ovation, by the Rumanian Parliament as president. Electrician by trade, he strongly supported a great electrification plan for Rumania. He led the work er's party while it was lifting Ru mania out of feudal backwardness by means of socialist planing. From the moment of Rumania's liberation by the Soviet Army in August 1944, he became a leading exponent of the plan for socialist Industrialisation. Elected Communist Party general secretary in 1945 he helped direct the movement which led, in 1948, to the formation of a united workers' Party. Gheorghiu-Dej had joined the Communist Party of Rumania, then working underground, in 1930 and in 1933 was arrested and sentenced to 12 years hard labour for leading a strike of railway and oil workers He was born plain Gheorghe Gheorghiu, son of a poor family and added the Dej after the town where he was imprisoned. In Mosow, leader of the Commun ist Party and the government visit ed the Rumanian embassy to express condolences when Gheorghiu-Dej 's death was announced. In an editorial tribute Pravda says all Soviet people regarded him as a close friend who made a big per sonal contribution to the strengthen- uf of friendship and cooperation I between the Soviet and Rumanian 1 Peoples. I Mr. R. Dixon, President of the I Coittmunist Party of Australia, last I week sent a cable of condolence and I "hute to the Rumanian leader. I In a cable to the Rumanian Work- I ws party, the President of the communist Party of Australia said: .. grieve with you on the death ! h heorhiu first secretary of Rumanian Workers Party, lead- I of +1 working class and great son \,-r2e Rumanian people." ' th i utstanding achievments in clpe ership of the Party in strug- Mv? socialism transformed the es of the Rumanian people." annak n?r?v,Wi2 Uve for ever the the worHT1t1imanian people and hoiking class of the world." 