 RAIL WORKERS PRESS HARD FOR WAGE CLAIMS Contributed by Communist Railway Worker CYDNEY: New -South Wales railway workers are not in the mood for further delays in their wage claims. Despite the defeat of the Labor Government, rail and Government transport workers are more deter mined to proceed with their demand for a service increment scheme. This claim is for 49/6 a week after three years' service, 33/- after two years and 16/6 after one year. It is to apply to all workers irrespective of grade or classification. A meeting of railway unions on May 10 unanimously endorsed a proposal that Labor Council ascer tain what offer, if any, had been made by the Commissioner for Railways. Failing a satisfactory offerr it ' was decided that industrial action was to be taken to win the demands. It has been revealed that the Com missioner has now referred the matter to the new Premier, Mr. Askin, for consideration. It is no doubt hoped that this further stalling, begun when a Labor Government was in office, will create confusion and disunity in the ranks of the workers . . . but this is a forlorn hope. The election of a Liberal Govern ment has created more favorable conditions for greater united action of all workers. There must be no delay by the NSW Labor Council to swing into action on these demands. The new "Liberal" Cabinet has already discussed some minor trans port issues and the new Minister for Transport has been chasing the head lines, but nothing has been said about the demands of Government transport workers. There can be no excuse for stalling and buck-passing, nor can it be said that the new Government is unaware of the workers' claims. Premier Askin in a pre-election speech in Goulburn, endorsed the claim in "principle." Several Liberal candidates also "supported" the claims before the elections. Following a 14 months' struggle, Victorian railway workers last Octo ber forced the Bolte Liberal Govern ment of that State to grant wage increases in the form of an incre ment ' scheme. The Victorian workers' success resulted from a vigorous campaign, including stopwork action. Any major gains achieved from Governments or Courts have been a result of united campaigns by the workers. The present struggle being waged by rail workers in NSW is no exception. The staff position in the NSW Railways continues to deteriorate, amenities are refused and conditions are worsening. Railworkers are not in the mood for further delays. A recent meeting of the State Council of the Australian Railways Union, unanimously declared that the unions' demands must be met by the end of May. Industrial action was called for failing a satisfactory reply by that date. Footnote: The Communist Party told a rail workers' deputation re cently that it supported the demands of the Government Transport workers and would give every assistance to help achieve them. Other workers are invited to send their views to Tribune for publication. 