 Schools too few, staff burdened f There is a crisis in South Australia's education. The expansion of building and teacher supply has not kept pace with the rapid increase in student enrolment. The position is particularly bad in secondary schools. A SURVEY conducted by the SA Institute of Teachers last year showed that in larger primary schools 65 per cent of classes exceeded 35 students per class. In largei nigh hools catering foi first to third v . students. % pei. ent exceeded 30 and in ail high schools catering foi fourth and fifth yeai students 80 pei ceni exceeded 25. ' The Institute considered that class sizes shouid not exceed 35 in prim ary schools 'preferably 30) 30 ix> first and third yeai high schools 25 in the fourth "ear and 20 in thr- fifth The position can ohly be improv- ea , hy 'he drastic increase in the numbei of ouildings and in the numbei ol teachers Student enrolment grew between 195 and 1961 from 83.491 to 27 In primary schools and from i.957 to 46 847 i) secondary schools Despite a slight imp &lt;vement ::i the supply ol primary teachers the position in the secondary service > so acute tnat every yeai more than 100 unqualified people are recruited Some nave academic qualifications but none have teachei training In fact moie than a quarter oi high school-te tm re unqualified in this sense In the primary schools the posi tion is complicated by the system oi classification and certificatiot II the requirements foi the Teach er's Certificate is regarded as the minimum qualification then 61 oer ceni are unqualified The retraining ol the existing, satisfactory but unqualified teach ers would be an expensive but uisti- fieo measure Oniy when the leaeners Uoiieg-r allowance ana teachers salaries an adequate and fhe conditions in schools, eypecialjy in respect to class sizes are improved will sufficient teachers be attracted ro the schools and retained in them The allowance at the training coj leges has not been raised for six years It is £6/18/- a week at pres ent A claim for increases ranging from £2 to £4 a' week was lodged oy the Teachers Institute last year but so fai the Playford Government has railed to meet it. Salaries for qualified tea.cb.ers a. . about £200 less than similarly quali fied teachers ir N.S W and Vic toria Equal pay 101 women is an lmpon ant part of salary justice for read ers. The so-called 'temporary' ourio ings as Western Teachers" College and Wattle Park Teachers College are a disgrace. Deputations to the Minister for Education (Sii Bader Pattinson> and the Premier (Sir Thomas Playford) from the teachei ana parent organisations asking to- action on this matter .ive been un successful There are also serious shortcom ings in school conditions covering toilet facilities assembly halls gym nasia. lunch and shelter sheds art and craft rooms and sports ground? I The Adelaide University J I Labor Club publishes this j 1 cartoon depicting the j reality of parliamentary j | democracy in South Aus- g j tralia. j 