 vmsK m !rij Right wing policy to blame 1 &lt;: f for swing against Labor j The swing against the MSW Labor Government at last Safsir- 1 day's State @i©efS@n$ is a publie condemnation of its rightwing poli- 'if cies and its repeated failures -to implement policies approved M by the wider labor movement. :B "TO unite the people in action, to impose their will for locality improvements and in the process defeat the right- wing and other reactionary ele ments in that sphere is an im portant Addition to the anti- monopoly struggles for peace, higher wages and democratic rights which face the whole labor movement as an urgent issue. The forthcoming state and national conferences of the trades union move ment and ALP can offer new op portunities to strengthen this move ment. Wage adjustments, particularly for Government employees, repeal of penal clauses of the arbitration act and other trade union demands have been ignored, even though the whole labor movement, upon which the Gov ernment relied for electoral support, has long since approved them. Already the Australian Railways Un ion has warned of stoppages to come if their needs are not satisfied. Clear case A clear case is emerging for most vigorous struggles embracing a wide range of trade unions and other dis-" contented sections of the public. Public disapproval of Rightwing in action in NSW and its subservience to monopolies is in contrast with the recent trend in South Australia where the Labor Government, while far from Leftwing, was returned to office after pursuing a more consistent anti- monopoly policy. The campaign result also revealed anew the unholy alliance of the Lib- erai-DLP monopoly press. Role of the DLP stood out more clearly than ever as a Liberal front, a mere machine to gather preference votes for Liberals, by posing as a "Labor" Party. This was clear in their campaign. But results showed how carefully they selected the swinging seats so that their preference vote-splitting could have maximum effects. The DLP emerges not as an anti- Communist party, as they pretend, but as an anti-Labor party. Throughout the period of the cam paign and at the polling booths Com munist candidates noted a calm, pub lic interest. This is particularly signi ficant in view of the anti-Communist crusade being waged in support of United States aggression against Viet nam. Our policy for preserving world ' ® i peace and improving the people's liv- |V: ing standards at the expense of mono- rjpj poly is attracting the attention of the fjj?' people. Their attitude was disclosed in H 1 most electorates where our candidates f and party organisations are well J known, while in some other cases our J vote declined. 'il "4 CP support It is noteworthy that a substantial minority of people, in all electorates v.| are prepared to support our party in a Parliamentary affairs. 'I To extend our influence in this , J sphere it is imperative that party or- I ganisations mobilise that force of peo- Jf pie- and still others in struggles of | interest to them, particularly of a « localised electoral character during m the entire period between elections. ffl 