 I . jHometrutlis from ja 'Tail-end Charley' Who made it I "THEY HOSED THEM OUT", by John Beede ( Australasian Book 5! Society , 25/-J i ' . 1 By ALEC ROBERTSON , former RAAF pilot J WE have all read those qjj war books by fighter 3 pilots, or about them, if rnuF are better than others. | but basically they are the , J same . . . racing the reader 1 along a razor edge of air com- % bat after combat, whirling 11 engagements at top speed, ;l watching each outfought enemy "go in" and shouting . to each disabled friend to bale ; OUt. S| ? :! pUT who has read a book1 by I D a miserable air gunner, Jj the lowest form of air crew il life, "Tail-end Charley", who J inevitably came to such a A sticky end that his remains had i to be hosed out of the gun j turret (as every recruit was i told at the start of his train - j ing) ? It has taken a Sydney ex-air gun ner of World War II— John Beede, now in his mid-fifties — to . produce one of the few Australian books on j the air war tnat breaks clear away - j from that other glamor pattern. | His book "They Hosed Them Out" si is realistic, understated, modest, .1| brutally frank— and a powerful in-- 1 /'I dictment of the wastefulness and j decadence that flow from war. It . has some of the qualities of the 'Jj World War classic "War Birds". These raw straight "AGs (WAGs, or wireless air gunners were a slightly 'f, "higher class" category) were pitch- ed into night operations into Ger- | many with the RAF Bomber Com mand in 1941. i Their training? "Two. weeks in Australia where we learned nothing and three weeks here (England) with practically no gunnery work," as one of Beede's mates said. On the first op., their only brief ing from the squadron gunner offi cer was "Keep your eyes open and don't go to sleep." They went straight into night bombing on the Ruhr, in old twin- engined Wellingtons that couldn't even climb to 2,000 feet below the ordered 18,000 .ft bombing height. They learned the signals and their responsibilities to the crew the hard way, in conditions like this from the very first night:— "The sky seemed to turn into a sea of molten flame. How it was possible to live in this inferno I did hot know." Those among them, like Beede, who flew as rear gunners had to get used to the helpless feeling of wondering what was coming next; having the whole crew dependent on them when in enemy contact, for warning of enemy fighters and flak anti-aircraft fire), and for actual defence of the bomber, cr. wonder the casualty rate was high among them— attacking fight- ne ® marked the gunner down fl K',. target for, without him, m mber was almost defenceless. I The book is interesting too for what the author leaves out. Beede, who flew three tours or 65 opera tions, of which he refers in some detail to about 15, doesn't once des cribe how he shot down or damaged or even fired at an enemy plane, though this obviously was a basic part of his experience. His gun-turret action accounts tend rather to select the aspects of frequ ent helplessness of crews in big and vulnerable aircraft under fighter at tack . . . "In that mad dive gravity took over . . . jammed tightly up against the top of the turret, I couldn't even raise my hands . . . Then while the gunners were immobilised, like hawks sweeping on a flock of pigeons the three enemy fighters struck . . . the first vicious attack accounted for three of the six planes." His pages are filled with the close hond between crew members and reveal their remarkable readiness to keep going into action, to do the job and get it over, while battling fear from the moment the engines were started. Again and again comes his scathing exposure of certain types of pomp ous power-drunk station command ers and their surrounding sycophants (who often got decorations or other favors); the minority of racketeers and ops-dodgers; the soft life and privileges at certain headquarters stations ("as usual with all head quarters, the food and mess arrange ments were excellent"); and the cases of inconsiderate -treatment if men whose battle experiences had almost cracked them. : Through the operations is the ham mering repetition of the shocking, violent destruction of close friends —individually and in whole plane loads. Perhaps a rear upper gunner more than anyone else was in position to see this kind of thing (they had run suddenly into heavy anti-aircraft fire passing low in tight formation over a Belgian fishing village) ... "In two swift, horrible seconds, One, Two, Three and Five had dis appeared out of the sky. One ... hit the power wires. The tail, whipping over like a giant catapult, shot Des through the air where, for a few grim seconds, turning somersaults, he kept pace with our plane . . ." They had flown into a trap be cause of a mistake by the. staff plan ners. Such' things are not inspiring read ing; they ARE part of the essence of the utter waste of war. Beede doesn't spell this point out in words, hut makes sure that events ram it home. It is only near the end, describing the first V2 rocket raids on London that he observes laconically: ". . . a grim portent for the unarmed populations of the world of what another— a nuclear war— holds for them." His friends, whose ranks were thinned right but in three years, were mostly plain realists like him self. Only one, Happy Henderson —lost after the first few ops.— is recorded as saying: "The ones who survive this mixup should band together and see that no individual or group of individual could ever plunge the world into wdr again." ) Happy died early, but he is there j still on the last page or the book, g this "rarest of species, a practical f idealist who fought for the under- ! dog." | Off duty, they drank, swore and S played hard, and it is no small part I of the decadence of life in war, as exposed in this hook, that the worn- ! en are seen largely as playthings and g the men adopt this as the habitual 1 attitude. Whatever the author's real | . attitude to this, at least he makes no I attempt to gild the lily. | But through the mass of incident j in the hook runs the clear thread 1 that gives it both suspense and hope | —the fact that, within the conscious j readiness of Beede's "kind to do the o best they could against the Nazi I enemy, there was the unshakeable | will to live, to survive it all. 5 Coming at this time, 20 years after j World War II (a war, once begun, | that had to be fought and won) i Beede's book is a timely warning to | the generation who live in the | shadow of a new war, centred on | South-East Asia ... a war that g should NOT be fought and cannot I he justified. j Already, hundreds of US air gun- I ners, spraying cannon shells from g helicopters into peaceful villages, are J playing a key role in a murderous j war of intervention against the in- j dependence and democracy of the j Vietnamese people. I Already a brasshat pyramid much j worse than John Beede knew, this , time inspired by undiluted militar- ! ism, is being constructed in Aus- J tralia. j Young Australians, steadily being dragged into this monstrous new I operation, may learn in time some- j thing of the harsh reality of war by reading this book. I That above all is what makes its | selection a valuable addition to the > publications list of the Australasian I Book Society. ! V was v. s a .&lt; s A a, sssnvnasassss — V.. ss s." as vXss sSXs-X ASS> A Boston bomber of the type the author flew in 