 0 Eish, and more fish, and scrap the bombs! Say the lads from Vladivostock By DENIS KEVANS THE day before man made his first faltering steps into space, sus pended on a life-line like a new-born oaoy, we were ploughing up Syd- ney Harbour talking with his -countrymen, seamen and technicians from the "Kolisto", a fishing and research ship visit i n g Sydney As the salt water began to spray over Us, Vladimir Pes- cov, at the tiller, passed his blue naval coat to our lady interpreter. The chief engineer, Peter Bereza (means Tittle birch tree') said: We are used to all weathers. We have just completed a journey from Kalinigrad on the west to Vladivostok on the east, down to Antarctica and up to Sydney — sixty-five days." , "This is a beautiful harbour," Peter said, "it's a pity that warships must still disfigure it." At that peaceful moment it was a far cry indeed from the experi ences deep in the -past of this skilled socialist engineer. Peter Bereza was a schoolboy when the Nazi armies occupied his Ukrainian village in 1941. He described them: "Arrogance! They said they were 'superior'. They didn't differentiate between old people or young children. "They wanted to destroy and destroy and destroy. My schoolmates were shot dead in front of my eyes. "I did forced labour at the point of a gun, and was flogged for trying to escape. Local collaborators, stooges of the nazis were in it, too. "The Red Army cleared them out in 1943 and I went back to school. "I became a marine engineer. In 1951 I could have taken an instruc tor's job ashore, but I prefer the ship and moving round the world meeting people. "Our slogan with the young workers vs To. help and to teach'." Yet Peter's experience was not exceptional among the "Kolisto's" crew of 80, though most of them are young. - The lives of all crew members had been scarred by the Second World War; many were orphans, most had lost a parent, some had fought even as children against the nazi invaders. Nikolai Bolev, first mate, began his story: "There were three of us, three boys, we decided to join the partisans. "We had been evacuated from the front when the war broke out. We could have waited another couple of years and joined the army, but our brothers and relations were all at the front, and we couldn't wait any longer. We had to be in it." Did you know the nazi penalties for partisans? "Instant death — no courts. They'd shoot you or hang you. But we were kids, our country was invaded and we wanted to do something about it. "So we set out. We had no weapons, a 'sock-full' of -food, and the artillery fire to guide us. "We reached the front, gathered from the direction of the lire which side was which, and crossed no-man's- land in the dark. Lucky we weren't shot by our own troops. "We hopped on a train for occu pied territory. Got off at the station, no-one challenged us, and went to my mate's Aunty's. "She nearly fell over when she saw us, but kept us out of sight. The nazis would have shot her and us if they found us. "When we were brought to the partisans, they told us to go home. But we kept at them, and they put us on . guard duty and other jobs until we became- 'fully-fledged' par tisans — blowing up bridges, raiding troop convoys, capturing Germans for interrogation. "We later joined the Army, and continued with the advancing Soviet Army till the nazis were beaten." What happened to your two mates? "Lost contact with them, and never saw them again. They may be alive, they may be . . ." (he shrugged his shoulders, and took a drag from his "half and half" Russian cigarette). Do you still hate the Germans? "I've never hated any race on earth — but I hated the nazis then, Ger man, Ukrainian, Italian — any race you like — and I could never forget what they did. Never! "I don't want it to ever happen again, to anyone!" The "Kolisto" crew and technicians never want to see another war of mass devastation like the one which ravaged their country. Peace was their first aim, so they could get on with the job'of building a communist economy — the first in the history of mankind. They knew they were assisting its birth, and one of their symbols was that man on the life-line in space, suspended just like a new-born baby still attached to his mother. Andrei Egorov, young seaman, dedicated this poem to Australian- Soviet friendship: Workers know well friendship's feeling For it is condensed from the heat of struggle And every worker everywhere, knows His own struggle in his heart. Russian and Aussie workers' friendship Will grow quick, quick as bamboo in the wet, And as it grows, we'll make a new life, Joined as friends forever. Nothing more beautiful than that exists When it is protected by hearts riveted together Like the armour of tanks — nothing ' can pierce it, No weapon, not even lies, not even , lies. FOOTNG The 3,400 ton "Kolisto" is a Soviet research and fishing ship from Vladivostok. The ship fished by two methods: a long "Xmas-stocking" net dragged behind I the ship which catches 25 tons JK fish an hour on good grounds; and by big lamps to attract small hsfl . like "kilkas", which are then stunned . by electro-magnetic currents an, sucked into the refrigeration anoi j canning factory through pipes. J j The ship carries 500 tons of fish | and will probably visit Melbourne before returning to Vladivostok. ; In Sydney the crew of the "Kolisto v . was entertained by the Australian- Soviet Friendship Society. '% They saw much of Sydnev, they admired greatly, and visited pr vate homes. IM Gifts, songs and dances were changed between the crew and a j|| tralians at a function on the lrL,j|l night. The Bush Music Club of ,|| ney" gave the evening an amne g Australian flavour. If Vasil Eratsov, sea man . . . the war put us back 20 years on our fight to build Communism. r ""1 Nicolai Maximov, or phaned by the war. Speaks German. Asked if he resents Ger mans, he said: "A worker is a worker wherever he lives. I want to learn the lan guage of all workers, and make friends wherever I go." Peter Bereza, Chief Engineer. "There were three of us . . ." Nicolai Bolev, first mate of the Kolisto, begins his story about world war II. Vitaly Soichenko, radio operator. Told us he'd been informed in Sydney that Australian workers make up to £50 a week. Also asked whether the houses on the headland (Valcluse, Rose Bay, etc.) were typical of Australian workers' homes. Vitaly comes from Baku, in the south of the Soviet Union. 