 in N.S.W. PeEvlisasnenf STATE POLITICAL ROUNDSMAN "THE Bondi and Oxley State by-elections are to be held on" November 6, which is only a few weeks away. Mr. Renshaw, Opposition leader, said he had good reason to believe that the Askin-Gutler Government, feeling the electoral tide beginning to run against i.t, , wanted a short, sharp election campaign in Bondi and Oxley. This, it hoped, would prevent Labor exposing the Government's short comings, he said. It is clear that failure of the NSW Government on the serious, drought situation will be a key issue in the Oxley election; in Bondi the issues will be fought over prices and the failure of the Government to protect the interests of the tenants. . . THE Labor Opposition vigorously opposed the Government at every stage during the second reading of a Bill to change the method of voting in local govern ment elections. The Opposition forced seven divi sions, and battled the Bill clause by clause in committee. The Bill, whose purpose has been described as helping to gerry mander local government in favor of big business, will soon have to face the Upper House. Although gaining another seat in the Upper House last week, the Asian Government are still in a minority and can't get the Bill through unless they can manage more defections. The NSW Government are having second thoughts about an over- enthusiastic press statement by 'Minister for Transport Mr. M. A. Morris about new plans for the building of the Eastern Suburbs Railway. Apparently it was aimed' at the Bondi eelctors, and the statement has put the Government out on a limb. Mr. Morris said that the Govern ment wanted to complete the Eastern Suburbs Railway in 10 years. The many people in Sydney with out sewerage will still be without it for a long time. This was made clear by Premier Askin in a reply to a question from Mr. D. D. Cross, mer.ber for George's River, who asked when the 730,000 people without sewerage in the Sydney area "would receive the bene fit of the Government's undertaking to launch a crash program to speed up water and sewerage services." Mr. Askin said that this was a lean year for funds. "The plain fact is that at the Loan Council in June, the Commonwealth Government told the Liberal and Labor Premiers that owing to the need- for Australia to find the addi tional money for defence, it could not give us the money that in the public interest we were demanding. Printec and publisheo by Young, 168 Day Street Sydney ai 21 Rose Street. Forest Lodge.. 