 Spring issue of "The Realist" THE REALIST , issue No. 20, Spring 1965, contains a wide range of material in. eluding short stories by Judah Waten and Dal Stiven«! stirring, imaginative poem ' Red Roses For Me" by. Dor othy Hewett. Dorothy Hewett, who wrote "Bobbin' . Up," recently won a national ABC prize for poetry. Judah Waten's "Modern Youth" deals with a conflict of ideas be tween' two generations of Austra- lians. A successful small business- man cannot understand his children's Interests or their impulse to criticise. When his daughter brings home an Indian student as a guest it is too much for him. Alison William s' "Holiday Troubles" takes the problems o Unionism and workers' rights as the basis of a well-constructed story. Dal Stivens' "Late Summer" de scribes old ' identities talking about the sporting giants of the past: Trumper and Bradman, "Griffo" and Darcy. The old men regret they cannot write down their memories. "They had lovely feet and they flowed down the pitch. You never saw anything prettier. Someone should put it in a book," says the old man. Keith's Bain's "A Handful of Peanuts" goes deep into the legend of a war hero in Madang. The hero Jim "killed twenty-three Nips with . his own bloody hands on one trip." Jim has become the town's main source of conversation. And no-one wants to know what he thinks him self about the war. The legend and the man later come apart in a hitter judgment of any hero's idolators. "The Realist" has reviews of Martin Boyd's novel "When .Black birds Sing," "And a Threefold Cord" by South African Alex La Guma, "The Ambassador" by Morris West and "World Without Stran gers?" — a collection of poems by Aileen Palmer. Aileen Palmer's poems take issue with the main problems of life: "War is not war till you find in the shattered stones flesh of your own love's flesh, dust of your own love's bones. Novelist of the French Commune of 1871, Jules Valles (1832-8d) introduced by Neil Stewart. Jules Valles' trilogy, '.'Jac&lt;2 Vingtras," was written during years' exile .in England. Kep obscurity by the establishment, revolutionary writer is now a able, nearly a hundred years :o the reading public. Did someone mention "censor- The .poems in this "ealg'- apart from "Red Roses For are mainly the work of new P i and merit close reading. Artist Tane has done an origin ilustration, this time of an I ;inal mother and child. I "The Realist" has consist" naintained its stand on he | ighting literature, and witn upport of the Australian people , .vill continue to do so. I Buy . "The Realist" at all P2r sive bookshops.— D.K. 