 WIDE ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR YOUTH WEEK SYDNEY: A youth variety concert, forum, con cert of stars and talent quest are being planned by the NSW Labor Council as part of the activities in this year's trade union youth week. "THIS is the second Youth Week sponsored by the Australian Council of Trade llJJnions and will be held through- tout Australia from July 26 to 31. The important aims of the week are to publicise the ACTU program for young workers -and to join and activise :new young members into the trade unions. It is estimated that by 1970 the .average annual increase of young peo ple into the work force will be about 116,000 compared with a yearly in crease of 78,000 in the 1950's. Because of this, the unions believe the .success of future trade union campaigns will be substantially influ enced by the extent of their participa tion. Many young people today do not know the history of the trade unions or that most of the conditions enjoyed by workers are the result of long and sometimes bitter struggles of trade union members. Young people are seldom taught in school that the trade unions were responsible for gaining such condi tions as the 40 hour week, three weeks' annual leave, workers' compensation, daylight technical training and many other conditions. ACTU program . The ACTU youth program is based on the fact that young workers have special problems and demands that do not apply to older worker. These include;' apprenticeship problems, lack of training and educational opportun ities and lower wages. The unions are seeking higher wage rates for apprentices and greater ap prenticeship opportunities. , "There would be no shortage of skilled labor if employers trained more apprentices," the unions say. Employment opportunities for girls poses a special problem, particularly in country centres. The ACTU policy includes equal pay for girls and the right to skilled training. For unapprenticed juniors, the un ions' policy is for the full adult rate for the job at 18. With the aim of improving all aspects of education, the trade union movement insists that greater finan cial aid is needed from the Federal Government. At the same time the ACTU youth, program calls for time off in the employer's time to enable young people to continue to study and train , for their careers. The unions are opposed to manu facture, stockpiling and testing of nuclear weapons. They stand for total disarmament and oppose sending of young conscripts overseas. "Success of the trade unions' policy for peace is of vital importance to youth," the ACTU said. What's on during Youth Week In Sydney a Labor Council commit- . . tee of 11 unions and a representative of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations are planning the Youth Week activities. These include:— Monday, July 26 Workshop discussions by young people of their everyday problems. Tuesday, July. 27 „ Youth Variety Concert at the Aus tralian Paper Mills' Hall, McCauley Street, Matraville, 8 p.m. Proceeds of the 4/- admission don ation to go to the National Union of Students' Aboriginal Scholarship Fund. Wednesday, July 28 A Civic Reception at the Sydney Town Hall by the Lord Mayor (Aid. H. Jensen) at noon. Concert of Stars at the Science Hall, University of NSW, Kensington 8 p.m. Program includes: Jimmy Little and his Trio, Fred Pares, Nat Oliver's Jazz Men, Sharon O'Brien, and Mar ion Henderson. Admission by 5/- donation. Proceeds to the Aboriginal Scholarship Fund. Thursday, July 29 Youth Forum to discuss: — wages, salaries, allowances, work ing and social conditions; e education, training, trade courses, and opportunities for careers; the unions and young people and what union membership offers; trade unions' peace policy, the ACTU and French nuclear tests, con scription etc. A general session for discussion will be opened by Labor Council secretary (Mr. J. Kenny) at Trades Hall during the afternoon to be followed by a function. Friday, July 30 Youth Talent Quest. £180 in prizes At the Turner Hall, Sydney Tech nical College, 8 p.m. (organised by the Department of Technical Education and Labor Council). Proceeds to char. - ity. 5/- donation. A scene from last year's Youth Week rally in Wynyard Park, Sydney. 