 I Talent Quest I for Children CYDNEY: The Junior Eureka - League, a children's organi sation, will conduct a talent quest during June in celebration of International Children s Day 1 965. The Quest will' be run in' age groups and sections. Senior: 13 to 16 years. Junior: 10 to - 13 years. Sections: Instrumental. Vocal. o Miscellaneous. (Miscellaneous will include such items as dancing, miming, elocu tion). Sections will include individual and group acts., The Talent Quest will be con ducted on an amateur basis exclud ing professional entries. All events will be judged by the following panel: Mrs. M. Robertson, National Sec retary Eureka Youth League; Mr. R. Rickard, Secretary, Milk and Ice Carters' Union; Jean Lewis, Folk Singer; Marie Armstrong, New Thea tre; Robyn Syme, Junior Eureka League. Prizes will be awarded . to winners in the different age groups, and of each section. The finals will be held on June 26, 1965, at 7.30 p.m. in the James Heal f Memorial Hall, 168 Day St., SydneJ Entrance fee is 3/- for individual! and groups. S - WHAT IS INTERNATIONAL CHILDREN'S DAY? International Children's Day is eel; brated throughout the world. It supports the United Nations Di claration of the Rights of the Chile The United Nations Declaration ui holds the rights of all children t nationality, security, health, educa tion, proper family life with care o mothers, freedom without discrimina tion of race, colour or creed. The Junior Eureka League, t working class organisation for boys and girls between the ages of 10 to 16 years, prepares special projects to exchange with children all over the world during the month of June. _They present gifts to children in! our own country not quite as for tunate as we in the J.E.L. They invite all children to partici- 1 pate in the Talent Quest and join ; in celebrating International Child- - ren's Day. j If you are interested in knowing;! more about the organisation, please write to: Junior Eureka League, , 168 Day St., Sydney. A brochure giving details of the activities will be sent immediately. APPLICATION FORM | NAME - — Group : Individual — | (Please place tick where appropriate) | ADDRESS ....... - - - i.,. v SENIOR : JUNIOR &lt;| Instrumental ..» — — | Vocal - - - | Miscellaneous 1 « - — J I enclose 3/- entrance fee. | (Signature of Parent or Guardian) 1 Please fill in the above form and post to Junior Eureka League, 168 Day | St., Sydney. Please mark all money orders, cheques, etc., payable to g "JUNIOR EUREKA LEAGUE". 1 