 "Research" projects in foreign Sands US spies in more than 40 countries I IS Senator Wayne Morse has revealed that the US War Department (the Penta gon) has military -espionage operations under way in 40 countries. His statement tends to confirm the report by the London Daily Telegraph that U.S. Central In telligence Agency operatives help ed to provoke the India-Pakistan war. According to the Telegraph, the CIA believed that the war would remove President Ayub Khan of Pakistan from his position, where he was impeding U.S. plans. Now the Washington Post has come forward with a di, closure that - "the CIA has bungled a long list of assignments in Asia since 1950" (quoted in The Australian last Wednesday). These countries include Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia and Laos in all of which countries the CIA tried vainly (except in the in stance of Laos) to oust a govern ment uncongenial to the U.S. A". In the Senate on August 25, Senator Wayne Morse said he had been advised "only today" that "in probably some 40 countries' the ''US is participating, to its discredit in an intervention." This was being done, he added, under the guise of conducting re search ' projects in the field of social sciences. He recalled that last June a document revealing the U.S. Defence Department's "Project Camelot" activities in Chile had been pub lished. "I predict that more Camelot projects will be discovered in . Latin America and elsewhere," Morse said. He disclosed that handbooks had already been prepared for counter revolutionary warfare in Ethiopia, Japan, Ghana, Nigeria, Sudan, Guinea, Brazil, Cyprus, Liberia, Egypt, Indonesia, Korea, Panama, Cuba and Venezuela. The Senator displayed a 620-page handbook called Special Warfare Area Handbook for Ethiopia, pub lished by the Department of the Army. There' was a similar 820-page hook on Special Warfare in Japan. Morse warned that the U.S. militarists' interventionist role abroad should warn Americans as to the threat they constituted at home. He said ' he was becoming in creasingly concerned about the growing entrenchment of power of the military in determining the civilian policies of the U.S. Govern ment. Earlier Senator J. W. Fullbright, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said that "Camelot"; type operations were under way in Colombia, Peru and Venezuela as well as Chile. Some of the equipment taken from the spy-pilot, Francis Powers, whose U2 was shot down over the Soviet Union in May 1960. The spy flights over the Soviet Union were at first described by the US President Eisenhower 3s being weather missions. Later, however, in the face of irrefutable evidence, he admitted the spy flights. These flights were responsible for sabotaging the approaching Summit Con ference. 