 Split From ALF WATT OSCOW: The split- in t-he ranks of the Communist Party of India robbed it of vfctory in the recent elec- tions to the Legislative As sembly of Kerala (a Southern Indian State). Namboodiripad's breakaway group emerged as the biggest single group in the new parlia ment with 47 seats, while the CPI gained only three. Efforts on the part of. the CPI to achieve electoral alliance failed, and m electorates contested by two Communists the National Congress Party candidate won, even though the combined Communist vote was bigger. The total Communist vote in the State was less than the last elec tion, due entirely to the result of the- split, which caused many swing ing- voters to support other eandi- -dates. The Namboodiripad group got 19.5 per cent of the votes, the CPI 7.9 per cent, so that the difference in seats does not reflect the real difference in the votes polled- The votes polled by the break away group was helped considerably by ', the ruling. National Congress Partv's action in arresting hundreds of Communists, mainly breakaways, before the election. They got a big sympathy vote. The absence of democratic pro portional representation system caused some other peculiar results. The National . Congress Party won 36 seats with 33.3 pel" cent ' of the votes; the breakaway Kerala Con gress ' Party won 23 seats with 12.3 per cent of the votes; the Socialist Party 13 seats with 8 per cent oi the votes; the Muslim League six seats with less than four per cent of the votes. The Communist Party of India is supporting Namboodpiripad's demand t'd form a government and for the ' release- of all arrested people. There -ire 29 elected Namboodiripad men in iail. i In reply to a question after the election Namboodiripad said: "In general I can say the Chin ese are people who are building socialism. In the course of. that it seems they have committed serious mistakes. Their attitude towards India has been wrong." This is " a repetition of previous statements . in which he vigorously expresses the view that his group have not -adopted any official line on the question. 