 STRIKE ACTION SETTLES MINERS' DISPUTE pERTH: The dispute over the displacement of 226 coalminers from the Griffin Company's . flooded Hebe deep mine was settled last week after the miners had taken strike action. A mass meeting on Saturday endors ed terms previously agreed to by the State Government, the Miners Union and the Trades and Labor Council Disputes Committee. Early in the week. the. Brand Lib eral Government, which consumes the bulk of Collie coal through the Rail ways and S.E.G., had refused to alter its stand or to hold further discussions with the Union. . The Government's proposals, to take an extra 7,000 tons per forthnight from Griffin's huge Muja open cut and only 3,000 . tons from the Western Company's deep mines (to make up for the lost Hebe production) would have sent over 60 miners to lower paid jobs outside the industry. However a stoppage of all miners employed by Griffin on Wednesday and Thursday forced new discussions and a change in the Government's attitude. The settlement terms require the Government to take 4,000 tons from the deep mines . and 7,000 from Muja. ; It is understood the additional 1000 tons over the Hebe production will be absorbed in a natural increase in Gov ernment consumption. This tncrpt.hfvr with snm(> miners taking advantage of an earlier retir ing age and the use of long service leave entitlements will mean that very few, if anjf, miners will need to leave the industry. The Government's change of heart was- influenced by the wide-spread backing for the miners from other workers, and the stand taken by the T.L.C. Public sympathy was against the Government which the daily press had severely taken to task for its earlier stand. One serious problem faces the min ers and the townspeople of Collie. Struggles over many years by the Miners' Union had forced an under standing from the Government that coal production would be in the ratio of 70% deep mine to 30% open cut, to protect the miners' jobs and pre vent Collie from becoming a ghost town. Over' the past six years the aim of the Brand Government has been to close all deep mines in Collie. The Griffin Company agrees with this as it owns the only open cut on the field. The settlement terms mean that the ratio will now be approximately 50% deep, mine to 50% open cut. With only 20 months to go before the present contracts expire, Collie is likely to face another attack from the Govern ment on deep mine production at Christmas 1966. The Government has argued over the years that cheaper open cut pro duction benefits all but in fact they have given cheaper rail freights and electricity to the big' monopolies while maintaining high prices for farmers and domestic consumers. Within a few years costs of produc tion will rise steeply at the open cut and if the Government's policy was fully implemented large and valuable coal deposits in the deep mines would be lost for all time. 