 Statement from Communist Consultation 1 1 | i The Consultative Meeting of Repre- j sentafives of Communist end Workers' I i Parties, held last week in Moscow, issued I I the following communique:— I IH MOSCOW front March 1 to 3, 1965, i was held a meeting of representatives !$ 0f the Communist Party of Australia, I the Communist Party of Argentina, 1 Bulgarian Communist Party, Brazilian 1 Communist Party, Communtot Party 1 of Great Britain, Hungarian Social- ist Workers' Party, the Socialist Unity I Porty of Germany, Communist Party % of Germany, Communist Party of India, II Italian Communist Party. Unity Party 1 of Socialist Revolution of Cuba, Mon- (1 golian Peoples Revolutionary Party, M Polish United Workers Party, Syrian 1 Communist Party, the Communist Par- ?ii « of the Soviet Union, the Com- a munist Party of Finland, French Com- &lt; munist Party and Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. ' Representatives of the Communist Par ty of the United States of America were present as observers. ' ll'THE participants held consul- 1 ' tations on issues of common interest, exchanged opinions on llways of overcoming differences 'land strengthening the solidar- | ity of the world Communist 1 movement. The meeting was held in an at mosphere of fraternal friendship, ' and was imbued with a spirit of active effort to consolidate the Communist movement, so that it may fulfill its great historical tasks. The participants of the. meeting expressed the firm determination of their parties to do everything in their power to consolidate the in ternational Communist movement, to strengthen, its unity on the basis tof Marxism-Leninism, proletarian internationalism and the line estab- : lished by the Declaration of 1957 and the Statement of 1960. ' The representatives of the parties concluded that the main tendency ?n world development under pre sent conditions comprised the strengthening of the positions of Socialism, upsurge of the national liberation and international work ers' movements, and growth of forces for preservation and consolir Jsdation of peace. j At the same time it was noted that j world reaction and, first of all, American imperialism was becoming ;|ever more active in different areas ;of the globe, striving to increase >j tension, and undertaking aggressive pactions directed agains the Socialist countries, nations liberated from c colonialism, and the revolutionary . Jmovements of the peoples. p. this situation, as never before, j||it is essential that all - Communist parties show understanding of their International responsibility to unite ||Ior the common struggle against im- ||Peiialisni, colonialism and neo-colo- lnalism agr/nst the domination of inf0!f>!P0 capital> for active support i the liberation movement and the aeience of peoples subjected to im- penajist aggression for the struggle for world peace based on the res- territorlal 1 ? S|N their statement the parti- 8L,CI'3a!1s meeting ex- essed their solidarity with the ®kI\A/ Yietnamese people and lanri ?ir s' f Vietnam f w . or international sol- Jtl5lty 'n the struggle against Js a99ressive actions of the werican militarists. the successful struggle against IKrm! fm' the unity of all revolu- . f?rces t the present time — socialist community, the national movement and the inter- „ W&lt;?king 01388 movement ThJ , ecisive importance. iiowes of the of these -gently require the strength ;1 ening of the unity of the world Communist movement. The differences in the Communist movement that weaken its unity are damaging the cause of the world liberation movement, the cause of communism. The participants of the meeting ex-' pressed their conviction that what unites the Communist Parties is much stronger than what separates them at present. Even in the presence of differences concerning political line and many important problems of theory and tactics, it is" quite possible and neces sary to strive to achieve unity of action in the struggle against im perialism, in world support of the liberation movement of the peoples, in the struggle for universal peace and peaceful co-existence of states with! different social systems whe ther they are large countries or small, and in the struggle for the vital interests and historical tasks of the working class. ir Joint actions in the struggle for these common tasks ' are the. most reliable way of overcoming the differences which exist now. The participants of the : meeting emphasised the necessity of collec tive efforts tc be taken by the Communist parties to improve mutual relations between the par ties, to consolidate the solidarity of the international Communist move ment based on observance of the de mocratic principles of independence and equality of all fraternal parties. In the struggle for a solution of tasks common to the entire Com munist movement it is expedient to use all possible ways and means, bilateral and multilateral meetings of representatives of the fraternal parties and other forms of links and exchanges of opinions between par. ties. The participants of the meeting are unanimous in their view that under present conditions, as indi cated in the Statement of 1960, in ternational meetings of the Com munist and Workers' parties are an effective form of mutual exchange of opinions and experience, of enrich ment of Marxist-Leninist theory by collective efforts and of elaborating united standpoints in the struggle for common aims. Such meetings, held strictly in ac cordance with the principles of full equality and independence of each! party, can serve well the cause of overcoming differences and uniting the Communist movement on the basis of Marxism-Leninism and proletarian internationalism. Therefore, in the opinion of the participants of the meeting, an active and thorough preparation for a new international meeting and its con vocation at the proper time fully corresponds to the interests of the world Communist movement. ? In order to convene and success fully hold a new meeting, it is necessary to prepare it from the point of view of its substance as well as organisation, to create actively sby joint efforts favourable conditions for all fraternal parties to take part in its preparation, to seek tirelessly an improvement of atmosphere in the international Communist movement. The conference is called upon to serve the common cause of all Com munists. The concentration of attention and efforts on essential tasks confront ing the Communist movement will best serve the task of bringing closer together our positions on fundamental problems of the pre sent time. The participants of the meeting ex pressed an opinion that in order to discuss the question of a new inter national conference it is desirable to convene a preliminary consulta tive meeting of representatives of the 81 parties which took part in the I960 Conference. To settle the question of conven ing such a preliminary meeting it is necessary to consult all these par ties. ? The parties represented at the pre sent meeting spoke for cessation of the open polemic which in character is unfriendly and insulting for frater nal parties. At the same time they consider it useful to continue, in a comradely way, and without mutual attacks, an exchange of opinions on im portant problems of the present time which are of common interest. The participants of the meeting stand for strict observance of the standards of relations between the parties established by the 1957 and I960 Conferences and against inter ference of any parties into the in ternal affairs of other parties. Expressing their opinion on the ways of overcoming the difficulties in the international Communist movement and in further develop ment, the representatives of the parties were guided by concern for strengthening Marxist-Leninist unity of the Communist ranks in the fight against imperialism and colo nialism, for national liberation, peace, democracy, socialism and com munism. The representatives of the parties express confidence that the meet ing they have held will draw a positive response on the part of the fraternal parties. 