 ,, i CONGO COUP onmamnsaaoBimm AIDS WHITE BOH BLOC BY overthrowing the Kimba Government and installing himself as strong-arm dictator, Gen- eral Mobutu of the Con go Republic has assisted the Smith white-racialist regime in Rhodesia. There arc strong, suspicions that the= 35-y«ar-oIc! general has acted, as - always in the past, as the puppet of the USA. The men he- ousted; President Kasavuhu and Premier Kimba, were moving towards policies disliked fey - the USA TheMoscow paper Trud says that Kimba had tried to improve rela tions with neighboring African states, opposed the use of white mercen aries in the Congo and. intended to break off relations with the two racist' regimes of Rhodesia and South Africa. "That settled the fate of the Kimba- Government." It also settled the fate of Kasa- vubu when he tried to give Kimba a chance to form a new Government j after his first Government was de- j feated in Parliament. The Congo borders on Zambia, | from which Africans must launch : 1 any operation to help their fellow j : Africans in Rhodesia. j Zambia has Portuguese Angola to j | . the west, the Congo to the north and- j Rhodesia to the south. \ Macist bloc The great, danger to Africa— and I the worlds-represented by the illegal i ' Smith" regime in Rhodesia, is that it strengthens the fortress of white !. domination in southern Africa, arm- | ed to the teeth to preserve white supremacy and .suppress the inde- | pendence movement. | This fortress includes South Africa, !, Southern Rhodesia .and the Portu- | guese colonies of Mozambique and | i Angola, where a guerilla war for I ; African freedom has been raging for | I some time. f p When independent African Govern- | ! ments threaten united .military ac- 1 i tion against the Southern Rhodesian | i racists they do so not only to win ? | simple democratic rights for their 1 j Zimbabwe brothers, but in their own | j self defence. i I ' The Verwoerd-Salazar-Smith stra- | ! tegy is neither new nor secret. It has | I been freely discussed in the British | | press, and was first given an airing | ' by Major General Friedrich Wilheim i von Mellenthin, a former member of Hitler's general staff, who was j sent to South Africa in 1950 to organ- j ise the 2,000 ex-Wehrmacht and officers who had found sanctuary there after World "Wax 2. Mellenthin, in 1960, published . irticle advocating the formation , i "SATO" organisation, to emDrace he States already named, and na ig a united military leadership, w ommand of a. strong "permaner. j .riking power." Smith has appointed political rep- ssentatives- in Pretoria and Lisbon-. | here: have been joint military ,&lt;jx a a-cises, an interchange of visits w a nilitaiy-; missions, and close eo> . | tion -organised between.- the: po and - security forces - of : the i"3 1 pi states: a 