 llama 800 attend ! Hobart's first "teach-in" and the DLP drops out -jOBART: Eight hundred people attended Ho bart's first teach-in on Vietnam, which was highly successful. Organised by the Tasmanian University Students' Union, it was addressed by representa tives of all political parties, in cluding the Communist Party, but excluding the DLP, whose intended representative was absent through illness. A most important event for Ho- bart, the teach-in revealed wide spread questioning of, and consider able opposition to, American policies on Vietnam and Menzies' support for them. The four Liberal Party speakers, particularly Sir Wilfred Kent Hughes, were subjected to close questioning by the audience. Mr. Adrian Gibson, Liberal mem ber for Denison, was in trouble when in response to nis declaration that he was prepared to "stand up and be counted" on Vietna a student asked why, in view of his youth, Mr. Gibson was not' there in the Army. He had no reply and reverted to an attack on the questioner. The teach-in was opened with a factual background delivered by Mr. Phil Eldridge, a lecturer in political science. Among points made by Mr- Eldridge, was that by any standards on international law, the Vietnam conflict was a civil war. . Prof. J. R. Elliot, Professor of Clas sics, while stating sharply his anti- communist position,, raised serious doubts as to the correctness of as suming Chinese aggression. He also said that if there was to be aggres sion from China, it was not neces sarily because China was Commun ist. The Professor asserted the right of people to determine their own form of government without outside interference. Senator Cavanagh (Labor, s.A.) pinpointed American responsibility for breaches of the Geneva Agreement. Mr. Gordon Bryant (Labor, Vic.) presented a number of facts of US interference in other countries. Reporting the teach-in, the Hobart Mercury ignored what was said and m heavy black type claimed that Mr. Bound, state secretary of the Com munist Party, met with opposition. Northern Tasmanian papers were more objective and gave space to a short but more factual account of Points made by several speakers, in cluding Mr. Bound. .The representa tives of these papers were obviously influenced by the fact (ignored by the Mercury) that several points pre sented on behalf of the Communist arty received widespread and vocal approval from the audience. The opening speakers at the teach- in made it very clear that the 1954 geneva Accords did not divide. Viet- am. Article 6 which was' quoted. says in part . . and that the mil itary demarcation line is provisional and should not in any be interpreted as constituting a political or terri torial boundary." Article 7 called for national, all Vietnam election in July 1956. After these facts were firmly estab lished, a member of the audience asked Senator Wright "why the Lib eral Party pamphlet 'facts about Vietnam' stated that pursuant to the 1954 Accords Vietnam was divided into two parts at the 17th parallel, A Communist Government was es tablished in the north, a non-Com munist Government in the South?" Senator Wright replied that if he were writing the pamphlet, and he thought if the writer was doing so in the circumstances today, he would not say that. There was general approval and congratulations to the Student Un ion and its president and other lead ers for the excellent organisation. Sessions of the teach-in were chaired by Mr. Nigel Roberts, presi dent, Students Union, Mr. Peter C. Cox, vice president and Mr. Graham C. Goudlay. "In a jungle clearing in South Vietnam" says Look magazine, "A Viet- cong unit looks over its arsenal. These weapons are mostly U.S.-made and include carbines, automatic rifles and M-ls captured from South Vietnamese troops. In addition to these weapons, the Vietcong is armed , with U.S. bazookas and machine guns." 