 [?] ACTU Congress will need to consider economic protests By an Industrial Correspondent . , The Menkes Government s currc-rot Budget -reveals how com pletely opposed are tike positions ©f thest government cmd the trade union movement ®n economic issues. " TTHSS applies not only to questions of wage levels and taxation but also to the reasoning on which the Gov ernment's Budget — income and expenditure — is based. The "Sydney Morning Herald' headlined e Budget as being ba on " G ' s before T h". It is a short jump from that to "Guns before Butter". Such Budgets are based on military involvements at the expense of living standards arid especially those of workers. ACTU decisions show . the trade unon movement is officially opposed to such policies. This opposition will be -einforced by the forth- coiriing ACTTT". Congress (Sydney, September 13). The basif for, and correctness of, such opposition by the trade uni' s is given emphasis by the "Australian Financial Review". Referring to common approaches to certain economic questions by the Menzies Government and the Reserve Bank, the Financial Review speaks of "the structure of the 1965-66 Commonwealth budgeting which loads its expenditure — equalising tax increases heavily towards ftie consumer and the wage and salary earner." Approving this the Financial Re view shows the Budget aims tor- Meet increased Government expenditure (including war costs) by heavier taxation on lower in come earners and especially by in direct taxation on consumer goods; ® As the lower income earners spend most of their income on con sumption, they will be , forced to bear the main burden of increased Government expenditure at the ex pense of their living standards; Leave the higher income groups "no more than lightly touched" enabling them to invest that accu mulated surplus income above then- consumption needs. As the Financial Review observes this structural basis suggests "a long-term policy of forced defer ment of consumption to allow an increase in the proportion of nat ional income devoted to saving and investment." " , That is to "reduce workers' living standards as a means of meeting increased Government expenditure (including war costs) and to help the rich get richer. Such a policy was specifically attacked in the resolution of the ACTU Congress of 1963 on Economic Policy, which said: "The economic policies of the Federal Government . . are un compromisingly opposed by this Congress". This resolution includes the fol lowing economic . proposals: National!:- tion of monopolies and essential services; @ Measures to control prices, profits, rents and interest rates; O Increased wages and social services; .. e Increased taxation of higher income groups and reduced taxation on lower income groups and a cap ital gains tax; A comprehensive national plan for allocation and utilisation of ec onomic resources; .. ® Development of mutually bene ficial trade, particularly with Asian and Pacific countries. In view of the continued adher ence by the Menzies Government, to eConoini policies i \ aed at re ducing workers' living standj-ds, the forthcoming ACTU Congress will need to consider more effect ive ways of pressing economic pol icies. of. the trade union- movement. The recent budget campaign and. mass deputation of workers to Can berra provides an example which the Congress should not ignore. Oppositi to the Government's economic policies has not been so forcefully and effectively demon strated for a long time. ,. More formal and official repress tations are greatly strengthened by such large scale, /-monstrations of mass support for official trade union policies. 