 Alarm over U.S. grabbing NEW wave of big- scale grabbing of Australia's resources by United States mil- lionaire groups is caus ing alarm in Austra lian business circles. I This is happening when al ready 95 per cent of the motor vehicle industry, 83 per cent of the telecommunicaions industry, 97 per cent of the pharmaceu tical industry, 80 per cent of the soap and detergent industry, and 95 per cent of the petrol eum industry is owned overseas. President Johnson has told 400 leading US companies with overseas investments that they must send back to the USA a higher proportion of profits earned abroad, and develop greater reliance on local bor rowing abroad rather than on export of capital from the USA. Australia's Minister for Trade McEwen last week attacked Pre sident Johnson's latest an nouncement and said US poli cies would aggravate Australia's heavy trade and overseas pay ments deficit. Mr. McEwen warned that over seas investment in Australia carried risks for Australia's eco nomic growth. The closing down of Mt. Isa mine by the American domi nated company, has proved this point. Representatives of important | Australian financial and indus- j trial concerns recently expressed alarm at a Stock Exchange conference in Melbourne, over the dominant grip that over seas firms, particularly Ameri can, are securing on sectors of the Australian economy. Some of them criticised the Menzies Government for. pursu ing a deliberate policy of en couraging overseas investment here without recognising the dangers to Australia. | For example, Mr. J. G. Wil son, Managing Director of Aus tralian Paper Manufactures, clashed sharply with Senator Gorton, the Federal Minister for Works, saying that he dis agreed strongly with the view that Australia should continue to seek foreign investment and that Australia could only benefit from it. Mr. Wilson warned that the 3 interests of a foreign company did not coincide with those of Australia and could lead to pro duction and export regulation not geared to Australian needs, and also to unacceptable ex ploitation of Australian mineral resources. Slap in face Australian finance writers have recently developed a strong campaign, apparently support- Ied by the Government, to achieve "partnerships" of Aus tralian capital irr new invest ments by overseas Interests in Australia. However, last week brought a major new US takeover that is a slap in the face to those cam paigning for such partnerships. The huge American shipping and oil empire of D. K. Ludwig, through a subsidiary, Universe Tankships; has just completely bought out the Australian coal and transport interests of Pla cer Development Ltd. for £5J million. This means that a number of New South Wales coal mines, producing 2m tons a year (about 10 per cent of the State's out put), with a ready-made ex port trade to Japan, will in fut ure earn for the USA. The Ludwig interests have also been looking for a big share in the recent grabs by mainly US interests in WA iron ore deposits and their transport in bulk to Japan. 