 [?] With Tribune's Industrial . Roundsman CRANK EYRES, a boilermaker from Mt. Isa in Sydney to raise finance, told of a "mag nificent effort" being done by a clerk working in Sydney. Since January 21 this mar. has quietly gone out on four lunch hours each week to raise finance for the Mt. Isa workers. Arid every week he has sent, on an average, £25 collected,, from of fices, trades people and the man in the street. So far this month he has col lected .? i'-0. ? Frank himself hasn't done a bad job since he arrived in Sydney. . The dozen or so factories he has addressed have all weighed in with finance. He has been particularly "crooked" on the sensational headlines and dis tortions by the daily newspapers about the dispute. "Tribune is the paper to read if you want the facts," he has advised all workers at the meetings. "As far as- I'm concerned it is the only newspaper in Sydney on the side of the Mt. Isa men," was his response, when some interjected, "but it's Communist!" Frank is not a member of any political party . . . "hut I am a worker," he said. ? President Williams of the Austra lian Workers' Union lashed out. in all directions in his report to the union's recent convention. He' attacked; A.L.P. Parliamen tarians, Pat Mackie, the Com munists (of course), the person who v?04iad the audacity to stand against / Dougherty as general secretary, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, several other unions and, believe it or not, even t£e Ironworkers' of ficials "ostensibly friends of ours," he said. It's like the mother watching a parade . . everyone is out of step but Johnny! # The February 24 issue of the "Australian Worker", journal of the A.W.U. the "nation's greatest union," gave a rousing lead to the workers in the present basic wage case. In 'news in brier", a three-inch story told al' about the five judges who will be cn the Commission. On the opposite page, three quarters is taken up with extracts from President Johnston's message to the U.S. Congress on America's de fences. About seven pages are then de voted to attacks on the Federal ALP and why the A.W.U. is withdrawing its aid. 