 [?] 'International sport! I basis for friendship By "THE CHALLENGER" I From the Olympic Games and other international sporfj I meetings spring many individual friendships contribute I to the development of better understanding and f riendshii I between nations in general. p I JT is pleasing to note that many I of these friendships are more frequently being developed be tween countries of different so cial systems. Friendships like that between Vladimir Kuts, the great Russian I long distance runner and the Ithen six-mile world record hold er, Melbourne milkman Dave Stephens; the American pole vaulter Rev. Bob Richards and I three Soviet decathlonists, three Young Communist League mem bers; high jumpers, John Thomas (U.S.) and Valery Brumel (U.S.S.R.) are no longer in any way the exception but the gen- Ieral rule. The 1964 Silver medal winner in the 1500 metres, Josef Odlozil of Prague recently received a 0 gift from his friend, New Zea- | land's Peter Snell, Olympic gold | medal winner in the 1500 metres | From | Betty Loekwood 5 MOSCOW; On Saturday the f world's greatest woman tennis £ player, Australia's Margaret 1 Smith, added another victory to S her world titles. With confidence | and perfect skill she easily de- Ifeated her Soviet opponent, Ukraine girl student Galina Bak-' sheyeva, 6-1, 6-1. I We had the pleasure of meeting | Margaret Smith and fellow Aus- | tralian tennis stars at the Austra- S lian Embassy reception on Aug- | ust 13. I This tall, quiet, bronzed Albui? girl has won the hearts of aj Moscow. Her legendary achieve, ments are well known here Every successful stroke is loud ly clapped and cheered by the thousands who have seen her Play. The Soviet Georgian student Alexander Metreveli won the men's singles from fellow Soviet Estonian student Toomas Leyus three sets to vwo after a very thrilling match. The women's doubles were won by Australian Margaret Smith 'and Judy Teggart from Italian girls Francesca Giorgiani and Lu cia. Bassi, six three. The men's doubles were won by Soviet players Toomas Leyus ' and Sergei Likhachev from Aus tralians Alan Stone and Colin Stubbs, three sets to two. The mixed doubles title went to Australians Margaret Smith and Bob Howe from their Soviet opponents Galina Baksheyeva and Toomas Leyus, six one six four. Margaret Smith is the first world tennis champion to play in Moscow. All the Australian play- J ers are top favorites. j Soviet players are not of world rank, but I was impressed . by j their serious, unemotional atti- j tude and expect we will hear more of their best players in the future. Margaret Smith and Judy Teg gart plan a quick trip to Lenin- J grad for an exhibition match on j , August 16. j | RUGBY LEAGUE . | . By Ron -Mackerras The' unexpected dereat of St. I George by South Sydney vindicat- I ed the decision by Phillip St. to | make this the Match of the Day, but to me the real "Match of the I Day" was that at Cumberland I oval where Parramatta defeated j Balmain. The brilliance and hard- ! ness of play by both sides, Bal main in the first half and Farra- j | matta in the second half won j support for my opinion. I I On- the day, Parramatta j clearly deserved to win. A con- j j tinQance of that form will take j j them into the grand final, an | honor I had reserved for Bat j main until 4.30 last Saturday j ! afternoon. , | Balmain' it seems, took a baa | 1 risk by playing George Piper hail j ' fit in the first half. He was only l a shadow of his former best an j in the second half could barely j raise a trot. In the circumstances, &lt; I Harry Raven would have bee i a safer proposition. | l A better .alternative would nave j been to play Bischoff at 100 ' &lt; Peter Provan at second row anu Boland in Piper's berth at prop- I Laurie Fagan would have ad j j thrust at the scrum base. ! Quite a controversy has rage" | in recent months around suit j football grounds particularly ! soccer games. . h I It's a wonder that some | j has not investigated the pos ' ity cf the use of the centre ! Harold Park Paceway. (e a I In the heart of Glebe it j ! natural arena for night 0 . j I football with seating accomrno j tion for about 40,000 P j j right around the 18 acr . j ! The centre is used on occa , I at present for school i I matches; 