 MELBOURNE PROTESTS AT GAS ATTACKS IN VIETNAM MELBOURNE: This city joined world protests at US bar barities in Vietnam with a 600- strona rallv in the Flagstaff Gardens on Tuesday last week which " condemned and de plored the use of gas against the people of Vietnam'' and called for an end to Australian in volvement in the American war there. The meeting was sponsored by the Waterside Workers' Federations and backed by 27 Victorian unions. Wfcarfies comprised the majority at the meeting, but present also wer>e meatworkers, seamen and a group of workers who had come spec ially into town from outlying Wil- liamstown Naval Dockyards. Chaired by Waterside Workers' m _ J Tri>Yinv\oA Hffipor "Mr TT. V cUcl ctbiUIi V i0iiaiAyc Rourke, the meeting was addressed by the Melbourne District Secretary of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, Mr. Laurie Carmichael, and peace movement leader Rev. Frank Hartley. Wharfies marched to the gardens following their stopwork meeting at Festival Hall. The Rev. Hartley told the meeting: "This is not the first time the wat erside workers have led public op inion of an issue of peace and war. "As with past instances such as the 'pig iron for Japan' issue, be fore the second world war, I am sure that on this occasion the wat- erside workers are right and the government wrong." Mr. Tom Marshall, a fitter at the Williamstown Naval Dockyards said that he was taking part in the dem onstration because "as ordinary Australians it's up to us to make a move to stop this sort of thing that is happening in Vietnam." The resolution said: "We call upon the Australian Government to take immediate steps to withdraw all Australian support (materials and, personnel) of the American inter, -r vention and attack in Vietnam, and' to pursue through the United Nat ions the implementation of the 1954 Geneva agreements on Vietnam, the withdrawal of all ' foreign trbbps1' 1 and intervention, and the rieht' of' . the people -of Vietnam to territorial integrity and sovereignty. . . 