 | TRIBUNE Mr. McEwen's 'misinterpretation' ROWING conflict between the Government coalition parties broke out into the open last Thursday when Deputy Prime Minister and Country Party leader McEwen attacked the policies of the Government-controlled Reserve Bank. Mr. McEwen said that Reserve Bank policies were inhi biting the financing of farmers and pastoralists in drought areas. Almost immediately afterwards, it was reported, the Federal Treasurer (Mr. Holt, a Liberal) informed the Bank that the Government wanted "all possible steps taken ' to ensure that farmers and graziers' could get the finance they needed. The inference was that he had done so under pressure from Mr. McEwen. Later McEwen said that his earlier statement had been "misinterpreted in some quarters".. But he did not withdraw it. Some of the implications were explained by Bankers' Association chairman Scambler, who said that "further ncreases in lending to rural borrowers must reduce, over draft funds available for other sectors unless present bank restrictions were relaxed." In other words, the demand for big grants for drought ! relief is coming hard up against the Government's policy of tighter credit and a cut in funds for everything not connected v/ith its war preparations. The Financial Review speaks of "a public impression of dissidence within the Cabinet", and this, of course, can only be heightened by tf\e Liberal-Country Party conflict now raping openly in Queensland. At last month's Queensland Liberal State Convention in B-isbane the Liberals virtually declared " war on the Country Party. They announced plans to contest Country Party-held seats at the next election and replace the Country Partv, led by Premier Nickl'in, as the senior partner in the coalition. ' McEwen responded with what was described as an "ultimatum" to the Liberals, demanding that they "learn to live with the Country Party both in the Federal and State spheres. He said on a TV interview that the Liberal Party all over Australia had recurringly made it clear that it wished there was not a Country Party. He accused the Federal Liberals of being behind the threat from the Queensland Convention. As the Sydney Morning Herald points out, the Liberals holding Federal seats in Queensland would be highly vul nerable to a Country Party counter-attack and the issue has stirred up bad feeling between the two. parties "all over Australia". The conflict .shows that the Liberal-CP coalition in Canberra and some of the States, though of long duration, has never been stable and never less so than today. Given greater united action by the labor movement, around progressive policies capable of .rallying the working people, there could be a swift and beneficial change affect ing the whole political scene. 