 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman "V/OTE LIBERAL'' someone called out at last week's meeting of NSW public ser vants in Sydney. Die meeting was held in protect a?, ainst the Labor Gevemjment's fail ure to. intervene in their salary neg otiations. Liberal leader Askin . "would inter, vene as the Federal Government hag in the basic wage case," the meeting was informed by a tape re corded statement by Mr. Askin. Yes, the Menzies Government has intervened. It opposed the unions' modest claim for 10/- a week Increase in the basic wage.... "as being fraught with great danger." ? .The two Sydney Officials of the Waterside Workers Federation who went to Canberra last week were not able to meet Mr. Henry Cabot Lodge and tell him the workers views about US agression in Vietnam... - "he was not feeling well!" According to the reports, Cabot Lodge represents a long line of two families, the wealthiest in the world. A writer in the US said: "the Cab- ots speak only to the Lodges, and the Lodges speak only to God." ? presidents of the upper crust Syd ney suburb of Darling Point were subjected to a particularly cutting brand of hooliganism rec ently. According to a press report they were awakened from their slumbers by loud yells of, "wake up yer dirty rich B — s". v ' Joe Blow from Ultimo says that there is a hooligan or two around his area, but to date neither he . nor his neighbours have had this insult hurled at them in the middle of the night. ? TTHE crew of the "William G. Walk- ly" have donated £41 to the elec tion campaign of the Communist can didate for Illawarra, Mr. R. J. (Snowy) Webster. The money was accompanied "by a letter from the crew saying they wanted a member of Parliament who would really represent theirs' and other workers' interests. |n the current NSW election cam paign, the Democratic Labor Party is spending up big on television propaganda. These little anti-Labor and Com munist sessions end with a song. We knqw who is calling the tune , . . hut who is paying the bill? 