 [?] Eisenhower, Casey and Eden admit facts on Vietnam Sir R. Menzies' attempt last Thursday to justify US and Australian intervention in Vietnam referred to "northern infiltration" and claimed the liberation struggle there was part of a thrust by Communist China between the Indian and Pacific Oceans". la facfTtlS intervention in South Vietnam PRECEDED talk of any such "infiltration" or "thrust"! It was undertaken to stop, not these imaginary menaces, but the emergence of a democratic government for the whole rr- Vietnam which would have been elected in 1956, if the elec- | tions prescribed by the 1954 Geneva Agreements had been allowed. I In his book "Mandate for Change", D. D. Eisenhower, who was US President at the time, wrote : "I have never talked or corresponded with a person know ledgeable in Indo-Chinese affairs who did not agree that had elections been held . . . possibly 80 per cent of the population would have voted for Ho Chi Minh" the present President of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam). The elections were preventer by: On October 1, 1954, three months after the Geneva Conference, Eisenhower wrote to South Vietnam leader Ngo Dinh Diem under taking to "assist" South Vietnam. On January 1, 1955, the US | started big scope military -"aid-" there. On February 12, 1955, the US Military Advisory Group took control of the South Vietnam Army. I On March 7, 1955, Washington signed a new "aid" agreement with | Saigon. On July 20, Ngo Dinh Diem announced that he would not ! negotiate with the North Vietnamese on the conditions for a general election. I On December 26, 1958, Diem rejected a DRV proposal for a confer ence to limit military commitments and establish normal trade and other relations between, north and south. On May 5, 1960, the US announced that military aid to Saigon would be stepped up and the number of American military "advisers" increased from 327 to 685. And all this happened, as a writer for New Times (April 14) points out, BEFORE the second half of 1960, when the mass popular revolt began, BEFORE the South Vietnam National Liberation Front was formed, and BEFORE the US (and Menzies) could even think of talking about northern "infiltration" or a Chinese "thrust". "US secretly plotting" In his book "fu!3 Circle", Lord Avon I formerly Sir A. Eden I who was British Foreign Minister and headed the British delegation to the Geneva taiksB recalls that while the conference was sitting, he found that the US was secretly plotting v/sfh the .French to sabotage it | and plan intervention, as they did later . I Reporting to the Australian Parliament on August 10, 1954, the External Affairs Minister, Lord (then Mr.) Casey confirmed | this. He said: "Talk of intervention, particularly in the air, was being widely canvassed at the time. Our Australian view was that such intervention would be wrong for the following reasons: j "It would not have the backing of the UN . . . it would put us in the wrong with world opinion, particularly in Asia. It would probably embroil us with Communist China. "Those were the views I expressed on behalf of the Government to Mr. Dulles, Mr. Eden and other leaders in Geneva". [?] Thus both Eden and Casey agree that the US was already planning intervention in 1 954, before the world had even heard of a "Viet Cong". Every reason that Casey ggve against such intervention then holds good today. All that has happened is that the Menzies Government has reversed its own attitude and gone over to full acceptance of the American position. Menzies answered Below are some of the points in Menzies' speech which , taken together , amount to a tissue of falsehood on the Vietnam war . MENZIES: "There is ample evidence to show that with the support of the North Vietnamese regime and other Communist powers, the Vietcong has been preparing on a more substantial scale than hitherto, insurgency action designed to destroy South Vietnamese government control and to disrupt by violence the life of the people". PAUL JOHNSON, editor of the London New Statesman, April 16: "Even on the evidence of the US White Paper, it's clear that the Vietcong staged an internal revolt in the South for some time before substantial assistance from the North was given". If the "Vietcong" are terrorising the people or "disrupting their lives" why do the people support them, as these quotations show: "To one degree or another, 70 to 90 per cent of the entire peasant population now leans towards the Vietcong" — J. A. Rose, Time-Life, cor respondent in Saigon, wiring on November 27, 1961, in the New Republic. "The Vietcong ... is thought by some authorities here to be capable of developing into the same kind of broadly based popular uprising that the French v/ere unable to defeat in nine years of bitter fighting . . . the Vietcong rebellion appears to be really a continuation of the colonial war against the French. The people fighting . . . are the same who fought the French and in their view they are under arms for essentially similar reasons". — New York Times' Saigon correspondent, May 27, 1961. Answers himself . j MENZIES: "The take-over of South Vietnam would be a direct military threat to Australia and all the countries of South and South-East Asia." Menzies (speaking on the Geneva Agreements on August 5, 1954): "We must not overlook the possibility that a free election may be an election which establishes a Communist administration in the whole of Vietnam. . . Not for a moment wouia I deny that it is possible, and indeed devoutly to be wished, that the democratic world should live peace fully alongside the Communist powers." SIR R. MENZIES: "Whether an externally-directed Communist guerilla subversion is to succeed or fail has worldwide consequences." The Times (London, conservative) in an editorial on November 24, 1 964: "One of the fallacies of the past five years in Vietnam has been the assumption that the guerillas in the South were a creation- of the North and not a genuine revolt against misgovemment". . . ' . 