 The night they killed the Griffin father By SAM KUSHNER, in the New York "Worker" AUBREY GRIFFIN, a 38- year-old Negro, was cold bloodedly murdered inside his home during the early morn- ing hours ot N\ onday, August 1 6 in Los Angeles. The fusillade of . shots, which came through the front door of Griffin's home at 314 W. 93rd Street, were fired by white police men without a word of warning. Inside . the still bullet-riddled living room Mrs. Roenee 1 Griffin told how the life of her happy family was shattered by a series of inhuman actions. The Griffin family had purchased their neat two-bedroom home four years ago. The centre of the Watts eruption was a couple of miles from their home. There was no com motion, no fires and no gunfire on their block. Aubrey, Jr., 19, serving in the US Air Force at George Air . Force Ease near Victorville, California, was home on a week-end pass. Neither of the other two Griffin children, Priscilla, 18, a student at Bishop College in Texas, or Don Bee, 15, a George Washington Carver High School student, was home. The next day was to be another workday for Aubrey Griffin, a furniture maker at the Berkshire Shop, 701 East 69th Street, so he retired early, at 8 p.m. Young Aubrey stayed up a while to watch television. His mother had stayed up with him but retired at about At about 2.15 a.m. a commotion .side the building woke the lamily. Mr. Griffin started for the ront door, returned to his bedroom (0n .Bis trousers, and then after th l0ning 1118 wife to remain in bedroom, continued to the front of the house. "I'VE BEEN SHOT" liJhf turned on the front porch ' from the inside switch diro f- outside, looked in both im,Tc ,ns' aPParently saw nothing liphf U and leavinS the front porch on, shut the door behind him thf» 6f less than three feet from buiJtc door when a fusillade of door n J the screen , and and killed him. "I've been, shoti call the police," he said to his wife as he lay on the floor. Aubrey, Jr., rushed to his mother's side as she knelt beside her dying husband, and walked with her to the kitchen, in the rear of the house. Within moments an esti mated two dozen white policemen and sheriff's deputies swarmed into the house from the front and rear entrances. Young Aubrey was seized, spread- eagled on the living room couch, his hands handcuffed in hack of him and one police officer pressed his rifle against the young man's throat. Mrs. Griffin was ordered to sit in a chair, a foot away from her dead husband. First she asked for permission to don a night robe, j This was refused. ! "I asked, for a sheet to cover I him," she said. This, too, was j denied her. &lt; "Meanwhile the police out on \ the front lawn and on the porch j . were laughing and talking," the son j told a reporter. ! The police searched the house for j a weapon. "They found nothing," j Mrs. Griffin said. j Finally one policeman said that j the police had received a phone call that there, was a sniper in the | house. j In a little while an ambulance | arrived and removed Aubrey : Griffin. - ! At 3 . a.m. detectives and more I policemen came to the door. j One detective released the hand cuffs from 19-year-old Aubrey. The widow and son were ordered to accompany the policeman to the 77th Street Station. There they .. were kept in the same room, but separate from each other until 11 a.m. At this point the grief stricken, and angry, Mrs. Griffin walked up to a burly policeman and said: "What are you going to do with me. You have already killed my husband. We have been sitting here since 3 o'clock." "I don't know," said the police man. "I'll give you just five minutes," Mrs. Griffin said, "to find out and then I'll give you a chance to kill . me and my son because we're walking out.", A short interrogation of Mrs. Griffin and her son followed this , exchange. Mrs,. Griffin was asked 1 about "enemies !. . .visitors . . . etc." Six policemen did the ques- ; tionjngjr Meanwhile two other policemen wero: qtrefying Aubrey, Jn YOung Aubrey remembers the badge number of one of the offi cers, he says, and both he and his mother say they could positively identify several of the policemen involved. But no one was asking them. Because to metropolitan Los Angeles the death of Aubrey Griffin was a one-paragraph story in the Monday, August 16, 1965, paper. The report said: "In Griffin's case, Los Angeles police officers said he came out of his house with a gun in hand as they drove up to answer the sniper call. He was cut down in the ensuing gunfire." MANY newspapers comment ed that the recent Negro riots in Watts, Los Angeles, USA, were caused by unem ployment and poverty. The Negroes themselves laid the blame on the Los Angeles white racist police force, in particu lar the police chief, William Parker. Needless to say, the news commentators would not connect the riots with the mounting struggle by theNegro people for. racial equality ami an end to the "plantation system." THIS is William Rogers, who was paralysed by police bullets in Los Angeles in 1961, when police shot seven unarmed Negroes. The Muslim newspaper features a man shot dead by police. 