 [?] Australian Rules on the way up ? Bv "THE CHALLENGER" CROWD of 22,378 last Saturday witnessed a brilliant display of Australian Rules football at Sydney Cricket Ground and this could very well herald the begin ning of a strong campaign by the Australian Rules League to take over the lead as the No. 1 game in N.S.W. from the rugby league camp. The experience of the game in the southern States proves that it has something which really gets the fans in. . Rugby League, in N.S.W.. has yet to draw crowds to its finals comparable to those which witness the Australian Rules finals each year. In Melbourne a crowd of around 100,000 at an Aussie Rules final is something that Sydney League has not yet experienced, even with international matches. Aussie Rules is such big business in Melbourne that club talent scouts go all out to get football talent. The Melbourne club Essendon for ex ample, plucked its half-back flanker Alec Epis, all the way from the gold- fields of Western Australia.. Last Saturday's Sydney game proved to the appreciative cpowd that Aussie Rules with its. high' marking, long kicking and all round fast play has all the virtues to capture the Sydney's football fans imagination. Saturday's game even threw in some of the vies that seems to flourish so well in League— like fist-fighting. N.S.W. Aussie Rules officials were more than pleased with the result of the game, and the N.S.W. president, Mr. Tom McGrath, commenting on the results of the game said, "There, certainly must he follow-ups to this". This could really mean,' "Sydney League look-out!" In the swim The northern hemisphere is now having its summer and just as in Australia people take to the swimming pools the same thing happens in Rumania and the emphasis is certainly on safety. The swimming teaching centres in Bucharest and all over the country opened on June 1. The biggest such centre is the Bucharest Youth Swim ming Pool. Many classes for chil dren between five and 12 years of age are organised.. Each class with a . duration of 15 days includes 1,200 children per sex and age groups. There are two-hour lessons daily, under the guidance of trained teachers. The . most gifted little swimmers are selected for ad vancing courses. Last year alone 5,000 children were taught to swim at the Bucharest Youth Swimming Pool, besides thous ands of children the country over. Rugby League Ely RON MACKERRAS The week-end league results . did nothing to challenge the superiority of St. George and Balmain. The match between Parramatta and Norths provided the most interesting football seen this season both in at tack and defence. From a neutral position I cannot agree with those who claim that the best side was beaten. My sympathies were with Norths but the facts are that Parramatta trailed for almost the entire match and scored the most tries, three to two, all of which were the result of first class football. Even Lingards snap try was preced ed, by good football: My point in last issue.; of Tribune about players penal izing -their steams by. beljftg- penalized or sent from the field and later suspended was a costly lesson for Norths. xur Raynor won the scrums 13-2 and this was probably the difference be tween victory and defeat. I anticipate Raynor to edge Walsh in the set scrums next Saturday but there the comparison finishes— Ian Walsh is the colnplete footballer and does not have to rely on snide tactics to prove his class. Raynor has had a charmed life this season. In the interests of his club Parramatta, it would be well advised to concentrate on his role of hooker and. to make certain that his ability is available for the full 80 minutes of the important matches to come. Par ramatta needs to continue its improve-- ment, as its form on Saturday would not win a final. Norths with little of the hall and Drett, Wieir and Warner out regained many of its lost admirers. In 80 min utes of first class football, Ron Lynch shaded a batch of players from both sides playing equal to and in some instances above their best form. Norths' officials can be well pleased with the showing of their replacement hooker, young Floyd. His general game should cause Warner some un easiness . . .. Very impressive. 