 INDONESIA OUT OF U.N. WIDE REACTION The Indonesian decision to withdraw from the United Nations, announced last week, followed the appointment "without a vote" of Malaysia to one of the temporary places on the Security Council. KIO vote was taken in the General Assembly because of the agreement to take no votes in the session, so as to avoid a crisis on American ef forts to deprive the Soveit Un- ion of voting rights. « President Soekarno, speaking in j Djakarta last Thursday, recalled his f warning on New Year's Eve that In- g donesia would withdraw from U.N. | if Malaysia became a Security Coun- = cil member. 1 He was reported as saying: "From j now on Indonesia is not a member | of the United Nations. j "We can afford to operate with- j out United Nations specialised agen- S cies. ! "It's good for our nation to stand j on our own feet. I've told them to j go to hell with their aid." Afro-Asian move | The Indonesian Information Minis- ! try, according to Hsinhua, said the | decision was "a strong rebuff to the j world organisation." | It added that the U.N. had proved = itself utterly unable to play its role | of settling world problems. j Its concern was rather "the in- | terests of the imperialist countries | which rule supreme in the U.N." I It expressed conviction that Indon- i esia would new build unity with jj Asiar., African and Latin American jj countries, as well as "the entire g new emerging forces." ! The decision brought an appeal f from U.N. Secretary-General U | Thant .seeking reconsideration. j According to United Press, 11 mem- g bers of the U.N. Afro- Asian group | appealed to Indonesia not to with- j draw They were: Afghanistan, Ceylon, f Japan, Jordan, Mali, Nigeria, Ivory | Coast, Ethiopia, Algeria, Kenya and = Pakistan. I The Peking "People's Daily" ex- j pressed support for the move and | called it "this righteous measure of i the Indonesian Government." ! It described the seating of neo- ! colonialist "Malaysia" in the U.N. | Security Council as an "undisgusted j act of provocation and hostility to j Indonesia." 