 Judges' pay lift scandal CYDNEY: Lavish salary in- creases last week to Fed eral Judges have aroused hostility in the labor move- ment, which itself is suffer ing a wage-freeze at the hands of Commonwealth courts and the Government. The judges' increases, up to 23.5 per cent, will be retrospective to July 1 this year. The Chief Judge of the Common wealth Industrial Court and the Presi dent of the Conciliation and Arbitra tion Commission will now get £9,500 a year an increase of £1,500 (18.8 per cent). Judges of the Industrial Court and Presidential members of the Arbitra tion Commission will receive £8,500 a year, an increase of £1,500 (21.4 per cent). Federal trade union secretaries this week made these -comments: — Mr. J. Heffernan (Federal Secretary, Sheet Metal Workers' Union): The Government's decision to increase judges salaries by up to £40 a week "is provocative, to say the least". "This decision comes soon after the Commonwealth Arbitration Commis- sion rejected tne unions' application for an increased basic wage to offset increased cost of living," he said. "This should spur metal workers to press for over award claims outside the court." "Privileged" Mr. K. Miller (Federal Secretary, Plasterers' Federation): "The Federal Government recently called for economic restraint. The Commonwealth Arbitration Commis sion in its recent infamous H per cent wage judgement gave to plasterers J/8 per week or £17/6/8 a year, there by giving effect to the Government's view economically. 1 say there is a privileged class in our society, some of whom are judges, politicians, doctors and top public servants. . ?n accepting such wage increases ithout protest, the judges stand in ntempt of the grounds and reasons .ned in their own judgement, in the eyes 'of Australian wage and "y earners, in all fairness how can ) expect such workers to respect siip!? -lri, light of their acceptance of inflated salary increases." "Contrast" Biiildi A «Purse (Federal Secretary, "Tf 3? Workers' Industrial Union): attirnrfi16! salrY rises denotes a new wof-prc 7 . Government to the "if >w ?lms wil1 be welcomed. and J! c5WuCan they be justified the wArl ?u! Judges who refused to fjft n ,erSi JUst claims accept £30 ,A;0 week extra. coaciusinnrker,S wiU draw their own lono overri, press 011 to win their e wage demands," he said.' 