 WHYALLA-PKOFITABLE GIANT OF B.H.P. I "Blast furnaces, shipyards (producing the 1 largest ships built in Australia I, toolshop, 1 steel annex and other BMP activities", says :J an oil company map, describing the town of Why alia, set between Spencer Gulf and the J brown, Bat saltbush country. i AUSTRALIA'S biggest mono poly, Broken Hill Pty., is now building a new steel works there, near the rich sources of iron ore. In 1901 Whyalla was settled as a port for the ores to be sent across the gulf to the smelters at Port Pirie The beginning ol Newcastle'." steel industry saw Iror Knob, 34 miles from Whyalla. developed as the source of raw material In 1938 a blast furnace was estab. I lished together with a deep-water A harbour and a power station The i war brought the ship—Ms into hs. ; J Now comes a new steei compter with initial capacity of 500,000 torn by June this year and rising tn about 1,000,000 by June. 1967— built with Playford's help The history oi Whyalla ana or! BHP, is one of the plundering ol the A public purse for big-scP private ' profit n| GULPING PUBLIC HINDS P Dickenson, fe.A Directoi oj I Mines, said of the iron ore de posits in 1953: "In South Australia and Western Australia, where the most important deposits exist, control was estab lished by a special legislation, which, in effect, transferred the control of these resour "c- from public tc pri vate management." The "Whyalla Indenture Act' pro vides that the monopoly control ol the ore deposits will be continued A special tramway ( so called to avoid conflict with a Constitution that prevents private ownership oi railways 1 was built It has complete right-oi waj ano BHF has powei under the Act to ensure that Port ' facilities are re tained in their hands The pittance paid in royalties has under public pressure been raised from 6d a ton to its present amount of 1/6 for ore worth £5 a ton on the world market! Farther miSIiofts- Playford has ensured that the good work continues The LCI Government is com mitted to spending a further £40 to £50 million to provide water pewei and housing This contrasts with the £40 mil lion invested by the company to es tablish the steel plant. When BHP wanted water, Play ford obliged with a pipe line from the Murray and for many years ig nored the pleas of farmers on the route of the. supply for water for their land The pipe- line is now being dupli cated at a cost oi £20 million. The State-controlled Housing Trust has beer geared to provide homes toi the influx ol migrant workers being brought out (30 fami lies a month from the U.K alone go tc Whyalla) Even the commit men i given the Government to build 601 bouses does not satisfy BHF f The manager (Mr Km Bennet)! at a recent ship launching said, "We 1 must ask them tc do more" Local "democracy" 5 There is no democratically-elected local Government body in Whyalla. The town ..Commission consists ot M three Company representatives three elected by the towns people and a 1 Government-provided chairman glv 'i| ing the Company a grip on the -M town and the lives oi its people - J There are nc other secondary in- H dustries tor the .womenfolk or young I people -I Am-: nities are at a minimum and there are many reasons toi the social discontent that exists ij The boredom ot Whyalla, the lonp,/ hours worked to get living wage, the arrogant rip. tear and bust out'.::! look of the Company are the ingre- dients that arc gradually producing ' an explosive situation. ..> On Jan-ary 20, every Hl- worker J struck for 24 hours for a minimum bonus of £5 per week which bas 'ii been rejected by the company. An offer for less than one-third ol the employees amounting to less than ! 1 10/- for half of these has been re- jected by the workers. I The c ibined Union Council ol .J Whyalla in consultation with the S.A. Trades and Labor Council has il been empowered to decide on further v! action. AERIAL view ot part o! the Whyalla installations, showing shipbuilding yards with blast furnace in the background. 