 Just imaagine! Stan's going quiet at last SYDNEY DOMAIN any Sunday for the last ' 35 years. A short man with an unruly thick grey-black comb of hair pauses in his delivery off the Commun ist Party's "stump" and explodes in disgust: "Just imaasrine!" — with a long drawn-out emphasis on the "maag" He goes on rising to his toes, thrusting his fist in the air biting, ironical, hurling invective and humor against arbitration court iudges, newspaper editors, security police, prime ministers, and himself. ; "You know when her iVlaajesiy was S» in' the knighthood to Fraank Paatkcr. Well, her Maajesty put the sword across his right shoulder and said: "Arise, Sir Fraank!" «2S'o fear," says Fraank, "1 only gave 'em a rise three years ago." "And there we were five hu-hund- red of us, all marchen' up Castlereagh Street, all of us unemployed, all of us hungry. We could have a-eaten a horse and chased the rider. But, we came to a big restaurant, witli v/hite ser viettes. So in we went. The fa-ive hu- lmndrcd of us. "Give us the A la carte, we said, and they did, and we ate it. Righto, boys, have you had enough, we said, and they said 'Yes'. So we said, give us the hill, and they did, and we wrote on it: 'Chaarge to the Scullin Government'. And then we marched out!" ? TAN MORAN, loved mem ber of the Australian Com munist Partv for 35 years, and treasurer of the Sydney Bn c-1 of the Waterside Workers' Federation since 1937, has probably spoken to Sydney crowds for the last time III health has forced his re tirement. "No-one would believe you today | '' you told them what happened in those days," Stan told us in his Bal- main home. "Hunger educated us." And wluve did your education be gin, Sinn? "My Srandmothe: , an Irish Fenian, &lt; cportetl by Imperial England to New andj taught me to hate imperialist Vr\ "ved with her in Invercargill attei both my parents had died in Melbourne." . ' became a telegraphist in the st and Telegraphists' Union. "Public servants in New Zealand in Who W tTe not exPected to join Unions, /pal n i Srcat' war broke out, New glanders came to Australia in droves get away from conscription. Divkk Sln,ey 1 joined the Fourth on th»n ecrapbists' Union and was tranh? .executIve for seven years. Tele- ««k h, logo. 3 6 hour 6 da''s a ".ners' lockout, and the tim was fo lrli'.1'? i (basic waSe £3-11-0), I becam the Sreat' depression 'loved ,lnte.rested in lhe Unem- ni'inbev If Movement. ! was a of the Labor Party." | REMEMBER in 1929 when . the Scullin . (Labor) Gov ernment defeated the Bruce Tory Government; workers massed outside, the Trades Hall singing . "Happy Days Are Here Again". The "great", depression broke a few months later. You Were lucky to get two meals a day. Doles were single man 5/6 a week, married couple 11/- a week, bin .if a son or daughter was earning £1 or more a week, they would have to leave the house, even be ordered out of the house, so the father could get the full dole. Relief work was one week, in five for a single man, two in five for a married man, and three in five for a married man with children. Relief work was shifting sand from one end of Maroubra beach to the other and back again, or rock choppin' up at Bobbin Head. It was a "great'" sight to see the families of . unemployed marching down to the Benevolent Society build ing behind Saunders' in Quay Street with a sugarbag twice a week to get the dole . . a tin of golden syrup, a tin of condensed milk, a hunk of meat, and slops of clothing. The dole centre then moved to No. 7 the Quay. The Labor Government tried to use the employed against the unemployed. We fought for a united front of em- . ployed and unemployed. We marched in demonstrations from Quay .Street to Parliament House. The dole was then de-centralised and depots set up -in the suburbs. - , Meetings of unemployed were held at dole centres (dole dumps). Our slogans were "Double the Dole", "No Evictions". ? "THE Labour Party and the New South Wales Labor Council would not recognise the Unemployed Workers' Movement, which had a mem bership of 35,000. , They supported the Unemployed Workers' Union with a membership of 500. The UWU was alleged to represent the Labor Party. Thousands marched on the Laboi Council to demand that the UWM be "given representation on the Council. The UWU had permission to march, so the 5,000 marchers from the UYVM filed in behind the UWU's 300. When we got dose to Parliament House we split up. We spoke from Shakespeare's monument, and their little crowd gathered round Botirke's monument. We. decided, to march on Parliament House. The police cordoned off Macquarie Street and there was a fight for about 10 minutes. The unemployed fought so well, that the Police Commissioner had to arrange for them a deputation to the Minister. of Labor and Industry, Mr. Baddeley. The pplice didn't dif ferentiate between the UWM and the UWU, batoning both with vigour. The UWU believed in charity as an answer, but the UWM insisted on the rights of the Government to pay us a living wage. Our slogan was "Fight! Not charity!" The Government issued a form "Questionnaire 32", which the unem ployed were supposed to fill in. It asked details of income, assets, etc. One question was: Do you keep any livestock? The commonest answer (and a true one) was: Fleas and bugs. Jack Lang also appointed 70 dole inspectors (called dole police by the unemployed). They would barge in and ask to count the beds to see how many were in the house — they tried to do as they liked. Protests went on for five days and in some places the Questionnaires were Burnt. A protest meeting ' was called at Glebe Town Hall. Police arrived in force. I was speaking from a window ledge, and as they rushed in to grab me they knocked over an old lady, Mrs. Taylor. This incensed the crowd, and led by the Workers' Defence Corps, they overwhelmed the police. Many of the police had to go to chemists and to the hospital for treat ment. The Workers' Defence Corps, led by the late Jim McPhee, who became secretary of the Hospital Employees' Union, was set up to protect the unemployed from police, brutality? The police used to draw their batons on the slightest excuse. Police chief, McKay, had spent six months in Germany studying police methods. The Glebe Council then received a ! deputation from the unemployed. | A further meeting was called that night. The police came down, full of rum, led by Inspector McKay. Draw ing their batons they waded into the crowd hitting anybody at all they could get close to. They chased us from Glebe Town Hall as far as Harold Park in one direction and Grace Bros, in the other. As we raced down to Grace Bros, we knew they were getting closer and I looked up and pointed to the Grace Bros, 'sign: "Sure To Get It At Grace Bros." We did. There was a public uproar over police brutality, and another meeting was called. The workers turned up in force. A thousand in the hall and five thousand outside. Traffic was blocked and trams were re-routed. The police took no action, and the meeting went on unmolested. Questionnaire 32 was later with drawn. Next day they arrested Etock, Tom Payne, Bluey Mahoney and myself. We were charged with "inciting to riot". Etock wasn't actually there at the time. Someone challenged a detective on this point and he said: "Well, this'll make up for the times we didn't catch him." He got two and a half years. The same detective later was expelled from _the police force for excess brutality, if that were possible The rest of us got two months." Continued next week STAN MORAN 