 Metal conference wants "reasonable needs" wage ADELAIDE: A full day conference of metal job representatives last week declared that the basic wage "must provide as a minimum for the reasonable needs of a married wage earner and his family, take into account increasing productivity, be the highest wage the community can provide and be subject to quarterly adjustments in accordance with a price index." T«E conference, organised I by the Metal Trades Fed eration, called for margins relativity as it existed in 1947. More than 100 delegates from 39 workshops displayed a militant spirit in discussion and showed a Keen awareness of the political and economic problems that face the Labor movement. A resolution -en economic policy, among other things, called for the Commonwealth Government to act for; Price, profit, rents and interest control. © More capital expenditure in public enterprise. ® Increased tax op higher incomes including a capital gains tax, abolition of indirect taxation on essential commodities. Nationalisation of monopolies. Development of trade, particu- larly in Asia. Establishment of overseas national shipping line. Prohibition upon alienation of Australian national resources to foreign interests. MTPr>C0?ference was chaired by T>n.-, resident and secretary of the fee?618 S0cict &lt;Mr" The main speakers from the metal unions were MTF secretary and Amalgamated Engineering Union organiser (Mr. J. Shannon), organiser of the Sheet Metal Workers Union (Mr. L. Lean) and secretary of the Ironworkers' Association (Mr. R. Husdell). Conference reaffirmed its "con tinued support for the policy of peaceful co-existence and the right of all nations to determine their own destiny, free from any outside interference in the internal affairs of that country" and therfore de clared that "all foreign troops should be withdrawn from Vietnam and that the Vietnamese people be left to determine their own future in accordance with the 1954 Geneva Convention." For similar reasons, Conference favoured withdrawal of Australian troops from Malaysia. It supported joint activity by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the New Zealand Federation of Labor against French Atomic tests in the Pacific. Delegates supported the admission of Peoples' China' into the United Nations. Apprentices' wages, said Confer ence, should be based upon the fol lowing percentage of the Trades men's rate. First year 45 per cent, second 55 per cent, third 65 per cent, fourth 85 per cent and fifth 95 per cent. First, second and third year apprentices should receive five weeks annual leave, while no appren tice under 19 years should be per-, mitted to work shift work or over time. Conference declared its solidarity with waterside workers in oppos ing "fascist-like" laws proposed by tne Menzies' Government and which are a "threat and a challenge to the whole of the trade union movement." It called upon metal trade shop stewards to arrange meetings of protest and called for an ACTU- sponsored Federal Unions' meeting to plan a "national campaign of resistance." The Attorney General in the State Labor Government (Mr. D. Dunstan), addressing the Conference, spoke of the need to defeat Liberal Party obstruction. He said it was "the duty of an elected Government to carry out the elected policy of that Party" and that it may be necessary for the Government "to come to the indus trial movement for help." Conference condemned General Motors Holdens' "heartless action" in sacking its workers and called for the implementation of the 35 hour week and the implementation of a severance payment scheme. 