 USA moves in to take over I Sth. Aust. fertiliser co. ADELAIDE: Latest developments in the SA fertiliser industry are: US capital is seeking to take over one company.- A merger is taking place between two other compan ies. Workers are pressing their wage demands on all companies. Two US giants have been compet ing to take over the Adelaide-based .Cresco Fertilisers. They are Esso— owned by the world's biggest oil company Satndard Oil of New Jer sey—and W. R. Grace of New York, a powerful chemical combine. At time of writing Grace had match ed Esso's £2.2 million offer and ap peared to be favoured. Developments have substantiated the Communist Party's warning of US take-overs and the anti-Australian role played by local monopoly cap italists in this regard. Four of Adelaide's wealthy fami lies have shares in Cresco. They are Rymill, McBride, Kidman and Mc- Taggat. (.Between them, they , haye , ' Interests in frietals, chemicals, bank- ing, shipping, agriculture, retail and the press. Sir Arthur Rymill is Liberal Party member of the SA Legislative Coun cil while Sir Phillip McBride, a former member of the Menzies' Gov ernment, is now Federal President of the Liberal Party. He made the call for a White Paper on Commun ism. Rymill, McTaggart and Kidman are associated with the announced mer ger of two other Adelaide-based fertil iser companies— Adelaide Chemical and Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell of which Rymill is Chairman of Directors. In 1951 the Playford Government provided £1 million at 3 and 4 per cent interest to help Cresco Fertilisers, Adelaide Chemical, Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell and BHP, to develop pyrites deposits at Nairne, in the Adelaide Hills. Pyr ites is the raw material for fertiliser, sulphuric acids and munitions. The Menzies' Government provided £2 million to establish a sulphuric acid works in which the three fertil iser companies are joint owners. So the peoples' money was spent to enable SA nonopqlists get tfcher while the' American's move in. Meanwhile, fertiliser maintenance workers at Adelaide Chemical and Wallaroo Mt. Lyell are approaching the management for a service pay ment of £2 a week for the second year. Cresco maintenance workers are considering a similar claim. Sulphuric acid workers are demand ing £2 a week which has been knock ed back by the management. The mat ter is in the hands of the Trades and Labor Council's Disputes Committee. The developing monopoly grip on fertiliser has resulted in increased ex ploitation of the workers but not cheaper fertiliser for the farmers. The latest development will mean even greater exploitation of workers while farmers will be even more at the mercy of the fertiliser combine. The Communist Party calls for: — Government ownership of fer tiliser companies. Increased wages for workers. Cheaper fertiliser for farmers. It has been announced that Imper ial Chemical Industries and Conzinc Riotinto will build a £12 million amr monia and nitrogenous fertiliser com- pJ&lt;$L.pt Newcastle, NSW. ' IQl y/ill be tbe major shareholder. 