 'Friendship, solidarity' of communists of France and Vietnam A JOINT statement issued following discussions in . Paris between leading repres entatives of the Workers' Party of Vietnam and the French Communist Party has "confirmed the deep friendship existing between the two parties, based on decades of common struggle against im perialism and colonialism." The statement reaffirmed the basis on which the problem of Vietnam could be settled peacefully, and declared the joint desire of the two parties to contribute to strengthening the unity of the inter national Communist movement. The statement said: "The delegation of the French Communist Party expressed its profound admiration for the heroic struggle being waged by the Viet namese people in the South and in the North of their country, against -the barbarous aggression of Ameri can imperialism and for national salvation. "It expressed its certainty that . under the leadership of the Workers' Party of Vietnam, with President Ho Chi Minh, the very dear friend of the French people, at its head, the Vietnamese people will win new successes in the building of social ism in the North and the reunifica tion of their homeland. "Each such success is felt by the French Communist Party, and the people of France, to be their own. "The delegation gave an account of the various actions developing in France to support the people of South Vietnam and the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and to help them to win victory over the Yankee aggressors. "The French Communist Party denounces the spurious character of the so-called negotiations proposed- by Jbnnson. "It affirms, its complete agree ment with . the four-point position " adopted by -the Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and the "five-point position of the National Liberation Front, which fully express the legitimate demands of the Vietnamese people, demands that the World Congress for Peace, National Independence and General Disarmament, held in Helsinki, adopted as. its own. "The fundamental rights of the Vietnamese people to independence, sovereignty, unity and the territorial Integrity of their homeland were solemnly acknowledged by the Geneva Agreements of 1954 arid must be respected. "These sacred rights must be carried into effect by: The immediate cessation of the aggression of the United States in Vietnam; The immediate withdrawal of American troops and the troops of their satellites from South Vietnam; the dismantling of American bases in South Vietnam; the immediate cessation of the bombings and other acts of aggression carried out against the Democratic Republic of Vietnam; the right of the people of South Vietnam to settle their own affairs without foreign interference; ' freedom for the whole people of Vietnam to settle without outside intervention the ques tion of the peaceful reunifica tion of the country. "Recognition of these basic prin ciples will make it possible to settle the problem of Vietnam peacefully and in favorable conditions. "Gratitude" "The delegation of the Workers'' Party- of Vietnam expressed the sincere gratitude felt by the Viet namese people towards the French Communist Party, the French working class, and the sons and daughters of the French people who, after having courageously supported their freedom struggle against colonialist oppression, are today giving their unreserved sup port to the noble struggle of the Vietnamese people against Ameri can aggression for the salvation of their homeland. "The delegation expressed its desire for still more diverse co operation in different fields between the French Republic arid the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam, in the interests of the two peoples and of world peace. "The delegation expressed its best wishes for success to the French Comnvnist Party and the Ifrench people in the actions they are conducting for genuine demo cracy, social progress, the inde pendence and security of France and for world peace. "The Workers' Party of Vietnam and the Vietnamese people fully support the struggle of the Frerieh people, and count as their own each success achieved in the struggle. Solidarity "The" two delegations affirmed their mutual desire to strengthen still further the relations of friend ship existing between the Workers' Party of Vietnam and the French Communist Party. "The two parties mean thereby to make a contribution to strength ening the solidarity in struggle of the international Communist and workers' movement, on the basis of the principles of Marxism-Leninism and proletarian internationalism. "This solidarity is more necessary than ever in the common struggle against the imperialists, headed by American imperialism, for peace, national independence, democracy arid socialism. "Paris, September 16, 1965." - »#»— k'.'," A delegation of three leaders of the Workers' Party of Vietnam visited France from August 25 to September 17, had many meetings and discussions with leaders and organsations of the French Communist Party and other public bodies, as well as the workers of major cities. There were -widespread expressions of affection, solidarity and frend- ship by the French Communists and workers, socialists, Christian repre sentatives and pther democrats towards the Vietnamese people. The Vietnamese party delegation consisted of: Le Due Tho, member of the political bureau and secretary of the central committee; Nguyen Van Tran, secretary of the central committee; and Nguyen Than Le, assistant editor-in-chief of "Nhan Dan," central organ of. the party. Following discussions with leading representatives of the French party, led by Waldeck Rochet, general secretary, a joint statement was issued. ... 