 1 9 I Warnings on war policy ' DRAGGING AUST. INTO ASEAN BOG Behind the New Year headlines reflecting increased war tension in South-East Asia are these hard facts affecting Australia American and Aus- tralian interven ti on forces are being defeat ed militarily and poli tically, day after day, by the South Vietnam ese people's independ ence movement. The US Government ad mitted on December 27 that it had begun stationing a flo tilla of nuclear submarines on the East Asian coast, each armed with 16 Polaris nuclear rockets. The British Government has concentrated in and around Malaysia and Indonesia the. biggest combined military forces in its peacetime Asian colonial history. Mr. A. Calwell, Federal Leader of the Australian Labor Party, said in Melbourne on Sunday that Australia should take the initiative in new ef forts to avoid the "immense disas ter" of war . between Indonesia and Malaysia. . He proposed that Australia, Britain, America and Malaysia should give . guarantees of the in tegrity and sovereignty of Indonesia whose hostility towards Malaysia he said,, rested partly on claims that it was being encircled. Vietnam crisis Australian army and air forces in Vietnam, it is now revealed, have been quiety increased from the original 30 to nearly 200 and the original "adviser" status has been quietly dropped. . . More Australian troops have been wounded in front line battle opera tions. RAAF planes are regularly taking part in battle. These Australian forces, while small compared with the more than 22,000 U.S. land forces now there, are the only significant intervention forces other than the American. The Christmas-New Year period revealed the political isolation of the U.S. -Australian forces when the South Vietnamese puppet generals overthrew the new Saigon "civilian" government which had been hammer ed together by the U.S.A. with dif ficulty. U.S. policies were publicly de nounced by puppet military leader General Khanh and widespread anti- American street demonstrations have occurred. At the same time, hundreds of Vietnamese, American and Austra lian casualties have been inflicted by the independence guerrilla forces, some even in Saigon, where the crisis of government continues-. Nuclear sub-. The U.S. dispatch of its first permanent nuclear submarine patrol to the east Asian coast is part of a plan that will also be extended to the Indian Ocean. These nuclear war forces will eventually be under strategic con trol through the North-West Cape U.S. Navy communications base now half-completed in Western Aus tralia despite continuing protests. Already the U.S. action has been sharply denounced in the Soviet Union, China, Vietnam, Indonesia "and other countries as a sfn ffcVt ag gravates war danger. Pravda (Moscow) said on January 'l that the move, a "dangerous step", was connected with persistent efforts in the U.S.A. to secure a spreading j\« Cam; Cowl'1"'' Dragging Aust. into Asian bog Continued from Page 1 bodia, despite the utter failure of U.S. operations in South Vietnam. The London "Daily Worker" con demned the Wilson Government for its failure to protest against this new threat to peace in the far East. The Menzies Government also ac cepted the move without comment. US Senators The struggle to end the U.S. war in Vietnam is now reported to be extending in the U.S.A. itself and is finding a response among Congress men. The Sydney Sun-Herald reported last Sunday that a group of U.S. Senators is flatly demanding a U.S. withdrawal from Vietnam. Previruc'y only Senator Wayne Morse (Democrat) was opposing war, but no-v, for example, Senator A. J. Ellender (Democrat) has said it is time for the U.S. to get out "with out any ifs or buts." Senator R. Russell, Chairman of the Senate Armed Forces Committee, told the Press: "We have made a terrible mistake by getting involved in the affairs of South Vietnam." An unidentified Republican senator has declared the nation isx not being given the facts. A poll of 83 senators last week re vealed sharp divisions on the issue. A big section are opposed to ex tending the war. The Soviet Government has repea ted its assurances to the Vietnam Democratic Republic that if it is at tacked all necessary Soviet assistance will be given. Printed and published by D. B. Young, 168 Day Street," Sydney, at 21 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. 