 MANY CALLS TO ACTON TESTS Tribune's Industrial Roundsman 1 1 [?] CJYDNEY : The president of the New Zealand Federa tion of Labor, Mr. T. Skinner, warned delegates at an interna- tional trade union conference which opened in Sydney last Monday that France's nuclear i testing site in thq Pacific Ocean ! could become permanent. | Mr. Skinner was opening the con- | ference, which was jointly convened | by the NZFOL and the Australian | Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) in p protest against the French Govern- ment's plans to test nuclear weapons | on Gambia Island in the Pacific, p The 150 delegates included over 25 | from New Zealand, six from Singa- p pore, two from New Caledonia and f One from Malaysia. | Mr. Skinner said that now the Al- $ gerian people have gained their in- f dependence, the French nuclear test- | ing in the Sahara will be disconti- $ nued. f Stop all tests p "This site on Gambia Island is to be | a permanent site. All warheads from I the Sahara will be transferred to thi3 P area". p "France may test two, three or p more bombs a year — who can tell | the number?" he said. | Mr. Skinner said that if there w;as p no danger from these French tests, | why does De. Gaulle hold them so | many thousands . of miles from | France? The speaker called for the cessa tion of all testing; including under ground, by all countries. He said that the task of the con ference was not just to talk and car ry resolutions, but also to make posi tive decisions. "Demonstrate" Mr. A. Emanuel, representing the 300,000-strong Malaysian Trade Union Congress, called for a day of demon- . stration, in each country, against the tests. Mr, S. T. Nayagan, an executive member of the National Trade Union Congress of Singapore, described nu clear testing as "a situation border ing on insanity." "The policy of Singapore workers is clear. Labor has always stood for peace. ' . We are totally against testing by any nation of the world", he said. Mr. A. Macdonald, secretary of the Queensland Trades and Labor Coun cil and an ACTU executive member, submitted a proposed declaration for discussion by the conference. These proposals included the elec tion nf a nrntftst. rifilppatinn tn pt» I the French Government, and called | for a week of trade union protest | activities. ! Public opinion I® Mr. Macdonald said that the- pro posed tests are to be conducted dur ing a period when the very serious j situation operating in Vietnam could I lead to a world nuclear war, . "a j I situation which must be immediately ir--olved by strict adherence to the \ 1954 Geneva Agreements". J Continued ott ABOVE: Mr. S. T. Nay agan, Singapore National Trade Union Congress . . "a situation bordering on insanity." ? RIGHT1 Mr. A. Emanuel (Malaysia) ... a day of demonstration. CALLS TO ACT ON A-TESTS j Continued from Page 1 "This conference should declare its opposition' to any and all nuclear tests at any time by any nation", Mr; Mac- donald said. Mr. W, Evans, ACTU junior vice- president, said: "A considerable pub lic and working class opinion; is" against , tests. "We are also opposed 'to the ex ploding of nuclear devices in Aus tralia", he said. ... During Tuesday's session three fur ther proposals were submitted to the conference. These came from Messrs. J. Riordan. (federal secretary Clerks' Union '.Aust"),' L. Short (federal secretary Ironwork ers. Association Aust.) and W. Ander son (secretary of the Northern Road Transport Union of NZ). Mr. Anderson supported proposals made by Mr. Macdonald and included a call to reconvene the conference within six months if the French Gov ernment persists with its plans. A lengthy declaration was submit ted by . French delegates from New Caledonia. Mr. M. Pedespan, on behalf of that delegation indulged in anti-commun ism as a justifciation for the French tests. . v Be said Frahce1 should - hot be criti cised' because-' the USA and Britain had earlier; used -the Pacific area for j numerous tests. ! Mr.: C, Fitzgibbon. (general secretary j Waterside Workers' Federation Aust.) -j said . there were many Australian pro tests against the British tests at I Monte Bello. . ; j "But in later years we haVe also learnt more about the dangers. | . "The trade union movement in New | Caledonia should educate the people, j to these dangers," he said. j "What, right has any nation to come j into an area foreign to it and endan- j ger any one person? And there are a ! lot of Polynesians endangered. : j "It's not just the duty of every j Australian and New Zealand trade unionist to prevent these tests, but- I the duty of every Frenchman," Mr. -j Fitzgibbon said. j Freracfc message j A "telegram sent from the biggest national trade union centre in France j (CGT), representing five . million French workers, pledged full solidar ity against the tests. I The French unionists said meetings and demonstrations in opposition to the tests have been fully supported J by CGT, j e 