 MHR brands ''bloody, filthy war" QANBERRA: "It is not too late for the Govern ment to reconsider and revoke its decision to send Australian boys to a blood bath in South Vietnam. "This is an action common ly referred to, and I believe justifiably, as sending these boys to a blood bath to balance the forthcoming Budget". This statement by Mr. A. W. James, Labor, NSW, was one of the most forthright of many made by Labor speakers in the Vietnam debate. Mr. James foreshadowed that the Government's Vietnam policy would lead to its defeat and that Labor would be called to power to steer the nation through the Vietnam crisis, in the same way as it had been during the second world war. Mr. Pollard, Labor, Victoria, said the Government's action on troo/s was "one of the most regrettable decisions ever taken in our history." Deputy Opposition leader Whitlam quoted former Australian External Affairs Minister Casey and former US President Kennedy in 1954 as having opposed armed intervention by the West in Vietnam. Mr. Mclvor, Labor, Victoria, said the Government was responsible for talk of a "death for dollars" deal and a blood bath for a balanced budget:" Mr. Bryant, Labor, Victoria, quoted Menzies' past praise of Hitler and Verwoerd, the, South African racialist dictator. He said that the present South Vietnamese Prime Minister, Dr. Phan Huy Quat, was an extreme Rightwinger. Holt's hint Treasurer Holt, the senior Minister to speak in the debate, reacted an grily to the debate in words that had a hint of menace. He said: "We cannot atrord, nationally, the kind of division which is registered by the Opposition in the Parliament at this time. The Opposition speaks for nearly half the Australian elec torate. "Australia cannot go on with the strength which it should be bringing to this issue if there is in Australia the kind of division which the op- postion is reflecting here at this time." On the brink Mr. James saia mac me Australian soldiers to be sent to Vietnam were the cream of Australia's manhood They were being sent to "a bloody, filthy war in which rising world opinion will prove that our actions, and those of the US, are grossly wrong and against all principles of justice." He believed that "we are virtually on the brink of a nuclear war now. "Should the Vietnam situation escalate further it could bring about the extinction of the human race and the destruction of the fabric of the earth." Because of this the Governments Vietnam decision was more serious than deevsions made on the eve of the world wars. Professor Hans J. Morgenthau, a US Defence Department consultant. and Senator Morse nad warned that US militarists aimed to provoke a war with China. He quoted senator rrorse as say ing: "The war hawks think they may get China to slip into an overt act so they can bomb "nuclear installa tions in China. Then the big show is on." Senator Morse nad said on April 14, 1964: "If we escalate the war, the plan is to use nuclear weapons." According to the British conserva tive publication, Par Eastern Econ omic Review, of March 25 last, US Ambassador Maxwell Taylor had threatened to resign if Johnson did not accept his advice to bomb North Vietnam and eventually China itself. Taylor himself had said: "There is no limit to escalation." Continued Australian support for US action "means risking our people, our cities and our land to nuclear destruction. Therefore the ALP is united to a man against the Govern ment's action." Mr. James ridiculed Menzies' state ment of the previous week that South Vietnam ex-dictator Ngo Dinh Diem was "a brave little man," and that his regime was not corrupt. Brutal regime Mr. Killen, Liberal, Queensland: "That is right." Mr. James: "Yet we learn from the magazines in the Library that on Diem's personal order 300 Budd hist pagodas were totally destroyed and about 2000 of the forces oppos ing him arrested, tortured and mur dered. "When General Khanh came to power it was thought that things would be different, but his regime committed almost similar destruc tion . . . about i000 Buddhists were arrested, tortured and disemboweled. How can one expect this to bring the people over to the Government's thinking?" SAIGON (South Vietnam police arrest a suspect for inter rogation under torture on suspicion of being opposed to the American war against Vietnamese independence; 