 COUNIHAN'S MURAL : A new chapter in Australian Art "THE unveiling of Noel Coun ihan's grandly impressive mural in the Jim Healy Mem orial Hall opens an important new chapter in the history of Australian art and should have a far-reaching significance for its future direction. The work is on an heroic scale and is conceived not as an inter play of a number of related ideas, as in an earlier draft, but in vast breadth; the whole of the immense surface given to a sweeping sym bolical expression of a single cen tral idea. The artist is completely absorbed in this idea, a broad generalisation matched by the dynamic breadth of the design, which, using few figura tive elements is an inspired ex pression in style, form and color of the painter's belief in "mankind's universal determination to emerge from the pain and suffering of wars and poverty in his search for free dom and happiness." The painting however must be understood as a graphic and not a literary statement. Rightly considering the mural as a permanent fixture of the building, Counihan has avoided specific depic- ! tion of scenes of war and poverty as he has of rosy constructions of the future. He is concerned with the human element, and he has approached his task as a painter rather than a lec turer, who must deal with the same themes in a different way. The design is simple and forceful moving from left to right; from the , tortured lines of suffering and death painted in solid blues, emerge two figures in sinuous horizontal lines to express a striving forward through the warmer colors of life towards the bright gold of the future. The simplicity of this design and the way in which its movement through the dominant color chord of blue, orange, red and golden yellow, is used to embellish the central theme, gives the mural that element of unity so essential to a permanent work on such a scale. The handling has all the charac teristic vigour and assurance of Counihan's style and the drawing, necessarily stylised, is firm and ex pressive. The colors are strong for a mural but are justified by their harmony. Many will view this painting in the years ahead and undoubtedly it will stimulate much discussion, for the Central Committee, Communist Party of Australia, has made some thing more than artistic history in commissioning a painting of such dimensions for a workers' meeting hall. Counihan's already impressive stature as a painter will grow further as this painting becomes known. — H. McClintock. 