 A M®w Theatre It's "Mavis" of the 1600's SYDNEY New Theatre has had a long association with Moliere, and the color ful production of "A Phy sician In Spite of Himself". Last weekend proved once again that this great French satirist of the 17th century has a place in our . theatre today. Watching this rollicking tale of the wily peasant Sganarelle posing as a doctor and deceiving all and sundry with a web of words, one couldn't help thinking that Moliere must have been to French life 300 years ago what the Mavis Bramston Show is to Australian life today. Then, as now, comedy and satire were an important social force. And even where the aim of the writer may have been mainly laughter rather, than social reform, the comedy and satire tended to be humanist and progressive in their character as they aimed their shafts at hypocrisy . and pretension at the commercialised and false morality of ruling cliques, at the pride and con ceit of the wealthy and powerful few. So that laughter— 300 years ago as now— became more than laughter; it became a torrent sweeping away the old, sweeping in the new. Much of Moliere's satire remains relevant 300 years later, and some of the laughter at the "Physician" arose from the knowledge of the audience that the1 word-weaving of the "doctor" is still not unknown among the medi cal profession today. The curtain - raiser, Chekhov's comedy "The Bear," tended to drag a little, but director Keith Gow and designer Yvonne Francart made no mistake with the Moliere; it moved with a swing from the word go and swept the audience off their feet with music and dance, color and clowning, slapstick and laughter. Norm Slater as Sganarelle gave a boisterous, down-to-earth presentation that was fully successful. His inter pretation seemed to fall a little short in presenting the peasant guile which is an essential part of the character, but except for one or two moments in the second act this hardly mat tered; the vigor and saltiness of his acting carried it through. He was ably supported by the whole cast, Denise Perry in particular giving a strong and fast-moving presentation of the wife. This season continues every Friday, Saturday and Sunday evening at 8.15 at New Theatre, St. Peter's Lane, East Svdnev (phone 31-3237). Go for an enjoyable evening.— -LF. Denise Perry and Norm S||ter in a scene from Moliere's "a Physician in Spite of Himself" 