 Yeo refuses to meet! Communist challenge ') SYDNEY: Sir William Yeo, New South Wales president of the ij Returned Servicemen's League, last week refused to meet a dele- P gatian of Communist ex-servicemen. H©'s msi© ! " I! THE delegation proposed the 1 meeting last hriday when they handed to Mr. E. Seir, the RSL public relations officer, a letter protesting against anti democratic statements made during the RSL s recent State Conference. Mr. Seir told the deputation that the State Conference was over and that "Sir William had gone home". I The delegates said in the letter that thev spoke for all Australian Com munists and in particular "the mqoy Communist men and women who served, fought and in some cases died in World War II". "Worms and slugs" The R.S.L. conference last week carried resolutions cadincj for. imme diate action" against communists; the ensuring "that no communist, com munistic or affiliated organisation be 1 allowed to use public school premises 1 or public grounds for any purpose 1 whatever"; exclusion of Communist | party members from employment "in 1 any industry engaged in war produc- tion of any kind or with the trans port of war materials"; and Federal provision "that it shall be an offence to give aid and comfort to any coun try whose personnel are engaged in acts of war against Australian troops." An example of some speeches was that of. Mr. Peter White, of Rosa- ville, who when speaking of com munists said "the big blokes are al ready underground." We should not make it easy for "these worms and slugs" to "stab us in the back." The communist delegation's letter said the conference resolutions and some speeches had revealed a "clear trend of attack on the honourable record of Australian citizens and trade unionists, and on the very Austra lian democracy that we defended in World War II." It continued: "As in, that war, so today it is a fundamenal obligation of a Communist (written into our Constitution) to defend Australia's in dependence, by all means— militarily, when necessary, and also politically- "At present, the extreme mili tarism espoused by R.S.L. leaders and. the Menzies Government have wrongly put Australnan servicemen into a position of great danger, in wars of intervention that have nothing to do with genuine defence of Australia. "This policy complicates and dam ages necessary good relations be tween Australia and Asian neigh bours, and so it is an unpatriotic policy, actually endangering Austra lian independence. "The unworthy and wrong nature of the poliicy of the present R.SJL. leadership is proved by the fact that the artificial Malaysia scheme is now being broken up by its own com ponent governments. - "The R.S.L. membership, might note that the antt-Cammunist utterances of the present leadership is precisely in similar terms to those used by Hitler, Tojo and Mussolini— the Axis enemy of World War II. "The Communist Party of Australia has a record and policy of truly patriotic service to the best interests of the Australian people. "We are prepared to debate our record and policy against that of Sir William Yeo and any other nominee of the present leaders of the R.S.L. The delegation (above) led by Mr. W. J. Brown, included Mrs. F. Lewin and Messrs. A. Robertson, M. George, A. Keesing and K. Swancott. They include former members of the AIF, RAN, RAAF and WAAAF. 