 Mass action defeats big rent increases I ADELAIDE — Widespread opposition and activity by the people , including the signing of petitions „ successfully foiled a proposal bv the SA Housina Trust to i moose hi a rent increases . In some cases rents would have increased by more than 50 per cent . Tlf Labor Government, re flecting this powerful movement, has: O Declared for a 5/- ceiling on rent rises O Proposed that the Minis ter for Housing should be in charge of Trust oper ations and An investigation should be conducted. Set up by Act of Parliament un der Playford in the thirties, the Trust had not increased rents for 10 years Within months of Labor coming to office, the steep increases were proposed. The increases were eleased to the press before the Government was informed of them. Labor members claim political motives have played a part in the whole affair. It is also noteworthy that the Trust, also since Labor came to office h" threate""! ' tenants with excess water charges for the first time. Mtembers of the Housing Trust include — Sir Robert Nicholls (for mer Liberal Party Speaker of the House of Assembly) and Mr. Brown, rightwing assistant secretary of the Trades and' Labor Council. The Communist Party immediat ely opposed the Trust's proposed increases, pointing out that they could not be justified in view of the £457,000 surplus earned by the Trust last year, an increase of £36,000. In the last six years there had been a total surplus of £2i million AFTER allowing for £12 million m interest payment. Govt, con trcl The CPA called for housing con struction to be properly planned under the control of the Minister for Housing with emphasis on pro viding rentals based on the econ omic position of the occupier and for the Trust to build houses itself employing day labour. (The pre sent system is for the Trust to sub contract.) Petitions of protest against the Trust's proposed rent risie began circulating. Communist Party mem bers, individual tenants and mem bers of the Union of Australian Women were among those active. Labor member for Glenelg (Ml. H. Hudson) was active in his elec- 1 torate, where there are many Trust | tenants, and spoke up in Parliament | against the Trust's moves. | The Government took a stand s against the Trust's proposals, andf placed a limit of 5/- a week on any! increase in rent. g This angered the Playford Op- 1 position which had hoped to use g the whole situation to weaken the 8 Government. 1 This victory by the people should j be followed up now with strong J action to overhaul the Trust. I Curing the campaign, there were ? many complaints about lack of I facilities, methods of collecting rent g etc. by the Trust and these need g to be part of any investigation. | 8 