 "Shirkers and slackers, listen to me, Khaki's the, color we want to see On every man from one to two score Above and below if England needs more." BHwnnnnsBanHnnBnBRnnnnnnBBnnHnannnBnBHiHnHBnHBn DEADING the weight of pro: paganda of the conscrip- tionists in World War I, you wonder how the anti-conscrip- tion vote ended up in front Conscription, i.e., coerced military service in a foreign country for a foreign power, had the euphemistic title of National Campaign for Com pulsory Reinforcements. You realise how long the Austra lian people had been indoctrinated with the idea of the British Em pire, and Australia's dependence on Britain. The press of the war providors, the Herald and Sun in Sydney at the time published cartoons and poems of strikers, trade unionsts and pacifists arm in arm with the Kaiser. They were "collaborators" with the "Huns", the "enemies of Christ ianity." War hysteria whipped up . a wave of anti-German feeling and local Germans were interned. The names of German towns . in the Riverina and South Australia, settled by Germans, were changed. At first the war providor press did not publish the casualties at, Anzac Cove. Their headlines croaked Judas praise for "glories? underlined with indelible blood/ and the heavy chalk of stock exchange black boards. Then — urgent calls for reinf orce-: ments which . summoned the /"super dinkums" to the Union Jack and graves 10,000 miles from wives, sisters and children they were urged to protect from "rape" by Prussian .barbarians. - .; The war providor /press printed - "The Slacker's Psalm": "My friend in khaki is my shep herd I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in cosy cottage. He spareth me the evils of the fight. "He gladdeneth my heart. . He makeih it possible for me to walk in the paths of cowardice, for my life's sake. 1 The "psalm" appeared when there was .an outbreak of what was cal led "peaceritis". ' The/dpggerel-for-diggers battalions press churned out - ?toriis ' "ot "Fight for the Flag!", "Save King Albert!" verses and songs and cartoons. Tear-jerking recruiting rallies blocked lunch-time Sydney streets. Censorship of press , and soldiers' mail kept Australians at home igno rant of conditions at the front. You have to get hold of the sei ners' papers in the front line, and the works of Ashmead-Bartlett, Sir Phillip Gibbs and the Australian C. E. W. Bean to find out. The jingoes and conscriptionists asked Australians who were grand- sons of the Eureka Stockade, and soiis of the Union struggles in the 90's — "Can you let football go for a sea son? Can you lay by your racquet and ball? Can you leave the race track or card room In response to your country's call? It's a matter of saving the Empire From the rule of a blood-thirsty crew, Your country is calling, it wants » you, What are you going to do?" Other gems were: "Shirkers and slackers listen to me. Khaki's the colour we want to > see On every man from one to two score And above and below if England needs more; promised that "only half of a fam ily of boys" would be asked to go. Appalled by the migrations of death to France, the organised trade union movement and many other Australians opposed to the war rejected the "blood vote". Conscription was defeated both times. Conscriptionists asked the ques tion (after casualty lists came in) But why do we lose so many men? (And answered it.) For the want of adequate re inforcements. And to trade unionists they said: Class conscious Australians ac cepted this sort of banality only . in the first mad moments of war hysteria. In 1916 and 1917, when asked to vote Yes for conscription, they were Trade unionists in the trenches call to their brother trade union ists for help. Do. not blackleg on them! The image of the Australian soldier in the providor press was either of a "larrikin" or naughty . boy, or just plain "Ned Bluegum", or "Ted Redgum" or "Billjim". They tried to reduce the Austra lian character and personality of the era immortalised by Lawson to . the anonymity of cannon fodder. - This supercilious "patrician" at titude to. the working class and sol diers of the time was a sure step brother of Prussian arrogance. - It pervaded some sermons on Sun days: "What makes a coin a coin is not its material value, but its Imperial sanction. It was cast in the Royal Mint. It bears the image of the King. What makes a nation a nation is tie r faith- Well, I'll drink the bloody lot! And eat up your rations, in the morning!! and "Route marches are tres bon for those— Who ride upon a horse; They do not compree blistered feet Or carry ' packs, of course; And when we come out for a spell "Slope arms", "Form fours" we do fulness to the Imperial destiny into which she is called of God." "Billjim" at the front sang a dif ferent tune: "You take the rumjar And I'll take the rum' And - I'll reach the frontline . before you! Then if you should get shot! No wonder that the boys break camp ; And come, back "fu the noo". NOTE: Public subscription to the .War Fund rose to £4,100,000 by 14/8/1918. The euphemisers told us: "Don't forget Every penny raised for the Al lies Means the cheap price you are paying To escape Australia being raid ed." a By the way, we paid for the war memorials after the war, "too. Gas attack on the Somme, 1916 