 Watch mg over the " subversives " Departments , SECURITY'S EYE 1 m N.& PARTY By JIM COOPER 1 Recent crude attempts by security police to intimidate the New Guinea independence movement have been followed by public slanders against leaders of the first indigenous political party. "THE New Guinea United Na tional Party, consisting of 10 members, was established on Wednesday, September 1. Mr. Martin, Madang-Sepik alleged in the House of Assembly in New Guinea that two Communists, two homosexuals and an alcholic were included in the Committee. He is quoted in the South Pacific Post (Sept. 6) as saying, 'two of the Party's working committee are active Communist people, two of them are people that normal males do not like to associate with and one is a drunk." The Australian press at the same time reported that two members of the Special Branch of the New Guinea Police Force attended the meeting of the new party, took notes and the name of those attending. The Minister for Territories, Mr. C. E. Barnes declined to comment. The Sydney Morning Herald, critising the snooping of the police, said: "It is difficult to imagine a more stupid response to the natural and welcome growth of political forces in the territories." However, the police spying was only one application of a general police policy of war against political opposition to the present neo-colonial regime. This was made clear by a remark able speech by the police chief on August 14. Mr. R. R. Cole, newly appointed Police Commissioner in Papua-New Guinea was reported as saying at the R.S.L. Congress at Lae (N.G.): "We must watch for creation of discontent and dissatisfaction towards employ ers and governments. N"We must be on guard against sub versive political approaches to weaken loyalties, fostering discon tent among frustrated semi-educated politicians. "We must watch for the formation of 'front' organisations with lofty ideals, but overt political control, and fpr penetration of unions and indus trial organisations to distort their aims." Mr. Coles further indicated that the recently formed police special branch "would keep itself informed, and pass on to the Administrator, the activi ties of any person or organisation which may be a security risk to the Territory." He said criticism was damaging to Papua-New Guinea's security unless it was "well considered, well pre sented and indeed warranted." It would be hard to find a more blatant example of intolerance than this, and coming from an official with wide powers it is disturbing. Actually the very opposite policy is required in the Territory. In stead of limiting criticism, open dis- cussion on, all aspects of policy and endeavour is required. Instead of standing over the people, the widest tolerance of their views should be exercised and fur ther, they should be encouraged to express their views. The aim of the new party include: (1) promotion of national interests, (2) raising of living standards, education and welfare generally, (3) promotion of rapid develop ment of the Territory and to en courage economic development to allow citizens a reasonable living regardless of color or race. 