 " VOODOO AND BAZOOKAS RULE IN HAITI Cunning Francois plays the dangerous game of dollar roulette By DENIS KEVANS Armed struggle is common place in South America. United States big stick policy goes back a couple of centuries and there was a time when the "rolos, cholos, gauchos, and jibaros" had only mac hetes to fight with. Guerrilla armies are fighting with modern weapons at this minute in Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, and Guatemala. U.S. tactics in Venezuela do not differ from those in Vietnam. Here in the jungle war, napalm- burnt peasants frighten photo- - graphers, villagers are terrorized, prisoners are shot. "Yanqui go home!" cries South America. So do the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Haiti whose guerrilla war to overthrow dictator Francois Duvalier started on June 27, 1964. They are led by a Catholic priest, Jean Baptiste Georges, ex-minister in Duvalier's government. Francois was elected "by carbine" in 1957. In power, he gaoled the. army of ficers he mistrusted and chose his own personal "praetorian" guard. Francois says: "I am the Haitian flag and I am invincible" . . . and ; . . "I will leave a Himalaya of corpses before I go under." His guard, like Hitler's S.S., are a law unto themselves. They are called the Ton Ton Ma- coutes. (It is sometimes said that the 21 Division would play them on a break, but this is not quite cer tain). The cost of maintaining the Ton Ton Macoutes and police is 15 mil lion dollars (£6,696,250 a year). This is a little more than halt of Haiti's budget! A million dollars of arms (£446,430) supplied by the U.S. has been diverted to the Ton Ton. Last year the Ton Ton stopped a mass in the Roman Catholic Cathed ral in Port-au-Prince and bashed the workshippers. They broke one woman's ribs and fractured her skull with pistol butts. Another woman was impaled on ® Pmts of the cathedral gates While trying to escape. The Ton Ton charged that the liSS WaS said against Duva- Francois claims that he talks to ne vodoo spirits and that he has supernatural powers. "Cathoiie bishops and one P opal bishop have been expel- \ led in the past three years. Eighteen Canadian jesuits were outed in February, 1964. One of them "carried an anti- Duvaher article. In November 1964, the Haitian Government turned the execution of two young men in Port-au-Prince into a public spectacle. Marcel Numa, 21, anl Louis Drouin, 28, were shot by firing squad in a Port-au-Prince cemetery. Cheer leaders led the : cemetery crowd ' with cries of "Vive Duva- . ' lier The execution was televised. In August, 1963, the International Commission of Jurists indicted Duvalier as the perpetrator of a "bloody tyranny" which had a free hand to gaol, question, torture and murder. The Commission said: "They can act not only at the order of the superior authority, but also on their own initiative. "They can, practically as their whims may dictate, dispose of the life, liberty, and property of their fellow citizens. "Persons unlucky enough to be labelled by police as enemies of the regime, or simply as suspects, just disappear without leaving any trace. "There must have been at the lowest estimate several hundred executions. ? In June, 1964, Duvalier held a "plebiscite" to elect himself dictator- for-life. He went to vote at a booth in the centre of . .the Port-au-Prince but the streets were deserted. To calm him, his police took charge of several trucks and drove them to crowded parts of the capi tal. They leapt down and started driv ing people to the booths with baton and boot. An orchestra on one of the trucks struck up a march. The strange spectacle was in creased by seeing police banging on doors and hauling people out of their houses to join the ranks. A lot of tourists standing round gaping were also got into step, One American journalist summed it up when he returned to New York and said: . "I only voted fifty times . . Haiti's population of 4 million is 85 per cent negro, theiT annual average income is 100 ' dollars . (South American average 240 dol lars). They live hand to moiith. Infant ; mortality is 50 per cent, illiteracy is a world record 90 per cent. In the capital; Port-au-Prince there is one doctor per 5,000, for the rest t one doctor per 35,000. And, may Ripley bend, there is one 240-bed hospital in the whole of the republic. Duvalier was showered with gifts during his first years. But he is much shrewder than the shrewdies thought. " , At the Punta del Este conference he at first opposed the sanctions against Cuba proposed by the U.S. He kept his vote to sell it (to the U.S.) next day for 2,000,000 dollars. Duvalier used "Alliance for Pro gress" bribes to build luxury villas for himself and the big shcits among the Macoutes on the outskirts of Port-au-Prince. When they sent him a please ex plain, he told them they had no business asking him what he did inside his own country. . It is certain that big private U.S. interests have given money to the rebels, as they did Castro at first. The rebels had their first victory at Kenskoff last September and the fight goes on. And official U.S. policy? It was summed up in "Newsweek" of May 31, 1965— "Of course we don't like Duva lier, but we can't overthrow him. Right now Haiti is not Com munist ..." ISOLA HISPANIOLA is ths island of two republics — Dominica and Haiti. The Marines recently helped keep Dominica "free" and in Haiti, Francois Duvalier, his army aind his police do the same. 