 \ 1 CANBERRA: "It is utter nonsense to suggest ! that this is a very arduous occupation." £OMING from Territo r i e s Minister Barnes, who never has to lift anything heavier than a glass of beer, this opinion about their work will impress watersiders, but not the way Barnes would like. It was his way of expressing the view that watersiders actions to make conditions easier are Communist- inspired subversion and must be "dealt with" under the Stevedoring industry bili which Barnes was supporting when he made his statement to Parli ament. Barnes implied that other unions were also marked down for the treat ment. "The Australian Railways Un- ion is dominated in several states by Communists" he said. "The Seamen's Union is a completely communist or ganisation". Later Liberal Senator Wright said the workers would rush to join the new scab unions "when this miser able Federation (the WWF) is des troyed." In this work of destruction the Government is "violating all prin ciples of natural justice", Labor Lead er Senator N. E. McKenna said in his speech on the bill. He pointed out that in enquiring whether an offence has been commit ted, the Stevedoring Industry Author ity, under the new Act, "is not bound to act in a formal manner but1 may tnfrtvm i f P 1.1. . xtocii. uii txiiy matter in sucn manner as it thinks just". The Act did not say, as one would expect," in such as manner as is just" said the Senator. "Once the Authority determines that the method selected by it is just, the matter is concluded." Denied hearing The Authority could require an ac cused person to make his statement in writing only, without an oral hear ing, whereas the first principles of natural justice required an accused man to be given a hearing, and be allowed to face his accusers. Under section 36 the Authority could conduct an enquiry and decide who among the persons concerned may put the case for everybody, said Senator McKenna. Sub-section (7) does not authorise those who are in trouble to get to gether and select spokesmen. The Authority can select the spokesman for a substantial body of workers," he said. The Authority, said the senator, could throw a worker right out of the industry without the chance to defend himself other than by a writ ten statement, or without the chance to defend himself at all if he were one of a substantial group dealt with under, this sub-section. The Federation could be deregister- ed if its members did not "promote goodwill in industry"— one of the ob jects of the Conciliation and Arbitra tion Act which it would now be an offence to hinder. One offence, big or little, would be enough. Senator Murphy, Labor, NSW: "It could happen once every week." Senator McKenna: "I go further and say that it could happen every day". Introducing the Bill in the senate, Government leader Gorton arrogantly ignored all criticism of it in the House of Representatives— even having the impudence to repeat McMahon's as sertion about the recruiting of "crim inals". Fewer stops Labor speakers showed that the WWF had neither the right nor the means to probe into the past of volun teers for the wharves. Mr. C. K. Jones, Labor NSW, said that nobody had the right to go to the police and ask to see another per son's record, not even the Common wealth police whom McMahon had ad mitted had been used for this piece of snooping. From Opposition Leader Calwell on wards nearly every Labor speaker ex posed McMahon's figure-fakery over time lost on the wharves. (Mr. Calwell showed the stoppages last year were about the same as in 1962-63 and less than in 1960-61.) It made no difference to Gorton and other Government senators who rolled out McMahon's statements in their original form. Senator Cant, Labor, WA, quoted from the Stevedoring Industry Auth ority's report for the year ending June 30, 1964 to show that wharf de lays due to employers' breaches of their obligations numbered 75 and lost 3611 man-hours, the highest on record — but action was taken against only one employer! 