 Koreans' plight in Japan J DEEM it a great honor to send th t"s letter to your paper about " urgent aspiration of Korean I nationals in Japan-the right of th_. n of travel to and from Tv meland- j just demand of Korean citi- zens in Japan has received support from many international organisa tions and from broad sections of the Japanese people. . . As ipany as 1,060 local assemblies representing 85 per cent of the Japanese population, have already adopted resolutions calling for free dom of Korean residents to travel to and from their homeland. Despite this the demand has not yet been met. We Korean people, in Japan can neither visit our long-cherished native land, nor can we meet our parents, brothers or sisters, visit our own flesh and blood who are ill in bed or pay a visit to 'our axjictjbturs graves. This miserable state of affairs has continued for 20 years. The Japanese Government says that "such a demand, if realised, will irritate the Republic of Korea," and that "there is no precedent of permission of travel abroad to a Korean resident in Japan." But foreign citizens of more than 70 countries in Japan are ensured of .freedom of travel abroad irres pective of the existence of : diplo matic relations between Japan and their countries. Moreover, the Japanese Govern ment has been imposing ROK nationality upon Korean residents in Japan who are overseas citizens of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, thus further discriminat ing against them. This has been especially notice able since the conclusion of the ROK- Japan Treaty.. Those who were compelled to come to Japan, deprived of their land and livelihoods in those days when Korea was ruled by Japanese imperialism as its colony: those who were forcibly brought here for military services or forced labor during World War II and their children and grandchildren— these are today's Korean citizens in Japan, Viewed from the standpoint of international practices and in the light of historical facts they should he given freedom to travel to and from their homeland and guaranteed democratic and national rights by the Japanese Government. We would greatly appreciate sup port for this movement of Korean citizens, particularly in the form of messages to the Japanese Govern ment. j- Chairman Han Duk Su, General Association of Korean, Residents in Japan. 