 Big vrages battle on the horizon By an Industrial Correspondent gIG struggles for the im provement of wages and related matters are already on the agenda for the Australian workers and their trade unions at the beginning of 1965. Outstanding issues include: © An application to the Com- monwealtli Arbitration Commission for an increased basic wage. « © Another application by em ployers to the same Commission for a "total wage" to replace the pre sent structure of a basic wage, and margins. © Continued pressure by certain interests for adoption of a so-callcil "incomes policy" prime purpose of which is to even more effectively control wage levels than is done at present. These are matters which in one form or another will be before the Commission almost immediately and not later than the end of February. Associated with these wages ques tions, and only slightly less imme diate, are the demands for: .© Increased wages for youth and equal pay. "© 35-hour week. Increased, annual leave for thou sands of workers whose leave was not increased following the three weeks leave decision of the Com monwealth Arbitration Commission in April ' 1963. © Improved long service leave no less favorable than that in the NSW Act, eg, 13 weeks leave after 15 years service, and pro rata leave after five and 10 years service. o Repeal of penal sections of legislation aimed at strike action industry pension scheme Another important demand being advanced by sections of workers is for an industry pension scheme to supplement the existing Common wealth old age pension. The Waterside Workers' Federation is making a feature of its pension campaign this year, and unions with members employed by BHP and its associated industries have decided to press the NSW Government to legis late for . a steehvorkers' pension scheme. Each of the demands on these questions advanced by the ACTU and the individual unions are important for workers and together they make up a program of immediate demands which can be supported by the whole working class movement. Experience shows that not one of these demands will be willingly con ceded by the employers or the gov ernments. But the same experience shows that each of the demands can be won if supported by united mass action of the workers. This same united mass action is necessary for successful resistance to employers' plans to attack living standards. The past three years were marked by a widespread and mounting cam paign of mass action which in some areas reached a peak in 1964. This campaign included various forms of action and resulted in some substantial successes. Outstanding were the nation-wide campaign resulting in £1 increase in the Federal basic wage; a variety of actions by workers in Victorian State instx-umentalities resulting in sub stantial increases in increment pay ments; an equally varied series of actions by metal, ' rail and building workers in Queensland resulting in increased over-award payments: the unprecedented action by miners at Mt. Isa and the strike actions by road transport workers in Sydney. These, and a number of other only slightly less important and success ful actions provide a pattern which must be followed and improved upon if the very important and thoroughly justified demands listed above are to be in any way successful. There is no time to lose in develop ing the necessary campaigns. As with all other successful cam-, paigns activity in the work places will be decisive. NOTE: To assist in these cam paigns, Tribune will be publishing a series of articles dealing with each of the above demands and de velopments in the campaigns sup porting them. 