 SA Government will I press for integration a ADELAIDE: The SA Labor Government will press for inte- || gration at the third biennial Aboriginal welfare conference |j to be held in Parliament House, Adelaide, ' 8 f , Conference will consist of top public servants and mainland State and Commonwealth ministers in charge of Aboriginal welfare, and is charged with forming the general policy of all Australian Governments on Aborigines. Besides the integration — assimila tion question, conference will discuss Aboriginal land rights, economic development of Aboriginal reserves and economic opportunities for Aborigines. The SA Government has declared its support for integration which seeks to respect the right Of Abori gines to exist as a separate entity. In a speech to mark National \borigines' Day, Mr. Dunstan said: Not only should they (the Abori- ines) be given full recognition, but :e should show them how proud we re of ther and their culture, which e will foster." An important part ol this concept c dp-.'"-- ' roar -5 -KW/- 'O) ii- .'.1.1 -V' : i- i ' t has been the Governments' announced 1 intention of becoming the first State | to provide land rights for Aborigines | through the Creation of an Aborigines' | Land Trust. 1 The Trusts' board would consist of c i Aborigines and there would be a | progressive transfer of Crown Lands reserved for Aborigines, plus other I Crown Lands. Larger supervised re- | serves might be transferred when g Aborigines' Councils, which are being jS set up on such reserves, indicate they m so desire b The Communist Party of Australia stands - for the right of Aborigines to H exist as a national minority with its g own culture, such a minority having g land rights and the right to develop H its own economic projects. This does g not deprive Aborigines, ot the rign M to be assimilated if they so desire F| The CPA pays full tribute to the j| efforts of the SA Labor Governmen a in pressing for integration and land »1 rights. .. ..... || -t; rtixis ||H 