 A Matter of Values | by WILMA HIEDLEY i "COMEONE'S coming, Mum, here quick, take your clothes". jA "V Joyce looked at tihe clothes strewn over the living room sofa. It was -"If Saturday afternoon and she'd been '% - relaxing. "n| "Blow the clothes" she called to v her son as she hurried into the bsdroom. "Let me get out of this dressing gown", i "Mum, Mum, they're at the door". >)' Jolin was calling in adolescent 'N\t excitement. The dog was out front V barking, the din addirig to the . . general contusion. "Let them in" Joyce yelled. / She was half buttoned into a > corduroy shift. Unable to find her " best slippers, she drew on a pair of shaggy boots, ran a comb through her hair and met thfc visitors as they came into the living room. There were two men and a woman. She didn't need to look twice to distinguish between the men- The one in the business suit was obviously the agent's representa tive and the big casually dressed man the buyer. The representative made . the introductions. " Mrs. Finney, this is Mr. and Mrs. Farqueson." Joyce smiled, still breathless from the rush. " How do you do. You want to see the house? Go right ahead". "Thanks" The woman proceeded purposefully down the corridor. As her husband stayed for a moment to view the dining-living room set-up, Joyce couldn't take her eyes off his head of immaculate beautifully groomed hair. It was a mass of tight waves, half, glinting grey, half black. The hair came to a peak in his wide, ivory forehead and the nose below was aristocratic and slightly hooked. Must be in his forties, a strong face, better looking than Jack Hawkins, she thought. He wore a light stained golf jacket and bright cravat over sports trousers. When he entered he'd been wearing an Italian straw hat, with golf cues as practical adornment. The hat made her think he wasn't Victorian. Not many men were wearing straw hats in Melbourne with the temperature at 47 degrees. Joyce suddenly thought, of some thing and swiftly went through the kitchen to the bathroom. The chamber pot had been put away. She hastened back into the kit chen and .busied herself at the sink. Her actions were fast and she didn't really notice what she was doing. Her mind was on the couple's estimation of the house. She joined them once more. The wife was entering each bed room with swift steps, opening the wardrobes, lifting Up the edge of the carpet to. examine floors. Joyce felt resentment at- this invasion of ' privacy. She didn't care about the floors, but opening the built-in wardrobes was a bit thick. The hus band stopped at each bedroom door She felt grateful for that. At last they were back in the living room. "Brrr, this is a beastly cold climate" the man said. "I couldn't agree more" Joyce smiled. "But you've got a slow com bustion heater which warms right through to the kitchen. We're throwing that in as well." "It's a fixture, naturally" the woman turned her sharp eyes on Joyce. "Yes", Joyce answered politely. '-'What about the carpets, washing machine, and curtains ?" she con tinued. "Well yes, I could leave the two carpets. They're fairly worn, and the curtains, but I couldn't do with out the washing machine". The man had risen, the agent following at his heels. Now the woman swept past them to the door, as Joyce addressed the man. " Did the agent tell you about the loan ? You can take it over you know". "Yes, they told, me when I came down". "You're from another State" " From Newcastle." Joyce beamed, "I know Newcastle. Good Workers' Club there." "Em". The man appeared uncer tain. "Workers . . . I've been talking to somev wharf ies lately ..." "You've been, addressing them"?" She looked at him eagerly. The interest , in her eyes was obviously flattering his ego. "Telling them!" he said. "We had a bit of trouble about the loading of missiles. An accident. One of them got killed. Their own fault, like the rest of their accidents." Joyce was taken back. When he said "One of them got killed", it was as if he was speaking of a mongrel dog or an inanimate object. She felt sick. The same way she'd felt when ABC television re peated the words of a young soldier back from killing Indonesians. "They were sitting ducks" he'd said, "We mowed 'em down." Her reaction was slowed, but it came, dryly. "Waterside workers are normal intelligent human beings. I'm sure they desire to live as much as anyone." The man gave an almost physical start, then the handsome mouth opened. " They're always complaining about something." The woman added her opinion, derisively. ''They want everything on a gold plate !" Joyce could feel the representa tive's eyes v on her: He moved uneasily. She knew just what he was thinking. Don't say anything to kill the sale, lady. She controlled herself and met the woman's bad-tempered glance levelly. "The small gains the wharfies have, they've struggled for, Mrs. Farqueson. Those who've been afraid to speak up, seem to have even less." . _ "Anyhow, meet my dog." She changed the subject as the dach shund came to the dpor wagging its tail. The man bent down and patted it. "Do you think you'll be interested in buying the house ?" she asked him. "We're selling it to iriove closer to town." "I don't know, it's a nice place, but . . ." The face that had appeared so strong now turned to the 'woman for guidance. She'd been standing restlessly, waiting to go. "The price is still too high." Her statement was flat, definite. "It's reasonable, really, at today's values" Joyce assured her. Farqueson seemed to find it neces sary to explain his WI e brusqueness. "We've' had to use pwt leave and park our three chu while we came down here to somewhere to live," he said, not very happy about it, nor i wife. And prices of homes are ws»» too high for us anyway." .. Sympathetically, Joyce i bered her past housing si tiugg "What's your work?" she ask "I'm in the Air Force." She stared at him quietly- They walked down the Joyce saw them off, tl.e looking more bad-tempei ever, the man inadequate, into the agent's ' fiqh0Us(. peered unhappily back at tne As they drove away, a smau Volkswagen pulled into the ( Join "Dad's home. Dads horn i . raced to meet his father his gladstone bag. husband Joyce greeted her affectionately. . dav on "Hello dear. Have a haid W the wharf ?" 