 Cmmmlst potlcyj for Local Govt i SYDNEY: "In the main, proposals to the NSW Royal I Commission into land rates now sitting, have been to I increase taxes on the people to supplement council finances. I Our proposal is that big business should foot the bill", Mr. j E. Burnham, Communist Party campaign director for the g coming NSW municipal council elections, said last week. ! K. BURNHAM, who is a candidate for West Ward (Canterbury Munici pality) was commenting on Communist policy in the elections and comparing it. with the policies of other parties. "Our starting point in this and other elections is that the working people must not be called on to pay more taxes. "There was a tax cut in 1952 that benefited wealthy firms by £20 million a year. This should be reimposed and the money used for the people's needs. "Tax concessions to big foreign investors should he eliminated. General Motors-Holden, for in stance, have sent hack to the USA £75 million, almost tax- free," Mr. Burnham said. Measures Other measures to make monopoly pay suggested by Mr. Burnham as part of Communist Party policy were: ! Eliminate cash subsidies to j big firms, mainly foreign oil firms, who have gained over £13 million for oil exploration. Eliminate cheaper Govern ment services to monopoly, in- ! eluding rail freights and elec- I tricity rates. j Elimination of pay-roll tax concession to exporting com- i panies which amounted to nearly £6 million last year. "The practice of using people's taxation to provide private ser- t vices for monopoly should he I ended. An example that imme- ' diately comes to mind are the | wharves supplied from Govern- I ment monies for the BHP at Newcastle and Port Kembla," | Mr. Burnham said, j There was a need for Councils j to have power to impose higher t rates on big enterprises, he | added. There were two main points in | Communist Party local govern- I ment policy that made it vastly | different to the policies of other I parties, Mr. Burnham said. These I were: I People's program j A program that could be g applied immediately to improve 1 conditions quickly for the people I and a long-range program that | would ensure increasingly im- 1 proved conditions in the future. I "It is anticipated that Syd- 1 ney's population will double to | 5 million in 35 years. This g calls for correct planning so | that the present muddle of $ transport, inadequate cultural | facilities, erratic housing J schemes, etc., will have to be I eliminated, with Councils play- f ing a greater part," Mr. Burn- J ham said. f "Communists see local govern- ! ment as an important aspect in I improving the living standards j of the people, and in this regard 1 believe that a foreign policy I based on the interests of Aus- I tralia, would result in substan- j tial reduction in war spending | and a corresponding increase in | money available for people's 2 needs," Mr. Burnham concluded. I E. Burnham i 