 [?] VIETNAM Inside Story of the Guerilla War By Wilfred Burchett, 47/6 &lt;48/11 posted) c HP HE author lived with the guerillas for eight months. This book is absolutely fascinating. Who could believe that the guerillas actually live "integrated with the enemy six miles from Saigon. Burchett, despite his 52 years, took forced marches, running for cover from helicopter attacks, crept through the fabulous system of under ground tunnels as battles raged —in short, he shared the life of the incredible Liberation fighters who are defeating far superior military forces. The guerilla leaders with whom he makes you familiar are certain they will defeat the enemy. Therefore the final line in the book regarding the Americans makes sense— "The best thing they can do is to go home." MY MASTER COLUMBUS By Cedric Belfrage, 7/6 (8/5 posted). rpHE author .has spun a novel — stirring and enthralling about the people on a Carrihbean island who -were discovered by Christo pher Columbus and his "Pink Men." The story tells what it is like to be discovered through Yayael, who becomes Columbus's interpreter and returns with him to Spain. An extraordinary book, sometimes tragic, sometimes hilarious and always human. SOVIET WEEKLY Single copy 8d. Subscription 37/6. , ; \J0W produced in color, this popu lar 16-page newspaper is a model in attractive presentation and a mine of information on a wide variety of topics. Contains regularly articles of interest to tourists, town planners, trade unionists, technicians, sportsmen, general interest readers and a quick, easy coverage for those who prefer to browse or scan. AGAINST DOGMATISM AND SECTARISM IN THE WORKING CLASS MOVEMENT By V. 1. Lenin, 5/- (6/8 post ed). COLLECTION of Lenin's articles and speeches in which he criti cises left opportunists who have a dogmatic conception of Marx ism. Although written in an earlier period, the fundamental concepts advanced by Lenin are still basically valid today. ' A re-study of this material would provide a helpful guide in ap proaching today's problems. Available from NEW WORLD _ BOOKSHOP 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY 