 A first look at the Vernon Report ANBERRA: Appointment of a national economic council similar to that which now exists in Britain to advise on the economy is recom mended by the (Vernon) Committee of Economic En quiry whose report was tabled last night. v The purpose of the British council, known to the workers as "Neddy", has been mainly to seek the agree ment of the workers to wage "res traint". There seems little doubt that this would also he the purpose of the council proposed by the Vernon . Committee. It proposes that Australia should aim at a 5 per cent per annum rate of growth in the gross national product by 1974-75 and says: "Considerable restraint in personal consumption expenditure will he necessary to increase and permit more investment in productive capa city and educational and other ;ocial facilities," says the report. However the Vernon report does iot want its proposed council to nave the power to issue "agreed re ports" but to be . an institution to "analyse and advise on policies for growth in all their ramifications". The council's membership should be a chairman, two executive mem- oers and not more than 10t part- time members, appointed by the Government. The Report contains a warning against continued unregulated over seas investments in Australia. "In our view there is no longer justification, on the basis of the experience of recent years, for the general promotion of overseas invest ment either by the Commonwealth or State Governments," says the Re port. The level of capital inflow should be held to what has prevailed in recent years. Very striking are the .trade figures which show how Asia is replacing Europe as the main market for key Australian exports. Between 194849 and 1963-64, Iritish purchases of Australian wool ell from 34.8 to 16 per cent ol otal Australian exports and percent ge purchases by other westerr European countries also declined. At the same time Asian purchases icreased from £8 million to £172 lillion in value and from 3 pei ent to nearly 40 per cent of the ital. Asian wheat purchases rose from I per cent to 50 per cent of Aus alia's export total, while British , irehases fell from 36 per cent t( ) per cent. The Committee sharply criticise ie U.S. for its restrictions on Aus alian imports. The Committee says it is "con erned that Congress whenever so tisposed, should see. fit to ignore ot only U.S. obligations under the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT) but also agreements negotiated by its own administra tion." It notes that the U.S., alone among big powers, imposes a tariff on raw " wool. It virtually embargoes the import of butter and cheese and imposed a quote on lead which "reacted parti cularly severely on Australia." There seems to be good scope, says the Report, for trade agreements with non-GATT countries, ; including the USSR. New markets for primary produce have emerged in China and the USSR and "we do not regard the out- - look for wheat and wool sales, especi ally to China, as unfavourable and in the long term see significant opportunities for other products." The Committee says that Austra lia's standards of living put her among the world's top half-dozen countries. She stands high in , health, nutri tion and housing. "Australia, however, does not rank so high in the provision of facili ties for tertiary education and there are still gaps to be filled in its sys tem of social security", particularly in regard to the aged sick. The rate of increase in personal consumption has been lower than in some other countries, largely, says the Committee, because of the de cline in Australia's terms of trade. The Committee, naturally, doesn't suggest socialism, and relies on the hope that "businesses" will "reach a state of conviction" that they must use their resources effectively with out the need for a crisis to make them do it. 