 "by Jan., 1912, 20,000 out of ni-;;gTBC8BSI 'ihtti n "S" 9 s 1 9 By M.E., Melbourne j Guardian. "You are committed to the custody of the officer commanding the Royai Australian Garrison Artil- lery at Port Phillip Fort ress for 20 days." This was Australia. The year, " 1912. The law-breaker was a lad under 18 years of age. His crime — - he had evaded the military drill required of all males between the ages of 12 and 16. Each time a magistrate pronounc ed this sentence, a boy was taken from the court room and placed in a guarded military wagon, which when full departed for a military prison. Another immediately took its place. Hardly any excuse was sufficient to deter a magistrate from pronounc ing a verdict of guilty. If a boy had evaded military training, missed the required hour? of training, or in some v/ay violated the regulations governing his training, | he was fined or sentenced to prison. - Perhaps the arrested youths felt their one consolation to be that they were not alone in their dislike for the Government's conscription sys tem. Although they had been traced, tried and jailed, thousands still re mained at large. Courts were dealing with the young offenders at the rate of 270 a week. Little time was allowed for a case for the defence. A few mum bled words were usually all the lads could muster. Thousands prosecuted The Australian military authorities had decided to prosecute defaulting boys — commonly labelled "shirkers" — after the early failure of a scheme under which parents v/ere liable for the registration of their sons upon their reaching 12 years of age. To the Government's dismay, hostility and protests against its conscription scheme, which began when parents were liable for prose cution, multiplied with the changes in registering procedure. The most basic act of protest was the outright refusal to register with the Government. By January, 1912, and despite the severe penalties, 20,000 boys had failed to respond out of the 37,000 required to register. In the two-and-a-half years follow ing January, 1912, the Department of Defence prosecuted 27,749 conscripts by means of fines. Another 5,732 were imprisoned in fortresses, military detention centres and civil prisons. During the first three years of operation of the Conscription Act, . one out of every five conscripted boys was prosecuted. In many instances the punishment was extremely harsh. Solitary con finement and bread and water diets were inflicted on many boys. Cases were reported of boys as - young as 15 being placed in solitary confinement. Many people could not see the Government's justification for con scription, and did not agree with the methods of implementing it. Protests were being made in grow ing numbers by trade unions, churches, some Labor Party members of Parlia ment, and other public leaders. Two school masters, Mr. J. P. Fletcher and Mr. J. F. Hills, in their book, Conscription Under Camouflage, said: "A statute that enables the authori ties to place and train under military law children not yet in their teens must surely have been drafted in some time of national emergency, when a country was in danger of being in vaded c- a nation was at the last gasp of its existence. "One wonders what desperate crisis was prevailing in 1911, when these things came into operation; how many thousands and tens of thous ands of men had gone to the drill ground under compulsory military training, when the galling collar of military necessity was placed upon the neck of the child of 11 £ years. "No crisis was there, no raging or threatened war, no shortage of adults able to bear arms, no desperate death throes of a nation; peace and un exampled prosperity reigned." The first organisation formed to campaign against conscription was founded by the Quakers in Adelaide on April 18, 1912. It was called the Australian Freedom League, and was soon to become a powerful organising force. Branches were quickly formed in Melbourne, Sydney, Queensland, Tas mania and in New Zealand, where opposition to conscription was also being militantly expressed. The League quickly won the sup port and co-operation of several other j religious and working class organisa tions In an early manifesto, the League stated that it believed compulsory military training to , be unnecessary and constituted a "grave menace to our civil rights and religious liberties." "The League denounces as unspeak ably mean a system which places the brunt of the training upon lads be tween 14 and 18 years old, who are liable to detention in a military fort ress if they fail to render the personal service required of them." In the two years before the war, the League distributed more than a million pamphlets. At the end of its first year thr League had a membership of more than 30.000. By August, 1914, this had grown to 55,000. -It was organising public meetings throughout Australia and was circu lating a petition against conscription. The League also established a women's division, which took an active part in the 1913 federal elec tions, heckling candidates on their attitudes toward compulsory military training. Both parties approved of the mea sure, and only a few candidates opposed conscription. The Labor Party lost the election. In an effort to put the case for anti, -conscription before the Labor Party, the Australian Freedom League issued a manifesto to the Conference of the Political Labor Council of Vic toria, which met during Easter, 1914. Although the council did not accept the League's recommenda tions, its counterpart in Sydney declared that conscription should be struck off the Labor Party's Federal platform. Members of the Australian Freedom League felt that public opinion in Australia at the beginning of the war was so strongly "patriotic" that any thing they might do would be mis understood. And so the League, with 55,000 members, after a little over two years of intensive effort and having come within sight of winning the abolition of conscription, was prac tically dissolved. However, its campaigning had not been in vain. It had its effect on the great and successful anti-conscription struggles which were to take place in Australia in the next few years. 