 [?] j Children 's j Sports Day | ! By "THE CHALLENGER" j f EMBERS of the J Junior Eureka ! League, a children's j organisation, will con- | duct their Annual j Sports Day on Sun- j day, September 26, ? commencing at 9.30 f am, at Camperdown I Oval, Camperdown, I Sydney. They will compete : in j team events, individual j races, etc., for trophies. ! Among the trophies is the I Southern Cross Shield (pic tured) donated by the I Eureka Youth League in j 1963. . I : A keen contest by branches | will take place to contest this S trophy. ! Members, parents and friends I and their children are invited I to come along and barrack for j the J.E.L. Branch in their areas S Many challenges have been I tossed around in the past few j weeks among branches. Perhaps j the keenest challenger is South j Sydney J.E.L. branch which won the shield in 1963 and intends to I win it back again. If you are a 1 Souths (League) supporter then | you will know what we mean. | All are invited to come along | and join in the fun . . . tea will ! be available, also a special soc- | cer match will be held between 9 I the E.Y.L. Soccer Team and j some keen soccer players in the j J.E.L. I Rugby League ! by RON MACKERRAS j Club secretaries might do a j survey to find the reason for the j long run of premierships to ' Saints in all grades but especially I their firsts. j If critics, club officials and j players attempted some fresh J thinking, they could lift the j . standard of their clubs to that | of St. George, instead of hoping j that St. George's quality will j drop to that of other clubs. j Norm Provan's decision to re- j tire is a wise one and seems in j keeping with his ability to coach j and lead a team to so many j premierships and at the same j time run his own thriving busi- I """ ness. j St. George should maintain j their successful policy of player- I coach, as they have such good ? material in their club with play- I ers such as Gasnier, Walsh, Rap- j er and others ... Walsh is my | pick. ! I have nothing but criticism | for the hardheads of Phillip j Street for their arrangements to ! handle such a crowd as at last | Saturday's Grand Final. j Briefly, they should, with the . aid of financial grants of the j League clubs throughout the j metropolitan area set about im- . mediately to build the St. Peters 1 stadium. I Season tickets for Rugby j League matches at £5 would be Jumped at and would bring in | thousands of pounds for tne j development of league and also , "i would give league fans a guar- | | antee that ' they could sit ana j | watch matches in comfort. j I The Sydney Cricket ground is , I far too big in playing area for I ' our Test batsmen, for watching j Rugby League it is hopeless. Mr- j f Buckley and his officials shouia | leave the comforts of the mem- | I bers stand and come round onto j ! the Hill and elsewhere to hear j the paying public's comment. j = Port Kembla defeated Wollon- j ' gong in the Illawarra first grade j Grand Final last Sunday by c points to 4. In their last two | clashes neither side has scored a j try. j The Port Kembla victory re- = fleets great credit on their cap- I tain-coach, Johnny Hobbs. » | has one of the longest, j first grade records in KU t League and maintains tip | . form. j 