 I i I TRIBUNE 1 Pax McBrida CIR PHILIP "McBRIDE'S retirement this week from the Federal presidency of the Liberal Party is not before time — judging by his comments on foreign policy. True, he said nothing outside the ambit of the Liberal- Country 'Government's policy, which is reeling under the impact of the break-up ot Malaysia, growing pudiic oppo sition to the intervention war in Vietnam, the India-Paki stan war and. developments in the United Nations. But even the ham-fisted Hasluck and the mid- Victorian Menzies might hesitate today before speaking, as McBride did this week, of a desire .to live in harmony and friend ship with Asia". "Bang away . . After all, the reality of the Government's policy, is no secret: it is that there is "no alternative to force in Asia (Hasluck); and it is to "bang away in Asia (Menzies). This is explained by Menzies repeatedly with a bogey tale that "Chinese communism will sweep down to our very doorstep. But not one Chinese has swept even into Vietnam — or into inshore Chinese islands like Quemoy and Matsu, still occupied by Chiang puppet troops from Taiwan. Menzies' explanation is merely a 'cover fw the Govern ment's determination to trail along with the United States in trying to destroy the historic revolutionary independence movements of Asian countries and to impose a pax Ameri cana" in that continent. China and UN "Friendship and harmony", says McBride, as the reports pour in of the unshaken determination of Vietnamese men, women and children to fight to the death against the invaders bearing napalm bombs, gas grenades, and a policy of "exterminate the lot and ask questions afterwards . "Friendship and harmony" . . . while the Liberal Govern ment continues, as one of a dwindling US-led band, to oppose the seating of the Chinese People's Republic — most populous state in Asia and the world — at the United Nations. In fact, the universal recognition of China which would be signified by her seating at UN could contribute a good deal to international friendship and harmony in Asia and the world. Source of violence Behind McBride' s unctuous words are years of armed violence imposed by the Menzies Government — and its co-imperialists — on people in South-East Asia who want their own way of life in peace. When this wealthy grazier and investor attempts to justify his call for a White Paper on Communism in Australia on the ground of "communist violence" in Asia, he is indeed turning black into white. Such a "white paper" may have an innocent sound, but springing as it does from a proven government policy of armed violence, it is being recognised more and more widely as a form of McCarthy intimidation against all who are exercising the democratic right of criticism of a bankrupt foreign policy. ' Hundreds of millions of Asian people are rejecting the policy and practice of the Menzies, Haslucks and McBrides, who thus become responsible for a situation that can only be dangerous .to Australia's national security. 