 (Wool reserve price kchevne would check ijpi ( brokers' grip I SYDNEY: The attack on the proposed scheme for a minimum I price for wool is being led by three of the nation's biggest wool - broking firms and some wealthy pastoralists . AR j. W. BAILES said this (P in a recent Voice of the iountryside broadcast, ijHr. Bailes said: j|«Despite the bogey of 'socialisation' iHihg conjured up, all that is sug- i Isted with the reserve price scheme j | that the man who has- produced He wool and owns it should have the : loht to say: 'This is the lowest price : J will take' — a minimum guaranteed price determined by his own organ s' | ation, the Wool Board, according to Hts type and quality. 3 'The owner-producer would no ITojiger allow the price to be deter-' Ssd by the buyers. .t the present time the ; price and of wool is in the hands of tarok- and buyers. Transport costs take uge slice of the clip. Greasy and y wool is carted by road and rail e distances to the auction sale sre it is at the mercy of inter- onal and national buyers who n rings, buying groups and mani- ite the market for their own fit, "Last year's wool sales showed a drop in price, although there is a .world-wide demand for good wool. This season's early sales also show a drop. The international wool buyers and speculators are the ones who could say why. "How can we expect to reduce costs and make wool prices more attractive and . competitive against synthetics when we allow millions of pounds to be wasted on freights and overseas speculators who make huge profits? "There are about 100,000 owners of sheep in Australia who between them can produce the world's largest and best clip. Surely they can organ ise so as to receive more than the miserable 4/- per lb average they are getting at this year's sales — instead of the international speculators get ting the cream as they do now? "If the wool, and the whole clip, including the skins, were treated in Australia, a tremendous sum now spent on transport would bo saved. "Naturally the overseas shipping and wool monopoly interests will try to prevent the expansion of our wool- len manufacturing industry in this way, because it would deprive them of huge profits. Hence they oppose so violently the simple matter of the industry determining the minimum price for its wool. "To the big wool speculators it means that the slumbering wool giant is beginning to organise, ''hey fear -this." The Financial Review says that though Liberal Party back benchers objections to the provisions of the scheme can make little difference to the Government's settled support for it, they could influence growers to vote against it at the forthcoming referendum. 