 ' TRIBUNE Taking Australia on lonely road IT was perhaps unfortunate for External Affairs Minister P M. Hasluck that his foreign policy statement last week came just aiter counterpart statements by his fellow-con servatives in Britain. Mr. Enoch Powell, Conservative "shadow" Defeiice Min ister, and Conservative leader Edward Heath both made their view clear that Britain would have to abandon its "east of Sudz" military commitments (i.e. South-East' Asia.) And as the Sydney "Herald" said on October 20: "It is not only the Conservatives in Britain who want to end the drain of 'east of Suez" commitments". In the same week, Walter Lippman once more indicated the substantial American opinion seeking an end to US "globalism". And Admiral McDonald, boasting of US efforts in Vietnam, forecast establishment of a South Viet nam police state to take. over from the army. He clearly envisaged US military disengagement under the long standing US slogan "make Asians fight Asians . Little wonder that the same- Sydney Herald editorial said: "The poles of the Government's foreign policy — reliance on Britain, reliance on the United States — are not necessarily constant." (October 20.) Against such a background, Mr. Hasluck's dreary reaf firmation of Menzies' "bang away in Asia" policy did demon strate one thing clearly — -the threat to Australian national interest contained in that policy, The Defence Department's report, tabled also last week, with its demand for 20,000 additional recruits in the coming year, translates the policy into Australian flesh and blood. The Government is hell-bent on a policy of war in Asia that is already incurring Asian hatred, despite the multi plying signs that sooner or later Australia is going to be left "holding the bag". Not content with that, the far-right Democratic Labor Party, at its Federal Conference last weekend, has officially put into words its demand .for an Australian nuclear weapons industry. Tied up with B. A. Santamaria's broadcast demand that | Australia should make war on any government within 3.QQ0 miles that is politically unsatisfactory to him, this means preparation for nuclear war against Asian national independ ence movements. Such are the aims_ of those who attempt to impute a lack of patriotism to, Australian communists- In fact, future generations in our country will revile the names of those who set Australians against their Asian neighbours. 