 Japan, USA race in to grab iron ore for only 3d. a ton ! By JIM STEVENS Australia's natures! resources are being "given away" fo wealthy American and Japanese interests for a few pence a ton! kAR. J. SEVAN (federal secretary off the Boiler- makers' Society) who recently returned from a tour through the iron-ore fields in West Australia, said: "This shocking plunder of our mineral resources is be ing deliberately encouraged by the Federal and WA State Liberal Governments." Mr. Bevan together with the Boil ermakers WA secretary (Mr. P. Gren- 'fell), investigated many of the con struction sites now being established to exploit the large rich iron fields in the North West. Since last December, Japanese steel interests have concluded deals to purchase WA iron ore amounting to £1,140 million over the next 22 years from mines in the North West. Agreements These agreements have been made with the Mt. Goldsworthy Mining As sociates, Hamersley Iron Pty. Ltd. and the Mt. Newman Iron Ore Co. The Japanese will also import ore worth about £29 million from the Western Mining Corporation's mine at Koolanooka, near Morawa. A more recent deal worth about £400 million has been made by the Cleve land Cliffs Iron Co. of the United States to sell iron ore pellets to Japan. For these pellets, manufactured at Cape Preston, the Japanese will pay £5/9/6 a ton but Australia will get only 1/- a ton to be raised to 1/3 after -15 years. The other deals for the direct ship ping of ore have been made at prices from £4/4/- to £4/7/3 a ton and it is strongly rumored that all Australia will get is as little as 3d to 6d a ton royalty. Liberal Premier of West Australia, Mr. D. Brand, thinks this is "one oi the most exciting mineral stories of the world. "Many major countries are watch ing it with close interest," he said. By major countries, he no doubt means major foreign business inter ests. £ 2000 million in profits Mr, Brand is "excited" at the possi bility of six new towns being created in the North West, with four or five deepwater ports and 600 miles of standard gauge railway laid. "The investment program could be in the vicinity of £300 million," he said. What he does not say is that for this £300 million, these foreign inter ests will grab about £2,000 million in profits and . when they get their fill will move out and more than likely sell the railways and the ports to the Government at a handsome profit. But it is hardly likely that they will be in too much of a hurry to move out of one of the biggest and richest iron ore fields in the world. Even after completing their present 2C years' commitments, they will still have only taken about two per cent of the known reserves. No wonder Mr. D. Ludwig, the American multi-millionaire bulk ship ping magnate, wants to build a fleet of carriers in Fremantle. "Exciting story" The only part of this "exciting story" the West Australian people will get is a few pence for each ton of ore carted away— and holes in the ground! Nor are these American companies confining their efforts only to iron ore. Encouraged by the State Liberals they are busy combing a wide area for other minerals. Mr. Bevan said that when he and Mr. Grenfell visited Broome and Derby they met air crews engaged in aerial survey work for an American company. "The Australian pQots were forbidden (by their American boss) to discuss the equipment being used or the findings from these surveys," he said. This shocking state of affairs is causing widespread resentment among many Australians. Only last month, the Deputy Prime Minister and Leader of the Country Party, Mr. McEwen, said: "It's not good enough for this coun try to live by selling a bit of its heritage every year." He was addressing the annual con ference of the WA Country Party which called for immediate legislation -to control the inflow of foreign capital and to prevent Australian industrial undertakings from passing into the hands and influences of outside con trol. Federal Treasurer, Mr. Holt, how ever publicly lauded the, "great ad vantages" of foreign capital. During the tour Mr. Bevan inspect ed working conditions on the sites being established as ports to handle the massive export of the ore. These included Cape Preston, Port Hedland, King Bay and Onslow. Mr. Bevan said the wages being paid on the construction sites are very low considering the isolation and the climatic conditions. Boilermakers were only getting 15/- an hour as against 11/8 an hour in Perth and weather conditions were making it almost impossible to work much overtime. ; Many workers were only getting about the same as they would in Perth. This fact is. causing a big drift back to the cities. ' To try and force workers to remain on these sites, the air fare from Perth is taken from the first pay and only refunded if a worker remains for three months. The return fare is paid only if the worker remains for at least six months. The unions are demanding a wage rate of £1 an. hour plus £10 a week site allowance and a 30/- district al lowance. Mr. Bevan said he believed that in a short space of time many thousands of workers, including about 800 boil- ermakers will be required in the North West area. He said that one of the demands of the trade union movement should be for the West Australian Government to take over these operations with the financial assistance of the Federal Government. "In this way the rich mineral resources will be developed in the' in terests of the Australian people and not to make super profits for foreign ers." 