 Kosygin on profit: the facts |HE details of Soviet Premier Kosygin's recent report on reforms to the industrial econ- my have exposed as empty jpcv,uiauui i me ciaims ot sec tions of the press and other anti-soviet agencies about a "return to capitalism" in the USSR. kosygin, reporting to the Soviet Communist Party's central commit- tee, showed that what was planned was the increase of scope for init iative in the individual industrial enterprises, and the increased use of profitability (excess of receipts over expenditure) as a measure of a plant's success. This has no relation to the pri vate profit basis of capitalism. Pro- fitability of socialist enterprises has always been a factor in the econ- omies of all socialist countries but the USSR is now making more positive use -of it. Planning I Scientific standards of central soc ialist planning of the economy would be raised even higher. But, he went on, enterprises would he sriven ereater economic tartanon. dence of government planning bodies I and more opportunity to exploit I their own initiative. I Enterprises would retain more of I their own profits to develop produc- tion, improve techniques, pay high- 1 er bonuses and improve working con- I ditions even further. | The proposed measures he said, I "are aimed at the consistent appli- 8 cation of the Leninist principle 8 of providing material incentives 8 for the working people, at finding I new reserves within the enterprises H themselves and creating new B means for raising the wages of in dustrial and office work." The amount of profit retained would naturally depend on the effectiveness of the enterprise. Material incentives for the whole personnel of the factory would play an important part in encouraging a thorough interest by workers, not only in their own job, but in the j total performance of the enterprise. I Managers would have to take full j responsibility for their work based on | a thorough cost-accounting of their | factory. ; The present system of incentives ! Mr. Kosygin said, was designed w beat production targets at the ex pense of the cost of production. There were instances where fac tories, in a hurry to beat production targets, had produced low-quality goods that few people wanted to ! Now, he said, production would be based on the volume of goods sow in shops. This would mean more tention to the quality of goods . This plan would draw production and consumption much closer the profits from sales maue w - individual factory as part w national profit would tell ho iently it was planning and execuu its work. ef. Enterprises which proved tn ficiency in the use of fixed and working capital would keep of their profits for use as mcem for the whole of the factory p "Vor the present, the planned funds for all enterprises would M tinue to be applied contrary. .f/ | But factories would J p extra funds based on Pr0 f $ j creased efficiency, growth | duction, improved &lt;ua1; # f used to stimulate workers W ,j vidual achievements and sults- , , tin an fJ 1 Enterprises would build P jjoiis- I tra fund for further pre- | ing, sport and cultural fa | school centres, chridreus fj -camps and health and rest re their workers. | 