 WA UPROAR ON ! JAPANESE CLAIM PERTH: A Japanese industrialist's statement here that Jap anese monopolists buying Australian iron ore regarded the ore mines and ports as their own has created a public uproar. "THE industrialist Eiichi Og- awa, during his Perth visit last week, is reported to have said: "Japanese steelmakers were the only buyers of Australian iron ore and would be buying it for such a long time that they felt, in effect, that, the mines, ports and railways being developed were theirs. If there was a demand, for labour the Japan ese felt they should be allowed to supply it." Here are some of the replies:— Labor Opposition leader flawke: Mr Ogawa and those who think as he does should be told that they are only buying iron ore and not the State itself. J. W. Coleman, Secretary W.A. Trades and Labour Council: The TLC would never oppose labour im portation on grounds of colour, race or creed. However, the Council would be sure to insist that all W.A. and Australian labour sources had been exhausted first. It would also insist that imported labour received the same award conditions as W.A. workers. Govt, view Premier Brand: The Japanese (iron-ore contractors) regard the ports and railway as vital to their steel industry and naturally wish to see them operating efficiently and on time. If Australian labour was fully committed, he favoured the idea of overseas contractors bring ing their own labour with them for the duration of their contracts. Wages for imported labour would be a matter for the companies to decide. (Tribune's emphasis). However, he thought it "desirable that local wage levels should not be upset." "West Australian" editorial: Japan ese steelmakers should not be allowed to harbour the illusion that they have acquired the title to a big slice of Australia. Japanese demand for our ore, coal, wool and other goods is . . . for their own good. Whether or not it "is good for Aus tralia is incidental to their purpose of making money for themselves. It does not give them a proprietary interest in Australia or a voice in our domestic affairs. Industrial Development Minister Court; Saw no objection to the use of a ' selected foreign work force, provided there was no detriment to Australian workers. He understood that some northern 'construction companies had made inquiries of the the possible use of Maltese, Lebanese and Mexican labour. Lift veil Country Party Leader McEwen said recently in Perth: "I don't think it is good enough that this country should have to live by selling a bit of its heritage every month." All Governments should be pressed to declare publicly now what rights have been granted to foreign com panies in Australia. Overseas interests have put up 10 per cent of Australian post-war in vestment. But with this small stake they have acquired between one quarter and one third of the owner ship of industry and taken control out of Australian hands. Without further delay, the current sessions of Parliaments should , de fine the limitations to the "inde pendence" of foreign investors and safeguard Australian jurisdiction, independence and sovereignty. 