 Communist intellectuals discuss creative work A NUMBER of Communist academics and other intel lectual and creative workers from three States met recent- ly in oyaney on tne initiative of the Political Committee of the Communist Party of Aus tralia.. There was a stimulating discus sion at the meeting about some basic questions facing the party today. All present felt that the central and urgent need was for the party to develop Marxist thought in Australia along creative lines, to make fresh analysis and general isation in economics, sociology, philosophy and other fields. This was necessary in order that Marxism and the Party could pro gress in the intellectual field, among the younger generation, and indeed among all sections of the people. The form of "dialogue" was con sidered particularly suitable to developing exchange of ideas by Marxists in the intellectual and other fields. In this creative work the leaders of the Party had a special responsi- bility, which, as it was discharged, would draw forth a growing re sponse from intellectuals and others, both within and outside the Party, and would help to over come conservative attitudes pre valent in the Party. While recognising that Party de cisions had to be taken at a given stage on some political and tacti cal issues, the view was that there should be adequate ' opportunities and avenues for continuing free debate on theoretical questions, and that this should be encouraged as necessary to further the above process. The view was expressed that at all levels in the party there existed a lack of appreciation of the creative work of intellectuals, and even denigration and suspicion, all of which did considerable damage to the Party and its standing in these circles. An active campaign was needed to combat such attitudes, and a flexible and understanding approach was required on organisational forms, directed especially to ensur ing that time was .available for devotion to creative work. All felt the need for the party to criticise and draw lessons from the errors of the past. There were differing opinions as to method. Most held the view that it was more effective to deal with these matters in the course of creatively tackling contemporary economic, political and social problems. The general view was that administrative decisions as to the merits of scientific theories and artistic creations had done great damage to the Party in the past, and that there should be no repeti tion of these errors. In discussion the general outlook on life prevalent today, particu larly in intellectual circles, atten- tion was given to existentialism (not necessarily held in developed theoretical form) and a liberal humanist approach, pointing to the need to develop Marxist thought in this area. The growth of spon taneous radical ideas was also noted. Attention was. directed to the rapid expansion now taking place in the intellectual and technical field, and in general in the "white collar" occupations— a trend, that would continue and even accelerate with the advance of automation. It was decided that further meet ings of a similar nature, drawing in additional people, should be held. 