 Mr. Holt has a big ! shock coming By E. W. Campbell If Federal Treasurer Holt thinks that mere : words will melt the stony : hearts of United States ; millionaires, he is due tor a rude awakening. Holt is visiting the USA' in a bid to talk President Johnson out of maintaining curbs on U.S. capital investment in Australia and" restric tions on Australia's exports, to the U.S.A. However, as: stated: editorially in the Australian,. April 26: "It is more than likely, in fact, that Mr. Holt? and his delegation will find them selves doing more listening than talking." Mr; Holt, on the eve ojk his depar ture, strongly implied that lack of understanding by America of Aus tralia's problems. was primarily res ponsible for restrictions: of capital investment. "I do not believe- they would' wit tingly take action which would weaken development in" this coun try," he said. "I hope to convey that the U.S. Administration enjoys in Australia a staunch ally, a good trading part ner and a warm friend." Sfone wall Who does Holt think he is fooling? The Sydney Morning Herald's Washington correspondent, A. D. Rothman, says he has it from author itative sources that on his three main complaints Mr. Holt is likely to come up against a stone wall. (S.M.H. 26/4/65). Basically only one thing interests American monopoly capital— increas ing its own profits: and extending its domination over other countries. America has a. trading surplus with Australia of about £200 mil lion a year and strives ceaselessly to expand its exports, while at the same time restricting Australia's ex ports to the U.S.A. America imposes a high import duty of 25 cents per pound on Aus tralian wool, restrictive quotas on lead, zinc and sugar and discrimin atory practices: against Australian meat. So much for the "good trading partner". What of capital; investment? In three years - to : 1964; foreign capital: investment in / Australia (including re-invested profits) amounted to £335.8 million. ' Military spending Over the same period profits sent abroad by foreign companies amounted to £358.6 million— a net loss to Australia- of £23.1 million. From this it is clear, that, . even in", the unlikely event of Mr. Holt talk ing President Johnson into a reversal; of. policy, . Australia will be little bet ter off.. Whatever the outcome of Mr.. Holt's visit, Australia's balance/off payments problems will grow more: serious, , worsened by the heavy mili tary commitments entered into" by the Menzies Government. Huge military expenditure abroad is also the main reason for America's own balance of payments crisis, which will not be solved by President Jonhnson's curbs on private capital investment. U.S. Government costs overseas are running at the rate of 8000 mil lion dollars a year, of which direct military costs amount to about 5000 milion dollars. Eugene E. Renta, economist and research director for the U.S. Coun cil of State Chambers of Commerce stresses that until there is some move to cut back this expenditure there is little hope of solving the balance of payments problem. However, far from moving in this direction the Johnson Administra tion is stepping up war expenditure abroad. Following! last week's. strategjr talks in Honolulu, US Defence Sec- retary, McNamara, announced a 123 ; . million dollar boost in Vietnam mili- ; tary aid in the next two months. The Menzies Government, in | sequel to the visit of Cabot Lodge i is likely to further extend Australia's I commitments to American aggres sion in Vietnam. , The. labor movement should more / vigorously demand an end to this : aggression, and Australia's present : war-like foreign : policy, and thus | make" a big/ contribution towards J redressing the balance of payments I problem .with its grave threat to the k whole economy, the jobs and liveli- hood of the people. | The; labor" movement should also | demand an end to the "open-door" j policy which has, particularly under : the Menzies Government, allowed / foreign monopolies to take over |. vital sectors of the national economy. I i:; : : : 5 ; I AN ACADEMIC HAS A RIGHT TO HIS OPINIONS! 