 [?] [?] By ALF WATT , in Moscow . M0ST> if not all, of the artists in th'e Soviet ; circus visiting Australia are graduates of the State Circus and Variety Art ists' Academy, which has trained about 1500 (or 85 per cent) of those working in the 80 Soviet circuses. Visiting the Academy re cently, . I saw something of the great care, patience and skill that goes into the mak ing of a Spviet circus artist. Circus art is a flourishing pro fession here, and performances of the highest standard are called for. The Academy itself is the only one of its kind in the world. There are studios in some other countries, I was told at the Academy, but they do not offer the comprehensive training and school ing provided here. Nina Oberaban, the Academy's Deputy Director, a graduate of the Foreign Languages Institute and teacher of French, told me that the school now graduates about 50 students a year, but was being en larged to triple the graduates. The main course is a seven year one, for boys and girls who have completed their fourth year at school. At the Academy they finish their secondary schooling and get a general circus education and train ing. After four years they begin specialised circus training. Youths and girls under 20 years of age who have completed their secondary schooling are accepted for a four year course, but in addi tion they must give proof of ele mentary acrobatic and gymnastic training. There are also special courses (three years for day students and four for evening students) for clowns and musical eccentrics. Maximum entrance age for these is 26 years. Students must have had a good secondary education, and musical eccentrics must in addition, have studied for seven years at a music school. The comprehensive and high standards set for entry help explain the skill of the finished artist. Aspirants must be in excellent health, of normal physique and good appearance. "Spectators like to see a beauti ful figure," Nina said. They are then tested for muscle co-ordination, quickness of reflexes, sense of rhythm, ear for music and acting and miming ability. If they get through all this, they are then tested for. suppleness, strength, endurance and jumping ability. oider applicants are also examined in their knowledge of the Russian language arid in the history of the USSR. ; So it is not easy to get into the Academy, but those, who do. are graduated as accomplished acrobats, trapeze artists, tight rope walkers and balancers, gymnasts and jugglers. The entry qualifications for clowns and musical eccentrics are not so exacting, but nor are they easy to meet. Yet the Academy has many more applicants than it can place. The course of training includes ballet work, ("an absolutely essen tial part of an artist's equipment," Nina said), elementary music and musical literature, the history of the circus and the theatre, deportment, all the arts and graces of the theatre, as well as gymnastic and acrobatic work. "Students must work longer , here than at ordinary school," Nina ex plained, "though they get less home work to do. All of them, however, are 'mad' about the circus." Nikolai Bauman, Art Producer, a graduate of the Academy and author of several books on training for the circus, who spent 18 years in the circus ring and the last 18 as a teacher at the Academy, spoke about the last two years "of the course. — He. gave yet more evidence of the patient thorough attention of the Academy and the State. &lt; With two years to go, the student meets a Board of Producers, mostlv experienced teachers under the leadership of Nikolai Bauman. A plan of the artist's specialty act is piepared, and . sent to the Director of the State .Circus Council for approval. There follows two years of inces sant painstaking work, for the student must pass his final exam in this act, and pass out into the world of the circus as a polished £tIuiSu "What about failures," I asked. AH who finish, the course graduate he said ' Those who begin to put on weight, or show some physical weakness, or some other deficiency, are weeded out as soon as it appears, and be fore the final two years. The procedure for clowns and musical eccentrics is again different, but equally thorough. ' On graduation, the student is an accomplished artist, with a diploma accepted for entry into any of the arts and humanities faculties of the higher educational institutes; all costumes equipment and music for his specialty act are supplied free, and he has guaranteed employment. There are no unemployed circus artists in the USSR. 