 New film on Russia arouses discussion NEW film on the long and arduous struggle of the Rus sian people to build a socialist society has become available for showing in Sydney and is already causing some controversy. This remarkable document ary, "The Russian Miracle", made by two East German film directors, Annelie and Andrew Thorndyke, was shown on November 23 be fore a big audience at the Union Theatre, Sydney. While its overall significance was highly rated, there were also a number of Criticisms — - including its, length (3 hours) and, in the second half, cer tain presentations that fall svort of being convincing to ..an /\ puience. For tin's reason, the sponsors, Realist Films, are asking for opinions and criticisms of the film to be sent in, by letter, telephone or persona! call at 52 Phillip Street,. Sydney (plione 27-3504). The film documents the changes i.n Russia since the revolution of. 1917 and convincingly portrays the desperate fight of the Russian Soviets against the interventionist armies of Britain, France, Germany, Japan and the USA, in 1918-21. Bloodless revolution Two years after the almost blood less revolution of November 7, 1917, Lenin told a mass meeting of Rus sian workers in Red Square that they must overtake and pass the leading industrial countries of the world in a peaceful economic contest He was speaking for 150,000,000 people, about 90 per cent, peasant and illiterate. Russia had only 3,000,000 industrial workers in the centres of Baku, the Donbas, Mos cow and Leningrad. Many factories were owned by British, French and other foreign capital. Lenin said that for this task there must be peace. But foreign capital did. not want the prize of Russia to escape from their domination, and armies of intervention and tons of equipment were poured in to join the "white - guard" counter - revolu- tionaries in trying to crush the Soviet Republic. This three-year war, which ended in the rout of the invaders, devastated Russian industry, communications, food stocks, etc. In the West, the United States emerged from World. War I unscrath- ed, producing one-half of the world's industrial wealth, one hundred, times more than Russia. Sacrifices "The Russian Miracle" shows the unbounded sacrifices made by the Russian people in their subsequent labor to fulfil the Communist Party's program of building socialism in their country. By 1961 the output ratio with the USA had been reduced to 1 : 1.3 — and it is closer today. This "miracle" was founded on the initiative, sweat and sacrifice of millions of Russian workers and peasants who also bore the brunt of the war against fascism — four of every five German and other fascist soldiers were killed on the Eastern Front. The second" hak of "The Russian Mircle" as it stands tends to be repetitious and to make statements about conditions which needed more examples to bring them right home to Australian people. The Thorndykes, East German hus- band-and-wife team, had a difficult task. The second half of their film seemed to be undigested and with out the unity and flow of part 1. They excluded practically all refer ences to the Russian participation In World War I and in the world war against fascism, two vast historical subjects which could have helped their, task. They chose the more difficult method of telling the stories of Communists and other workers in Russia. These were convincing, but didn't carry the force of the films of masses of people in Piart 1. And though they did not take the easy path of using the emotional value of World War II material, their use of direct statement, and some commonplace scenes in Part II, were not readily acceptable to a severely critical Western audience. (The film has been criticised in Western Europe and in the Soviet .Union.) What they did make clear was that "The Russian Miracle" is based on the unleashing of the creative poten tial of millions of formerly subject people, led by the Communist Party and the guiding theories of Marx, Engels and Lenin. — D.K. "The Russian Miracle" is avail able for hire from Realist Films, 52 Phillip Street (phone 27-3504). mmmwwM/M/M mm. A scene from "The Russian Miracle". Peasant women in Czarist Russia forced to work like draught-horses. 