 Labor Govt, under fire in Britain The defeat of British Labor Foreign Secretary Gordon Walker in the Leyton by-election and the reduced majority for Mr. Cousins in Nuneaton show that there is a serious danger of a defeat for the Labor Government and the return of the Tories. results cannot be any thing but a vote of censure on Rightwing policies being followed by the Government at home and abroad. Some factors in the Gordon Walker defeat — such as the economic crisis inherited from the Tories — were be yond the Government's control. The fact remains that, as Tribune has stated, the Government has fail ed, in its "100 days", to reorientate the country's foreign policy away from the Tories' line. In some parts of.,the globe, especial ly Malaysia, the Labor Government has been intensified war prepara tions. The Government has evidently not convinced the British electorate that it is offering a real alternative to the Tories — and its ability to do this will determine its fate. On the home front the Govern ment has done nothing to halt the wave of price increases that has stirred widespread protests from housewives in the past few months. On January 11 the London Daily Worker, journal of the Communist Party, said that the total of increases in the prices of food and household goods was 960 since December 16. It had earlier warned that "kid- glove methods would have no effect on monopolies and said that Econo mics Minister George Brown would get no compliments from housewives for his circular merely asking manu facturers why they were raising prices." They Leyton result particularly underlines the appeal made earlier this month by Mr. Bert Ramelson at a British Communist Party Execu tive meeting for a mass movement it. press the Government to fight the monopolists and the Tories. Without such a movement, he said, the tendency of the Government would be to yield to monopolist pres sure, with consequent danger to it self. "The big thing is, what is to triumph, the present trend of yield ing to big business pressure, or a radical policy?" he said. "This in the long run will decide whether the Tories can regroup for a come-back." Some people on the left were un derstandably hesistant to criticise the Government, he said, but "the greatest harm which can come to the Labor movement and' the Govern- men is for it continue on the pre sent road." Mr. Ramelson said that Tory policy in Malaysia was being continued, the Government had helped the US-Bel gian intervention in the Congo and had rushed through an Order-in- Council to get rid of Dr. Jagan in British Guiana after his "defeat" under an electoral system, which Labor itself, when in opposition, had denounced as rigged by the Tories. In glaring breach of the pledge to oppose the Multilateral Nuclear Force, the Government had brought forward its Atlantic Nuclear Force which was in some ways worse. On the eve of the Leyton by-elec tion Labor MP K. Zilliacus said the time had come to cut military ex penditures which were threatening to bankrupt Britain. He could not understand why Britain had to spend about £50 mil lions this year for the upkeep of her troops in Western Germany and £125 millions on her middle east forces. A cut in defence spending would be welcomed throughout the country, Mr. Zilliacus said. 