 r " I CPA criticises a Peking article and Issues a call WANTED: United action against j the US war on Vietnam j j Statement from the Political Committee of the Communist ! Party of Australia. j "J"HE most urgent issues be- | fore the world communist | movement today are: I Do we need united action il against imperialism and particularly against US aggression in Vietnam? Should all Communist Parties j take part in united action even | while important theoretical and 8 ideological differences remain un- | resolved? 0 | Our Party answers both questions Swith a firm Yes. We regard Vietnam as the most ! vital issue facing the whole Aus tralian nation, so deeply and peril- . ously involved by the Menzies Gov- 1 eminent in the LJS aggressive war. !i We therefore regard very seriously the rejection of united action in a recent policy statement made by the Chinese a Communist Party, published in "People's 1 Daily" of November 11, and reprinted in i Peking Review No. 46. I The public polemic is sharpened and 1 united action against U.S. imperialism re- I jected in these words: I "There ore things that divide us and | nothing that unites us, things that are I antagonistic and nothing that is common." I (Peking Review No. 46 p. 12.) I An absolute precondition for unity is I set— complete acceptance of the Chinese j Party's views by all Communist Parties, j Pursuing this objective, the article pro- ! mises increased aid and support to the | various splinter groups fostered in a | number of countries since 1962. We see this as damaging to the interests of the people of Vietnam as of Australia and all other countries struggling for an end to the war of intervention,-' for national liberation, democracy and world peace. When the U.S. is threatening further to widen the war, when people of goodwill everywhere are speaking out, it is extra ordinary that the Chinese leaders should take this position. The statement is all the more unfortu nate because United States moral prestige and international support are at a low ebb, and its political and military dif ficulties are growing. The Moscow meeting of "19 Partiesr held in March, called for united action to support the people of Vietnam, fight-. x ing to defend themselves against a full- scale imperialist aggressive war, and thus defending world peace and national in dependence. Almost all Communist Parties worked for united action, and worldwide broad mass protests have developed, including in the USA and Australia. The CPSU and Soviet Government .took several initiatives for -joint action, with China, the other great socialist power, and has given moral and material support to Vietnam. The "People's Daily" excuses the Chinese rejection of united action, claim ing that: "Whether in quantity or quality, their old to Vietnam is far from eommensurafo with the strength of tho Soviet Union. They have ulterior motives in giving a certain amount of aid . . (Peking Review No. 46, p. 16). Vietnam speaks of Soviet aid i This differs greatly from public state- | meats made by the Vietnamese Party and | Government, Including these: 1 "The Vietnamese people sincerely thank I the Party, the Government and the j people of the Soviet Union for the tre- I mendous assistance end support rendered | to them before and now ... I The governments of both countries reach- | ed agreement on the measures that would be taken to strengthen the defence I potential of the Democratic Republic of ! Vietnam . . ." (Joint Communique USSR and Democratic Republic of Vietnam, February 10, 1965). "In examining measures to increase the defence capacity of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, the delegations ncted with satisfaction that the earlier agree ments on these matters were being carried out on the envisaged scale and according to agreed procedures . . . have reached understanding on further steps to safe guard the security and sovereignity of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam . . . and have agreed on the appropriate measures to this end." (From Joint Com- Imunique of Vietnam-USSR delegations, April 17. 1965.) " the Vietnamese have the support end the generous assistance of fraternal socialist countries . . .1 wish once more Sto convey our feelings of heartfelt gratitude to -the fraternal socialist coun- ! tries, primarily .the Soviet Union and I China . . ." (President Ho Chi Minh, New Times, September 8, 1965). "The CPSU, the Soviet Government and the Soviet people are providing resolute and active support for the just struggle of j '"® entire Vietnamese people ... and I ®r® tendering assistance to the Democratic ? Republic of Vietnam in strengthening its I defence capacity and its economy." | (Pham Van Dong, November 7, 1965.) j After these statements, how is it j Possible to speak of US-Soviet "collab- | oration on Vietnam?" Yet the Chinese | statement says that the US imperialists | for from objecting to 'oid' to ? 3,'ej1nam from the new leaders of the 1 £ . welcome it." ("Peking Review," j No. 46, p. 17.) . Can it seriously be suggested that the US administration welcome, for example, the sophisticated anti-aircraft defences which help shoot down so many US planes in Vietnam? The article alleges that: "Koaygin . . . stressed tho need to help tho United States 'find a way out of Vietnam'." (Peking Review, No. 46, p. 15.) Why try to give a sinister meaning to an unexceptionable concept — that the main thing is to end US aggression by getting it out of Vietnam, even with some sort of "face-saver"? The idea is not new. For example, Wilfred Burchett reports on a 18jlB3 conversation with Nguyen Ho Thuu, leader of the National Liberation Front, in which a possible "face-saving with drawal" was discussed ("Vietnam: Inside Story of the Guerilla War" p. 235). Many great changes have occurred since 1963, particularly the dangerous US es calation of the war. The United States re fuses to carry out the Geneva Agreements, will not negotiate and refuses to end the war. US escalation is a desperate and futile effort to win a war which cannot be won. This is .bringing terrible suffering to the Vietnamese but their resolute courage and military prowess and the support of the people of the world guarantee that the US can never defeat them. Growing US military losses, isolation and outraged public opinion will ultimately create con ditions in which the USA may well seek a way out. mrmrnm Question of the UN i pHE "People's Daily" article raised an important question of principle. Is it correct for Socialist countries to participate in the United Nations and other international agencies to advance the cause of peace and national independence? Weaknesses in the United Nations are obvious and inevitable in a world organ isation which includes capitalist, socialist and newly-independent countries. However, socialist countries have been able to co-operate with many member nations in UN and have achieved many political successes in isolating the imper ialist powers. It is sectarian to oppose participation and encourage the idea of withdrawal of a few nations, thus perpet uating the US majority. When the issue of seating the People's Republic of China in UNO was first | raised, the vote was seven for and ! forty-two against. This year it was j forty-seven all with twenty absentions, 8 a. serious reverse for the US Government. g Patient and constructive activity for. | .peace and co-opcration by Socialist conn- f tries in the United Nations and outside f .strengthens the forces for peace. I Condemnation of such activity as "col- I laboration with US imperialism" only gives i the enemies of peace a pretext for assert- g ing that some socialist countries are op- I posed to peaceful co-existence and inter- j national co-operation. This influences g some newly-independent nations and a 1 section of world opinion. j By participating in the work of the ! United Nations, the Socialist countries I use it as an arena of struggle for peace f and national independence and are able g to expose the imperialists and colonialists. J Policy failures | The "Peoples Daily" article is written in unusually extreme language which may reflect recent major policy reverses for the Chinese Party leadership. What the article calls "new revolution ary parties" have failed to make any real impression and remain small splinter groups, whether in Australia, Ceylon, Bel gium, Peru or anywhere else. In India, where a real and serious division exists, both rival Communist parties publicly reject Chinese actions and statements in support of Pakistan. Both oppose Chinese actions over the Sino- Indian border; neither supports the Chinese ideological position. Moreover, Chinese policy is obviously meeting increasing reverses in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Reverses are inevitable for a policy based on such unreal statements as: . . tho landing groups In tho Com munist Parties of those countries have for bidden their members to do what tho imperialists and reactionaries fear most, and only ollowed them to do what Is to the liking of the imperialists and reac tionaries or is at least tolerable to them." "Peking Review" No. 46, p. 18.) Australian reactionaries certainly- make no secret of the fact that they dislike the Communist Party of Australia and all its activities. Continued support for breakaway splinter groups means continuing efforts to impose the Chinese Party's line on other Parties. This line runs contrary to that decided by the Chinese Party's last Con gress (held in 1956), This Congress, supreme authority under Party rules, decided the Chinese Party's line on basic . issues, including the following: "The Twentieth Congress of the Common- I 1st Party of the Soviet Union . . . was an | important political event of world signifi- 8 canse. If . . . decided on many important I policies and principles for further | development of socialism and repudiated I tho cult of the individual ... It also j advocated further promotion of peace- 1 ful co-existonce and international co-oper- | atlon, making an outstanding contribution I to tho easing of International tension." | (Eighth Congress of Communist Party of I China, Vol. 1, p. 86.) I PRACTICE IS THE TEST The "People's Daily" article implicitly j admits the widespread second thoughts J and doubts raised by Chinese Party g actions. g "Some people ask, why is it that the I Marxist-Leninists cannot take united action I with the new leaders of the CPSU, yet can J unite with personages from the upper | strata in the nationalist countries ... ! and can even exploit the contradictions I among the imperialist countries .. ." | (Peking Review, No. 46, p. 14.) I The answer, we are told, is . . their j so-called opposition to US imperialism is only verbal and not genuine." (ibid) | The immediate test of sincerity is will- g ingness to' unite against US intervention ! in Vietnam. Communist Parties will be I judged by their response to this test. g Although the ideological differences in g the world Communist Movement are still | deep and difficult to resolve, It is wrong J to place these above the need for united j action in support of Vietnam. g This united action, and discussion of 1 experiences in the struggle against imper- I ialism, are the best of all possible steps j towards ideological unity and to the new g forms of co-operation between Communist ! Parties that will inevitably arise. .1 President R. Dixon Gen. Secretary L. Aaron3 g 