 I TRIBUNE | There's no excuse! | I GAS! That cry, which caused consternation and &lt; I thousands, of casualties among the soldiers in the trenches ! of World War I, has sent a shock wave around the world | in 1965. I j The United States was first to use the atom bomb ! ! (against Asians) and first to use the searing, spreading ! I napalm (at the end of World War II, against Asians). j | Now the sponsorship of gas warfare in South Vietnam ! J chalks up a new- "first" for the USA — first to initiate ! I use of this dread weapon in war (apart from reported use j I by the Japanese and Italian fascists in the mid-thirties) \ j since Worfd War f. j j Quick to step forward were the apologists, excus- i j ing everything — even the worst things — done by the USA \ j in the cause of modern imperialism. j j These are the US officials, the Mertzies Government, j I Santamaria, the Packer and Fairfax press and their coun- j j terparts, and some Labor rightwingers. j j "The gas is non-lethal, humane", they say. j These agents pretend that war gases— as banned by I | the international Geneva Convention of 1925 — are all i j deadly poisons. j J This is false. , i I Many of the range of gases used in World War I I (and on hand in World War II) — -like mustard gas, J chlorine, etc. — did not kill in normal concentrations, but I did incapacitate. j I Thousands of men carried the physical effects after j j the war. j | There is also the contemptible claim that this Ame- | j rican vomiting and choking gas is "humane", intended I to put Vietcong Temporarily out of action when they are in a village, without killing the villagers. j j In fact, the liberation forces in South Vietnam ARE j j the villagers — there can be no separation, as most cor- j J respondents admit. j j The revelations about gas, phosphorus and napalm j J raids against the Vietnamese people serve above all to j focus the whole unjustifiable nature of the policy of J intervention by force against the independence move- | ments of South' East Asia. ! j Every word and act that opposes that policy should be j j actively supported; every opportunity should be taken to j | explain that continued armed intervention can mean only j j bigger war, and that only when the Vietnamese and other people are left to determine their own future without foreign intervention can settlement be reached. , 1 j Wollon song marchers protesting against US gas attacks in Vietnam 