 September 21 : ACTU will convene disarmament conference The Australian Council of Trade Unions will convene an international conference in Sydney on September 21 to oppose French nuclear testing In the Pacific, and to further the whole struggle for nuclear disarmament. "pHIS was decided on at the recent meeting; of the ACTU Interstate Exe cutive. The ACTU is acting jointly with the New Zealand Federa tion of Labor in convening this Conference. It will be the first' international Trade Union gathering to., be held in Australia and will commence in Sydney on September 21. In addition to the sponsoring bodies, representatives will be in vited from national trade union centres in Chile, Peru, Samoa, Tahiti, Solomons, Fiji, Singapore, Malaya, Indonesia, Phillipines and Hawaii. Each of these organisations will be invited to send delegations of a maximum of six. The ACTU and NZ Federation of Labor will be represented by their full Executives. The NZ Federation of Labor was the organiser of the proposal for the conference. Each union affiliated to the ACTU will be invited to be repre sented by two observers with a voice but no vote. It is understood that the Con ference will consider such matters as opposition to all atomic testing, pro hibition of the manufacture of all nuclear weapons, prohibition of all 1 forms of chemical and bacteriologi cal warfare and destruction of all existing stockpiles of such weapons. This Conference will follow imme- I diately after the ACTU Congress, I hich meet in Sydney, Septem- I ber 14-18. I Newcastle I Vietnam rally H Newcastle: A well-attended public II meeting in the Newcastle Railway H Institute on Friday, May 7, took 11 sps to oppose the sending of Aus- m tralian troops to Vietnam. || Representatives of trade unions, II religious groups and women's and ig| yuth organisations at the meeting || decided to invite Bishop Moyes to ;! "dress a public rally in Newcastle II vh Sur.ciy ZZ? 53. IP 99 tlie Saturday morning, May a march will be held in Hunter 81 pJr®et after assembling at Pacific rk at 10 a.m. All those who want ? fll0w their opposition to Men kes despatch of Australians, with- int . scu®S jn in Parliament, to th ,r e in the internal affairs of ; tnamese People, are to be IniBUTED.in ta 'he marCh-CN' [?] A PARIS rally for nuclear disarmament and peaceful co existence. The banners represent trade unionists and students. 