 BUS AND RAIL WORKERS WANT PAY INCREASES, LESS OVERTIME SYDNEY : How would you like to work a six and a half day week and get a— take-home pay of £-23/15/-? Or for 40 hours bring home £16? 1 Believe it or not, this is the wage rate of a NSW Government railway worker. JHIS is the reason why Government transport workers are demanding a sub stantial wage increase in the form of a service increment. This is also the reason why these same workers have refused to ac cept the few shillings offered by the State Government. This is also the reason why they are prepared to' sacrifice a second days' pay to hold a further 24 hours' strike in support of their wage de mands. Mr. Jack Hempel, an Australian Railways' Union delegate at Chullora Loco (he is receiving- the above mentioned wage rate) was one of the workers who packed last Monday's Conference of 24 Unions to discuss a "new" offer by the Government. (See story Rage 12). He provides for a wife and 14 months' old baby girl;, but his is not an isolated problem. , Other delegates from railway workshops throughput Sydney show ed a Tribune reporter their wage slips.. . . Mr. J. Poole, an indoor dispatch "officer at Chullora Signals and the vice-pref' lent of the ARU, takes home £31 a fortnight. He has one son in high school and another at primary. Mr. T; Walsham an assembler (one of the highest grades of non-trades men) at Eveleigh Carriage showed that his take-home pay was £15/4/7 after paying single man's tax. Mr. A. Cooper (a fitter's assistant at Chullora) showed that with one night's overtime his fortnightly wage was £34/11/5 after paying £4/12/- tax, 10/1 superannuation and £1/1/- hos pital fund. : . Mr. T. Scard (a plumber at Eve leigh Carriage) has a take home pay of £19/18/- and has two dependants. Other workers described the so- called good conditions in the work shops. Assemblers, at Eveleigh are still washing in buckets, the same condi- tions which existed 100 years ago, Bus drivers, conductors 1 By WAL HILTON, a Brookvale bus £ ' depot executive officer. II gYDNEY. — Busmen see tire pre- I sent struggle not only as a I wage fight to meet increased living 1 costs and achieve parity with Vic- I toria, but also a fight that is neces- 1 sary to win improved conditions. || At the present time there is a B shortage within our industry of 300 B men and busmen at all depots are B being compelled to work on one of B their days off, each fortnight. B The strain of working this extra B day under the tension of extremely H heavy traffic conditions, inadequate 1 running times and often no recovery time at the end of a trip, is causing an alarming number of cases of heart attack, blood, pressure and other ailments among drivers. This means an increasing number of deaths- or regression to conductor; also- the Large number of staff being retired medically unfit and very large number off work sick. That a man 50 years and over ! - can legally be asked to work 11 ; days straight driving a bus before . | having a day off (and this is com- If ; monplace) is something which If should not be tolerated. I Part of the answer would be a large 1 , influx of new staff. 1 To obtain this, wages must be made I more than comparable with those I 'In outside .industry 'for working Mon- - day Co Friday. Young men today are just, not pre pared to work all' hours of the day ! and night, week-ends and' public holidays at lower wages than they ! cam get outsider | For this reason, busmen see the 'fight for higher increments for ser- vice as going part ot rne way improving the conditions of those already on the job. ; The public can not expect improve- B ment in public transput until tne g staff shortage is overcome, dP". I the State Government's political g promises.. 81 At the present moment not one I extra, bus could be placed on | road; it. is more likely that u 1 trend continues more buses m have to be taken off the road. || 