 [?] It is disturbing to hear a Supreme Court Judge ' call working mothers "a grave threat" to society and contributing to crime and juvenile delinquency. J FEEL the learned Judge (Mr. Justice bridge, of Darwin, NT) reveals a very narrow viewpoint here. For , a woman to take part fully in the life of .her country, she cannot live forever in the shadows of her husband and children. The appalling shortage of all kinds of child care in Australia is more of a contribution to delinquency than parents. Wouldn't His Honour agree that low level press media, T.V. and "comics" were a very grave threat to society? # Working women still not receiving equal pay are overtaxed as well. If working mothers engage someone to mind their children they cannot claim this as tax relief. If kindergartens and nursery schools cannot be provided, surely the least the Federal Government could do is grant a special tax allow ance for this type of expense. # Selma (Alabama) Sheriff J. Clark provides a picture of callousness and pomposity when he commented on the murder of Mrs. Liuzzo, civil rights helper: "I have five children, too. But the night this happened my wife was at home with the children where she belongs." If all the mothers in America "stayed home" while around them raged hatred, injustice and acts bringing shame upon their country, America would have even less to be .proud of. It is people like Mrs. Liuzzo who vindicate the name of America. ? President Johnson advises 400 U.S. companies to send home more profits "earned abroad". The last two words have special meaning for us. "Earned" is not money earned by U.S. capital, but earned by men and women workers. "Abroad" includes Australia, where more and more U.S. capital is being invested and its influence felt. As this continues, the struggle for equal pay, for instance, is one principle which will be harder to win. # There might be a touch of irony in the posters one sees in trains and other places these days, appealing to girls to apply for jobs in psychiatric nursing. "A Modern Occupation" they call it. A modern disorder, too, judging by the increase in patients. Stress and strain of present-day capitalist society could be to blame. —Mary 