 International trade unions want boycott on Vietnam pRAGUE: A particular appeal has been made to workers and trade unions in the United States and in r»hnn trips whose governments sup port the aggressive policy of the US in South Viet nam to organise all forms of struggle which can ensure a boycott on the transport of American troops and war material intended for South Viet nam. Letters have been sent to these Governments, by the secretariat of the International Trade Union Committee for Solidarity with the Workers and People of South Vietnam, which ended a three-day meeting in Prague on March 25. In the spirit of the Geneva Agree ments these Governments -are asked to get the United States' Govern ment to: end the "undeclared" war of aggression it is waging in South Vietnam. immediately withdraw all U.S. troops and war material from South Vietnam. end all acts of aggression and provocation against the Demo- cratic Republic of Vietnam. Laos and Cambodia. respect and apply the 1954 Geneva Agreements on Indo-China and allow the South Vietnamese people to decide their own future and enable Vietnam to be peace fully re-united. Governments are also urged to do everything possible to help prevent the outbreak of war in South East Asia, a war which would bring the risk of extension into a world war. The secretariat has also appealed to all workers andl trade union organisations throughout the world to struggle with increased deter mination to achieve these demands. The secretariat has also announc ed that the 2nd plenary meeting of the Committee will be held in Hanoi from June 28 to July 1. All workers, regardless of their tendency or international affiliation, are asked to support the meeting. Members of the secretariat in clude: Dinh Ba Thi (executive committee member, Association of Workers for Liberation of South Vietnam), Jean Enjolvy (represen tative of CGT Prance), Nguyen buy Thuyet (Trade Union Federation of Vietnam), Edvin Chelboun (secre tary World deration of Trade Unions), Mamadou Diarra (secre tary National Union of Workers of Mali), Waldiman A.S. (secretary National Council of SOBSI, Indo nesia). I raiwaMBMiw fyvrygnaBTOon— CTMrecnaianiiir»'irwnMwrriwn«riri»Trirainfiwiir « j 8 MEDICAL units and schools are priorities when National Liberation Forces liberate new areas. 