 VIETNAM PROTEST ; THOUSANDS RALLY Thousands of people Bast Sunday attended protest rallies in all Australian States against the Menzies Government's decision to send troops to South Viet nam. They carried resolutions demanding the reversal of the deci sion, the withdrawal of all foreign troops from Vietnam and a re turn to the Geneva Agreements of 1954 guaranteeing Vietnam the right to elect her own government. Background to the rallies was the spreading world-wide protest against the Vietnam war, new American bombing raids, a new attempt to overthrow the Saigon puppet dictator ship and new victories for the Vietnam liberation forces. THE meetings were organised jointly by the Australian Labor Party and the trade union councils in the various States. Melbourne In Melbourne, 2000 attended an overflow meeting in Richmond Town Hall to hear Federal Labor leader Calwell demand a reversal of the troops decision "while there is still tlmn tn datralAM A WAIIAW maw VU1AO IA/ UGVOiVjJ Ck JUAlUjr VVAAiUAA AlAOJ prevent the horrors of nuclear war being unleashed on us all." The rally followed a sit-down pro test by 500 people outside Victoria Barracks, St. Kilda Road, on Saturday morning. The sit-down, most spectacular pro test yet seen in the campaign, was organised by the Australian and New Zealand Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament. The Mayor of Richmond, Councillor O'Donnell, told reporters the meeting was the biggest ever held in the Town Hall. Frequently interrupted by applause, Mr. Calwell said the meeting opened a nation-wide campaign to awaken Australians to the dangers of the Menzies Government's course. He said the overwhelming majority of the estimated 100,000 "Vietcong" operating as guerillas were South Vietnamese. None were Chinese. They controlled large parts of South Vietnam, even to the outskirts of Saigon. According to American authorities' estimates, 10 regular troops were needed to cope with every guerilla. "That is to say, one million men would be needed to contain the 'Viet Cong,' whether they were reinforced from the North or not. The French believe that even 2,000,000 would be inadequate. "These are the brutal facts that lie behind the statements that this- is an endless war, a bottomless pit, an unwinnable war." On behalf of the Australian Council of Trades Unions its secretary, Mr. H. J. Souter, condemned regimes bolstered by monopolies in Asia and said the trades unions should support Asians' right to self-determination. Sydney In Sydney, up to 2000 people at tended a Sydney Domain meeting, where deputy Federal Labor leader E. G. Whitlam (see picture above) denounced the damage being done to Australia's relations with Asia. Mr. Whitlam said newly-emerging nations were now forming an impres sion of Australia which would last for centuries, . and the impression they were getting was that Australia would send troops to Asia without consulting any of the Asian nations. To go to war without first trying to achieve peace was irresponsible. The secretary of the NSW Labor Council, Mr. J. D. Kenny, said that Continued on Page 12 VIETNAM PROTEST Continued from Page 1 if the troops were sent it would be a direct challenge to the peoples of South-East Asia and China. Brisbane Brisbane's Centenary Place wit nessed one of the biggest and most spirited rallies ever held in this forum. Rival "rallies" organised by the "Young Liberals" and "Demo cratic Labor Party" failed. The crowd was estimated by the (hostile) Courier-Mail as 1500. Mr. W. G. Hayden, MHR, accused Sir R. Menzies of "getting his foreign policy by airmail from the USA." Mr. Manfred Cross, MHR, said the Vietnam problem would have been solved already if .the Geneva agree ments had been upheld and free elections allowed. Although the main meeting was quiet, the rival pro-war "meetings" were in continual uproar. Speakers were booed and asked why they did not themselves enlist. Adelaide In Adelaide Trades Hall 300 people carried by acclamation a resolution condemning the Government's pro- US policy. Senator Cavanagh de clared that the "Viet Cong" was a genuine national liberation movement. Other speakers were Senator Bishop, Mr. Jacobi, of the Trades and Labor Council Executive, and Acting TLC Secretary Brown. Perth In Perth, 250 people endorsed the protest resolution, with one dissen tient. The speakers, including Sena tor Willesee, Senator-elect Wheeldon and union leaders Wark and Cooley stressed the danger to Australia, the danger of a world atomic war, the need to implement the Geneva Agree ments and build Australasian-Asian friendship. Tasmania The meeting in Launceston, Tas mania, was addressed by Mr. G. W. Duthrie, MHR, whose main theme was the impossibility of combating ideas with bullets. Launceston Trades Hall secretary R. Taylor also spqke. In Hobart over 100 watersiders were addressed at a smoko meeting by well-known Labor Party figure Bobby Brown, and carried a resolu tion condemning Menzies. The resolution said that while appreciating the Trades Hall Coun cil's acceptance of the ACTU resolu tion, the watersiders were disturbed at the failure to arrange a meeting for Sunday. It requested the union executive to call a meeting for June 6. 