 Out to scuttle chance of peace — — — — — — — — — Baa UHBoaaBOBHnnaBHaaBn ipippM jjaaaSBliltBa T fflfir h a i Vi » « »Bm8B88 llllEaERa M " | r» I llllp|8 Signor Giorgio la Pira last Sunday accused the Uni ted States of trying to scuttle any possibility of peace negotiations in Vetnam based on the 1954 Geneva aqreement. CIGNOR LA PIRA particularly ( blamed Dean Rusk, US Sec- A retary of State and a leading I exponent of the US hard-line r1' policy towards Asia, ho- Signor la Pira, former Mayor of Florence, a leading Italian Catholic |ibs9 layman and close friend of the tVj . late Pope John, recently visited j,9 Hanoi and talked with President Ho |n Chi Minh. uc He conveyed his impressions to f Signor Fanfani, Italian Foreign ( Minister. 1 Radio Hanoi is reported as repeat ing the well-known stand of the DRV \ that the provisions of the 1954 Geneva f . Agreement must he the basis of ;iW settlement. Implementation of this agreement, in the Vietnamese view would mean: o»u 1. Recognition of the basic 02 national rights of the Vietnamese people which are independence, 29V sovereignty, unity and territorial in- .? tcgrity. :"j In strict conformity with the Geneva agreements, the U.S. Gov- ;iIjj eminent must withdraw its troops, military personnel and weapons, ammunition and war materials of I" all kinds from south Vietnam, dis- I mantle the U.S. military . abases I there, abolish its military alliance |t with the south Vietnam administra- |! tion and at the same time stop its I policy of intervention and aggres- I sion in South Vietnam. The U.S. Government must stop a all its acts of war against north Vietnam and put a definite end to all acts of encroachment upon the territory and sovereignty of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. 2. Pending the realisation of the peaceful reunification of Vietnam, while Vietnam is still temporarily divided in two, the military pro visions of the 1954 Geneva agree ments on Vietnam must be strictly respected: the two zones must re frain from joining any military alliance with foreign countries, there must he no foreign military bases, troops or military personnel in their respective territory. 3. The affairs of south Vietnam must be settled by the south Viet namese people themselves in ac cordance with the programme of the south Vietnam National Front for Liberation without any foreign intervention. 4. The realisation of the peaceful reunification of Vietnam must be settled by the people in the two zones without foreign interven tion. Subterfuge The U.S. Administration say it "does ..not .accept this as a correct interpretation of the Geneva Agree ment." World opinion regards this as a subterfuge since the U.S. refused to sign the Agreement in 1954 and all along has refused to accept it as the basis of a settlement. Accepting the Geneva Agreement means withdrawal of all foreign troops — and the U.S. is- preparing to send another 200,000. The United States Administration has escalated the war. It is preparing new and more serious military action in ' Indo china, already begun by bombing Laos with B52's from Guam. The latest report of U.S. intransi gence deepens widespread public concern at growing rumours that more Australian troops are to go to Vietnam. In Melbourne on Wednesday, Op position Leader Calwell said he had heard that the Government had privately accepted the possibility of 20,000 Australian casualties in Viet- "nam in the next five years. He challenged the Government to deny this report and to say how many Australians it would throw into "the bottomless pit of jungle war fare." Menzies replied on Thursday that there was "no foundation" for Cal- Continued on Page 12 U.S. Charged Continued from Page 1 . well's statement, but declined the challenge to set a limit to Austra lia's commitment. Public concern is deepened, not allayed, by Mr. Hasluck's Saigon statement ,that "Australia has receiv ed no formal request from Saigon to send more troops." More credence is given to a state ment by high-ranking Administra tion spokesman, Mr. Hale Boggs. Recently returned from an Austra lian visit, Mr. Boggs said in Wash ington: "Australia is almost cer- tainly about to increase its Vietnam - commitment." In Federal Parliament recently Mr. T. Uren said that it was probable Australian conscripts will be sent to Vietnam before March. He said: "Within the last two weeks a major-general who addressed a pass ing out parade at Puckapunyal told the young conscripts that they must be prepared to go to Vietnam." The conscripts were asked to sign statements that they would not dis close that they were going to Viet- men or the time of their departure, said Mr. Uren. It was reported in yesterday's (Monday's) press that Christmas leave had been cancelled for key personnel at Enogerra Camp, Bris bane and troops were standing by ready to leave for Vietnam. j 