 [?] pERTH: Moves by tKe WA Employers' Federation to widen the use of indentured labor in this State has anqered WA Trades and Labor Council delegates. . They strongly condemned the Em ployers' Federation suggestion to its members in a recent circular that they, should -seek indentured labour. T.L.C. secretary J. Coleman des cribed it as a deliberate and planned attempt to break down the wage campaign of W.A. workers. - He estimated it would cost an employer £700 to bring an inden tured worker to Australia by air from Europe and feed and house him frvr rit months The Employers' Federation was prepared to pay out this extra money to prevent West Australians from attaining proper wage stan dards. The Council agreed unanimously that overseas unions should be told of the T.L.C.. objections to inden tured labour. Jt passed a motion calling on the A.C.T.U. to refer the employers' suggestion to the International Con federation of . Free Trade Unions seeking its support to resist similar proposals by employer organisations. Employers' Federation circular, after an appeal to its members to stand against over-award payments, recommends indentured labour. "Under this arrangement, an em ployer contracts with a worker in an other, .country to work in this State for a specified term of years, ad vances the fare and guarantees the return fare if this is required," the circular says. "Should the worker not remain with the employer he could be liable to 'repay .the fare Where 1 a; labour force is required, for a short or limited term, indenture ing is recommended as it satis fies an immediate need without making inroads into the established work force or migrant intake." The employers' circular, in the face of an unofficial but widespread breakthrough! on over-award and other special payments, is seen as an attempt to "lock the stable door." Metal trades have chalked up over- award payments in many shops throughout the metropolitan area and won special rates for special work. State Electricity Commission em ployees and Midland Railway work ers are demanding £4 "service" pay ments and postal workers recently stopped work in the national cam paign for a wage rise. 