 [?] The guns will start scraping the butter The Menzies' Government's increased war expen diture will impose a serious strain on Australia's eco nomy in the coming year. Federal Treasurer Mr . Harold Holt admitted this at a dinner of the Australian Metal Industries Association in Melbourne last week . MR. HOLT revealed that ex penditure on capital works for defence purposes, which amounted to £13 million in this . financial year, would rise to £30 million in 1965-66. In addition, £156 million will be paid to America over the next few years for aircraft and destroyers. "This will constitute a substan- tial drain on our overseas re serves", Mr. Holt said. Australia's international reserves dropped by £30 million in the first half of 1964-65. In the similar period of 1963-64 they were up by £169 million. This reverse in the balance of pay ments position was caused by a drop in the value of exports and a sub stantial rise in the volume of im ports. Trade deficit Australia's balance of trade in the first half of 1964-65 showed a deficit of £33 million, compared with a credit of £133 million in , the same period of 1963-64. This position is likely to worsen in the coming months. Australia, in addition to finding it difficult to dispose of all this year's record harvest, is faced with a wheat price cut. Australian wheat prices in London, which reached a peak of £28/7/6 a ton last year, are now down to £25/2/6. Signs, of a further weakening in the world market are shown by Can ada's most recent sale to China at a discount of 12 cents a bushel. Other ominous signs of future economic difficulties are a slowing down in the rate of increase in total civilian employment and a marked falling off in the rate of new building. Workers should be on guard to combat the inevitable attempts by the Menzies Government to foist the burden of these economic difficulties onto their, shoulders. — E.W.C, Why the breadwinner needs A a basic wage rise ""HE increase in the Com monwealth basic wage of from 9/- to 13/- sought by the Australian Council of Trade Unions will do no more than restore the purchasing power of that wage to its June 1964 level. It will increase the "money" wage but not the "real" wage. Consequently it will not raise living standards but merely as sist to maintain them at the level determined by the Arbi tration Commission last June. Last year, when granting £1 of the unions' claim for 52/-, the Commis sion stated: — ". . . the state of the economy is such that we are prepared (1) to assume that the capacity to pay the present real basic wage will continue until the next review and (12) prima facie to apply price movements each year. . The next review of the basic wage will take place" about 1967. So the £1 increase was granted and a new "real" wage fixed at a level which the Commission said could be main tained for three years. The unions' claim is made as part of the process of maintaining this level and the forthcoming case will not be a full review or aimed at fixing a new real wage. The price-wage theory Price rises since June 1964 do not result from wage increases. In a special statement "On the Wage- Price Issue", the ACTU emphatically declares: "Wage increases of them selves do not and cannot increase prices". . This statement and one issued by the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations (ACSPA) show that price rises are the result of management decisions and the law of supply and demand. Where- demand exceeds supply prices are "jacked-up" to the maxi mum the market will bear. In the reverse position monopoly control and associated practices help pre- vent price declines. The AgSPA statement says: "A v'good illustration of this argument is that when the basic wage was increased by 12/- in 1961, the Con sumer Price Index fell in the follow ing quarter. After the 10 per cent margins increase in 1963 it scarcely - moved". It says the state of the market l : , was such that price increases were not possible despite wage rises. Referring to this question the 1964 Basic Wage Judgment says: "At the time the 12/- increase was awarded we were told it would lead to price increases and so to other economic difficulties. In fact since the 1961 decision there has been virtual price stability. . ." Gome further proof of factors other than wage levels being the cause of price movements is contained in of ficial statistics. Between June 1962 and June 1964 — when the Commonwealth basic wage was last increased — the basic wage remained unchanged but there was a 10 per cent increase in margins and the official figure for what is called "average weekly earnings for adult males" showed a rise of 7.8 per cent. In this period there was also a gen eral increase in annual leave. De spite these increased costs the Con sumer Price Index in the same period showed a rise of 2.4 per cent. Obviously employers were forced by economic circumstances to ab- sorb a large proportion of wage rises without price increases. In the 1960 boom conditions the Consumer Price Index rose by 4 per cent over three quarters (March to December) although there were no increases in the basic wage or margins. _ During the past couple of years the price of sugar on the interna tional market rose to record levels and now has substantially declined. These movements both up and down were solely due to market conditions, i.e., changes in the relationship be: tween supply and demand. When .copper production declined, in Mt. Isa mines due to the current dispute the price of copper in Aus tralia rose by 14 per cent. But total wages paid to Mt. Isa workers fell. BHP is a monopoly producer of steel in Australia and has recently announced a series of price increases in its products. Of course this wealthy monopoly claims these are being caused by wage increases. In August last year there were some tiny increases in margins - for BHP workers — 5/- for most — and since then their basic wage has risen by a total of 10/- per week. This 10/- puts them on the same basic wage as all other NSW workers. These small increases could not possibly justify the price rises but some figures published- by the Fin ancial Editor of the Sydney Morning Herald show up the falseness of the BHP "excuse" for raising prices. He showed that, comparing 1955 with 1964, the cost of wages and sal aries per ton of steel was slightly reduced but net profit doubled, and gross profit increased by 160 per cent. BHP could easily afford to meet a big wage increase without any State Current Basic Wage £ s d NSW " 15 15 0 Victoria 15 7 0 Queensland 14 10 0 South Australia , 15 3 0 West Australia 15 8 0 Tasmania 15 14 0 Six Capital Cities Average 15 8 0 price rise, but using its monopoly position it "jacks-up" prices and thus compels the public to finance its extension plans. There were no in creases in the basic wage or margins in that period.. Commenting on the recent an nouncement of price rises in the December quarter the Financial Edi tor of the Sydney Morning Herald said that of the total increase in prices over the full year (1964) "half was due to food prices — specifically meat and potatoes". He went on: "The rise in domestic meat prices however is largely a symptom of the strong export mar kets that Australia is enjoying. The behaviour of potato prices has noth ing to do with costs of production but depends on crop sizes". In other words, the main factor in the major food price increases was a favourable market which enabled suppliers to raise prices and this irrespective of wage movements. , On other price increases the SMH Financial Editor said: "The second dominant factor in the 1964 cost of living was the group of deliberate Budget-induced price rises." So the Menzies Government's eco nomic policy was responsible for a substantial proportion of the price rises last year. No doubt the unions will „ argue that such increased prices cannot be a valid argument against a wage adjustment. But if the ACTU claim is granted in full, the basic wage for many workers will still be below its 1953 purchasing power. The table below shows the various basic wage rates if the claim is granted in full, compared with rates, which would have operated if the system of quarterly adjustments had not been abolished in 1953. This shows that workers in NSW and South Australia would be ahead of their 1953 standard. Queensland workers would ' equal it, but else where they will remain below it by amounts ranging from " 3/- to 17/-, with Victorian workers being farthest behind. Increased Total if Wage if claimed increase adjustments granted continued s d £ s d £ s d 10 0 16 5 0 15 15 0 11 0 15 18 0 16 15 0 ' 9 0 14 19 0 14 19 0 13 0 15 16 0 15 12 0 15 8 0 16 20 9 0 i6 3 0 16 17 0 10 0 15 18 0 16 1 0 