 VIETNAM PRAISE FOR SOVIET AID AGAINST US WAR The North Vietnam Government last week officially reaffirmed its "appreciation of the Solidarity and many-sided assistance" by the Soviet Union, in the struggle against the aggressive United States bombing attacks, which are still being stepped up. Meanwhile in Honolulu, top US war planners met to check on further escalation of the war, as special US envoy Cabot Lodge visited Australia and New Zealand to convey new war requirements and ran into hostile demonstrations in both countries. As Soviet' and other socialist leaders sharply criticised as hypocritical President Johnson's last speech on the Vietnam situation, 20,000 American students also gave their answer by demonstrating in Washington against the war, and in Sydney and Melbourne there were demonstrations against US actions. _____ SOVIET VOLUNTEERS JHE Democratic Republic of North Vietnam has ex pressed /'appreciation of the solidarity and many-sided as- sistance rendered by the USSR which greatly strengthens the Vietnamese people in their struggle". This is stated in a communique issued in Moscow after discussions between Soviet leaders and a visit ing party of DRV party and Govern ment leaders. The visiting delegation was headed by Le Duan, First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Vietnam. The the j ' , ; parties 'their intentions concerning U 'aggres sion and brings-, out emphatically the role Soviet aid is playing and will play. A cable from the Tribune Moscow correspondent says that important steps for strengthening the defences of Vietnam and ensuring victory over American aggression were agreed on at the meeting. New steps The official communique expres sing Vietnam's appreciation of Sov iet aid, said that earlier understand ings of the matter of measures to strengthen the defence potential of Vietnam were being implemented to the extent, and by the procedure, envisaged. Continued on Page 12 SOME of th 250 Sydney people who again last Thursday evening surrounded the city block containing the United States Consulate with an endless chain of protest over the aggres sive US acts of War against Vietnam. ;; .'Earlier. 200 Melbourne people marched in protest through the city and 400 attended a protest rally. WAR IN VIETNAM Continued from Page 1 It added that agreement was reached on further steps to safe guard Vietnam's security. The USSR will continue rendering assistance, and a$ part of this, if the aggression continues, and if re quested by the Vietnamese Govern ment, the Soviet Government will consent to the departure for Vietnam of Soviet citizens who volunteer to fight for the just cause of the Viet namese people. The communique also said that both sides consider that the Na tional Liberation Front of . South Vietnam is the genuine exponent of the will and aspirations of the peo ple, and its only legitimate repre sentative. Both, sides came out in support of scrupulous implementation cf the Geneva Agreements in respect to the three Indo-Chinese states as be ing a realistic way to the solution of the problems of the area. Last week the Vietnamese Na tional Assembly, meeting in Hanoi, adopted an appeal "to the whole world" to "take action in energetic support of the Vietnamese people's , resistance" to the US. The Assembly unanimously ap- I proved of the Government's stand, which is to respect the 1954 Geneva Agreements in Vietnam and cor rectly implement them, f In pursuance of this the Assembly endorsed the Government's four- J point stand on the settlement of the Vietnamese question. The points were: (1) The U.3 must withdraw all military, forces from South Vietnam and stop all acts of war against the North. (2) While Vietnam is temporarily divided, the two zones . must (as the Geneva Agreements require) refrain from forming alliances with foreign countries or accepting their troops and bases. (C) The affairs of South Vie' am must be settled by the South Viet namese ihemselves as provided in N- 'tonal Liberation Front's program. (4) Realisation of Vietnam's peace ful reunification must be settled by the people of the two zones without foreign intervention. In the past week the Us has re sorted to a new atrocity in North Vietnam by the night-bombing of P' pulated areas. In Sydney last Thursday 250 peace supporters picketed the US Con sulate in Wynyard Street for the second Thursday night in succes sion. Earlier a demonstration in Col lins Street, Melbourne, by 200 marchers preceded a public meeting attended by 400 people demanding peace in Vietnam. A protest deputation organised by I the Communist Party interviewed the US Consul in Perth. 