 Call to action on Aborigine wages 1 CANBERRA: A stepping up of trade union action to 1 I end wage discrimination against Australian Aborigines will i be sought following a conference held here over the Easter 1 weekend. 1"HE 8th annual confer- | ence of the Federal Council f&lt;?r the Advance ment of Aborigines and Torres Straits Islanders de cided to call on trades and labor councils and the Australian Coun c i I to Trade Unions to use direct action to end wage discri mination "against Abori gines. One recommendation was thqt a one-hour national stoppage be called every three months until wage discrimination is ended and that National Aborigines' Week next July be considered for the first stoppage. The conference also decide to ask the United Nations to put pressure on the Australian Gov ernment unless it takes steps to improve the situation of Abo- | rigines and Torres Strait Is- | landers by — - O Granting of equal wages and employment conditions to Aborigines; © Prevention of alienation of reserve lands without con sultation of Aborigines and payment of just compensa tion. - © Removal by the Queensland Government of legislation discriminating against Abo rigines. - About 200 . delegates and ob servers attended the conference, including a large number of Aborigine delegates and trade unionists. Several of the delegates from the Sydney Branch of the Wat- I erside Workers' Federation were 1 Aborigines. ... I Resolutions carried dealt with I wages and conditions, cial j service injustice, ' housing, cul tural development and compen sation for alienation of lands. . Mr. D. Daniels, secretary of the Northern Territory Abori ginal Rights Council, told the conference, that Aborigines in the Territc y do not receive award wages because they are excluded from the Pastoral Award (NT) and the Pearl In dustry Award. Mr. Dan-'els, who is an Abo- I rigine, said that even since the change in legislation it has been found that Aboriginal workers coming within the ambit of the award are paid lower wages. "Inhuman" - The whole story of the Abo rigines is one of inhuman ex ploitation by the employers with little or .no supervision at best and in the worse cases open collaboration by Government I officials with the worst employ- B ers, he said. I A Queensland delegate tolc I of cases of Aborigines working 1 Continued on Page 12 Among leaders of the Aboriginal rights struggle seen at the Canberra Easter conference: Messrs. Charles Perkins (left) and J. McGinness. I Aborigines Coitinued from Page 1 all their lives on cattle stations and having most of their wages paid to the Protector of Abori gines. On retirement these workers are given about £10 I by the Protector and no more. The delegate suggested that this matter should be fully in vestigated b; an impartial in vestigator. Dr. B. Christophers toid con ference that no Aborigines in North Queensland are allowed to apply for social service bene fits for sickness, unemployment or child endowment. 