 [?] li . By Tribune's Industrial Correspondent I SYDNEY Mr. W. Miller s reported intention to go ahead with Iffte sale of his three coastal oil tankers to a US monopoly will M reopen the danger to Australian seamen's jobs in the oil trade. 4-1 If u a sale to the American IP multi-millionaire D. K. Lud- ivig could hardly be considered %> be in the national interests, i It calls for renewed demands ffrom the labor movement for Ihe Australian National Line to ifriove into the coastal .oil trade An announcement was made by Mr. Miller last month of his inten tion to sell his three tankers, now op- crating on the Australian coast, because of the foreign oil companies' efforts to squeeze him out of the trade. These companies, by giving short notice of cargoes, made it impossible for a Miller tanker, when on the job, to get to the port of loading in time to take the cargo. This cargo was then given t to a foreign tanker manned by a low wage crew. The Department of Shipping and Transport on March 26 gave a firm as surance that permits for foreign- manned tankers to carry coastal oil cargoes would only be granted under exceptional circumstances. This assurance is regarded by mari time' unions as a further victory against the wealthy oil companies. It was given at a conference under the chairmanship of Mr. Justice Gallagher of the Com monwealth Arbitration Commission. The conference was proposed by the Seamen's Union after the "R. W. Miller" had been laid up in Sydney without a cargo since March 9. The Seamen's Union and the Fire men's and Deckhands' Union imposed a black ban on all tankers in protest against deliberate attempts by the oil companies, to squeeze Miller out of the trade. At the conference the Shipping De partment said that instructions have been issued that applicants seeking a permit for a foreign-manned tanker must prove that a shortage of Aus tralian-manned vessels exists. Such an application must also be made 14 days in advance. Federal secretary of the Seamen's Union, Mr. E. Elliott, urged that such notice should be extended to 28 days. The Department submitted that their instructions would adequately cover any likely future developments. The conference adjourned on the request by the Seamen's Union that it be reopened within 24 hours' notice if the need arose. Following the conference, Mr. Elliott said: "The tanker R. W. Miller would still be without a cargo had it not been for the action of the unions." Daniel K. Ludwig is the owner of National Bulk Carriers and Universe Tankships of the USA and a group of oil companies. This group recently bought out the Australian coal and transport interests of Placer Development Ltd. in NSW. In West Australia, Ludwig has estab lished a subsidiary company to mine iron ere and is making a bid to carry this ore to Japan in his bulk shipping fleet. But if the Miller tankers are sold to Ludwig, is there any guarantee they will be used in the Australian coastal oil trade? 