 "New Korea" I warns Lippmami IN a very large part of South Vietnam resistance to the "Vietcong" (liberation forces) has collaosed, says Walter Lippman, one of the best in formed American columnists. In an article in the current News week (Australian edition, dated April 12) he says that this important truth is being "neglected". Although the US administration has concentrated attention on the North "it is the state of the war in South Vietnam that is of crucial importance to the United States. "It is on that, above all, that we need to fix our attention. For it is in South Vietnam that disaster nttfl if ic fflP pff Aft uupciius auu IK W forestall that disaster that brings j us very near to being involved in a g land war of great proportions. f "It is there that we are being | pressed to engage several hundred 1 thousand American troops and to = face the prospect of at least a par- I tial mobilisation of this country to support and sustain those troops. I "The argument for making S South Vietnam a second Korea is J prnwinc louder in the lobbies and | corridors of Washington." g This, he says, is because the 1 theory that US military advisers j would be able to help the South | Vietnam leaders crush the "Viet- J cong rebellion" has not worked. j His article continues: "Our side ! has been steadily losing the control j of the countryside. It has failed to j win the allegiance of the peasants, j who are not only the majority of | the nation, but are the one and only j source of military manpower. j Ait American war j "Today the principal highways, north and south, east and west, I have been cut by the Vietcong and j the cities where our clients are : holed up are being supplied by air and by sea. "The South Vietnamese army has . ' not surrendered, but it has so little will to fight and has such a high rate of desertion that we can no longer count on South Vietnam ese soldiers even to supply sentries for American air bases and installa tions." Lippman says the war used to be a war of South Vietnamese as sisted by the Americans. "It is now becoming an American war very inefficiently assisted by the South Vietnamese." In fact, the war-weary Vietnam ese are tending to sit on the side lines "while we, who .have promised to 'win' the war, are allowed to - show how we can win it." The warhawks' "clean" war in the air, which they preferred to a "dirty" war on the ground" has not done the trick," adds Lippmann. "It is evident enough now that the South Vietnamese ground forces are unable and unwilling to fight effectively .... "And so we are being confronted with two dismal prospects. The first is of landing American sol diers for an interminable war on the ground against the inexhaust ible masses on the Asian continent. "The second prospect . is the bombing of the populated cities of North Vietnam. This would bring down on us the opprobrium of almost all the world and also risk that we would compel Russia and China to join in opposing us ... . "We may find ourselves with a choice between the devil' of defeat in South Vietnam and the deep blue sea of a much wider war in eastern Asia. "That choice could perhaps be avoided if we remember in time that when there is no military solution to a conflict, there must be negotiation to end it. In such a situation only fools will go to the brink and over it." \ 