 Sydney could learn from Soviet craft — — BBPI BBWHWUL IBgBBMP— "Early in my work on this story", writes Alf Watt, "I was asked the height of the waves in Sydney Harbor. I'm afraid it had me stumped. You will see the importance of this to Sydney-ites in the story. 1 by Alf Watt I SYDNEY'S hydrofoil ferry, with fares to Manly at 5/- a trip, hardly helns to solve the trans- port problem, but it does serve as a reminder of what could be done by a socialist transport system on such a beautiful wat erway. Hydrofoils on Soviet water ways are fast and cheap, with the cost growing proportion ately less as the trip length ens. This was made clear to me by Alexander Vladimirov, de puty chairman of the passen ger department of the River Transport Ministry when I met him recently. I-Ie and his colleagues gave me two examples of comparative costs of pas-, scngcr transport on the "Rocket" hydrofoil and conventional ships. In the first, on a route of fourteen miles, the cost for both was the same — 30 kopeks or approx. three shil- , lings. In the second, on a route of 40 miles, the cost for conventional ships was 70 kopeks or seven shillings, and for the Raketa (Rocket), sixty kopeks or about six shillings. Another example was given by the newspaper, Water Transport, which said that the train takes about 20 hours to go from Kazan to Gorky, while a Raketa does the trip along the Volga River in 8 hours, and at much lower cost. But Ministry officials pointed out that for economical working and safe operation, hydrofoils needed a route of not less than 5 or 6 miles of water ways comparatively free of small craft. They would not be economical, for instance, on the Moscow River sub urban ferry service route. So it appears, from Soviet experi ence, that hydrofoils are not the an swer to a fast frequent and pleasur able service on most of Sydney's Har bour routes. A progressive government, however, would soon find an answer to this, problem. The price paid for Sydney's privat ely owned hydrofoil, incidentally, is very high. Not only must the passengers pro vide the profit for the operating com pany and the Japanese builders, but as the latter bought the licence for their construction from a Swiss com pany, they must provide profit for them as well. Here, the domestic price for the 64-passenger Raketa model is 70,000 rubles, or about £35,000, and for the £90 000 124aSSC"eer Metcor&lt; about Export prices would be higher. A new export version of the Meteor is now on the market. It will carry 150 passengers at a maximum speed of over 50 miles per hour. Advertised as being suitable for river, lake and coastal transport, it is seaworthy in conditions where the waves are higher than five feet. This is the maximum the smaller Meteor is designed to navigate/ . The export brochure says of this vessel that the low initial cost makes it a very paying proposition. The calculated cost of transporting passengers by these ships is about one- third of that of conventional ships. This proposition should certainly have been investigated by our Gov ernment before allowing a private company to foist a high-priced vessel on Harbour commuters. It seems that, if it will cope with the seas just opposite the Heads, it would be a far better proposition than the Japanese vessel, and its pur chase would, have helped bridge the trade gap with the Soviet Union that our governments seem to uphold as an article of faith. Several . other types of hydrofoil are in use in the Soviet Union. One, called Chaika (Seagull), seats 30 passengers and has a draught of only 12 inches. It is very suitable for shallow rivers. Another, the Kometa (Comet) is one of three models of sea-going vessels in service, and can carry 150 passengers at 45 miles per hour. Designs for an inland water freighter with a cargo capacity of 80 to 100 tons are on the drawing boards. Work is proceeding, too, on hover craft designed to travel on an air cushion). One, designed to ply the ocean between Europe and America/will be in the shape of a disc, 450 feet in dia meter, and with the power for the lift fans that produce the air cushion provided by a 150,000 H.P. atomic power plant. The first passenger hovercraft, (called Sormovich) is being built at the Gorky yards, and will have its trials this summer. It will travel at about one foot above the surface, at a speed of 75 m.p.h., and will be able to move out onto the bank to ; embark and disembark passengers. j She will be 'able to navigate in 3 summer and winter alike, in shallow water and on ice. " - One point worth noting in conclu- sion. Soviet people always talk about their transport systems in terms of "economic efficiency". But their under- ' standing,, and use, of this term is dif- ?j ferent from that of capitalist owners, j In the Soviet Union the term means > ' making the -'.service" pay by charging low fares and attracting capacity or near capacity loading. So, Aeroflot, ; for example, whose domestic fares are '/ the lowest in the world, is a profitable \j concern because its planes fly with a j, year round average of 75 per cent of seats occupied. 