 | Each grenade blast brings a smile to Wall Street yHE bigger the US air force's losses in Vietnam the higher rise the values of shares in aircraft companies in the US. This is pointed out in a Soviet New Times article, following suc cessful- South Vietnam liberation forces' raids on , US air bases at Da Nang. and Chu Lai last month. "We don't know how General Westmoreland's headquarters re acted, hut we do know that the US Air Force losses in Vietnam cause the shares of Bell, Sikorsky and other aircraft companies to go up at the New York Stock Exchange," says New Times. "The greater the American losses in Vietnam, the bigger are the orders placed with the munition firms. "In December last the Pentagon . ordered 720 transport and combat helicopters armed with machine guns and rockets from Bell. "The Sikorsky firm is supplying the US First Air Cavalry Division, recently, landed in Vietnam, with 87-seat helicopters. Vertol is build- ing 44-seat. helicopters. New high- j speed helicopters are being tested 8 by Lockheed and Hughes. i "In the first nine months of this ! year the Defence Department placed ! orders for 600 million dollars' worth I of helicopters. I "The shareholders and directors f of the aircraft companies are | happy. : R. E. Hopper, Hughes' | general director, is boasting that g the. firm will soon receive orders I for at least 4,000 helicopters and j maybe more." j Explains "No" to peace These profits, in which the most important US monopolies share, go far towards explaining the persistent rejection by the US of all peace proposals — the most recent rebuff being by US state secretary Dean Rusk in a speech last week, in which he said the US would not "back down". However the demand for gen uine peace negotiations continues The London New Statesman says: "As the war expands, the need for a fresh negotiating effort becomes more urgent. The Anglo- US contention throughout . has been that repeated US offers to negotiate have been turned down . by Hanoi. "The State Department now confirms that in September 1964 America turned down the opport unity to hold secret ' peace talks with Hanoi under UN auspices. "Nonsense" "This . makes nonsense both of President Johnson's, statement on Augjust 3: 'Ifc 20 months we have agreed to 15 different approaches to try to bring peace, and eacn of them has been turned down by the other side.') and Mr. Wilson's repeated assurances to Parliament that Hanoi has been adamant in its refusal to neg otiate. ' "Did Britain know of Hanoi's acceptance of TJ Thant's plan? When questioned on this point Mr. Stewart declined to give a direct answer." The Manchester Guardian notes that "right up to . March US officials reacted with marked testiness to those who urged neg otiations". The- Sydney Morning Herald commented on November 20: . "It has now been made to appear that not one proposal, but repeated proposal!, for discussions made by Hanoi., through the sec retary-general of the UN have been ignored. "Equally . to the point, Washing ton seems to have kept them quiet and, nothing would evpn mow have been heard of them had it not1 been for a newspaperman's interview with Mr. Adlai Steven- 1 son shortly before his death." I The real reason for US reluc- J tance to negotiate — apart from i profit from continuing the war j is shown in a statement by j Defence Secretary McNaniara j which shows that the US a'R | to partition Vietnam — aR j this wonfd never be accepted by g the Vietnamese. j As quoted by US Newsweek j magazine for December 6, mc- j Namara said: "What are o I objectives in Vietnam, for examp j Our political objective there is an j independent South Vietnam = The Geneva accords, accepted by Australia, and the basis o | which the Vietnamese laltl ao | their arms after defeating j French in 1954, expressly = out partition of Vietnam on a J ground. | They say, in article of j Final Declaration that the . j of th settlement is for the principles of indepeu e f I unity and territorial mtegri y, i of Vietnam. I 