 1 The New Voices In Soviet Literature £ From JUDAti WATEN in London. 1 CINCE my first visit to the j 1 Soviet Union in 1958 there j have been many significant j developments in Soviet Lit erature. . j Many new writers and poets I have made their appearance I and indeed, .during the in- j tervening six-odd years, some j have risen to. fame both" in the Soviet Union and abroad. It was in 1958 that the poet Andrei Voznosensky published his first j poems in the "Literary Gazette". To day his work is very widely known 1 in the Soviet Union and he has been I translated into all the main languages | of the world. I Recently he visited London where I his poetry recital was a tremendous 1 success. His poem "Lenin" has been the subject of considerable discus sion in literary publications in. Eng lish speaking countries. Voznosensky's poetry has a fresh ness and an originality which cap tures the imagination. I myself heard him recite for two and a half hours to an enthusiastic audience that packed a hall in Leningrad. But he is only one of the many brilliant voices which began to be heard after 1958. There is the poet Robert Rozhdest- vensky whom many Soviet critics re gard as the best of the younger school, and there is Evgeny Evtush- enko who, from my personal experi ence in the Soviet Union is the most popular. And there is no doubt that in Europe he is the best known and probably the most highly regard ed Soviet poet. His appearance in H Italy recently at a number of im- |jj portant literary festivals aroused great enthusiasm. Composers includ- - ing Benjamin Britten have set some I of his poems to music. Evgeny Evtushenko's latest poem I which occupied over 50' pages in the . « literary magazine "Yunost" is ex- I tremely moving in its evocation of I a Jewish victim of nazism, the II murdered fiancee of the Jewish en gineer of the Bratsk electric station, who is a symbol of light.- Among the post 1958 school is a group of women poets who have won considerable fame in the Soviet Un ion. These include Bella Achmadul- ma, Drunina, Matveyeva and Mdritz who are also known to poetry lovers in England and Europe generally. Mention should also be', made of the renewed interest in the 76-year- old Soviet poetess Anna Akhmatova who was recently awarded an hon orary doctorate at Oxford University. Her poem "Prologue" which she be gan writing during the war when she was evacuated to Tashkent, promises to be one of the great achievements of Soviet poetry. She is not the only older poet who - has won new acclaim since 1958 Alexander Tvardovsky. who is also . known as the editor of "Novy Mir," one of the finest literary journals in. the world, enhanced his already great fame as a poet with new poems" which appeared in the daily press as well as in journals. Poetry in the Soviet Union is ex tremely important and is read by millions of- people. As Anna Akh matova said recently, the Soviet Union is going through the third of several great waves of popular in terest in poetry, the first having been during the revolutionary period nd the second during the war. Among the novelists since 1958 anil Granin (who recently visited ustralia) had gained a big reputa- on. This has grown considerably ith his new novels. Other novelists include Nagibin, an :cellent short story writer as well, ury Kazakov, whose "Smell of ;read," is shortly to appear in Eng- sh, and Vasili Aksyonov, a doctor y profession whose, first short lories were published in that lively magazine "Yunost" (Youth) in 1959 and who subsequently made his reputation with his novel "Col leagues." Of the more established novelists Konstantin Siminov's series , of novels of the last war continue to arouse discussion in the Soviet Union, as they do abroad. Since 1958 a number of remarkable autobiographical books have appear ed. To write one's childhood mem ories or memoirs is a tall order in the Soviet Union. The two supreme models are, of course, Tolstoy's and Gorki's and there are other great ones such as some of Isaac. Bebel's short stories. Yet these Soviet books are successes, perhaps because they have been influenced by the older masters. I refer to Chukovsky's "Silver Crest," Ilya Ehrenburg's memoirs, the late Samuel Marshak's moving "At Life's Beginning" and "Distant Years" by Konstantin Paustovsky, one of the finest stylists and per haps one of the most respected writ ers in the Soviet Union. All the poets and writers I have mentioned have often been lavishly praised and often Just as vigorously criticised.. There is no dull conform ity of opinion in the Soviet Union any more than there is uniformity of style and content in literature. In fact the years since 1958 have been an era of innovation and high controversy. And it has all been to the good. No literature can develop without criticism and without a clash of opinion. Far too often liter ary controversy and criticism of writers in the Soviet Union have been misunderstood in the capitalist world or wilfully given a sinister significance. Actually" in the capitalist world few writers are free from criticism, often quite malicious criticism, as I myself know, having been a practis ing writer for the last 15 odd years. Even the most renowned can fall victim particularly if they are judged to be old-fashioned, for literary fash ions can change like ladies' dresses. But no serious writer is frightened of criticism nor does he spurn to learn from criticism when it is deli vered in a friendly, constructive spirit. And this goes for Soviet writ ers too. This final point should be made: despite differences that might exist in the literary world in the Soviet Union, 'ali Soviet writers are . deeply committed writers, not merely being content with analysing life but also desiring to take part through their writings in the struggle against all those evils which hamper human happiness. The concept of the committed artist is deeply embedded in the old Russian literary tradition. Belinsky's maxim, "that art with out ideas, philosophical and socio political ideas, "is like a man without a soul: it is a corpse," has dominated Russian literature for more than a century. Every giant of Russian liter ature has paid his tribute to it with his work— Tolstoy, Dostoevsk'y, Tur senev and Chekhov. The Soviet writers in the new con ditions of Socialist society equally - pay tribute to it with their work. EVTUSHENKO . . . of the new generation of poets. SHOLOKHOV . . . "Quiet Flows the Don" 