 [?] Democracy defied : Playford lost but ignored voters Even with the electoral gerrymander in South Australia which is heavily weighted in favor of the liberal-held seats, Playford actually LOST the 1962 election — and then would not get out. QN that occasion, 19 Labor members ,were elected to represent 312,200 people while 18 Liberals were re turned to represent 205,000 pponle. Playford crouched behind the two f so-called "Independents", one of whom subsequently joined the L.C.L. while the other was placed in the Speaker's Chair from where he casts a vote for the Government. The Liberal team actually won no more than 34% of the votes cast. The undemocratic electoral set-up in South Australia is shown most vividly in a widely-distributed pampb let published by the Adelaide Univer sity A.L.P Club Calling for an end to the -electoral gerrymander and the institution ol the 'one-vote, one-value" principle in elections, the pamphlet declares:— "The Labor member for Enfield represents MORE ELECTORS THAN THE COMBINED TOTAL represented by the Premier the Speaker, the Minister for Lands, the Minister ior Works and the Min ister for Agriculture." Enfield is a city electorate oi 38,107 people Premier Playford's own seat of Gumeracha covers only 6,973 elec tors. The disproportion of country-to city electorate voting strength leads to the fact that one-third of the elec tors (mainly in the country) elect 26 M.Ps or two-thirds oi Parliament, while two-thirds of the voters (main ly in the city) can elect only 13 MPs. Because even this rigged electoral boundary system fails to give the Liberals a majority, the Playford Government last year attempted to worsen the gerrymander. Only the threat oi widespread industrial action and a protest demonstration made Playford pause in his plans at that time A maximum vote against Playiord this iyear will put the matter beyond doubt and restore some semblance ol democracy to parliamentary elections in South Australia. FOOTNOTE: The . State electoral roll this year once again reveals the undemocratic nature of the Upper House, where 16 out of 20 are Play- ford's men. The House ol Assembly electors number 557,437 but because of pro perty franchise the Legislative Council roll includes only 212,664 people— less than half of the Assembly roll. The Communist Party proposes the complete abolition of the Legis lative Council; and for the House of Assembly, six or seven Members for each Federal electorate area to be elected by proportional represent ation without preferences. 