 A critical view of " Angels' Alley" ""THE review in Tribune of . 1 The Ballad of Angel's 1 Alley, now playing at New Theatre, Sydney, gives praise to a musical that should receive severe cri ticism. It is surprising that the crude and vulgar anti-working class sentiments expressed in this play should ot be obvious to thinking "vlitical observers. No doubt the very good pro duction and fine acting and singing tends to obscure the fact that we are asked to en joy (and condone) the antics of pimps, bashers, slashers and potential murderers. Your critic says "This show is unashamed romping enter, tainment with a salty Aus tralian flavor . . . will have a place in our independent cul ture that is growing in struggle against the American syndicat ed flood. "Yet for years Tri bune has been attacking vig. orously American plays, films and novels that exploit the same vices and attitudes that permeate the New Theatre production I It is true that serious writ- I ers have written about crooks : and whores but they have- I viewed them objectively. Ber- i told Brecht's THE THREE- i PENNY OPERA is the outstand- j ing example. But Brecht has no j illusions about the role of i these people. He uses humour I and satirical songs to show that j they are a reflection of the j rottenness of capitalist society j Maxim Gorky has dealt very \ strongly with the growth of the I criminal as a central character j in modern writing. He said ' "This is a genuinely bourgeois I literature. We can count thou- I sands of books the heroes of which are rogues, assassins and I agents of the police. Detective I fiction is to this day the fav- | orite food of well fed persons in Europe. Moreover in penetrat- I ing into the environment of the | working man, this type of I literature has been and is one | of the causes retarding the | growth of class consciousness; 1 it arouses sympathy for the | adroit thief, it engenders the will to steal, and by emphasiz- S ing the paltry value which I bourgeois society sets on work. | ing class life, it stimulates an S increase of murders and other | crimes against the person.'? To quote Tribune again ... one doesn't look for, or get, a social or political mes sage comparable with many New Theatre productions." This is begging the point. Every New Theatre musical of the past including REEDY RIVER, Mona Brand's excellent adapta tions of Gilbert and Sullivan, and the many political revues (I'D RATHER BE LEFT etc) were popular because they did not ignore the social content and audiences came to the theatre because of this and the exuberance of the writing and production. When, as in the present show, there is an emphasis on bawdiness and low characters and an ex clusion of any comment on human behaviour, one may well ask why it is presented at all. The hallmark of NeW Theatre for 33 years has been that its plays judged men by their actions, not by their personalities. In BALLAD OF ANGEL'S ALLEY their per sonalities are emphasised and their actions ignored. Throughout the play women are referred to at all times as bitches. This is coarse writing that sickens. One of tn& highlights is a razor fight between Fiddler and the heroine, Maria Tiddler The scene is funny to watch but in essence it is a degrading spectacle, especially as the girl is half undressed. The whores sing a song " 'Twas ever thus for a woman". It is an acceptance of their fate. What a mockery this play makes of women; Maria Tiddler reveals herself as a tougher, more vicious creature thm her rival. Fiddler. Your reviewer evidently anti cipates some reaction against the play as he says that it will create some controversy. It is not too late for New Theatre to remove some of the more offensive and vulgar dialogue. Even so, the play cannot be re garded as a happy choice for this city's most progressive theatrical group. EDMUND ALLISON, Sydney 