 m i " ' 31 arrested in Viet war protest [?] [?] SYDNEY: Fifty-one peopSe were arrested last Friday in connection with a peak-hour demonstration described by TV and press commentators as Australia's mast rioter. mined action of opposition to the war in Vietnam. Those arrested included members of university staffs, students, trade unionists and members of peace organisations. The demonstration was spon sored by the Vietnam Action Committee. The action began in Martin Place, in the heart of Sydney, at 5.15 pm, and concluded nine hours later at 2.15 am Sat urday, as a crowd cheered and applauded when the last of the arrested demonstrators was released on bail from the Central Police Station cells. LAST Monday, the arrested I people were formally charged in the Central Court of Petty Sessions, mainly with obstruction of traffic. Several were charged with additional offences, including resisting ar rest and assault of a police of ficer. The cases were remand ed to various dates in Novem ber and December. The demonstration began when some 200 people paraded up and down in front of the Commonwealth Government building, Martin Place, dislaying placards which said: © STOP VIETNAM WAR, NO AUSSIES FOR VIETNAM WAR, NO CONSCRIPTS FOR VIETNAM, MAKE LOVE NOT WAR, BACK TC GENEVA AGREEMENTS ... and other slogans. At about 5.30 p.m. the number of demonstrators had grown to 600 or more. They surged on to the roadway of Pitt Street and marched rapidly up the street in the direction of the one-way traffic. Police summoned reinforcements, patrol wagons and cars by radio and closed in on the demonstrators just past King Street, at the end of the first block. A cordon of police with vans barred the way to the marchers, many of whom (200-300) then sat down on the roadway of Pitt Street. Meanwhile, several arrests had been made. Detective-Sergeant F. Longbottom, i of the New South Wales special i political police branch, personally singled out and arrested Mr. L. i Aarons, general secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, who was walking along with demon- strators at the side of the road. At least 10,000 people gathered around the Pitt-King Street intersec tion watching sympathetically. Tho crowd roared as eight policemen dragged a man to a van and attempt ed to force him in. Police quickly cleared a passage along one side of Pitt Street to allow buses and other traffic to pass through, Mass arrests At about 5.30 p.m. an order was given for mass arrests and, without further warning, these were begun by squads of uniformed and plain clothes police. Thirteen men were packed into one ordinary police ban. They imme diately began chanting "1-2—3- 4 — we don't want war' 'and rocked the van in time from side to side. As police vans sped through the city, placards were hung out of rear doors, and the inmates shouted slogans, attracting the attention of hundreds of pedestrians. Some 200 people of the remainder of the crowd then walked several blocks to Wynyard Park to hold a brief meeting, at which over £100 was subscribed to help the campaign against the Vietnam war. The prisoners, including a young woman typist and a young girl first- year university student, were un loaded, at Central Police Station. The police station was thrown into confusion as groups of prisoners were marched from one cell to another and police were mobilised to fill in forms and charge sheets and to take fingerprints. This process took from 6 p.m. to about 9 p.m. Meanwhile, between 150 and 200 people had come from Wynyard Park and elsewhere to carry on the demon stration outside the main entrance to the Central Police Station. Young people strummed guitars and sang peace songs. Lawyers were sum- j moned. People, including parents of some young people arrested, arrived with money to; bail out prisoners. The police, however, said they | , Continued on Page 12 TOP: Section of last Friday's sit- down demonstration in Pitt Street, Sydney, against the war of interven tion in Vietnam. ABOVE: Part of the crowd who carried on the demonstration outside Central Police Station until 2.15 a.m. Saturday. (See story at right). ; Demonstration Continued from Page 1 would not release anyone while the crowd was outside. This stalemate went on for about two hours. Meanwhile a Sydney doctor, Dr. J. Waddy, had come to the station to bail out his- son, a student. Members of the crowd outside the station entrance told Tribune that the doctor was bodily .hurled out of the charge room by police. . V ' .. Later, he was charged with offen sive behavior, insisted on spending the night in the celis, was bailed out on' the Saturday morning and ap peared in court on Monday. The. prisoners, most of whom were in one large cell, learned around 11 p.m. that a big crowd of supporters was waiting outside. They began loud chanting in the cell: "1—2 — 3 — 4 — we don't want war." Soon after, the police began re leasing them one by one on bail (£10 in most cases, but £50 in two cases and £100 in another). The first prisoner was released at about 11.30 p.m. and the last did not emerge until 2.10 a.m. Saturday. Each one was greeted with cheers and applause by the crowd. outside Court 1 On Monday morning, as the ar rested demonstrators gathered at the court and were briefed by legal counsel for their appearance as de fendants, a crowd of several dozen people, mostly women, demonstrated outside the court in Liverpool Street, City. Some of their placards read: DEMONSTRATORS DEFEND AUST. LIVES AND DEMOCRACY; DEFEND' THE RIGHT TO PROTEST; DE MAND INQUIRY INTO ARRESTS;' STOP THE WAR; WHICH IS WORSE —BLOCKING TRAFFIC OR KILLING PEOPLE?; MILLIONS OPPOSE VIET NAM WAR, WHY CAN'T WE?; DEFEND AUST. DEMOCRACY — SAVE AUSSIE LIVES. 