 Lib. Government means challenge to people By a NSW Political Correspondent SYDNEY: The advent to office of a Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales underlines the need to redouble all efforts for labor movement unity in action to defend and advance the interests of the working people. T"HE installation of this Gov ernment, which is directly representative of big business, with a probable majority of three is g setback for the labor movement. But with the tide of popular opposi tion to the Menzies Liberal-Country Party Government's Vietnam war poli cy growing rapidly, the Askin Govern ment's future is insecure. Determined united action by the Labor movement can ensure that it does not run its full term. Main task of the labor movement in NSW now is to develop maximum united action of all forces in the labor movement to ensure that the Liberal- Country Party government is prevent ed from carrying through attacks on the people's living standards on be half of big business interests. However the building of real, fight ing, unity of action against the new Liberal-Country Party coalition re quires a really new turn away from the pro-monopoly policies and bureau cratic practices of the defeated Right- Wing Labor Government. Already ALP circles are foreshadow ing that the nearly seven per cent swing against labor in the elections will be a major issue at the party's Annual NSW State Conference in June. The necessary new turn will require above all adoption of systematic anti- monopoly policies, to make possible the implementation of basic demands of the trade union movement and past ALP conferences, including a 35- hour week, basic family living wage, and abolition of the anti-union penal clauses from the Arbitration Acts, as well as price control, tighter control on rents and landlordism, nationalisa- , tion and other demands. In the sphere of the public service, the fight must be redoubled for im mediate satisfaction of all outstanding, claims of transport workers, office workers, meat workers and all other State or semi-State employees. Major factors in the swing of many past Labor voters away from the Government included: The repeated rebuff to transport workers and public servants' demands for wage and salary justice; and re fusal to meet long-standing demands for complete ron'-?! of the penal clauses Labor leader Renshaw's omis sion from his main T.V. speech of all, industrial questions except- increased sick leave. . " O Bureaucratic use of legal penal ties against small shopkeepers, open ing the way for publicity crusades by Liberals through, the daily press and failing to seek flexible solutions to 'such issues as shopping hours. The open splitting role of the Democratic Labor Party as a profes sional preference vote gatherer for Liberal candidates, concentrating on close electorates. Successful confusion of sections of new, young voters, together with a continuing failure by the ALP leaders to give attention to special needs of young people. Unusually blatant use of most of the daily press and TV channels to support the return of a Liberal-Coun try Party Government, and denial of TV, press and radio facilities to Com munist Party candidates. The Liberal Party's vote-catching offer of State Aid for church schools— a bid to split the Catholic vote on sectarian grounds. The whole course of the election campaign revealed that the Commun ist Party Of Australia advanced the only policy that offers a real alter native of pe&ce and economic security to the people. 