 I Politics on the waterfront a U/HEN the, wharfies are in- | volved in a dispute, the Menzi&lt; Government always comes down heavily on the side I of the shipowners. Such is the influence of the shipowners that they are able to have a waterfront dispute turned into a national emer gency by the Government. . Actually, the Government pays more attention to a waterfront dispute than it does to a dispute or the demands of its own employees. Menzies once contemptuously re ferred to the wharfies as "those experts oh foreign affairs, down on the waterfront." ' History shows who are the experts and who is the bungler. "Pig-iron Bob" I j-a Soon after the Japanese had raped Nanking, the British ship ; Dalfram £ arrived at Port Kembla, NSW, to load h the first shipment of 23,000 tons of pig-iron for Shinto furnaces. It was estimated at the "time that $ the Pig-iron was enough for 180,000 f -a Japanese 250-lb. bombs and, 1 million aO-lb incendiaries. Led by Ted Roach, in Kembla (now $ vm'Stant general secretary of the WWF) and with Jim Healy as general S secretary, the wharfies refused to load it. . Menzies immediately came to the aid of the Japanese. As ' Attorney- eneral he introduced the infamous Uog Collar Act. "rPs PUnve Act was called a || ,og Collar Act" because only those 31 'no received a licence from the Govr li ernment were allowed on the Port Kenibla wharves. Sir Isaac Isaacs, former Australian governor-General, wrote; of the ind ent m 1939: "The .men refused to gage to put the iron on board solely tin?aifSe tlley. woul&lt;J, asjihey conscien- am . believetL thereby become in helping Japan in a of aggression and the bombing innocent civilians." / be wharfies involved in the spin 6 . ir Isaac said; "Their con science is clear." - pa K te When Japanese planes bombed Darwin in 1942, one of their first targets was the waterfront. Wharfies died there. The pig-iron had come back packed with high explosive. The "experts on foreign affairs" that Menzies sneeringly referred to had been right. They have been just as right on many occasions since then and "Pig-iron Bob" (a name he will carry to the grave) just as wrong. Korean war Ted Roach later served 12 months' jail for "contempt of court." Bill Burns, who reported the pig-iron ban for Tribune and other progressive newspapers, was sentenced to six months' jail under the Crimes Act, following publication of demands for an end to the Korean war. The Government, the shipowners and the press, with a long record of combined attacks on the wharfies, have the. gall to demand that water- siders should keep clear of politics. They mean— left-wing politics; Among the left-wing politics on the waterfront are the ideas put forward by the Communist wharfies, who advocate a working class program and policy with Socialism as the objective. This, the shipowners and their kind regard as worse than the plague. Communists on the waterfront as elsewhere seek at all times to unite the workers against the main enemy — MONOPOLY — in the case of the waterfront, the foreign owned ship ping conference lines. Trust and respect Communists on the waterfront have won the respect and trust of thousands of wharfies, right from the tough days of the hated "Bull -Sys tem". ' With members of the Labor Party and workers of no party they share leadership in Federation branches big and .small. They seek at all times unity with Labor Party workers and leaders on matters in the interest of the .union. The oppose the Right-wing policies and attacks on the trade unions, by some of its leaders, like Deputy Op- position Leader, Whitlam, as being in the interests of monopoly and against the interests of the workers. Mr. Whitlam's statement that ALP union officials "who collaborated with other Parties" in united activity in the interests of their union were, "men without honor or courage" only interested in job hunting, has been described as "contemptible" by lead ing ALP member on the waterfront, Mr. J. Brownlee. Suggestions that the Labor Party is excluded from the leadership and affairs of the Waterside Workers' Federation are unfounded and un true. Its General secretary, Mr. C. Fi.tz- gibbon, is a member, of the N.S.W. Executive of the Labor Party and many officials of its 40 odd branches are active ALP members. Communist officials in the union branches are in a minority, as they are on the Federal Council. When some years ago the Right- wing N.S.W. executive of the Labor Party, expelled the1 assistant secre tary of the Sydney branch, Syd (Ivo) Barrett, its. president, Jim (Dutchy) Young and one of its Vigilance of ficers, Neville Isaksen, the losers were, the Labor Party and not the wharfies. Elections The press, and some other unions could well take a leaf from, the wharfies' bOuk on how to conduct fair and democratic elections. All elections are by secret ballot on the job strictly controlled by the members themselves. The Returning Officers and Scrut ineers are elected at rank and file meetings. No retiring official or candidate in the election, takes any part in the conduct of the ballot, but he has the right to appoint supporters to watch the voting, and counting of the ballot. The Federal Council is the union's governing body and its members, elected every toiree years, come from its. branches of the Federation and include workers from the job. The affairs (.of the union ,afe. firmly . . rMir.'-i. . : -IV in the' hands of the rank and file. Its policies and program are dis cussed and decided on by mass meetings around the country at which attendance by all members is com pulsory. The W.W.F. members have built a Job Delegates' Association that takes, union organisation directly on to the job. . This rank-and:file organisation has played a big part, as part and parcel of the union, m the advances made by Australian wharfies and in the maturity of their approach to eco nomic and political affairs. Members of many other unions, seeking support from the wharfies when swept up in an industrial struggle, have had reason to pay tribute to the solidarity, organisa: tion arid political know-how of the wharfies' federation. Political ideas vary on the water front as elsewhere, they get ham mered and thrashed out there — but the political ideas that come uppermost are all those that serve the struggle of the wharfies and the working class as a whole. MR. BOB BOLGER addresses a recent pro test gathering of wharfies outside the ASIA offices in Sydney. 