 A tribute to j Mary Gilmore \ \ By W. A. WOOD "T"HERE was nothing so very remarkable about Dame Mary Gilmore writing for the Tribune. All the best poets have been Com munists or the next best thing of fering in their time. Shakespeare was a militant hum anist; Milton a revolutionary regicide whose most passionate writings are devoted to showing that there are times when to lop off the head of the King and (for good measure) the Archbishop of Canterbury is the only correct and proper course for a self-respecting Englishman to take. The younger Wordsworth was a friend of the French Revolution. Shelley suffered much, for a long time, in the sacred cause of liberty; Byron died for it. Burns only just evaded the sack from the public service on the same account. In Australia it has always been the same. Charles Harpur, militant republican and anti-war crusader was followed not too much later by Francis Adams, Henry Lawson, John Farrell and many others who fought bosses and squattocrafs in . word and deed. It is only. the minor poets who mutter and mumble something about their art being "above politics" and sneak off to the ivory tower when reactionary officialdom looks their way. That was the opposite of Mary Gilmore's way. It took her a long time to decide to write for the Tribune (she was 87 when she be gan) but when she did make her decision, she made it with the great est ostentation. With a defiant blast of the trumpet she crossed over from the camp of the rightwing Aus tralian "Worker" to the camp of the Communist Tribune. The reasons she gave are stated in a new book, Mary Gilmore, a Trib ute, just published, in time for the 100th anniversary of her birth, by- the Australasian Book Society. Mrs. Barrie Ovenden Who compil ed and edited the book and wrote a short biography (modestly called "Biographical Notes") has done a piece of work for which, she will be thanked by all true Australians. Most of all will she be thanked by the militant workers, and, of those, more especially by the regular Trib une readers. These will remember Mary Gilmore's "Arrows" as they ap peared in this paper week by week for Just over 10 years, till her death in 1962. Many or those readers had read little, if anything, of Mary Gilmore until they read Arrows. Most of her best work was, out of print. (Pub lishers preferred imported literature to that of the best Australian writ ers). And even now the story of Mary Gilmore's early life, her support of early militant unionism in Australia, her voyage to Socialist New Austra lia in the nineties and her pioneering work for women's rights through the Woman's page of the Worker is largely unknown. Mrs. Ovenden fills m the story for us. She also includes an excellent selection of Mary Gilmore's prose works from "Old Days and Old Ways" and "More Recollections". Ad mirers of her poetry will also find an anthology bound to include their favorites. And there is a representa tive selection of "Arrows". Mrs. Ovenden has also compiled a remarkable pictorial record showing Mary Gilmore at successive stages of her career; the young schoolteacher of 26; later in her fifties and sixties; as Queen of the May -in 1961. The pictures show what causes she espoused and where she found her friends. There are two early snap-shots of the Cosme (New Aus tralia) settlement of Paraguay. Then she is shown, over 60 year later, with Soviet writers Surkov and Oksana Krugerskaya; with Albert Namatjira; with Faith Bandler of the Aboriginal Australian Fellowship; at work at her desk (writing Arrows, no doubt). By working with such people for the causes they all believed in, Mary Gilmore kept young, even at 97. What a woman! No single volume could contain or comprehend her. With this necessary reservation it must be said that Mrs. Ovenden's book goes as far as any -such book - could in preserving for Australia the record and the memory of one of the greatest of her daughters. (Mary Gilmore, a Tribute, by Dymphna Cusack, T. Inglis Moore, Barrie Ovenden, with a bibliography by Walter Stone. Published by the Australasian Book Society, 45/-. DAME MARY GILMORE seen here with Aboriginal artist Albert Namatjira. , 