 Ceylon Communist leader passes through Sydney Opposition unites against Ceylon Government SYDNEY: Half a mil lion unemployed, of whom two-thirds were young people, was an indication of the eco nomic state of Ceylon under its new govern ment, Mr. Peter Keune- man, MP, secretary of the Communist Party of Ceylon, said in Sydney. Mr. Keuneman (pictured) was travelling to New Zealand as representative of the whole of the Parliamentary Opposi tion of Ceylon at the confer ence of the World Parliament ary: Union; - _ As Mr. Keurieman deported for NZ, cables reported the first big strike, under the present govern ment, . by ' 1500 Ceylonese oil in- . spallation workers. Ceylon's' popu lation is about 11 million. Mr. Keuneman, who has been an MP for 18 years, said that economic issued, including high prices, were playing a-n increasing part - in the second stage of the struggle of the people of Ceylon for full national independence — the first stage being the achievement . of state political independence. Wey open for "neo'colomalism" The defeated progressive govern ment of Mrs. Bandaranaike had not found . it possible to cope with the economic difficulties sufficiently to withstand the combined attack of all the reactionary," anti-national liber ation, antisocialist forces. Former Prime Minister Mrs. Ban daranaike continued to be very ac tive in opposition and there was a degree of co-operation in action be tween the three Opposition parties, he said. . - - ' All these parties were strongly op posed to the operations of the United States Seventh Fleet in the Indian Ocean. The former Government had decreed that no ship or aircrait with nuclear capability could use any Cey lon harbour or airfield. The decree still stood. All the Opposition parties were actively opposing the war of inter vention in Vietnam, with rallies up to 25,000 strong demanding with- rawal of foreign troops, an end to bombing and application of the Geneva Agreement. Mr. Keuneman said the Communist Party had improved its vote at the election, and increased its representa tion from three to four members of Parliament. Our Party's standing is higher than ever,'" Mr. Keuneman said. . "The small group of 100 splitters who left the Party in support of the policies of the Chinese Party leaders have now split into five or six different groups. Some of them have left politics, others are ex treme rightists or mere adventur ers. The group's 'general secretary' was expelled earlier by the group as a 'revisionist'." he said. 