 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman AN attractive young woman, after picking up a crumpled leaflet issued by the Vietnam Action Committee, joined in ' last Friday's demonstration in Sydney. Her husband was among -the first Australian soldiers to go -.. to Yipt- . nani. "It's good to see so many people" doing something to help' bring hiy husband home," she said: . ' ? COMMONWEALTH C h i e f Conciliation Commissioner Taylor devised a new penalty against workers: the threat to hold up a wage agreement for Tasmanian railway workers be cause NSW transport workers threatened to strike! The move for a stoppage in N.S.W. was dropped but no better offer has since been made by the Government. However, as a sop the threat to extend the anti-strike clauses against the unions has been withdrawn. The super militancy of those right- wing leaders wiho insisted on a "quick" 24-hour strike was lack ing when it came to supporting an alternative move for a four-hour stoppage with mass demonstrations throughout the State. Such a stoppage could have won public support and seriously embar rassed the Askin Government on the eve of the by-elections. ? rpHE New York "/Worker" has pub- ljshed some 'facts about General Motors that Aussies should know:— "General Motors reports a net profit for the first three months of 1965- of $635,000,000. "GM chairman . Donner collected $805,322 in salary and bonuses last year. This year he cut hie salary by $926. How does he manage to get along after a wage cut like that?" ? " / TWTR. JUSTICE WRIGHT, the presid- ing judge hearing the GMH work- ers wage ciaim m jvieiDourne nas naa wide experience of the industry. For about 10 years prior to com ing on to the Bench - he was the employers' advocate in the metal and automobile industries.. ? "THE blood of this man's sin will stain the soul of this country unless you convict him," the State Attorney-General told the jury at Hayneville, Alabama. But the Ku Klux Klansman, Wilkins, was declared not. guilty .of murdering Mrs. Liuzzo, a white Civil Rights worker. ; This verdict was made despite the v fact that a Federal Agent said he \s was in the car with Wilkins and two other Klansman and saw Wilkins shoot Mrs. Liuzzo. d 1 ' The country's soul will also ' heed a lot of 'dry cleaning to clean out the stains of Vietnam and elsewhere! 