 £34 a fortnight i "a disgrace" i SYDNEY: The wage demands of NSW transport workers could be met out of big freight concessions to the BHP and ' other monopolies and huge interest payments to overseas ! bondholders, Mr. Harry Hatfield, Sheet Metal , Workers' Union organiser, told a mass meeting of these workers at Moore Park last Monday during their 24-hour stoppage. A/R. HATFIELD said that the £34 a fortnight base rate paid to lower grade transport workers ''was a disgrace". The Government had stated that it would not make itself a wage fixing authority. "But Governments fix big salaries for parliamentarians, judges, and top Public Servants." The previous N.S.W. Labor Gov ernment had taken over £75 million of the capital debt from the Depart ment of Railways, not to refute pay ment to the bond holders, but merely to transfer some of the interest bur den from the Department to the Government, Mr. Hatfield said. "This is a clear indication that i finances can be arranged, not in ' the interests of workers in the in- i dustry, but in the interests of big i business," he added. About 65,000 N.S.W. transport workers stopped work for 24 hours from midnight last Sunday night in their campaign to win increment pay increases of 16/6 after one year's service, 33/- after two years and 49/6 after three years, these pay ments to be based on service, not classification. , Over 1,000 attended the Moore Park meeting. Offer rejected I There are 26 unions involved and they rejected a compromise offer of 17/6 for tradesmen after three years, with nothing for the first year. For middle groups, like engine drivers, guards, etc., 10/- after three years, with nothing for the. first year. For laborers and other unskilled workers, 12/6 after three years, with nothing for the first year. , Sixteen of the 26 unions are liable j to fines up to £500 because of the ! strike. The Commonwealth Industrial Court ordered the 16 unions to comply with strike prohibition orders in their awards. When the Court had refused to consider prices in fixing the basio wage the press had said in congratu. lating them, that the decision was "fair and equitable." 1 " "It was fair and equitable because it didn't touch company profits," he said. . , One-sided Mr. Hatfield said that the Courts took months and years to grant wage claims, "but would, grant an order for a fine in four minutes flat. "What a one-sided set-up," he said. "Let us call on the Australian Council of Trade Unions to Imple ment the decision .of the 1963 ACTU Congress to beat back the penal clauses,, which says: ". . . that irrespective of how a dispute arises or its authorisation, no aspect of a dispute shall prevent , the ACTU from calling together the appropriate unions whenever penal action is threatened." Mr. Hatfield said the time to imple ment this decision was "right now." A decade behind Mr. Ralph Marsh, assistant secre tary of the NSW Labor Council, said that Government transport workers had not enjoyed the prosperity that workers in outside industries had for a decade. He said the last excuse given by the Government for not meeting the transport workers' demands was the drain on the economy caused by the drought. "Workers should not have to pay for the drought," he said. Dr. Lloyd Ross, NSW secretary of the Australian Railways' Union, said Continued on Page 12 TRANSPORT | STOPPAGE I Continued from Page 1 j that the workers got no pleasure out | of the inconvenience to the people. j But it would show the people how j important they were to the com- S munity and the economy and why it I was therefore necessary that they 1 were paid a decent wage, he said. S Inefficiency of the top brass was 8 causing the public more inconvenience I than the workers, he said. | NSW railway workers were getting I £1 less than workers in Victoria, and 8 NSW and Tasmania were the only | States where Government transport | workers had not had a wage increase. Mr. Pat Ryan, NSW secretary of l the Tramways and Motor Omnibus Workers' Union, said that since the j Budget and the basic wage decision | it was imperative that the workers j catch up with the cost of living. | Public transport was suffering the S worst staff shortage since the war 5 and there" were now . moves to employ | 16-year-olds, he said. 8 He said that the NSW Premier, I Mr. Askin, had dishonored his pre- election promise to meet the claims of Government transport workers. | When questioned about this promise | in Parliament, the Premier had said j that this had not been his promise, I but he had promised to bring them j into line ith those of transport g workers in other States. 8 Victorian transport workers are still j getting £1 more a week than those g in NSW. 8 Most rank and . file speakers, while | they supported the resolution, were | critical because it made no call for 1 further strike action. I It reaffirmed determination to j pursue the campaign for increases in g accordance with the policy and for- 8 mula at the outset of the campaign, | and condemned the Government for | its use of the penal clauses. - 8 There was enthusiastic support at | the meeting for the call from the j State Council of the Australian Rail- 8 ways Union for a rank-and-file con- I ierence to xurt r tne campaign. The ARU called on the Labor Coun cil to convene the conference imme- iely.-'iv-v " 