 Menzies moves to perpetuate the anti-Labor rule CANBERRA: By fore- ing through the Com monwealth Electoral Bill in the dying hours of the last Parliament, Sir Rob ert Menzies hopes to perpetuate the anti- Labor majority in Par liament by loading the electorates in favor of country areas against the cities. By doing this, however, he has created what one commen tator has called the worst Lib eral-Country Party split since the coalition was formed in 1949. Two Liberals, Messrs. H. B. Turner and W. C. Wentworth, voted against the Government, Mr. Turner openly denouncing the Bill as a gerrymander. The Act scraps the principle of one man one vote. As Opposition Leader Calwell said: "Briefly the Bill in structs the Distribution Commission ers to apply the 20 per cent discretion ary margin below the quota provided by the Electoral Act in favor of rural electorates." Deputy leader Whitlam later pointed out that the consequence will be that — "If the quota is 45,000, country elec- toratcs will normally have 36,000 and city electorates 54,000. "If the quota is 50,000, country elec torates will normally have 40,000 and city electorates 60,000. "Either way, the people in the country will have half as much vot ing power again as the people in the city". In 1958 the Constitutional Review Committee, representing all parties in Parliament, unanimously warned in its report against allowing big differ ences in the size of electorates. Fixmg if for heirs The Committee , reported— unanim ously— "One form of gerrymandering is the creation of electoral divisions in which there are substantial disparities in the number of enrolled voters, so securing for a political party greater representation than it should have. In all its forms the device is throughly subversive of the democratic process." Mr. Whitlam said the new Bill was being rushed through before the Gov- ernment lost its senate majority on June 30. Menzies was "devising schemes to ensure that his political heirs continue to prosper when he passes on," said Mr. Whitlam. He compared the new bill to the arrangement by which Sir Thomas Playford "for a generation was able to secure a majority of members in the South Australian House of As sembly with a minimum of votes in that State. "Recently, indeed, the greatest per centage of votes in Australian history was required by my party to secure a bare majority of members in that Parliament." There was a similar set up in Queensland, Mr. Whitlam added. At the last Queensland state elec tion, he said, the Country Party polled 20 per cent of the votes to win 26 seats, the Liberals 24 per cent of the votes for 20 seats and the ALP 44 per cent of the vote for 26 seats. Two months ago in Western Aus tralia the Liberal Party secured 48.17 of the votes and 21 seats. The Coun try Party secured one-tenth of the votes but still won eight seats. It lost one-quarter of the votes secured at the previous elections, but still retained the same eight seats. CP "p©f-wcsll©pers" The same sort of result could be expected in federal elections under the new acts, said Mr. Whitlam. Mr. Calwell pointed out that in South Australia the Labor Party, while Playford was in power, had to win more than 56 per cent of the popular vote before it could get a majority in the House. Liberal-CP tension rose to a new height in the debate when Mr. Turner quoted the British historian, Macaulay, as having praised the struggle of the English middle classes "against an aristocracy of mere locality, the prin ciple of which is to invest a hundred drunken pot-wallopers in one place, or the owner of a ruined hovel in another, with powers which are with held from cities renowned to the farth est ends of the earth." Mr. Curtin, Labor: "Are you calling Country Party members pot-wallop ers?". Mr. Turner: "I must keep within standing orders". Mr. Turner sneered at Interior Min ister Anthony for "so cleverly intro ducing a bill of this kind. He should go a long way in this place." Mr. Turner said one line of defending the bill was "a pretext for a gerryman der." He quoted the Sydney Sun-Herald's commentatore Observer as having said the electoral commissioners were be ing told to "get far away from ideas of one vote one value and take square miles rather than numbers of people into account". Sir R. G. Menzies 