 [?] WALT WHITMAN— Poetry and Prose, 8/6 (10/2 posted). © GREAT AMERICAN No American man of letters ever gave the ruling class more discom forting thoughts than Walt Whitman, revolutionary poet. His influence on poetry during his lifetime reach- ed to every civilised land, and today still profoundly influences those who would use this art form to further mankind's progress toward a higher and better society. His great friend, Traubel, who died in 1919, collected and edited much of Whitman's work; yet so great was the hatred of the ruling class toward this the greatest American poet, that it was not until 1953 that the last of Whit- . man's work wr- published. Now Seven Seas Publishers have brought out a collection of poetry and prose, essays and letters— 550 pages of some of the world's great, est literature. ART FESTIVALS IN THE USSR, 3/9 (4/2 posted). Beautiful illustrations some in colour. Ballet dancers, opera singers, composers, theatre — all are part of this book. Who of us has not heard of Khachaturyan, Shostakovich, Oistrakh, Russian Polk singers Russian choirs, the clown Popov' All of these are featured in a book which is ideal for a gift — for . such a small price we can afford to indulge. USSR — Questions and Ans wers, 3/6 (4/2 posted). How many of us feel unable to answer the many questions flung at us about life in the Soviet Union? This book will maybe give you a few shocks. The moral and LEGAL obligation of children to parents for instance; the variety of personal property and possessions owned by a Soviet citizen — these are but two of 700 questions answered for us in this booklet. ) If you are not a walking ency clopaedia buy a copy and you will soon earn yourself the reputatiou" of being one. IT WILL BE A LOVELY DAY, Heinrich Heine, 7/6 (8/8 posted) . "Lay a sword on my bier, for 1 have been a good soldier in the wars cf human liberation." These a1 the words of a brilliant man of letters who lived in the period of Napoleon and the revol utions of 1830 and 1848. His hope belief in a better world for mankind is the constant theme of this book, and is summed up in the wordr — "It will be a lovely day ... a beautifuj day! The sun of freedom will -warm the earth." 