 I HEW THREAT I TO DEMOCRACY Statement by Communist Party of Australia PLAN for a major at tack on cherished Aus tralian democratic rights, particularly the public right to criticise Government pol icies, lies behind the Liberal Party's call for a "White Paper on Communism". This would be a Government 8 publication, issued under Parlia mentary privilege (and so, safe from libel suits), in which indivi duals of many walks of life and viewpoints, together with Com munists, would be slandered by means of false allegations of "sabotage", "treason", "dupes" and "fellow-travellers." Announced last Friday by for mer Inner Cabinet Minister Mc- Bride on behalf of the Federal Council of the main Federal Government party, the scheme is significantly, timed. It follows immediately on: The upsurge of critical pub- U lie discussion and opposition to I the Government's policy on Viet- I nam, embracing many prominent | spokesmen of the Australian i Labor Party, trade unions', univer- I sity life, the churches, the arts 1 and many other spheres. | The Communist Party is cer- 1 tainly not alone in opposing the 1 Vietnam war and the foreign 1 policy or reliance on military | force in south-east Asia. Mounting campaigns for sat- B isfaction of wage, salary and pen- I sion demands by all sections of the working people, to meet spiral ling price inflation, the Arbitration Commission's wage freeze and now the Government's new tax burdens of the war budget. The national trade union move ment is united around these de mands, and has the backing of 1 the A.L.P. | The Communist Party is cer- 1 tainly not alone in working for I these campaigns for the better- | meht of the working people's 1 lives. I REAL AIM REVEALED air rnrnp McBride revealed the real aim of the "White Paper" scheme when he claimed it was necessary to expose activities "behind so-cafled fronts". He meant movements and or ganisations like those campaign ing for peace in south-east Asia — such as the 513 members of Aus tralian university staffs who have signed a petition to Sir Robert Menzies ... the Liberal Party's leader who recently said that all peace activities in Australia were "Communist-inspired." McBride further showed the government's hand when he re ferred to "mischievous operations 'in the trade union movement." Recent open threats of the use. of the Crimes Act (Arbitration Judge Gallagher) and of "drastic action" (Federal Labor Minister McMahon.), directed against legi timate, trade union action, parti cularly by the waterside work-, ers, provide the significant back- ground to this statement by Mc- I Bride. I Spokesmen of the. ACTU and 1 major national "white collar" or- ganisations last week had -to I sharply reprimand Minister Mc- I Mahon, for an equally pointed statement that union criticisms, of the basic wage decision were the fault of "international Com munism." The "White Paper" would aim at. softening up public resistance toi the increase of punitive powers against trade unions, foreshadow ed by Minister McMahon on July II. ' As to McBride's attacks on the Communist Party of Australia — its "anti-Australian program, "con tempt for law", "sabotage and in timidation", — all this is so much | eyewash, a mere excuse to open | a campaign of hysteria and un- | concealed "intimidation" against the big public movement of oppo- I sition to foreign and home poli cies. POLICIES ARE PATRIOTIC The Communist Party's cam paigns for an independent Aus tralian foreign policy for peace and friendship with Asia, for demo cratic rights, higher living stan dards, Australian ownership of Australia's resources and for socialism, are deeply patriotic. Only such policies can lead to the security and prosperity our nation desires and needs. We reject, too, SirThihy Mc Bride's absurd claim that the Communist Party has & "con cept that a revolutionary minority seizes power by force and ter ror." The aims of our Party can only oe realised by the wfll of the majority of the people and our efforts are directed toward, secur ing the support of the Austra lian people. As for our so-called "com o-ript for the law" and "sabotage" we have no doubt that if there '..ere | only the slightest truth in this I the Menzies Government would I nave used the law against :.s. For months past, the "White Paper" demand has been peddled by extreme rightist groups like the National Givic Council and the top leadership of the Returned Servicemen's League. NCC leader Santamaria, who nearly three months ago reported that the White Paper had already been drafted, has frequently dis claimed the aim of a ban on the Communist Party but advocated instead that a White Paper "ex posure of Communist 'fronts' would strike at both the guilty 1 and the gullible." (News-Weekly, I June 10, 1965>. I The Menzies Government itself I demonstrated lis methods first in. | 1950-51 in . its unsuccessful cam- ' | paign. to place a ban on the Com 1 munist Party. Prominent figures in the trade union movement and Labor Party were publicly branded by- government spokesmen in a MeCarthyite fashion then, and later in the notorious Petrov Com mission. KOW IS THE TIME TO ACT ! | Because the A usiralian people recognised" the sweeping, anti democratic nature of such "anti- Caminunist proposals, the Govern ment was defeated in the 1951 tieiexc -.dum on the issue. As a result, the Communist Party remained a legal party. Its policy and activity are open to public view and discussion in its many publications, such as the recent booklet on Vietnam, which challenged the Liber? Is to debate the issue — a challenge they evaded. The "White Paper" plan has emerged into the open, from Liberal Party H.Q., rather than from the Cabinet Room, precisely because 'the Government (mindful I of 1951) is still testing «. ut public 1 opinion. I This should , be seen as a warning 1 to all demQcratic Australians, and | an opportunity to express, in die I shortes possible .time, nubile op- I position to this plan. | ————————— " " 