 Philosophy for thinking acting human beings "THE Australian working class movement can be proud of many of its traditions. Soli daritv. although the word is seldom used, is the keynote to most of these traditions. Support for the principles of trade unionism shown by the high percentage of unionists in the main industries, solidarity with fellow workers in struggles against the employers, opposition to victimisa tion — these are characteristics of the Australian working class which spring from this base of working- class solidarity. It cannot, however, be said that Australian workers in general have had much interest in questions of theory in the past. The Australian labor movement, developing as it did from the unions, tended to ignore theory; although the Communist Party has given great attention to theoretical ques- ' tions since its foundation, the Labor Party still has no consistent theory and is largely guided by expediency. In the trade unions, too, thinking usually does not rise above the " day-to-day battle for more wages, better conditions, shorter hours, etc. It is therefore gratifying to observe in recent times what appears to be a " greater interest in questions of theory among Australian workers. This is particularly' so in relation to philosophy. It is noticeable that the schools and classes on philosophy conducted by the Communist Party have been generally well attended. Recent experiments with public lectures on basic questions of Marxist Philosophy also have met with varying degrees of success. To the writer's knowledge the most successful venture of this kind was held recently in Wollongong (South Coast, NSW), where over 50 people turned out on a 'cold Friday night to hear a lecture on philosophy. The audience was obviously very keen as shown by- its unflagging interest during the lecture and the number of intelligent questions which followed. It is to meet, to some extent, this interest in philosophy that the Communist Party has produced a pamphlet with the title "Philosophy — a Guide to Action for the Common Man." Easy to read, this pamphlet has been produced for the "common man" with its guiding theme stated in the beginning of Chapter f— - "Philosophy is not a highbrow hobby for an academic elite. It is an outlook on the world, a method of thought, a guide to action, an instrument for changing the world." The booklet has four chapters. The first deals with the basic ques tions of materialism and idealism. The second with dialectics, chapter three with the theory of knowledge and the last no doubt will arouse the ire of armchair philosophers with its title "The Application of Theory in Practice." A small pamphlet such as this— it has only 35 pages — can of course only be an introduction to the sub ject, but readers will find it. an effective introduction. Such a brief treatment of a pro found science carries with it the danger of . errors which no doubt will be seen by the careful reader, but the advantage of having an easy-to-read short pamphlet on this subject outweighs the disadvantages of minor errors. 