 Indo. seeks peace— Menzies says "No" ' While Indonesia has again fhs week proposed Malaysian peace talks, the response from Malaysia, Britain and the Menzies Government has once again been No — and a bigger build-up for war. AT the same time anti- ( Malaysian feeling erupt ed into a big demonstration in the heart of Malaysia itself — the capital city of Kuala Lumpur, in Malaya. Last Saturday about 1000 Malayan youth carrying red banners took to the streets shouting "Malaysia No! Yankees, Tommys, go home!" ' Anti-imperialist posters and leaflet's appeared all over the city. Demonstra tors broke the windows of the US in formation service library. The demonstrators were protesting against the arrest of the chairman of the main opposition party, the Malay an People's Socialist Front, of which the Malayan Labor Party (which is anthMalaysia) is the main constituent body. Three other leaders of this party had also been arrested. Last month Malaysian Premier Rah man also arrested seven other leaders of both Left and Right for anti-Malay sian activities. Earlier Rahman had declared war on workers struggling for higher pay to meet rising costs. The Sydney Daily Mirror's Kuala Lumpur correspondent wrote on Feb ruary '3: "Malaya is facing a national go-slow. Taxes have been increased to pay for expansion of the armed forces .... Workers strike "Prices of food and other goods have shot up and there is much ill feeling among the poorer classes . .' Postmen are going slow for more pay and millions of letters have not been posted." Rahman responded to last Satur day's demonstration by savage police- state measures— teargas, baton charges and the arrest of 345 people under an emergency "state of danger". All this suggests that the British troops still pouring into the country and the new Australian reinforce ments due to come are intended large ly to boost the feudalist. Rahman regime which is looking more and more like the Khanh dictatorship in South Vietnam.. Despite talks of Indonesian ag gression, all the peace moves came this week from Indonesia and the war talk from Malaysia and its backers. On Saturday Rahman announced that he had rejected what he called approaches from an Indonesian peace emissary. He had refused even to see the man. On Sunday in Tokyo Indonesian for eign minister Subandrio (who last month had said Indonesia was ready for peace talks at any time without conditions) declared that Indonesia would respect any decision by a pro posed four-nation Afro-Asian commit tee. (This was endorsed by President Sukarno later). (This committee was agreed to at a summit conference of Malaysia, In donesia and the Philippines last year, but the decision was torpedoed by Malaysia under British instigation.) On Friday The Australian comment ator, Douglas Brass, attacked External Affairs minister Hasluck's "force on ly" policy and "the new, tough philos ophy which this unbending man is sedulously building into Australia's eastern attitudes". Challenging this line is the. decision of the Australian Council of Churches meeting in Sydney this week to con fer with religious leaders on Indonesia and Malaysia on ways to peace. . . 