 "Will destroy Aborigines for bauxite" MELBOURNE: "Unless immediate steps are taken to protect the rights of the Aboriginal people at Yirrkala (Nthrn. Territory), I am afraid they will be completely destroyed by the proposed bauxite min ing developments," said Mr. G. Bryant MP this week. JutR. BRYANT, Federal Member for Wills (Vic) is senior vice president of the Federal Council for Aborigin al Advancement. In a press statement, he called on "all Australians of goodwill to lend their support to the campaign to protect the rights and future of the people of Arnhem Land." Rich deposits Yirrkala is on the north-east corner of Arnhem Land, known as the Gove Peninsula. There are some 500 to 550 Aborigines and .the area has been kept reserved for the Aboriginal people, except for a RAAF base dur ing the war and for the last two or three years examination of the bauxite deposits. The bauxite deposits are amongst the world's largest, and in 1963 a lease to develop part of them was given to the Pechiney Company of France, who formed a subsidiary called Gove Mining and Industrial Corporation Limited. Mr. Bryant, who visited the area with Mr. Beazley, MP, in July, 1963, learned at first hand of the inade quate consideration of the Aboriginal people's rights. Subsequently on August. 28, 1963, a petition was presented to the Parlia- ment from the people asking for the Parliament to examine their griev- ances. A Select Committee was appointed which learned that very little prepara tion had been made to prepare the people for the impact of a large mining concern and recommended that a Standing Committee of the Parliament be appointed to examine from time to time the conditions of .. the Yirrkala people and the carrying out of the Committee's recommenda tions. On September 15, 1965, the Terri- . / tories Minister (Mr. Barnes) an- " nounced that a new corsortium of companies had been granted the rights to develop the remainder of deposits. This company, to be called Nabalco, includes Swiss Aluminium (50 per cent, interest) and the CSR, AMP, Bank of NSW, Com mercial Banking Company of Syd- ney, Elder Smith - Goldsbrough Mort, Mt. Morgan Ltd., MLC As surance Co., and Peko-Wallsend Investments. Mr. Bryant said: "So far, there is no evidence of adequate protection for the Aborigines — no training pro gramme has been introduced,: and the traditional lands . of the Aboriginal people will be expropriated. - 