 Socialism— six miles high in a TU 114 home, we don't usually breakfast on chicken, cav iar, cream cakes and cognac, plus etceteras. But we did on I the TUN 4, flying through tar-black rtarknp&lt;;«;. at what our I watches showed as 10.30 in I the morning. I That was not, by far, the most I remarkable thing about the Moscow- I Havana flight by Soviet Aeroflot air- 9 liner. 1 The intercontinental TU114 is a H massive giant, even by the standards X of the Boeings and Douglases and I others that roar in and out of the f\ great international airports these 1( days. Its international prestige was ack nowledged by the award to it of the Grand Prix medal at the Brussels International Fair. It looks enormous, and it is enor mous. It weighs 171 tons. The passenger gangway needs 25 sharp steps to reach from the ground. to the plane's doorway. It has a crew of 15. It has two decks: the upper one for passengers, the lower one for freight, galley and so on. It can carry up to 170 passengers, a It has room-type sleeping com- M Partment for four. I The TUU4 fittings are a stage 1 ahead of those of the TU104 (the world's first jet passenger plane) ut still a stage behind the elabo- rateness of those on Boeings and other Western airliners. y. p TU114 needs all its power and I nn l,mance or the Moscow-Hav- flight. 9 fmm either flies non-stop II 6nnn Moscow to Havana (over I maL?1 ' or else u calls at Mur" 1 than A-Up towards the Arctic, and sk tr. tjS non"stP from Murman- H 5onn wTavana' which is well- over H miles. What other passenger service anywhere in the world com pares with that? Our flight was made with a call at Murmansk. The centigrade thermometer there read zero as we landed after mid night and it got colder still before we left. The time was occupied, inevitably, by a big meal: throughout the flight, meals of great quantity and superb quality followed each other in what seemed a constant succes sion; scarcely was one meal cleared away before we were into it again. From Murmansk to Havana was 14 hours. For us, the change-of-time business as we flew westward added a touch of unreality: a night that seemed endless. With our watches still set on Mos cow time, the night lasted on through all the morning; we had both breakfast and lunch while it stayed dark outside. It was 11.30 on our watches when the first trace of light edged the rim of our black world. From then, it was almost two hours before (when our watches showed 1,20 in the afternoon) the sun, came up, igniting the clouds with color. It found us seemingly alone in the world, a noisily-thrumming speck floating between a mattress of white kapock clouds and a ceiling of weak watery-blue sky. Soon after 4 by our watches, we could see Cuba's ragged coast, with its inlets and reefs and lagoons, formed as land and sea contended with each other over the centuries. An almost unnoticeable bump — and the huge TU114 was down on the Havana runway, within five minutes of the estimated time given to us the previous night, 6000 miles . away. Our watches showed 4.35, in the afternoon. But Havana's time was 8.35 in the morning. Our first day In Havana, the Car ribean's green Island of Freedom, lay ahead of us. 