 ALP manifesto | challenges right | wing policy j iifDNEY: A manifesto issued on the eve of the NSW conference of the Australian Labor Party by a meeting of ALP officials i from 34 trade unions has reaffirmed adher- ence to the socialist aspirations of the Labor ! Party and calls for action to implement Labor's progressive policies . IT is significant that the mani- f \sto is an expression of the moderate or middle-of-the- road section of the Labor Party. ALP MANIFESTO It says the ALP is undergoing a deep and .continuing crisis and calls for a return to the basic funda mentals of Labor. Headed "The Challenge — Labor's Road Back," i.t reflects the dissatis faction by ALP members and sup porters with right wing policies which are so prevalent in this State. The manifesto says that Labor lost the recent State elections because the State Labor Government failed to carry Out the demands of the trade union movement. The demands included wage and salary increases, long service leave, the removal of the penal clauses of the State Arbitration Act, the reten tion of the quarterly basic wage adjustments and improved working conditions. Another very significant factor about it, is that it is not so much an attack upon all existing leaders of the NSW ALP as an all-out con demnation of extreme right-wingers who are carrying out a pro-Menzies, pro-NCC line inside the Labor Party. It calls for the isolation and defeat of these extreme right-wingers. Agenda Hems Items presented by Trade Unions and branches to the conference re flect the growing demand for a more progressive policy. They include foreign policy, anti- monopoly, and trade union demands. Others call for non-interference in trade union affairs and opposition to any unity with the DLP-NCC. Further items deal with Labor's Socialist objective. Most of the resolutions on foreign policy are in line with Federal ALP policy. The majority of delegates at con ference are certain to support the Federal ALP policy of opposition for troops to Vietnam. A minority" in opposition to this policy will be led by Short and Schofield, officials of the Federated Ironworkers' Union, who are pursu ing a policy in opposition to declared A.LP policy. An item certain to cause a great deal of discussion at Conference is the proposal to change the govern ment of the Federal Labor Party Conference contained in a recom mendation from the Federal Execu tive to the State branches. Federal secretary Wyndham's scheme, outlined in the recommenda tion, shows evidence of concessions to ihe capitalist daily press propa ganda about the so-called "36 faceless men who run the Labor Party. This aspect of Wyndham's proposals appears to depart from traditional ALP policies of direct election to its governing bodies and seem to load it with politicians. Printed and published by D B Young. 168 Day Street, Sydney at 21 Ross Street. Forest Lodge 