 BUT THE ASPHALT |j JUNGLE'S STILL THESE (By a Correspondent) \ SYDNEY: People of the suburb of Mosman are not get- | ting the results they were led to expect from the change f of State Government last May. I t il They made this plain at a meeting held m the Town Han last week to protest against the overcrowded "asphalt jungle" conditions at the local High and Primary Schools. These two/ schools are squashed together on a 34-acre site which was intended for one school, but now accommodates 1,100 pupils in intolerable con ditions. For years the P. & C. Associa tions have been demanding action, but getting none. Liberal member, Morton, was always sympathetic and hints were dropped that matters would be very different with a change of Government. Now the Government has changed. Morton is not only a member of the Government party but is a leading Cabinet Minister. But nothing has changed at' Mosman School. The new Government has followed the old one in rejecting the P. & C. Association's request that a nearby site be purchased to relieve the playground over crowding. Hence the' protest meeting, where the Mayor of Mosman, I Alderman V. H. Parkinson, de- 8 clared that no Government 8 could afford to ignore the | cramped conditions at the 1 school. | He said he would have wished Federal Liberal member Cockle I to be present because "I would 1 like to tackle him on the ques- I tion of Commonwealth financial I responsibility for education." 1 We wanted schools and M grounds that would be an 1 inspiration to children. "in ' Canberra you can get an idea x of what could be done with . some of the money Mr. Cockle e has available," said Alderman % Parkinson. N At least 10 to 15 acres were needed for 1,000 children. In Mosman facilities for the children were about good enough to allow of running on the spot. / Teachers' Federation publicity $ officer, Mr. Broadfoot, said that 11 conditions at the schools were the "second worst in the state", || and the High School would I "wither away" unless they 1 improved. A speaker from the floor said I I it was a pity the P. & C. Associ- I I ations were not luxury home- j | unit builders— if so, they could J 1 have any site they wanted in 1 J Mosman, whatever its price. 1 A big area was being cleared 1 at Cremorne Junction — for a fj new hotel ! m He asked for a drive to change || the community's scale of values dl so that Australia should not be | a land which put the needs of | J hotels before the needs of ||j education. ||; 