 UNION SEMINARS ON PAY, TECHNOLOGY J'HREE seminars convened by the Australian Council of Trade Unions for next week in Sydney will consider matters of great importance for Australian workers. These discussions and their subjects are:— October 11, national wage decision; October 12 and 13, auto mation; October 14, containerisa- ,s,-tion. ;; r Tr&fie ' union leaders con sider that clear decisions cov ering policy and a line . of action are needed on these is sues. Wages Several large unions had pressed for the convening of a full-scale Federal unions con ference on the 1966 wage deci sion; instead they have ob tained only a half-day meeting of Federal union officials on October 11. The 1966 national wage de cision had many features un satisfactory to the workers. The basic wage increase of $2 was less than half the amount claimed on the basis, of price and productivity increases since 1964. In fact the $2 did not cover even price increases during the preceding two years. The current basic wage rates have a lower purchasing power than those prescribed in 1964— the time of the previous in crease — and for many workers the current rates are behind the purchasing power of the 1950 rates. This year the Commission in troduced a new feature into awards by way of a minimum total wage for adult male work ers. This purported to give a very small rise to the lowest paid workers and the whole ques tion of margins increases was referred to Commissioner Win ter for. a "work value" investi gation and report. This investigation has already commenced with inspections of certain work in metal work shops in Queensland. Automation A two-day seminar on auto mation is to take place on Wed- nesday and Thursday, October 12 and 13, It will be opened by Mr. Bury, Minister for Labor in the Holt Government. The exact form of this gath ering is not yet certain. Unions have submitted information to the ACTU officers on techno logical changes in various indus tries. Containers Friday, October 14, unions immediately affected by con- tainerisation will hold a one- day discussion on the subject. Those involved are Waterside Workers' Federation, Australian Railways Union, Storemen and Packers, Road Transport, Clerks, Miscellaneous Workers and Seamen. Development of cargo hand ling by containerisation is al ready being used to threaten loss of jobs for waterside work ers. But this method will also bring changes for other work ers. 