 The making of a writer IN MINE OWN HEART Alan Marshall The author's experiences since "I Can Jump Puddles" and "This is the Grass." Living under a 'blackmailing boarding house proprietress, working as a night-watchman in a coffin factory and as an accountant in a shoe company were among those experiences before he finally took to the bush. Genuine and beautiful reading. $2.75 ($2.92 posted). SYDNEY'S LITTLE WORLD OF WOOLLOOMOOLOO Isodore Brodsky Beautifully bound, beautifully and unexpectedly illustrated, this is a book for devotees of Old Sydney. Woolloomooloo once is very different from what it is today "a colourful pag eant within a little world of its own" — if foresight were used Woolloomooloo could be very different — an area close to the city, full of residential possibilities and its own inimitable character. $4.50 ($4.72 posted). SYDNEY AND THE BUSH Elwyn Wallace A humorous book about a very serious subject — Sydney and our bush during the depression years. Many people accepted the depression — there seemed no alternative — but they handled it in various ways. The Lawsons were fortunate for they owned a landau and two horses, plus a buoyant spirit. $2.50 ($2.63 posted) HUMAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY V, Tatarinov, A student's textbook which provides information on the structure and form of the human body and its various organs. Emphasises the integrity of the body as a whole, its unity with the , external environment, and furnishes a sound conception of man's place in nature. 318 pages, 165 figures. ' $2.25 ($2.41 posted). VIETNAM AND AUSTRALIA By the University Study Group on Vietnam — with a foreword by the Rt Rev. John S. Moyes. A short history of Vietnam up to the 1964 Geneva Agreements. The period from 1954-60 is also given considerable importance. The final section of the book offers three differing inter pretations of the conflict. The final conclusion appears to be that maybe the misery and destruction caused by the West has made much of the rest of the world "safer for communism". 60c (67c posted). SOCIALIST NATIONALISATION OF INDUSTRY V. Viogradov. A comprehensive analysis of the experience of the USSR and the People's Democracies. Includes a section on the struggle of the working class in the capitalist countries for democratic nationalisation as part of the struggle for social ism. $1 ($1.13 posted). New World Booksellers / 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607. 