 N-weaporis for West Germany A LLOW me to congratulate you on your fearless and timely report on the menace of West Germany Nazism which is treading the same path as Hitler, assisted hy the so-called Labor Govern ment of Britain and the U.S. Government. This has been brought about by the won derful assistance given hy the so-called free-world. All its talk about peace is so much cant, humbug, and hypocrisy. Members of the West Ger man Peace Committee are accused and have been tried as members of a "criminal conspiracy". Their only sin is that they want world peace. Then again, anti-Sem itism is getting a firm hold and not only in West Ger many. The Sydney "Sun" states that West Germany is seek ing bases in Denmark, Hol land, Belgium, France, '.and Spain. But a few, months from now, we shall hear of other countries where West Germany desires bases. To day West Germany has inore troops in NATO than the other Allies put together with a bombing force of greater strength. Ahd - the- Sydney "Sup" asks' the . pertinent question "Will NATO then be an AUifid host or a predom inately .German revenge force?" I can say quite frankly that NATO is a cloak for the rev ival of the Nazi Wehrniacht Why? Because we know that many Nazis are in important posts of the West German Government, and many in German industry, German education and in the new German army. The Nazi plan is to side- S / step the causes of past de feats. Instead of exhausting their own strength by hold ing European nations as cap tives at the expense of vital Gestapo man-power, they plan to head and dominate a United States of Europe and add the man-power of those nations to their own military divisions. Some years back Adenauer made trips to Rome and Spain where he, said that West Germany is the bastion of the West against Commun ism. There you have it to ® nutshell. He knows that Rome ahd Spain are bitterly 0PPsef to Communism and West Ger many will receive every assi tance from them. . If Russia had got control of West Germany instead » the Allies, this menace oi Nazism would never na been allowed to be resu rectea. „ _ . „ John Sneddoni Spears' Point, NSW. 