 I j IJLJlIL J A war based on cruelty "|HE handcuffing of an Aus-; tralian soldier to a stake in a gunpit for 20 days at the order of his superior officer in Vietnam is a prime example of the inhuman brutality that underlies the whole policy of military in tervention. No wonder the soldier's father, Mr. J. O'Neill, of Melbourne, said: "I'll fight the Government to the end over this." Another sample this week was in a report to Tribune by the father of a conscript trainee. He said that bayonet training at the camp in New South Wales was done to the order of NCOs shouting: "Imagine 1000 Chinks are charg ing you. Let 'em have it!" It seems clear the Government can see no way to build "fighting morale" except by whipping up racist fears and prejudices on the basis of false anti-Chinese propa ganda. Catholic teachers meet -pHE Assistant Masters Association are proposing an alteration in their con- , stitution in prder to be able to cover female as well as male members in independ ent schools. Officials of the AMA outlined this to a meeting of teachers in . Catholic schools in . Sydney last Thursday, night. ' They told the teachers present that past activity of their organisa tion had helped increase wages and salaries of teachers in inde pendent schools. They explained that they had been a trade union since 1954, and aimed to advance the professional interests of members. Some of the teachers present joined the organisation. Famous last words "|"HE Soviet "bullseye" on Venus — 26 million miles away — has been described as history's greatest feat of marksmanship. The people who achieved this were once described by the Sydney Morning Herald as "cowed Soviet serfs" and by the Sydney Bulletin as "red barbarians" whose social order was "simply a reversion to savagery with a modern veneer." That was back in 1933. In 1929 a Herald correspondent called the USSR "a nation of enslaved paupers." Still earlier than that, in 1921, the Melbourne Argus announced that the New Economic policy of that year meant "the failure of Communism" and Soviet Russia's "return to capitalism." The techniques which made possible the USSR's space ex- : . ploration feats were based . on the five-year plans, which indus trialised the USSR. ' But this only increases the puzzles, since the- daily press announced at an early stage that the five-year plans were tbtal - failures. ("A gamble," said the New York Times of the first one. . . .' "Breakdown of the five-year plan system," the London Finan cial Times proclaimed.) What- cooks at « Lord Howe Is.? JOYING off the east coast of Australia, about 436 miles north east of Sydney, is Lord Howe Island. Constitutionally the island is part of NSW and has-been in cluded in the King electorate. (Woolloomooloo) area for 64 years. Today flying boats controlled by 'R. M, Ansett are the sole means of travel to the island. The Member for King, Mr. A. Sloss, ML A, who represents the islanders, is also a member of the Lord Howe Board that administers the island. Recently the independent Lib eral Member for Manly (Mr. Darby) has developed considerable interest, in this island paradise. Next a petition was sent to the NSW Chief Secretary (Mr. E Willis) suggesting that the elec torate be transferred to "a much closer electorate." Since then Mr. Sloss has been told by a local supporter that Mr. Darby got among the islanders saying that "the new Askin Liberal Government would listen more kindly to him than to Mr. Sloss, a member of the Labor Party. 1 Mr. Sloss wonders if this move (to change the electorate may be 'connected with the fact that for years the Lord Howe Island Board has rejected moves to build a big commercial hotel- on the island. The Board has always pre- vented the commercialisation of Crown Lands and protected the natural beauty of the island. The handful of votes on the island means little in terms ' of holding a parliamentary seat, but some believe1 that the pressure campaign could eventually mean a great deal to the islanders, or even, a possible fortune to a big tourist investor. Our man in Cambodia "pHE Holt Government should have concrete proof by now from its own Embassy in Pnom Penh (Cambodia) that American charges that North Vietnam troops are Entering South &lt; vi Vietnam'' through \/ Cambodia are raise. Tribune correspondent Rupert Lockwood reports that Stanley Sheinbaum, specialist and consul tant on South-East Asia for the magazine "Ramparts," told a New York press conference that during his stay in Cambodia he and the Australian, military : attache in .Pnom Penh vainly searched the Camhodian Vietnamese border for any signs of troop infiltrations, j reports of which he quoted from, j the American press. Sheinbaum warned that Ameri can Government officials were using this fabrication to condition public opinion for extension of the Vietnam war. American mili tary leaders were openly arguing for bombing Cambodia and blockading its ports. "... and lawn-mower thieves — RIGHT HERE!" 