 Spotlight on New Guinea State holdings jolt private free-for-all ' By Jim Cooper ""HE "free for all" Government policy towards foreign investment in New Guinea was given a jolt recently when the Assistant Administrator, Mr. L. W. Johnson, stated in the House of Assembly that the Administration would seek a substantial holding in any new or expanding business enter prises undertaken in the Territory by overseas interests. The Administration would also try to make arrange- ments for New Guineans to purchase an interest in these ventures. An example ox this state capitalism is Commonwealth- New Guinea Timbers Ltd. where the Commonwealth Government holds an approx imate equal share of the cap ital. Opposition This decision of tie Admin istration may have stemmed from the fact that opposition to the policy of "give away" to foreign capital interests has developed to the stage where it is no longer possible to flout public opinion. However, it is a distinct ad vance on the. previous policy which was spelled out by Ter ritories Minister Barnes when he invited foreign interests- Japanese and American— to enter the timber industry in New Guinea and asked them to lay down their own condi tions. Whatever the compelling motives, the announced change in policy can be to the ultimate advantages of New Guinea, particularly as she is now entering the min- Jj eral exploitation era The intervention of the Ad ministration should have a sobering effect on the wild cat speculative interests simil ar to those which bedevilled the mining industry in Aus tralia and added greatly to lh6 cost structure. Part state ownership could have the effect of channelling some of the profits gained by the exploitation of New Guinea's natural resources to the development of the Ter ritory. This should be raised as a demand by the irdigtn- ous people. Otherwise profits are likely to be used to stabilise private- capital ventures until they are well es4- blished, wltn the State interest may cs turned over to the company at scrap rates There are many examples of this last practice to be found in Australia and elsewh ;re. and the N.G. Administration's whole record of policies fav oring the big owners at the expeuse of the people points this way. The importance of the State involvement in development enterprises gains in value as New Guinea advances to in dependence. 