 nSovifS ON A STANDARD TEXT I I Jwlwho do we mean bjk'the people"? the 'i'nwjeen-thirties, when European" iciety, riding on the twin raila3 economic collapse or,j fascism kseemed to have reached theb the line, many English spefe' People read A. L. Morton's lofcople' a History of England" 2& piscover how and why capil Jit! -had taken this route. | After the book became pop- . ggain, V-.social optimism and Imfhusiflsiri (pee led many people ® ask why $ IP should not be put v0 s diffeie Jpoute. Today, while vrandsm is-hic rejuvenated and the ctniffrie fr;SJ Fessive reform in the Vmnced intfo f1 countries Js taking nTpa of Morton's book has apF f :tn & handsome paper back edition- | . L jiorW as one of the pioneer Marxist his® fa in Britain. With Torf, hel |Ped to form a flourish- 7, school historians includ- ed Edward" i'hpsoii, John Saville, rhristopherlfl5l:and Eric Hosbawm, whose work3' p Profoundly altered m-r unders® P nf British history frnm the |enth century. Chris t- .-iher Hih W |wn the many contrad ictory f17 tf31 pyre bourgeois revolution 1 |i?,b century. TnomPs0tf i 111(1 Hohsbawm have iUumk low the working class developed £ Is consciousness, its origins in l trial period, its Sany If its faUure to nroduce a |Sy. its enervating pragmatisJ |emieation by middle class radi f Unfortunately Morton's book reflects little of these discoveries, for he wrote when marxism, as an aid to scientific history, was young, and although he has reissued his book, he seems unable to comprehend the increasing sophis tication of the marxist tools of analysis. KHO WHERE is this failure more evident than in the title of the book. What is a "people's history"? what sort of book is this? It is not a general textbook of English history; the space devoted to historical periods is heavily weighted in favour of the 19th and 20th centuries, which make up almost half the book. Nor is it a book about "the people" in history, their organisations, culture, leaders, tactics, ideas, etc., although most of the popular movements re ceive some treatment. On the other hand, defenders of the book might argue that upper class rulers and their political intrigues re ceive no unduly great attention, in comparison to, say John Wilkes, Robert Owen and Tom Mann. But this is a negative argument. The truth is that this is a "people's history of England in the sense that it is intended to help "the people" of Morton's generation to understand their predicament; as his last sentence proclaims, "more than ever before . . . the fate of the world lies in the cap acity of the people for right judgement followed by right action." Of course, the book is replete with a romantic apotheosis of "the people". Who are "the people"? There have been occasions when a social category which we might call "the people" existed in England, for example in the period of hiatus in class conflict, be tween the appearance or tne industrial bourgeoisie and the growth of the work ing class, as a class, some forty years later. But in general, "the people" is a populist, not a marxist category. The best features of this book are Morton's welcome emphasis on econ omic development, like the industrial revolution, and the organisation of the working class. ANY people will still read this book with pleasure. Indeed it may be recommended as a good, short, partial account of why the British "people" should be sceptical of their rulers; but they will need better historians to tell them how to get be yond scepticism, and why they are no longer a "people" but members of a class and of various strata. In Australia, the republication of Morton confronts us with a problem: should our history be written in a way which will encourage patriotism, class loyalty and romantic "leftism", or in a way revealing defeats as well as vic tories, and bitter truths about chauv inism, super-militancy in the working class and the barriers to people's power within "(hp npnnlp" itcelfV vwv44., T. I. "fWO critics take dif ferent attitudes to one of the best-known Marxist studies of Eng- lish development — A People's History of England", by the well- known British historian A. L. Morton, which has just been re-issued in revised paperback form. 