 MP's salary grab roasted by unions SYDNEY: The New South Wales Labor Council last week was again sharply divided over the issue of large salary increases for New South Wales politicians. The Boilermakers' Society has called on the Council to lodge a vigorous protest against the increases on the grounds that: Politicians both Liberal and labor are responsible for repressive Arbitration Court laws preventing workers' or- ; ganisations from protecting living standards. Trade unions are forced to go to arbitration on wage claims and if these decisions are unsatisfactory, unions are fined when workers take direct action. Strong discontent was also expressed by the Society that the Labor politicians, when ac cepting the large salary in creases, had nothing to say about the unions' wage applica tion which even if granted in full will not compensate work ers for lost purchasing power. _ The Labor Council execu tive, which according to its secretary, Mr. J. Kenny MLC, was sharply divided, decided not to oppose the increases in accordance with a previous decision of Council. This decision made last Feb ruary demanded that any per centage increase granted to politicians must automatically apply to all Government work ers. It also demanded that the State Government support the ACTU's wage application. Neither of these demands have been met by the Govern ment. The Amalgamated Engineer ing Union had earlier written to Mr. B. Matthews (who re commended salary increases for politicians) objecting strongly to salary rises. The union's objections includ ed the failure of the Govern ment to safeguard workers' liv ing standards, to control prices and to grant reasonable in creases' to public servants. The contrast to politicians increases is the Public Ser vice Board's increase of 6/- a week to men and 4/6 to women public servants. Mr, J. Heffernan (federal sec retary Sheet Metal Workers' Union) at an earlier meeting cf Labor Council said "a fight ing stand was necessary to give Labor politicians a lead to fight this salary grab as the Queens land trade union movement did. "With the lowering of living standards, increased bus fares and rising prices, the situation h?."> been reached where the labor movement could roll back the Liberal Government in NSW," he said. Last week's Council meeting did not debate the issue when a gag motion was carried by 82 to 77. Mr. Kenny, a member of the Legislative Council, said he did not agree with Mr. Matthews' report. He said he agreed with in creases for MLAs but not MLCs or the high amount for the Premier, Deputy Premier andi Leader of the Opposition. Mr. Kenny said he was asked if he was going to accept his increase as an MLC. "I have placed on record my objection. "But I won't divide the Labor Party on the lousy ques tion of money," he said. Mr. Greenup (Shop Assist ant Union and a former ML A) said the salary increases awarded to MLCs "is an absol ute disgrace. He said the Legislative Coun cil is nothing but a non-elected "chamber of vested interests." 