 "Porgy -+ if and Bess Soviet authors for trial From RUPERT LOCKWOOD. Two arrested Soviet writers, Andrei Sinyavsky and Y. Daniel, are accused in an Izvestia article of being "active helpers of those who would like to turn the cold war , into hot war . i. This was the first , article , in the Soviet press on the two writers whose arrests led to fierce criticism in western newspapers and radios. For several years Sinyavsky and Daniel had smuggled out manuscripts to be published by foreign printing houses. Sinyavsky wrote under the pseudonym of Abram Tertz and Daniel under the pseudonym of Nikolai Arzhak. A White Russian emigre poet, B. Filippov, wrote prefaces to their hooks describing them as "noted Soviet writers". The Izvestia article headed "The Werewolves" is by Dimi- try Yeremin, who calls Sinyav sky and Daniel "renegades" to whom double-dealing and shame- lessness were article of faith. Yeremin branded their attacks on Soviet society as "dirty lampoons against their country" and their "blasphemies" against Russian Revolutionary leader Lenin as too dirty and hostile to quote. Their works printed abroad are called "Shots fired in the back of the Soviet people while they .are fighting for peace on earth, for universal happiness". Yeremin points out that Sinyavsky, born a Russian, pub lished his stories abroad under a Jewish name. The purpose of this, Yeremin says, was evident — it was to suggest that "a Jewish writer had to publish his works abroad because of anti-semitism." The two writers had "placed themselves outside Soviet litera ture, outside the community of Soviet people. They placed themselves at the service of the most rabid, most unbridled en emies of Communism, and served as tools for fanning psy chological war against the Soviet Union." While Sinyavsky earned dol lars by attacking Soviet society abroad he earned roubles at home by denouncing Soviet writers who criticised aspects of Soviet life. Izvestia gives these examples of how he attacked critical writers in Soviet magazines: "... a calumniator of our life and culture"; "... cynical calumny, evil concoctions and stupid insinuations." The Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust's presentation of "PORGY AND BESS" is an outstanding event in musical theatre. It is at pres ent showing at Her Majesty's Sydney. , George Gershwin's haunting music expresses the lives of the Negjro fishermen and their families living in Catfish Row. Gershwin based his opera on Du Bose Heyward's play "Porgy." There are some moving songs in the score and singers with beautiful voices. Of these, Negro Phyllis Bash, who plays Bess, and Maori, Inia Te Wiata in the character of Porgy are among the best- The performance is largely a credit to the Maori people who play nearly all the parts. Porgy, as a cripple, sings al- . ways in his knees but this does not prevent his splendid voice reaching to furthermost rows of the theatre. He is a warm hearted character who befriends Bess when she is disdained by the other women of Catfish Row, because she has been liv ing with Crown (played by Maori baritone, Gooch Parahi), a stevedore addicted to drink. Serena (Negro singer Loretta Fowlkes) is married to Robbins who is killed during a crap game by Crown while the latter is drunk and under the influ ence of cocaine given to him by Sportin' Life, played by Maori Toni Williams. Bess urges Crown to leave Catfish Row and he heads for Kittiwah Island. Serena's lament "My Man's Gone Now" sung with the En semble is one of the most touching songs of the opera. Sportin' Life has come to Cat fish Row to sell "happy dust" (cocaine). He tries to entice Bess to go to New York with him, but she refuses and finally finds refuge in Porgy's poor hut. Porgy settles down with Bess as his housekeeper and sings the famous "I Got Plenty O' Nuttin'. Bess does not want to go on the annual picnic of the Repent Ye Saith The Lord lodge, but Porgy persuades her to go. Sportin' Life tries to turn the picnic into an orgy, reviewing Bible stories with the song "It Ain't Necessarily So." As the steamboat is about to leave, Crown comes out of 'the jungle and seizes Bess, despite her protests ' that she loves Porgy. He takes her into the jungle. She later returns to Catfish Row. There is fine acting and sing ing in the scene where the fishermen take their nets out and a. hurricane blows up. The neighbours shelter in Serena's room singing hymns for solaoe. In this tense atmosphere Crown returns and tries again to take Bess away. The crippled Porgy seizes Crown's knife and kills him. The arrival of the. white ' coroner, detective and policeman is the signal for the inhabitants to rush to their homes and here the beautifully designed set is used most effectively, as in the hurricane scene. The attitude, of the inhabitants of Catfish Row toward the police is typical - of those who have suffered repres sion by their hands. What happens then draws a satisfactory conclusion to a deeply human theme. Act II is notable also for some outstand ing songs, including the famous "Summertime." The production is directed by American producer Ella Gerber, who has been associated with the popular revival of "Porgy and Bess" in many countries in the past eight years. The set designs are most effective, scenery construction is credited to New Zealand Players Theatre Trust. On the opening night (Janu ary 17) the orchestra, conducted by Alan Barker, at times tended to drown out the voices; Coupled with diction that sometimes was not quite clear these two aspects made it difficult to understand the words of some songs. One other point of criticism: The good acting and fine sing ing of Inia Te Wiata and also Toni Williams could have been aided if Negro make-up had been used. Overall, however, Porgy and Bess is realistic and splendid entertainment with all the cast, including the children, adding to the audience's enjoyment. J.M. Phyllis Bash and Inia Te POIGNANCY . . . DRAMA . . . EXCITEMENT Wiata as Bess and Porgy. 