 Tn biggest mural in the world NOEL COUNIHAN'S ART AFFAIRS | AM to Cedric BelfraSfflF the New Zealand | Review for news of Hd s largest mural painted by Mexico's | communist painter |f1' since his four yeat J al. The the15®' J; e history of Mexican i' |prjected uni versally" f ifys only the . stages ditff |a'ns develop ment any | The desig® fced out in gaol, a f?lnax to Si- queiros' Ef&le. to bring art back f Sm to man. j' «'.lhes lor mural to / three times larger tW»: Kje Chape! murals. '„ I ""rawe feet, inside a ® Kail espe cially del ! Purpose at the cue resort hotel owned by a non-conformist ce ment multi-millionaire, Manuel Suarez, who loves Mexico and her art. In his seventies, Siqueiros suf fers dizzy spells since his fall from scaffolding while completing his Chapultepec History of the Revolution mural after interna tional pressure gained his release from prison. . Suarez had built a special studio containing twelve electric and mechanical cranes to raise or lower the 110 tons of asbestos cement panels into slots in the studio floor to enable floor level painting except for the central ceiling which must be painted direct. Supporting the irrepressible artist is a team of two seasoned painters and thirteen eager young assistants." This $400,000 project develops Siqueiros' revolutionary space concepts still further, its scale demanding a moving not a static audience. "The mural", says Siqueiros, "should be to easel painting what the cinema is to photography." ? | FOLLOWED up last month's reference to pro gress at Melbourne's Nation al Gallery and Cultural Centre with a tour of the 7\ acre site in St. Kilda Rd. The galleries to accommodate the splendid state collection are far more spacious in fact than they appear in drawings or mod els. Special features of interest to the general public and which in dicate that public convenience is being catered for include the total elimination of steps inside the building. Escalators and lifts will make movement from one level to an other easy for visiting paraple gics, bed cases, people in wheel chairs and the aged or otherwise , infirm. Vast lifts will carry whole school classes to the special study rooms. The south and west walls have reached their full height of 60ft and roofing is under way. Providing the State Government can make available the staff asked for and necessary to administer the various departments, the Gal lery should be open to the public by June 1968. Auguste Rodin's famous "The Kiss," one of the works included in a travelling exhibition of the work of the great French sculptor, one of the pioneers of modern art. The exhibition, which has been drawing large crowds, will be moving on shortly to the Eastern States. 