 1 Three Australian plays MONA BRAND PLAYS Published in English by Progress Publishers Moscow. Contains three plays: "Strangers in the Land", "No Strings Attached" and "Better a Millstone". One play is set in Malaya during 1952, one a satire isl also about an Asian country and the third is based on a real incident concerning the shooting of a policeman by young shopbreakers in England, 1953. 60c (70c posted). CUBA — Beacon of the Americas By Eric Aarons and Pete Thomas — A report on their visit. Cuba's present Government has been in existence for only seven/ years, but little has been heard in Australia of Cuba's progress during that period. The authors have written of what they saw, the discussions they held, how the country has developed so remarkably in such a short space of ' time and of its unique position in the Western Hemisphere. Cuba has won for itself a proud position among the Latin American countries. 25c (29c posted). AN OUTLINE HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY By I. Khlyabich. A booklet which sets out the main issues involved in the idealistic and materialistic schools of thought, and then proceeds to trace the history of philosophy, beginning with slave societies. From this last point of view alone the booklet is worth its weight in gold. The rise of Marxist philosophy as associated with the emergence of, the working class of course follows, and finally we see clearly how cleverly contemporary bourgeois society seeks to confuse materialist dynamic philosophy with the old mechanical philosophies of the past. Only 12c (16c posted). PSYCHOLOGY AS YOU MAY LIKE IT By K. Platonov. A popular name for a very popular approach to the general concepts of psychology. . Professor Platonov is a psychologist well-known in the Soviet Union. Questions of general interest are dealt with of particu lar interest to young people— -what are conscience, duty and love from the scientific point of view; is thought transmission possible; what are dreams; how can will-power be developed? Diagrams and illustrations very cleverly assist the student . and layman to understand the theoretical propositions. £1.20 (£1.37 posted). FUNDAMENTALS OF MARXIST POLITICAL ECONOMY By L„ Leontyev. Political economy explained as a category in science. The' place of production in society. Its basic elements- labour, its role and relationship to production and society; these are simply dealt with— as also are such terms as Means of Production, What are the Productive Forces, What are the Relations of Production? Final chapters deal with the monopoly stage of capitalism, colonialism and socialism as an economic system. 25c (32d posted). TOPICAL READING. VIETNAM: Inside Story of the Guerilla War — Wilfred Burchett, $1.50 \($1.60 posted). LIVING WITH ASIA— Dr. J. F. Cairns. $2.50 ($2.63 posted). New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., SYDNEY. — Phone 26-3941. 