 MOVE AGAINST UNION RIGHTS Tribune's Industrial Roundsman JYDNEY : Trade union leaders last week condemned the NSW Government's decision to introduce new restrictions on es tablished trade union rights, including job activity and union- controlled ballots. Mr. Willis (Minister for Labor) is expected to bring down amendments covering unions on State awards:— ® Introducing court-control led ballots. e Granting the Industrial Registrar power to revoke per mits authorising union officials to enter trade premises. O Granting employers' organ isations permits to enter trade premises to inspect wage-books and time sheets. The amendments to the right of entry is aimed at reversing an, earlier amendment by the Labor Government in 1959. This is a move to restrict a union official from investigat ing award breaches or time and wages sheets or from taking to members during working hours. On the job Too often employers have at tempted to prevent meetings on the job or to restrict other basic trade union rights. Usually when this has hap pened workers have stopped work and discussed their busi ness off the job. This is the type of action that has helped' preserve trade union rights. In fact, these rights should be widened and backed, by law. The Government's proposed amendments will inevitably cause unnecessary industrial disputes. The proposal to give employ ers' organisations the right to inspect books; no doubt result-, ed from a demand by the Cham ber of Manufacturers. The big employers have for some time been narked that some of their number have been paying workers over the award. Union leaders see this as a move to check up on and dis cipline those employers paying "too much." Ballots On the issue of ballots, the Government is trying to suggest that widespread ballot rigging is taking place in union elec tions, or that militants are be ing elected to union positions because of "shady ballots." But Mr. Willis (State Minis ter for Labor) and his Cabinet colleagues know this is not the position. They also know that all the main unions including metal, building, transport and mari time are . already covered by similar legislation brought down by the Menzies Government. This means that unions which have Federal registration, even though they are covered by State Awards, can have a Fed eral Court ballot thrust upon them. . And petitioners for such a ballot don't have to be financial members of that union or prove that malpractices have occur red. Classic A classic example was the Queensland branch elections of the Building Workers Indus- trila Union in September 1963. According to the Federal Act, 500 members can petition for such a court ballot, which cer tain individuals set out to col lect some 11 months prior to the BWIU ballot. Mr. F. Purse (Federal Secret ary, BWIU) said last week it was proved that up to 400 mem bers of the National Civic Coun cil, together with non-union members and officials of other unions, canvassed for signa tures. "Some of the BWIU members who signed, later said they were told the petition was in sup port of three weeks annual leave. "Despite this blatant interfer ence in the union's affair, the existing officials were re-elected by overwhelming majorities," he said. Following this ballot, the Aus tralian Council of Trade Unions was asked to campaign for the repeal of thsi legislation "under which subversion of the trade unions and conspiracy against them was being facilitated and given legality." Real aim The Amalgamated Engineer ing Union is another union where the NCC has sought and obtained (under the cloak of anti - communism) numerous court-controlled ballots. The membership of that un ion have now finally voted out of ' office all NCC-sponsored candidates. The NSW Government's main targets are the NSW Teachers' Federation and the Public Ser vice Association both of which have been campaigning for wage increases, and in the case of the teachers, for improved public education. But it is hardly likely that members of these two unions will be unduly intimidated by the proposed legislation. Mr. Whalan (vice president of the Federation )said: "If 500 members out of 30,000 can call for a ballot, it is not what I call democracy." 