 ON THE / INDIMFRAUg:BCl T.U. Seminar faces automation threat — All colour collars together By a Special Correspondent fHE ACTU Seminar on Automation, held in Sydney on October 12 and 13, was an expression of the tremendous interest throughout the trade union movement and the demand for a clear trade union policy to meet the problems created by the new revolutionary technical changes envisaged in automation. For the first time white collar and blue collar workers met together to discuss a problem which had in it a common question of how to provide security for their families, with one common problem, that of automation and intensified mechanisation of work in the factory a«d office. The Conference took place after considerable agitation, particularly in the white collar field. Representatives of all of the trade unions affiliated with the A.C.T.U. joined with the white collar organisations, teachers, members of A.C.S.P.A. and the High Council of Public Ser vice Organisations. All speeches and discussion raised the basic problem that nothing had been done to cush ion the effects of automation on displaced workers. The statement to the gather ing by the Federal Minister for Labor and National Service (Mr. Bury), that all problems could be solved simply by con sultation as they arose was completely rejected by all present. Many speakers condemned the lack of planning by the Fed eral Government and Mr. Bury's statement was not good enough. Well-being Speakers said that the em ployers have no right to intro duce machines and methods with no regard for the well- being of the working people affected by such changes. The time for consultation with the Trade Unions was at (he very beginning when the proposals are being first con sidered. Then if satisfactory arrange ments could be made with re gard to the re-employment, re housing, alternative schooling etc. of workers and their chil- dren, the changes could be in troduced. In essence the well-being of the workers must be consider ed before the increased profits which will be made. Mr. F. Waters, Federal Presi dent of the Postal Workers' Un ion, said that the attitude of the Federal Government was clear. It had not sought the co-operation of the Unions or consulted them before the in troduction of technological changes in the P.M.G. and in fact the then Postmaster-Gen eral, Mr. Hulme, i had stated it was not necessary to consult the Unions at all. "Government planning for the effects of Automation is lament ably slow". Professor J. F. Clark, head of the School of Applied Psy chology at University of N.S.W., told the seminar: Far-reaching The social effects of automa- , tion would be very far-reaching, he said, and it was necessary that the Trade Unions be con sulted in advance before auto mated processes were intro duced. Professor Clark said that in the. United States it had been found that the number of dan gerous operations and indus trial accidents had been reduc ed by the introduction of auto mation. He placed great emphasis on the need for learning new skills and unlearning old methods as the demands of in dustry changed. Children will have to learn more and be at school longer. "Our education system is not good enough and not terribly effective," said Professor Clark calling for a review of our at- titude to education at all levels. Older people lose confidence in their ability to learn and our education methods must take this into account. Mr. P. McMahon (Municipal Employees) said that workers were entitled to a greater share of the increased productivity. In this view he was supported by Building Workers Industrial Union Federal Secretary, Mr. F. Purse, who said that in spite of increased productivity the wage and salary earners' share of the gross national product had declined. Wealth Mr. P. Allsop (Federal Presi dent ACSPA) said that new methods of distribution of the greater wealth produced by automation would have to be found, that no one group of people was entitled to claim an unfair share. An address to the Seminar by Mr. R. A. K. Palmer, Assistant General Manager (Administra tion) State Electricity Commis sion, Victoria, showed that in an expanding organisation- such as the State Electricity Commission— in a period of relative prosperity, the finding of alternative work for people displaced by Automation was satisfactorily managed in most cases. The situation would be quite different however in a period of economic crisis and therefore the Trade Unions must demand the consultations mentioned above. Mr. C. Fitzgibbon, Federal Secretary of the W.W.F., said that the right to work was a fundamental issue. His Union was extremely conscious of the effect that the use of containers could have on the workers in the mari time industry, he said, citing as an example the unemploy ment caused by the mechanisa tion of the coal mines. Queensland Trades and Labor Council Secretary Mr. Alex Macdonald speaking at the A.C.T.U. Seminar on Automation in Sydney last week. Next to him is Mr. J. Kennv Secretary of the N.S.W. Labor Council. ' f1' 