 SOUTH AFRICAN ASBESTOS HELPS KILL WITTENOOM PERTH: Imported asbestos mined by the poorly paid workers of South Africa will replace the Australian blue asbestos content of f ibrolite and other such products, while hundreds of Wittenoom people lose their homes and livelihood. The closure of Wittenoom Gorge asbestos mines by its parent company, Colonial Sugar (see Tribune last week) is seen by many workers as a bitter foretaste of the callous trcament they may expect a.t the whim of the consortiums and foreign companies goug ing out iron and other min erals in the North-West. Condemned The WA Trades and Labor Council last week strongly con_ demned the Wittenoom clos ure and the callous treatment of unionists. About 400 towns people meeting in Wittenoom on the same night asked the State Government to instruct Australian Blue Asbestos Pty. Ltd. to surrender its mining leases immediately so that they can be offered for world ten der. Other motions passed at the meeting, at which ABA gen eral manager Lloyd was booed, included a demand for a Gov- ( ernment commission of experts to examine the position, ade quate compensation for com pany employees and business people, and condemned the pre_ cipitate closure. The meeting also protested at the failure of the Govern ment to send a representative to the meeting. Cr. F. Konecmy said the Gov ernment had sent police rein forcements to the town to co incide with the closure an nouncement. The people in the community had taken notice of - this. If the police wanted any help in keeping order, all the townspeople would be happy to co-operate. The Government has rejected most of the meeting's demands. Its "couldn't care less" atti tude to the fate of the mine into which so much public money has been poured has been widely , criticised. A ruse "The North-West Minister blithely advises residents not to panic and to stay while the town falls down around their ears", says a correspondent in the West Australian (6/12/66). "Is the Wittenoom mine closure a ruse of the Mt. New man consortium, in which CSR is involved, to avoid spending millions on housing?" he asks. So far Mt. Newman Iron Ore Co. has offered jobs to only 24 men, appears willing to "ab sorb" only 24 of the displaced men and the Kalgoorlie Cham ber of Mines wants only ex perienced machine miners, of whom there are only about 30 at Wittenoom. Demands that the Govern ment take over the mine have been rejected out . of hand by North-West Minister Court. A shocking postscript to monopoly exploitation of as bestos at Wittenoom is the high toll from lung disease among the workers. Lung disease Since the first case of as- bestosis was diagnosed there about 10 years ago, 90 men have developed this lung dis ease, which had caused or con tributed to the death of at least 13 men in the last six years. These statistics were given by the Public Health Depart ment's specialist in this occu pational disease, Dr. J. C. Mc- Nulty. pr. D. D. Letham, in charge of occupational health for the Department, said many of the survivors were severely dis abled, though only young. He . added : "Experience at Wittenoom is such that any company undertaking the min ing and milling of asbestos in WA in the future will be obliged to incorporate, from the very beginning, measures which will adequately protect its employees from asbestosis." Although ABA may have made "extensive efforts" to abate the hazard from inhala tion of minute asbestos fibres, it is obvious from Dr. Leth- am's remarks that the workers were not adequately protected. 