 Danger of faster land snatch in New Guinea By Jim Cooper LAND Ordinance Amendments to be proposed at the New Guinea Local Government Councils' conference on March 15 may vitally affect the disposition of tribal lands. The Goroka delegation will yjcuyuse tnai uic ianu ordin ances he amended to allow local government councils, in conjunction with the Admin istrator, to control or dispose of land not now in use. Some observers fear that this would mean even faster alien ation of New Guinean lands to overseas monopolies, already proceeding on a vast scale. Typical was the allocation of 10,000 acres in the Wahgi valley to monopoly interests including W. R. Carpenters. These observers feel that the Goroka delegation, including its New Guinean members, should reconsider their position and take into account the areas needed when cash-cropping by New Guineans becomes the order of the day. Some people note the acres of land now standing "idle," but at a future date, when New Guineans have developed into all phases of tropical agricul ture, it will be found that there is not enough land to accom modate all New Guineans want ing to start production. W. R. Carpenter were given a grant of 5,327 acres in the Wah gi valley to grow tea. The Ad ministration said that this is a specialist industry which New Guineans could not handle. Actually even Australian plant ers have had little experience of tropical agriculture before taking up New Guinea leases'. They gained most of their knowledge afterwards. Had the Administration really wanted to advance the New Guineans they would have estab lished courses for them at Gair- ana and by now have a solid! corps of skilled New Guinea tea-men able to lead a wide expansion of the industry by New Guineans. This could be a prospect for the future, but not if in the meantime the necessary land has been alienated to Europeans. (Also coming up for decision this month is the court chal lenge by the Butibum people demanding the return of 36,000 acres taken by German officials at the turn of the century. They say the transaction involved one knife and one axe). 1 V , ' t . ' X ? 1 