 I powers hail | By the Foreign Editor » | It was not because of his allegedly "dictatorial" methods that the capitalist 1 press of most cities last week hailed the deposition of President Nkrumah | of Ghana. | TAILINGS of opponents with- z out trial and suppression of criticism is overlooked or j held to he a positive virtue I when it is done, say, by I President Pak Chung Hee of \ South Korea, General Mobutu I of the Congo or (especially) j Premier Ky of South Vietnam. i Nkrumah was disliked by the imperialist powers and their I press for far other reasons j than these beginning with his j consistent antWmperialist line since becoming president in 1957. That was when the British Tories, yielding to the mass demands of the Africans, had to concede independence to the Gold Coast colony, the first of such colonies to be liberated. The Tories intended it to be , the fake independence of a ! state which has the outward trappings of sovereignty only, ! while the real control is ex- | ercised from abroad. Britain was to keep a gov- | ernor general in Ghana and ! retain the top positions in the | armed forces, as well as the j economic control achieved by constituting the main market I for Ghana's one-crop economy j — cocoa. i But ,the Ghanian nationists headed by Nkrumah took a j different road. They made j their country a Republic, : while still a member of the ! Commonwealth, naming it after the ancient African kingdom of Ghana. British officers were grad ually ousted from the army leadership and Africans also took over the main posts in j the economy. j Nkrumah launched a (Vigor- j ous program for developing j secondary industries to over- ! come the dependence on cocoa, j looking to the socialist count- ries primarily but accepting aid from anywhere it could be obtained without strings. 'He played a leading part in the formation of the Organis"- ation of African Unity, dedi cated to winning complete, and not merely nominal freedom, for the African peoples. Nkrumah was in the fore front of moves in the UN and the British Commonwealth to combat the pro-imperialist place-man, Tshombe, in the Congo and to mobilise Africans against the threat posed by the Verwoerd - Smith racist white block in the south. He clashed repeatedly with with Menzies who, after the last Commonwealth conference accused him (without naming him) of following pro-Commun ist policies. This was after Nkrumah had exposed Menzies' part in the phoney (and abortive) mission to secure peace in Vietnam proposed by the conference. In all this Nkrumah helped win for Ghana a greater in fluence in Africa than might have been expected from its size and 4,000,000 population. (Typical was the Nkrumah decision to invite to Accra this year the conference of World Youth and Students scheduled last year for Algiers but post poned after the Boumedienne coup). CIA's latest victim kOSCOW: President Nkrumah of Ghana who publicly denounced the machinations of the Central Intelligence Agency in Africa appears temporarily to be the CIA's latest victim. rTHE American Embassy rep resentative in Accra confer red with leaders of the coup against Nkrumah several days before it was staged. The New York Times recalls that Nkrumah had called Amer- j ica the fiercest champion of : neo-colonialism and character- E ised the American Peace Corps i as an instrument of the CIA. I A Soviet news correspondent ! in New York reports that Amer- ! lean officials and newspapers greeted with "obvious satisfac tion" Nkrumah's overthrow. The New York Herald Tribune admitted that Washington offi cials were "frankly delighted". ' The Soviet correspondent quoted from a United Press International report that Assist ant State Secretary for African Affairs, Mennen Williams, told press men that America could establish good relations with the new military leaders of Ghana. — Rupert Lockwood. 