 i TALKS HAD BEEN TENSE I j From RUPERT LOCKWOOD f in Tashkent. J By cruel fate the first concrete I result of the Tashkent declaration | which he had signed at 4 p.m. on ! the afternoon before — thn rastor. j ation of Indian rights to fly planes 1 over Pakistan — was the passage 2 of the aircraft that took Indian J Premier Shastri's body to New | Delhi on Tuesday last week. | Shastri's death was a reminder S of the tensions at the Tashkent | conference and that both Shastri | and the Pakistan President Ayub j Khan were conscious of hostile J pressures from the anti-Tashkent I lobby. i Shastri sacrificed health and life ! to play his part in bringing peace I to the Indian sub-continent and laying foundations lor future peace talks between other nations in freedom and security from im perialist provocation. It was not certain until 1.30 a.m. on January 10, after Shastri and Ayub Khan had talked late and made constant calls on Premier Kosygin's good offices that the Tashkent declaration would be a New Year peace gift to the world. By then the BBC, the Voice of America and many Western papers had virtually dismissed the Tash kent talks as a failure. In the end 110 foreign corres pondents flew into Tashkent from Western Europe, Britain, America, Asia and Africa, but only one Australian — the Tribune corres- j pondent — was among them. Australian daily newspapers j could provide ample correspon- j dents to report bombings, gas at- j tacks and massacres in Vietnam J but none to report a turning j point In the history of world j peace-making. ! The Pakistan delegation at its final press briefing paid the j warmest tribute to the Soviet j Union's peace initiative and assist-' | ance. j The Indian delegation' was re- j fleeting the views of millions who &lt; found relief from war at the Soviet city of Uzbekistan when it j said in its final statement: j "While the declaration is a tri- ! bute to the wisdom and states- i manship of the Prime Minister of j India and the President of Pakis tan much of the credit for the I declaration must go to the Chair- j man of the Council of Ministers j of the USSR and his colleagues." ! "India and Pakistan have now I the opportunity to live in peace j and friendly co-operation. The Tashkent declaration sincerely ob- j Served and implemented is a har- j binger of peace and happiness and j progress for the 600 million of the ! Indo-Fakistan sub-continent." I A. Kosygin I 