 Aust. protests help save West German communist YDNEY: World-wide protests, including those from Aus tralian trade unions, recently forced West German authorities to release a communist from prison. Mr. George Jakohi who had served 34 months of a three and a half year sentence has written his thanks to Australian unionists for their support. Married with two children, he was imprisoned in Sep tember, 1962, at Minister- Westfalen prison and held for 14 months pending a trial. On November 20, 1963, he was sentenced to three and a half years. His "crime" was distributing a Communist newspaper, "Freiss Volk," and other anti- militarist literature. These publications opposed West Germany's policy of atomic armament, territorial demands, infringement of democratic rights and liberties and called instead for disarmament, recog nition of existing frontiers and negotiations with East Ger many. A committee for the Protec tion of Human Rights in Ger many says that "had Mr. Jakohi not become a Communist and resistance fighter during the Hitlerite war, but had taken part in fascist war crimes and mass murder, he could today be a free and influential man in the Federal Republic." Examples quoted include the acquittal by a Frankfurt-Main court on February 3, 1965, of Otto Hunsche (former Gestapo Councillor and legal advisor to Eichmann), accused of com plicity in the murder of 400,000 Hungarian Jews. Hermann Krumey (Eich- mann's accomplice), also ac cused at this trial, was sen tenced to only five years' imprisonment — a minute's loss of freedom for each murder. The committee also point out that President Lubke, of the Republic, "was exposed at a recent press conference in Berlin, on evidence contained in newly-discovered documents, as having been seriously in volved in setting up nazi con centration camps and in the murder of hundreds of prisoners." The Australian unions which protested against Mr. Jakobi's imprisonment included the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's, Milk and Ice Car ters' and the Blacksmiths'. Mr. N. Hockney (FEDFA) said Mr. Jakobi's letter of thanks was translated by a Dutchman now living in Aus tralia. By coincidence this man (Mr. P. Oeljee) was a slave laborer on the VI and V2 rocket sites in Northern Germany during World War II. The construction of this site was under the control of Lubke. 