 Govt, orders crack-down on objectors — Judges' "locked minds 99 /CANBERRA: The Government has given orders to the courts and told them they must crack down on conscientious objectors. Mr- A. W. James, Labor, jnow, maue uiis grave alle gation in Parliament in a recent adjournment debate. "The evidence indicates that the Government has instruct ed the magistrates that only in exceptional cases should they grant deferment on com passionate grounds", Mr. James added. One magistrate had refused deferment to a 19-year-old youth whose wife, an asth matic, was expecting - a. child in six months time, having already a 13 -months-old child to care for. She needed someone to be with her when she suffered an attack, but the magistrate said her mother, who lived nearby, could care for her. Another magistrate had ord ered into the army a 20-yea-r- old youth who was helping maintain his mother. The ma gistrate said the mother could go out to work and some of the other children should soon be able to help her. The Vietnam war did not justify this savagery, said Mr. James. "Big business makes enormous, profits out of stra tegic materials. Seventeen Liberals sit opposite and none has said he will enlist. Money- power had not been called up, only the 20-year-old kids." Mr. James said Judge Cur- lewis, of Sydney, had recently "overstepped the mark" by asking a young man what he would do if someone tried to rape his mother. "The judge spoke of the 2;0 years of freedom this young man had enjoyed and asked what he was. now doing to earn such freedom. "How would the judge know what freedom this, young man had had and the circum stances of his life? What had this to do with the appeal?" Mr. James said. Victim When the judge had posed a situation in which his mother might he the victim of an atrocity, "Townsend said he would do everything to defend her and in the. emo tion of the moment might kill the attacker, but was quite sure he . would suffer in con science as a result". As to the "debt of sacri fice" which had been incurred so that he could "enjoy ' his freedom", Townsend had said he felt he was repaying this by being a good law-abiding citizen and furthering the cause of. peace for which World War II soldiers felt they were fighting. His application for exemp tion was refused. Mr. James commented that there seemed to be "a. great deal of pre-judgment" by some judges on these matters. "They seem to have locked minds. Recently in Sydney, Judge Goran displayed a similar outlook. "It is not easy for a young man to take an unpopular stand because of hi con science. That takes a lot of courage of a special kind. "Asking a. young man whe ther he would stand by while his mother was raped was an outrageous thing. It was wounding to this young man, a young Australian, and does little credit to the law." 