 ISliisiness, crime, etc. Sharks that can swallow concrete By the Financial Editor \A/HILE their methods vary, there are two things that all take-over sharks have in common: they have insatiable appetites and cast iron in digestions which enable them to swallow with ease anything from a food factory to a blue .metal and mixed concrete combine. A recent swallow with hard ly a gulp was Blue Metal and Ready Mixed Concrete in Mel bourne by Boral Ltd., the big Sydney monopoly. The victim's capital was $3,113,500. Boral had made an earlier bid which was rejected by the directors. Oper a t i n g through the stock exchange, however, they were able to secure a 24.28 per cent in terest in the company. Boral now dominates blue metal and concrete supplies for Melbourne and has a stranglehold on supplies for Sydney, putting this company in a position of being able to hold the building industry and local government to ransom. ? CONSIDERABLE con- cern is now being expressed at the failure of Auditors to make known to investors the real financial state of the companies seeking invest ments in debenture and unsecured notes, etc. Iri recent years millions . of dollars have been lost by -in vestors and this is making them wary. The flow of money from the great mass of small investors is drying up, and it is from this source that the big oper ators on the Stock Exchange make their appetising profits. Aware The main problem on the mind of financial magnates is how to regain the confidence of the small investors. They want to pass the buck on to the auditors. But how? As is widely known, audi tors are appointed by the dir ectors of the companies "con cerned, who also have the right of terminating the audi tor's services should his re port be unfavourable. Auditors are aware of this and many have suffered be cause their reports ;were too revealing. So many of them now prefer to play it safe by glossing over any glaring defi ciencies they may discover. This tendency has been ex pressed only recently by a leading auditor. It is an in teresting comment on the state of business that some of the most prominent pillars of the financial world are either actually before courts on grave charges of fraud or are facing the prospect of future court-room dramas. Others have been saved by the skin of their teeth by the merciful deliverance of the take-over merchants. Proposals now being ad vanced for a measure of in dependence for. auditors is only a hasty attempt to paper over the cracks of private enterprise, which is exposing itself more and more as nathing but a genteel form oi highway robbery. 