 Strata! Mqlqkltq shooting Call for inquiry into police action gRISBANE: A demand for a thorough inquiry into j conduct by the police after the shooting of four Chinese crew members on the Dutch ship Straat Malakka is being made by the Queensland Trades and Labor Council. The T & L C wants an in quiry into police actions taken against a Chinese seaman, in to the police failure to arrest the captain after he shot and wounded the men, and into the police failure to prevent the captain from leaving Aus tralia before the investigations into the shooting were con cluded. The T & L C also has con demned biased newspaper re porting and the fact that the Courier-Mail allowed the captain and solicitor's for the shipowners to amend reports before publication. Black The Straat Malakka, which is berthed in Brisbane, was declared "black" by the T & L C after the four seamen had been wounded by bullets fired by the captain, Frederick Panhuyzer, when the ship was in port here. Panhuyzer — whose removal from his post on the ship was one of the trade union de mands—left Australia on Monday last week for Hong Kong, "for consultation with the ship's owners" (the Royal Interocean Line). The demand for the inquiry and the protests were made by a meeting at the Trades Hall last week of the T & L C's Disputes Committee and Chinese members of the Straat Malakka's crew, and was then endorsed by the T & L C it self. Specific points on which the inquiry is sought are:— The conduct of the police in their investigation of the shooting and wounding of four Chinese seamen, and their arrest of a fifth seaman. Their failure to prevent the departure of the ship's captain before the conclusion of the investigations. Their conduct in arresting a Chinese seaman on board the Straat Malakka and leaving him in the Watchhouse with- out charges being preferred against him, until his release was secured by his solicitor. Their conduct in remov ing Lao Shu Kan from his private lodgings to the CIB to take a statement written in English signed by him, when he cannot read or speak Eng lish, and denying to his solicitor that he was in the custody of the police at the CIB. The failure to arrest the captain and bring him before a Magistrate on a charge of unlawfully wounding so that the Magistrate (the properly- constituted authority), and not the police, can. determine whether a prima facie case exists. The meeting of the T & L C Disputes Committee and the Chinese seamen, held on Wed nesday last week, also demand ed that:— The Straat Malakka's captain and officers be re moved from their posts on the ship, and that the crew re mains on the ship. There be absolutely no victimisation of the crew. There be full compensa tion for those injured and a proper settlement in the case of Lao Shu Kan. The dispute be resolved in Brisbane, and the full crew stay on the ship until the dis pute is settled. It declared that the "black" ban continues to operate. It deplored "the unwilling ness of the agents of the Royal Interocean Line to negotiate in a manner conducive to the settlement of the dispute." The T & L C has reported the decisions to provincial T & L C's and has asked that unions and T & L C's join in demanding to the Minister in charge of Police (Mr. Pizzey) that he act to institute the in quiry sought and to have Panhuyzer brought to due legal proceedings. 