 # ON THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE Volkswagen down 400 , BMC 100 Unions worried at growing lay-offs in car industry JYDNEY : Trade unions have responded to disquieting reports of falling employment in the motor industry by setting up a committee to investigate continued sackings and retrenchments by the major car companies. According to informa tion reaching the unions, Volkswagon has cut the administrative staff by 400 since June and during the same period the British Motor Corporation has . sacked 1 00 production workers. General Motors Holden's work force was cut by 2,000 in October 1965 and since then a number of workers have resigned. GMH is working overtime rather than engage more staff and at the same time product ion per worker continues to rise. Now BMC has announced it will close its Sydney plant be tween August 26 and September 12 allegedly due to the short- ago of British components for its vehicles. The 2500 production workers have been given the "choice" of either taking two weeks of their annual leave or time off without pay. The recent British seamen's strike is given as the reason for the stand-down. Over-capitalised Union spokesmen say that the real reason for sackings and stand-downs is the over capitalisation of the industry. This high level investment capacity to produce in the motor industry could lead to short periods of vigorous pro duction and long lay-off periods. The facts show that actual sales of vehicles in 1965 had been 384,000 while the estimated market was 403,000 and the 1966 sales are falling well short of the estimated market of 406,000. At the same time existing Australian plants are operating at only 50 per cent of existing capacity. The Federal Government has now announced that by next December import duties on im ported new cars will be in creased and tariff reductions will bo granted if cars are 95 per cent manufactured in Aus tralia. As imported cars equal only H per cent of the Australian market, this Government move will only have a temporary effect on the situation. Japanese motor manufacturers along with others are to com mence car manufacture in Australia. - Some union leaders say the real solution to the problem is the ACTU'S demand for nationalisation of the industry and that a wide public cam- paign should be launched to support this demand. 