 Pay the claim now —and no waiting! JYDNEY : Amalgamated Engineering Union members in Sydney and Woll- ongong are to send deputations to em ployers demanding the immediate granting of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' £-5 a week wage claim. The employers will be pressed to pay this claim in addition to existing over-award payments with proportionate increases for apprentices and juniors. The deputations will take place during February and are to be elected at extended lunch time meetings at fac tories and workshops. All other unionists in these work places will he asked to join with the AEU members in this campaign. ,, The decision to elect deputa tions was made at large special meetings of AEU shop shewards and officials held last week ip Sydney and Wollongong. The meetings stressed that AEU policy calls for a £22 a week basic wage and a fitter's margin of £10/13/- making a total wage of £32/13/- a week. "As an immediate step in achieving this wage, we express full support for the ACTU claim for a basic wage increase of £1/8/- and a marginal increase for a fitter of £2/16/- making at present a claim for an in crease of £4/14/- a week," the meetings said. (Since these meetings, the ACTU has increased the am ount to be claimed by about 5/- to compensate for further price increases and higher 'pro ductivity. ) The AEU stewards rejected the employers' counter offer of 6/- a week as a total wage in crease and called on all em ployers to disassociate them selves from this offer. Delegates are also to be elect ed from workshops to attend the Wage Case Court hearings "to demonstrate the interest and determination of the work ers to ensure wage justice." The meetings condemned "the use by employers and the Courts of the Penal Clauses which are designed to prevent workers improving their living standards whilst at the same time allowing blatant price in creases and exploitation of the workers." A demand was made for the State and Federal Governments to immediately re-introduce price control. 