 Vietnam's agony FIGHTING VIETNAM Pictoriol album — 360 plates Graphically portraying the war in Vietnam in all its agony, its horror and its participants. Photographers from Vietnam, the Soviet Union, France, USA, Germany and other countries have contributed to ithe album. Scenes of peaceful labor are contrasted with burning villages and tortured peasants. Guerillas in action in the South and defenders in the North are shown resolutely defending their homeland against US interventionists. Some striking shots show American soldiers in action, American fighter pilots after action. The role and purpose of the interventionists is starkly revealed by their own cameramen. $1 ($1.34 posted). PEACE IN VIETNAM A Report prepared for the American Friends' Service Committee. "You Americans don't understand. You are making beggars out of our children, prostitutes of our women, and Com munists of bur men." These words uttered by a young Vietnamese teacher indicate the strong emotion felt by South Vietnamese people faced with the presence of American soldiers in their country. The report, prepared by an American Quaker organisation, points to paths which could be followed to halt the expansion of the war in Vietnam. .$1.15 ($1.25 posted). RUSSIA AT WAR — 1941-1945 Alexander Werth (984 pages — paperback) Tells the full, horrifying and inspiring story behind the harsh statistics of " human suffering which was the cost to Russia of Hitler's infamous directive No. 21 "Plan Bar- barossa". There is no other book which gives the non- participant so much information about the Russian War as a whole or about the scale of the action and the consequent devastation. Previously only available in hard cover at $8.40 — $1.90 ($2.16 posted). . MY YEARS IN THE COMMUNIST PARTY Ralph Gibson | Ralph Gibson's story of 36 years in the Communist Party | abounds in anecdote, humor and a deep humanity. — ; the | author is not only a Party leader of long standing — he is an | excellent and interesting writer. Reads like a novel. $1.75 | ($1.90 posted). I OLE BIENKOPP Erwin Strittmatter A story of postwar East Germany, centred around Ole Bienkopp, the bee-keeper. A story which does not sugar-coat reality— that exposes mistakes — that lets the blame for failure fall where it may — local Mayoress Ffieda Simpson, who spouts . slogans, or the comrade who lacks the courage to speak his | mind in the face of authority. Told with satire, a deep | insight into human nature and in unique style. 75c (88c | posted). | New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607. J 