 IIIMIW I rrit - r ltae Opera | Rouse row | i -i:,") i .« 'M V ' , ' ' - &lt; i. f 11 - 'ri> " " Put spotlight on profits SYDNEY: Building union leaders have once more called for a full public in vestigation into the huge and rising costs of the Sydney Opera House. They say the main con tractor Wood Hall (Aust. ) Pty. Ltd., should be made to give a detailed ex planation of costs and profits. Mr. P. Clancy (NSW secre tary, Building Workers' Indus trial Union) this week said the State Government should direct its attention to the heavily inflated managerial costs and look at the unduly high num ber of managerial personnel employed. Scapegoat Big Sydney press publicity on the "disagreement" between the Government and the chief architect, Mr. Joern Utzon, has made hardly a mention of profits, Workers have criticised the size of fees paid to the chief architect and some Sydney architects consider that Mr. Utzon's perfectionism has con tributed, sometimes unneces sarily, to rising costs; but the general opinion in the profes sion is that the Askin Govern ment has sought to make him the "scapegoat." Earlier, the "scapegoats" were the workers.. In June, 1964, Mr. Askin (then Leader of the Opposi tion) blamed the workers for the increased costs. A mass meeting on the site at the time demanded that Mr. Askin meet a deputation of union leaders and job dele gates. Then, as now, Askin was called on to investigate profits and managerial costs. The so-called "prestige con tract" which Hornibrook (NSW) Pty. Ltd. claimed to be the purpose for their being on the site was also questioned. Why, if it was being done for "prestige," would the giant Wood Hall Trust of the United Kingdom buy out Hornibrook, which it did early in 1964? Working the job on a cost- plus basis, the contractors could not be unduly worried if the project lasted a million years. Workers on the site back up the claim that the job is bur dened by heavily inflated managerial costs. They say that at present the main contractor has at least 52 foremen plus one field engineer and seven others on the site. Just prior to Christmas there were nine foremen riggers and 11 riggers employed by Wood Hall. The hiring-out of equipment is another huge profit field for this company. Workers say that some of the cranes and equipment brought on to the job have never or hardly been used. Over-ordering Over-ordering of material and its subsequent waste is another area for investigation. It is claimed, for example, that steel reinforcement pur chased at about $160 a ton has been sold as scrap for $12 a ton. , Castings are being made on the site then carted to Long Bay for storage and then re turned to the site. How much is ' Brambles (a wealthy transport company) getting for this, and is it necessary? Why then is a contract given to the Italian firm, Elec trical and Power Transmission, to supply for several months about 30 riggers to do simple conventional rigging? This company is paid foi each of its riggers a sum about two and a half times their wages. It is now also rumored that the tile segments which have been made up cannot be used because they are the wrong dimensions. Part of last week's demonstration by 1,000 Syd ney architects and students against the Askin Government, over the resignation of the Opera House designer Joern Utzon. 