 PORTLAND j. . ! It owes its soul || to the company's dust i i By Jim Stevens J j GREAT cloud of grey-brown dust, visible for several miles 1 j indicates that you are approaching the town of Portland. | Soon this cloud-maker dominates the skyline — the huge ! chimney of the Portland cement works. j A shopkeeper in the township had just washed down the j front of his hardware store. Within an hour he might have | repeated his efforts — a thankless struggle against cement dust. | A line of washing is visible in a backyard. The womenfolk j j too have to cope with this problem. And the men, about 350 of them, work for the company to produce almost 5000 tons of cement a week. Situated over 100 miles north west of 'Sydney, these workers and their families confront working and living conditions few city dwellers could comprehend. Inside the huge works everything is coated thick with dust. Shed roofs droop under their load of three inches of cement. Inside the buildings machines grind and roar, almost as a cry of protest against being enveloped in dust. This is where men work! the clinker burners, the key skilled production men get $44 a week for their trouble. 1 Others, who work in extreme dust and heat, cleaning under the kilns, get $38 for their pains and burns. Tradesmen, boilermakers, fitters and electricians, have the task of keeping the wheels turning on $50.70 a week. Out in the yard huge mountains of limestone, shale and gypsum are piled. A sudden gust of wind quickly transforms a visitor into a human dust catcher. Now covered from head to boots, you have become initiated. These are reasons why cement workers are justifiably demanding a decent industry allowance, and why the men from Portland, Kandos, Char bon and Maldon joined forces in strike action for this de mand. The cement companies also joined forces— to oppose the claim. But dozens of men I inter viewed at Portland, Kandos and Charbon said they were determined to have another "lash" against the companies to win this demand. Production workers; to a man, are critical of their un ion leaders for not backing this fight. These workers, members x of the Australian Workers Union, and not even paid the $2 a week dust allowance received by tradesmen. Contemptuously The companies contemptu ously offered the production workers from 40 cents to 15 cents as a wage increase to replace the old award when it expired over 12 months ago. This was rejected by a mass meeting of the men. "Our union dues to the AWU are nothing more than a ticket to work for the com panies," the men say. "If we don't toe the line, the AWU leaders threaten to expel us from the union. "Militants have been drum- med out of the industry," they say. ' And in these cement towns, to be "tramped from the in dustry" means unemployment. Tradesmen and production workers agree that they must combine their efforts to win an industry allowance. A joint campaign earlier forced from the companies a $4 a week attendance bonus— with strings. Last August industrial court history was made when 33 tradesmen at Portland were served with individual court orders by NSW Industrial Commissioner Manuel. These orders carried the threat of fines and/or six months jail for failure to work overtime. The men were only claiming a wage rate equal to the aver age being paid to metal tradesmen in outside indus try. "Court" The Commissioner conduct ed a "court" in the men's meal room at the works. i Last week, in the same meal room, a dozen of these men told 'their story to Trib- una Where only a couple of months ago these men were threatened with jail if they didn't work overtime, now the company has deliberately cut them back to a 40 hour week. ' Money is scarce in the town. A family in Portland has to make do on one wage and even on a tradesman's 40 hours it is dificult to make ends meet. City workers know that a family income today is based on excessive overtime or both husband and wife working. Only a few women can find work in Portland. In the last 12 months a butcher shop, hairdresser, garage, cafe, and fruit shop have gone out of business. In the same period about 100 families have left the town. Ten houses are advertised for sale in the window of the local estate agent. A two bedroom home, with lounge room, dining room, kitchen, bath room, laundry, enclosed verandah, garage, water and electricity— full price $700. There are almost no job opportunities for young peo- nip narticularlv eirls. John Stephenson, ETU delegate at the Portland Cement Works, talks to Tribune Industrial Roundsman Jim Stevens in the same lunch-room where he was served with a "work- over time- or-elso" court order two months ago. i.Swnww— warn— miiiiwiliii i mum immnrnummniiiiii Dust- belches out of a chimney at the Cement Works — you can't get away from it anywhere in Portland, says Jim Stevens, in this graphic first-hand account of the toxvn. 