 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman THE cost of living, ac cording to the Fed eral Government's own conservative figures, has further increased during December quarter by an other 4/3 a week. Last Saturday, the financial edi tor of the Sydney Morning Herald admitted in fact that price increases have not been caused by wage increases. "For two years already we have had this continuous rise in consumer prices at the rate of 4 per cent a year (equal to 13/- a week in living costs) and almost entirely uncon- . nected with wage-costs pres sures," the financial editor said. He then admits of some "rather subdued conditions in retail sales" and that the Govern ment. has been "deliberately draining off consumer spend ing power in order to pro mote defence and develop ment." Having said this, we still doubt that unions can count on the Herald's full backing in their wages case due to begin about the end of February. Even though the financial edi tor talks about "the need for a sane and moderate progres sive attitude" in that wages case. ? THE Australian Teachers' Fed eration does not appear to agree with Sir Robert's self-praise of what he has done for education. The recent conference of the Federation demanded in- creased Federal finance and for an inquiry into the mount ing educational problems. Only last week a Sydney girl (Miss K. Hopkins) with one second-class honors, two As and three Bs in the Leaving Certificate could not gain en try to a teachers' college. Several other of this girl's schoomates, also with high passes, also were refused teacher college scholarships. Mr. I. Lancaster (secretary NSW Teachers' Federation) said it was fantastic that a girl as siitable and qualified as Miss Hopkins should be rejected in the midst of a desperate shortage of teach ers. A few yeras ago her pass would have been good enough to get her a teacher training schol arship at the university. The State Government should immediately grant several hundred more scholarships, and if it hasn't the money, should insist that the Federal Government foot the bill, he said. 