 SPJ/fiTS 1 Do it yourself ' Clarke just keeps on and on Long distance runner Ron Clarke seems to be well on the way to laying claims to the title "1966 Sportsman of the Year". Last week in Stockholm's Olympic Stadium Clarke shattered two world rec ords, the 5,000 metres and the three miles. Both rec ords were set in the one race. In recording 13m 16.6secs. for the 5,000 metres, Clarke lowered the former world record of Kenyan policeman, Kipchonge Keino by 7.6secs. Clarke's nearest rival in the race was a fantastic 35secs. away. At the three miles mark, Clarke had recorded 12m 4secs„ lowering his own world record for the distance by two seconds. Clarke's European tours, are beginning to take the air of some annual sporting ritual taken each year by this dedicated sportsman for the express purpose of breaking records. The stimulus ox Clarke's jaunt to the continent last year saw him finish the year with the title "Sportsman of the Year" and having broken 12 world records. It is only natural that athletes and sports fans wculd like to know just what makes Clarke "tiek", and no doubt many will seek some clue to this in his auto biography "The Unforgiving Minute" said to be out soon. Clarke's career it seems, is a history of a struggle to reach a peak condition which is enabling him to repeatedly break world records. From about 1956 to 1963 he had few wins and was con sidered by some to be wash ed up, though apparently very confident and dedicated to running. Athletics authority Franz Stampfl throws some light! on Clarke's approach to ! training in an article he wrote for the Australian early last year. j Stampfl said that Clarke! was convinced that he knew his own body much better than anybody else and so I trained himself. | Although very successful 1 without the aid of a coach, 1 Stampfl said that Clarke had 1 admitted that he might have 1 won the 10,000 metres at the I Tokyo Olympics had he the! advice of a professional! coach at the time. Clarke had! _ bean favourite for the event J uul iuta uiusnea inira. Since the Tokyo OlympicsX I it seems, that Clarke has ij been persistantly gaining ex- 1 \ perience by competition against the world best run ners and is a keen judge of his past efforts. In the final analysis most will agree that the basis for Ron Clarke's successes is his dedication and hard work with the body it seems he | has finally come to really | know. 0 Majority I for no? I TF a referendum were to be 1 held amongst the thous- 1 ands of Rugby League fol- 1 ! lowers (or any football fol- 1 lowers) as to whether or not 8 ONE week is sufficient to form and mould — and some cynics would add salvage— a top class team for inter national competition, the majority of thinking voters would no doubt say NO! Yet this is just what takes place repeatedly in the Aus- tralian Rugby League ciruica, and looks like having dire -ffect on Australia's chances against the Englishmen in the Second Rugby League Test to take place in Bris bane next Saturday. Several Australian Rugby League selectors it was re ported had wanted Johnny Raper left out of last Sat- uarday's N.S.W. v e r . Queensland match, but wnai happened is now history- Raper captained the N.S.W- team and fractured his hand- He will now miss the Third Test also as a result. This mishap plus the fact that seven changes have been made, will send the Austra lian team into the Second Test virtually a new team. It is hoped that this new team will be able to defea the Englishmen to make tne score one all in the sene But as the old saying goes, I hope is the blind mother oi E stupidity. i Ron, Clarke. 