 DffEATING HE BOMBERS By W. G. Burchett NORTH VIETNAM'S leaders believe the war will be long and hard. This conviction has been trans- lated into firm terms by a re organisation of the country's eco nomy, the dispersal and reloca tion of existing industry, the build ing up of new industry based on many small, widely dispersed plants instead of single large, cen tralised units. The economy is going over to guerrilla warfare. This is North Vietnam's reply to the massive and permanent-looking US mili tary build-up in the South. The more the Americans put in to the South, the more far-reaching become the plans for a long war in the North. "Out of the cities and back into the jungle and mountains to fight and produce at the same time" is the sort of unspoken slogan. Some plants I visited in the cities are now empty buildings, with only concrete stands and em bedded belts to indicate where machines had stood. In others, certain departments or sections of departments had been evacuated; production con tinuing in those that were left until the evacuated sections started working. Then the remaining machines would be removed with relocation planned so that produc tion would be interrupted as little as possible. Planning is aimed at making every province as autonomous as possible, in agriculture, industry —and military affairs. "Several plants are better than one big one," one of the leading economic planners told me. "This coincides with the require ments of war, damage from bomb ing is reduced, and the small in dustries. we are setting up will be the nucleus for further develop ments in peace time. "Many small plants that can quickly start to produce and repay the investment are much better for us than big ones with big investments and a long time be fore we get production or repay ment of the investment. Better to have ten or twenty small units, one in every province, than one or two huge centralised ones. Quality of output does not depend on size or geographic loca tion. We can start production ii rough bamboo and thatch build ings, the workers in tents and huts like soldiers in the field. '.'As production gets going and the returns come in, we will put lip permanent buildings and proper housing for the workers. We see to it that the workers are well fed and clad but they do not require six and' eight-storeyed apartment houses to start with. By cutting down construction costs at the start we can build three or four plants for the price, of one." There are certain huge plants which can obviously not be taken to pieces and reassembled. These now work at full capacity; they are very heavily protected. In case of attacks, production will con tinue as long as possible but in the meantime smaller units are being built up, in case the worst happens. After more than a year of air raids, the North Vietnamese lead ers are confident, that— short of nuclear weapons being used— they can handle this sort of war in definitely. They believe that no air attacks can decisively interrupt production or cripple communica- i tions. Not even the bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong or the min ing or blockade of the seaports. ? IN a trip south towards the 1 7th Parallel on Highway No. 1, I was surprised at the in significant effect of a year's pounding dl that few hund red miles of road and the railway alongside it. Bridges whicn have been attack ed many scores of times and against which hundreds of tons of bombs have been hurled, are still intact— the vital Hamrong. road and railway bridge over the Ma RiveT at Rhanh Hoa for instance— traf fic rolis along at much the same tempo as before. I was assured that the quantity of supplies planned to reach any given point at a given time, in variably arrived and I was told that if it were necessary to step up the quantities by four or five times, this would present no prob lem at all. This one can believe because the North-South highway is not being used to anything like its capacity— and this is not due to either bomb ed bridges or shortage of trans port. I found more bridges in place than when I last travelled that road two years ago and multiple crossing points of the numerous rivers instead of single ferries or bridges as formerly. Compared to the single North- South highway that led from An- tung-Sinanju on the Chinese-North Korean border, during the Korean war, the damage to Highway No. 1, is negligible. The Korean road was really in a mess, pounded day and night by land-based planes of about one third of America's Air Force. But even then traffic never stop ped moving and it was calculated that no damage could be inflicted which would take more than three hours to repair. In order to reduce the losses in planes and pilots, the Americans use their latest and fastest fighter- bombers. They arrive at superson ic speeds, black puffs of anti-air craft bursts chasing them, drop their load, and are out of sight within seconds. Seventy per cent of the bombs aimed at the Hamrong bridge for instance, have fallen on the ham- let of Yen Vuc, at the northern approach to the bridge. It was a well-to-do hamlet when I saw it two years ago, every house in brick with tiled roofs. Now there is not a single house stand ing and virtually not a square yard of soil on which no bomb has fallen. In the village itself craters over lap each other, there are craters within craters. But around the out skirts, the craters are all filled in and rice is growing up to the edge of the ruins. Air raids in the North are very different from those I witnessed in the South. There the planes circle and dive, circle and dive, leisurely hovering over their tar gets for hours on end. In the North it is all over with in seconds, the roar of planes, anti-aircraft fire and crashing bombs, almost one single medley of noise. In the early months, it was not like that. They circled and came down low over the targets for precision bombing. But an enorm ous volume of fire is directed against them, not only from the plentiful heavy and medium anti aircraft batteries, but by hundreds or even thousands of rifles and light machine guns when the pilots come really low. ? IN every factory and co operative farm I visited, one third to half of the working personnel were enrolled in self-defence units. When the alert is sounded the unit on duty rushes to the defence positions and aim with those ice- cool nerves with which the Viet namese seem to be especially en dowed. By the time a plane comes low enough for real precision bombing of a bridge, for instance, it is receiving a stream of fire that must really be unnerving for a pilot. At the Hamrong bridge alone, I was assured that 69 planes had been shot down as at the beginning of March, and claims for planes brought down are not accepted un less investigating teams have ac tually laid hands on the wreckage. This is a personal directive from President Ho Chi Minh. The coordination between self- defence units and the anti-aircraft batteries is particularly useful in case of sneak attacks, with planes roaring in very low beneath the angle at which the batteries can fire. The great volume of fire from ordinary infantry weapons forces the planes up to altitudes at which the batteries- can operate. There is intense competition be tween provinces, batteries and self- defence units to bring down the planes and units do everything pos sible to attract planes in their direction, even setting up decoys, impossible to distinguish from the air from real targets, as a hunter uses a decoy duck to bring the wild birds within range of his gun. Women have taken over many of the jobs normally reserved for men. One 20mm. battery, I visited near Nam Dinh had a womdn gun ner—a beautiful young expatriate from Siam— two women ammuni tion servers and one man reserve gunner. The woman gunner had already brought down one plane and had taken part in a dozen or so ground-air battles. I found in many agricultural co operatives that up to 80 per cent of the labour force were women; they had taken over the ploughing, something quite new for Vietnam ese women, and in visiting the fishing villages, I found they had largely replaced the men in the bamboo rafts and sampans of the fishing fleets. > A large proportion of women in the fields, along the roads, in the 0V6r I sssNs hands w4ff,ir th? Ste realistic i 1 at them. i mSS? units, whose 1 ibS JSial mil- | oX S j first shock 1 m I tng attempts. 1 NOTHIIVqBj. t0 chance | and all p0M. American 1 moves in 8teJI.Up the war 1 have been 11 into con- 1 sideration. One day the ill. was travel- L Img led throu, lids of sweet potatoes, grovfl gfwhat seemed to be good lan 1L. " My company Jjfo heads the r local district.' Utrative com- u mittee, said: vi formally rice I land, but we: Ifto take into 1 s account that: tl ricans might 1 h destroy the Bh dam which 1 g fields 50,(101 f" of rice" I "They have j| ..attacked it I al several times'; ( the sluice- 1 tl gates once, am foliiy breached hi the dam, but j jMuiation rush- p&lt; ed out while ti j||es were still pi attacking and'jgl, the breach, ol ' We have calffl that much of the rice cou$|Jfaved even if n( maximum damiSre done, be- e. cause of subsiSMuns and irri- oj SS?v .systenjspig last year- al But this area, ||'ould be left sf dry so, just iii |j e have plant ed it with svigjhatoes which can flourish i j#t rrigation. Of course, our pa ijsrefer rice, but r£ anyway there: Ipt > no loss of k: food, even if: wfst happens." ei The fact its i||pwomen have 01 taken over i ||| bs does not n! mean that tie iave all gone P into the army, |d| gh doubtless j 01 a proportion i M have. Many C( more are engl construction dl projects, builffiha newly locat- ,ed industnesKffie roads to a serve them,:fflgffin . transport if columns, andjoits of other d heavy work i I Ci The bicytykmsiof the Dien Cc Bien Phu the roads again but injpjfcer quantities B- and carryinjpjheavier loads. n- They are bepf|t seems, not N because of rage of man power or evojMtransport or fuel, but to organisa- B1 tion in being "the worst p happens"— a was to hear 1! very often, vj i|was in North f Vietnam. |g I th When the ipfgenerals say | they can brfoS||prt to a halt g by bombing forage tanks | at Haiphong iiwhere, they g underestimate 11 Vietnamese 1 capacity for ||| do with bicycles, oxctW hand-carts. The bombie ® be stopped and permaneij|®)ped. Other wise any nefffflor even pre- negotiations ||!|f held under duress and'tMfrtally unac ceptable. |J|| If the Amfbjigyant to talk about ending' the South, then they « with their cobelligerents»ional Liber- ation FronV»l most of the countiPost of the M population. Ill th&lt; I had the it jjMhat it was ri( not terribly" fgpt who the Americans i»Bn their side se&lt; of an eventi ®rence table, 1 an but on the. the NLP J an would have 4 gepted as the 1 s0le valid ne| gfpartner. And I tra the only basl | negotiations 8 must be a co gpthdrawal of Fi American trb |mYiftnamese Ca territory. Ojj fccan tjlk hi: about negota gpsed. on the an Geneva Agr# ifpiains mean- inKc I j I WW. Viet. th' namese W |K "Crested 1 in discussing ig for negotia- the Hons becausefipned to feel ana it was a vetftfptic subject non at preset- IS infl The t,tem illr P woi bases in 5®mnfand o, qiam; tt'SBR more SS bombit5|®them clear adn Yfens that W no interest dou in negoW""1 irom H thA 5 toffinP. .the oL worth how®1 he taken f0r inmost m 8|S seuiement. in the ®fh Viet- S1 nn5's sho® tong-term esi omic P® n the tar5 S1 Steffi1 or more vi%c vears and mat social life i?lese Peo- lfc c pie is on is T basis. B of 1 The Vietnamese people's war of resistance to the United States aggression "will unquestionably be successful both in north and south" the Premier of the Democratic Republic of (North) Vietnam Pham Van Dong, told the Nation al Assembly last week. This was tho week in which the US admitted the loss of 10 planes in battles over North Vietnam — one of the most expensive weeks since the war began. In this article, reprinted from the Manchester Guar dian Weekly of April 14, well-known Australian cor respondent Wilfred Bur chett gives reasons, based on his observations, for thinking the Vietnamese leaders' views were sound ly based. A North Vietnamese peasant at the end of his shift hands over the buffalo, the gun and the plough to another peasant — a scene typical of a vigilant population under constant terror bombing by the U.S.A. Within three hours after being bombed by the U.S.A., roads in North Vietnam are back in service. 