 Phony US "case" f NEW THREAT TO CAMBODIA |NTRY of Thai forces into the Vietnam war by the 1 despatch of naval and air detachments marks another step in the US policy of making Asians fight Asians. It is also a means of bringing pressure to bear on neighboring Cam- | bodia, whose strictly neutralist position m Vietnam has been regarded for years by the Americans as an intolerable affront to them. tt is significant that only ' last week, a few days before Thailand was dragged into the war, the US military in Saigon announced that artillery shots had been fired by them into Cambodian territory in "retaliation" (of course!) fcr shots fired' at them across the Cambodian frontier. While cn his recent tour of south east Asia Australian prime Minister Holt was himself recruited into the work of intimidating this c mail country . It was proudly announced by tne Australian daily press that Holt was flown across a part of Cambodia, without the permission of the Gov ernment, with an escort of U3 warplanes The suggestion was made that this was a wonderfully brave thing to do — an act of provocation against a country which has little or no air force, committed under the protection of one of the worlds mightiest air forces. It. was a breach of inter national law — an act of aggression which could have invalyetf Australia . in .a vwar. Holt's action becomes the more wanton because Aus- tralia and full diplomatic? relations with Cambodia and the Government has till rec ently boasted about Cam bodia's friendship. Last year, when there was a breach of relations be tween Cambodia and South Vietnam, Cambodia asked Australia to take care of its interests in Saigon and Ex ternal Affairs minister Has- luck made use of this to taunt the opposition in Parliament. However, no doubt cn orders from Washington, the Australian Liberal Govern ment has changed its policy, without any provocation on Cambodia's side. Thus, on February 1 last, a letter appeared in "The Australian" from Dr. H. B. Cyran, of Bayview, Sydney, saying that in visiting Cam bodia last August he was able to talk . to eminent people including members of the High Council of the Throne. "A clear desire was ex pressed for closer relations with Australia" Dr. Cynan wrote. "It was hinted to me that ever since the visit of Sir Garfield' Barwick, Pnom Penh has been waiting to receive an official invitation for the Cambodian Head of State to visit Australia . . "Would net an invitation issued now constitute a Ps" itive step towards a solution of the hopeless situation in south east Asia"? Nc such positive step followed. Instead, the head of the Australian Govern ment "visited"' Cambodia with an escort of hostile war- planes. Last year the -Cambodian Government replied to US press allegations by invititing the US press itself to send journalist- to verify on the spot, if they could, their stories cf Cambodian coil being used by the "Vietcong". "Nonsense" As noted by Wilfred Bur- chett in the magazine "New Times" of .January 26, . the. "New York Times'" corres- pondent Seymour Topping went there with a list of all the points in Cambodia the U3 pres; was saying were being so used. He was given a helicopter and anything else he wanted. "He insisted on plodding on foot beyond where reads end'ed to the actual frontier; cross questioning people in the frontier village market places and sc on", said Burchett. "His conclusion,, published in the "New York Times", was nonsense to speak of Vietcong bases or transit routes through Cambodia." This was followed by new US propaganda threats, and another US journalist, Stan ley Karnow of the Washing ton Post, made an inspection of Vietnam. Karnow, whore conclusions were quoted in "The Aus- tx-alian" of January 11, re futed' in detail all the accus ations made by US author ities and newspapers. He, too, wa; given complete freedom of movement. He testified that a similar , freedom had been given the International Control Com mission (composed of India. Canada and' Poland) to check on the destination of arm/ entering the Country, a free dom the ICC said it had not been given elsewhere in Indo China. The answer of Washington (backed, apparently, by Can berra) was not to supply any more evidence of Cambodia's "complicity" but to carry on its intimidation wthcut any- justifying evidence whatever. Although Seymour Topp ing did not find ' any Viet namese in Cambodia, he did find plenty of Americans in nearby Thailand. He found' a hush-hush build up of US bases in Thailand near the Laos and Cambodian borders. A RAAF fighter sqadron is stationed there at Ubdn. As Burchett commented "A vast military complex is being created here for the disem barking of an American ex peditionary force". 