 AFRICA'S "SHOP WINDOW" WAS JUST A SHAM Some facts on Nigeria MMMMMOBMgiiWiiiauaiimiiiiH»Hiiiaiiir«i»BiwaMaBBaa——— mtob— —a—— — HE "image of democracy" in Nigeria which was recently shattered by revolt, to the dismay of the Australian govern- ment and press, was never more than an image. Idris Cox, analysing tfie developments in the London Daily Worker, says flatly: "Democracy was never a reality in Nigeria". Because several pol itical parties were able to contest in "elections", this was hailed as evid ence of a "democratic system", supposedly in contrast to the one- party system in Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Tanzania, and recently Kenya. But beneath this facade of a "multi-party system," it is the feudal emirs of the North, allied with the reactionary chiefs and wealthy capitalists in the West, who have in practice exercised political rule in Nigeria. i Throughout the years, they have been the agents of foreign monopoly firms, and ' close collaborators of succes sive British Governments. Nigeria's political structure has not changed since it was devised under British colonial rule, before independence in October, 1960. The majority of seats in the 312-member Federal As sembly are given to the feudal North, which has only a minority of electors. The recently overthrown governing party, the Northern People's Congress (NPC), failed to get a majority in the pre-independence elections in December, 1959. So there was an unholy alliance with the progressive National Council of Nigerian Citizens (NCNC), in a coali tion government for the fol lowing five years. This coalition had broken down even before the first general federal elections after independence, held in Decem ber, 1964. In no less than 67 consti tuencies of the 174 in the North, opposing candidates were either kidnapped, ar rested, or killed, or their nomination declared void. The NPC formed an alliance with the Nigerian National Democratic Party (NNDP) in the West, a breakaway from the more progressive Action Group. By these methods the NPC succeeded in maintaining its rule of dictatorship. In October last year "elec tions" also took place in the West, and Chief Akintola, the Premier, adopted similar methods to ftnaintain his minority rule in the region. Joint action Together " with the rising revolt against these rigged elections is the rising struggle of the workers to improve tneir living standards. In October, 1963, the trade unions formed a joint action committee -on the eve of Nigeria becoming a Republic, and held a united three-day general strike to raise their wages from the low level of £7/12/- a month in Lagos, and £4 a month in the rural areas. The strike was successful in forcing the Federal Gov ernment to appoint a com mission to examine the union demands. After six months, the commission admitted that £16/16/- a month was a mini mum living wage in Lagos, but proposed only £12 a month, and £6/10/- a month for the rural areas. A secret The Government kept these proposals a secret for a wnoie montn, with the result that 800,000 Nigerian workers came out in a general strike on May 30, 1964. The Government then made its proposals known, which | were £9/2/- monthly for Lagos : and £4/15/4 for the rural S areas. The general strike I continued for 13 days. The strikers won a great victory. They were paid full wages for the duration of the strike, with no victimisation, and withdrawal of the dis missal notices, and negotia tions on the basis of the commission's proposals. During the past 18 months the struggle of the trade unions has been inseparable 1 lrm the political battle to | change the system of political dictatorship and terror in Nigeria. J The main target of the revolt was Sir Ahmadu Bello, ! jne Sardauna of Sokoto, _.r®mer of the Northern "egion, and his close ally, nief Akintola, Premier of the Western Region, both of wnom have been killed during the revolt. l#0 of the outstanding eaders in the Federal Gov ernment were also killed. One was Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, the Federal Premier, who was also one of the Northern feudal emirs and a leader of the NPC. Sir . Ahmadu Bello was the main pillar of reaction be hind the scenes (the king maker), while the Federal Premier was the figurehead, lauded to the skies by suc cessive British Premiers — Macmillan, Sir Alec Douglas- Home, and Harold Wilson. The other leader, also killed, was Chief Festus Okotte Eboh, the millionaire Federal Finance Minister, whose subservience to foreign monopolies and the interests of imperialism has long been under fire from all progres- sives in Nigeria. Perhaps it is not surprising that among those arrested before the army revolt was Dr. Tunji Otegbeye, leader of the Socialist Workers' and Farmers' Party, formed in August, 1963, arid c C. kurile Oyera, a barrister and leader of the Nigerian Youth Con gress. Both organisations were foremost in the struggle against the terror practised by the ruling circles in Nigeria. "Military rule is no solu tion for Nigeria. Sooner or later there must come a more democratic constitution and the opportunity for free elections," writes Cox. "There is no hope for the future unless the grip of the feudal emirs and the agents of foreign imperialism is broken. "Even before the army revolt, impressive steps had been taken to form a united front of all the progressive parties, and only to the extent that this succeeds will it be possible to conceive of an advance toward a demo cratic Nigeria." !L EA DING Australian f | artists, writers and j S university people recently j | mounted a poster parade i I- outside Australia House in I London (England) in pro- j S test against their Govern- | Iment's Involvement in | America's war in Viet- j nam. j | In the photo, from the | i English "Daily Worker": I | one of the students who I ! took part in the picket g j The protest was arrang- | I" ed on the eve of Australia j Day, marking the 178th j j anniversary of the settle- S I ment of the country. I A letter sent to the | Australian High Commis- | | sioner said that while 1 I" most Governments were f now expressing doubts j about the war, the Austra- 1 | lian Government has none, j 