 [?] s With Tribune s Industrial 5 Roundsman eAND then there was the a plainclothes copper |from the NSW Special pquad who found himself ioeing firmly led away from iast Friday's Vietnam dem- |onstration outside Syd ney's Garden Island Dock yard by three well-built luniformed constables. | "Wake up to yerself", he cried. |"Wake up to yerself!" 5 "You'd better come quietly", Ethey said. "Cut it out, pal! Whatda ya think ya doing? I'm from the Special." And then they went and let him go. ? 'pHE blow of a whistle was the signal agreed on by all building workers at a big job in Melbourne to "knock off" in support of wage demands. The arrival of a postman up set the plan, The boys reckon it's the first lime that a local postman caus ed a strike in the building in dustry. A -MAN taking people to the Showground during ?Easter saw a pensioner couple turn away in disappointment when he had to tell them there were no admission concessions lor pensioners. He thinks the big profits "-made out of the show should /permit of reduced prices to '/pensioners on at least one of the show days. ? .,.;pHE Save Our Sons Move- -ii ment is preparing a legal -"case to challenge the Federal ""Government to prove that the sending of conscripts to Viet nam is essential to the defence Es of Australia. After hearing a speaker from the movement who appealed for "/.assistance, the Labor Council "at Wollongong weighed in $20 and has asked all unions on the South Coast to financially !i back this move. ? v=;- A T the moment federal offi- cials of the Building Work ers Industrial Union (45,000 members) and the Operative Painters Union (25,000 mem bers) are meeting in Sydney to .'.' discuss plans for affiliation. V.'/ Officials of the Plasterers' ,ri." Union are also attending as ob- -: servers. :s rpHREE unions, the Liquor Trades, Milk and Ice Cart- ers and the Engine Drivers and LI. T Firemen have written to Prime v.-.rMinister Holt condemning the \ 171 treatment and victimisation of Gunner O'Neill, who was man- Ed?. ocled to a stake in Vietnam and i-T:is now in Holdworthy deten- siii- tion camp. "May we next expect a firing squad at dawn?" the unions ask with bitter sarcasm. 