 Lord Russell : " USSR as the foremost friend of man " LONDON : "Soviet Russia stands out in the present welter of confusion as the foremost friend of man," said Lord (Bertrand) Russell, famous British philosopher, scientist and peace movement leader, to a Moscow Re dio correspondent last New Year s eve. , "AS we approach a New Yea? we are raced with hopes and fears," Lord Russell said. "The hopes are at their brightest when we consider the role of Soviet Russia. 'The US is engaged in an attempt to rule the world and to extend to every continent the vampire despotism of the military-industrial complex. My own country, to my deep shame, is assisting America, in this enterprise. ' Russia is seeking to defeat American imperialism without recourse to a world war. If men were sane, this policy would be universally admired. We must hope that its mer its will become clear to all and especially to the liberal elements in the USA which are daily gaining strength. "Soviet Russia stands out in the present confusion as the. foremost friend of man. "The New Year will see the solution and creation of many problems. It is my most sin cere desire that one of those to be solved should be that of world peace. And you have my unremitting support for all your efforts in this direction." "Greatest danger" Lord Russell said it seemed to be US policy to make all Latin American States its sat ellites. The US wanted everywhere, subservient governments, head ed by its toadies in the sup pression of national liberation movements. "This is at the moment the greatest danger to the world," he said. "The problem facing all friends of freedom everywhere is, can America be stopped without a nuclear war In solving this problem, Russia has a crucial part to play. "It seemed that Russia, in pursuit of peace, was making too great concessions to the USA. Quite recent events have persuaded me that either Sov iet policy has changed or else I had got a wrong impression of it. "Assuming one of these to be the case, I feel that a state ment I recently gave to TASS requires some amplification. I hope that this assumption is correct and I am hereby as suming that it is." Lord Russell said every Latin American country had a large party anxious for national free dom and seeking possession of its own national resources. But in every country but Cuba, the party in power was willing to hand over its wealth to the US, prolonging the desperate pover ty of its own workers, through fear of US militarism. Lord Russell added: "Russia has emerged victorious after many years of desperate strug gle and is now willing to help other countries win a like deg ree of national independence. LORD RUSSELL 