 NO PUNCHES PULLED W. A. Wood reviews the second issue of AUSTRALIAN LEFT REVIEW. THE first issue of the Aus- tralian Left Review some months ago brought a wel- come shower of bouquets from the workers, together with an equally welcome brickbat bar- rage from the Bulletin, the Newsweekly and other organs of reaction. Mixed in with it all was a jibe or two from other Left journals. What nobody seemed able to do was ignore the ALR or deny the impact it was likely to have on the thinking of socialists of Australia, particularly those in the trade unions. Without these, as the editorial in ALR 2 says, socialism will never be achieved in Australia. The second issue will probably produce the same reaction, only more so. The editorial has an important passage, probably addressed to other socialist reviews. "Despite the wishes of some and the fears of others, ALR lays no claim to be the spokesman for all the Left. "However the ALR does aim to serve the Left as a whole, in the belief that a prime requirement for the achievement of socialism in this country is a consensus of views and actions among these forces." ALR 2 is another step—one might almost say a leap—forward and outward from the position of the old Communist Review. This is shown alike by the breadth of the contributions, the range they cover and the freedom with which the writers express themselves. These writers discuss every as- pect of Australian life from foreign policy to film festivals (Edmund Allison) and the protection of Aus- tralian wild life (a discussion of the A. J. Marshall book by Joyce Tattersell). Notable newcomers include Rob- ert Kirk, who reviews J. H. Kelly's important book Struggle for the North, and a psychiatrist who, un- der the name of Heraclitus, surveys the latest advances in his subject and gives an appraisal of Freud, Pavlov and others for which every amateur psychologist (and who isn't one?) will thank him. The contributors don't pull any punches or bar any holds, though, of course, it never gets as bad as a Rugby League test. John Sendy's article in ALR 1 about democracy in the CPA brings several replies in one of which Rex Mortimer leans in the direction of proposing to tolerate factions. Maybe few communists will agree but none will object to the ALR's fearless examination of this ques- tion. Basic political articles are pro- vided by Tribune editor Alec Rob- ertson, E. W. Campbell, Pat Clancy and others. Mr. Robertson breaks important new ground in exposing the misuse by some ALP Rightwingers of Cur- tin's famous post-Pearl Harbour call to the US for aid "without pangs" about the British kith and kin. He shows that this appeal did not in fact prevent that Government from raising a genuinely independent voice in the councils of the world —even sometimes an anti-American voice. Pat Clancy disturbs the accum- ulated dust (ideologically, of course) in a number of union offices still dominated by complacent, conser- vative thinking on lines adequate for the past but potentially dis- astrous for the present. That, basically, is what ALR 2 is all about. 