 CALL FOR ACTION TO BACK UNIONS SYDNEY : A mass meeting of Bunnerong Power House workers has called on the N.S.W. Labor Council to organise stop pages as part of a "campaign of action" in support of the unions' basic wage and margins claims. Labor Council last week referred the powerhouse proposal to Council's Campaign Committee. These proposals include: The organising of an all- day mass meeting of workshop and job delegates. The holding of workshop meetings to be extended into short protest stoppages. That one-day stoppages be held in rotation at appointed areas throughout the Metropol itan Area and that mass meet ings be held followed by demon strations to the Arbitration Commission. That large workshops fin- ancially assist smaller shops to enable the maximum number of workers to attend the wage hearings. That pressure be brought to bear on the NSW Liberal Government to introduce price control. South Aust. DELAIDE — An extended -meeting of over 200 work ers at Adelaide Ship Construc tion called for action by the ACTU to coincide with the opening of the case of the unions for a higher basic wage and increased margins. The meeting was addressed by Mr. George Atkins, Federal assistant secretary of the newly amalgamated Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Unions and Mr. Larry Heffernan assistant- sec retary of the Adelaide branch of the Boilermakers Society. The resolution carried called for extended lunch hour meet ings, the serving of the unions' wage demands on the individual employers and job collections' to allow workers' representa tives to attend the Court hear ings directly or by the attend ance of their industrial counter parts in the city where the hearing will be held. A further proposal suggested the calling of workers and job stewards meetings in appropri ate areas to further the cam paign. This could mean in an area such as Port Adelaide the coming together Of representa tives of the metal workshops, wharf ies, seamen and other workers to further joint activ ity. A meeting of workers employ ed at Forward, Johns and Way- good endorsed the wage claims of the unions and also called for appropriate action to further the demands. 