 I iiiii I mJ y.l kill i Li J Defence and atom bombers pRIME Minister Holt begins his tenure with a "mom ent of truth" in the defence talks with British Minister Healey this week. Holt opened his mouth wide two weeks ago to say that Australia's development wasn't going to be sacrificed to demands for more war spending. Fine 'words. But reports are that Healey has Washington backing for the "streamlined" plan for a string of nuclear war bases across the In dian Ocean, pivoting on north-west Australia; and for a bigger Austra lian military commitment in the region. And there is an ingenious local campaign (see military expert A. L. Burns, Sydney "Herald", 28/1/66) arguing that Healey's scheme would give Australia more "independ ence" in bargaining with the USA! A man well-placed in the Liberal machine told us recently he didn't know ONE person who favoured the war in Vietnam. It's time Canberra heard the real voice of Australia: we want no part of new imperialist military schemes aimed against Asia. Cue for Mr. Holt pOLLOWING the crash of a US atom-bomber in Spain, the Franco Govern ment has placed a ban on US nuclear bomb flights over its territory. This raises acute issues for al) nations, including Australia,, which . have accepted American nuclear war installations (e.g. North-West'. Cape) and the possibility of more. Tribune correspondent Rupert Lockwood cables that mass action by the Spanish people, in face of. fascist repression, followed the crash of the bomber. He quotes "Izvestia" (Moscuw) as saying that although only nuclear bomb planes are so far banned, the Spanish Government's decision "must force governments of ali countries which allow Amer ican air force planes to fly over their territories to think." The nuclear bomb "lost" over Spain is one of 13 jettisoned in this and earlier accidents, according to official US figures. In these accidents the US planes have had to drop their lethal loads where best they can because of "technical trouble". First it was Ceylon that banned all nuclear war planes and ships from her territory. Now Spain. It's a cue for Holt in the defence talks. There's a limit at the Dom. "pHE Sydney Domain crowd, capable of blanketing a speaker with heckling, generally gives a fair hearing to anyone with a , genuine viewpoint and something to say. But there's a limit. When Aus tralian nazi leader Arthur Smith set up a stump and began preach ing race hatred and war, guarded by a uniformed storm trooper, the crowd were at first astounded al most beyond belief. The following Sunday, when Smith arrived the crowd ran him out of the Domain. This arrogant move by the nazis is a warning; the democratic res ponse is a reassurance. All among the war budget A DVERT ISEMENTS in Syd- ney's Sunday papers are hard to take, but an 1 1 -page "supplement" in the last Sunday Telegraph was inter esting. ' It consisted of .a series of the usual pubiic-rela.tions articles about the armed forces, scattered among advertisements by firms boasting about their contracts to the ser- vices. These included: Standard Tele phone and Cables (STC); Fibre- makers Ltd. (nylon and terylene); Bradmill (tents, tarpaulins); Hawk- er-De Havilland (planes, aero en- gines, electronics, artillery shells aluminium boats, tankers, chemic als, missiles); International Har-- vester; Kodak films; McNamara and Welch (camp construction)- British Automotive Industries Pty. Ltd.; Sir George Godfrey and Part-" ners (air conditioning and pressur- isation for RAAF and RAN); John1 While and Sons, Petersham (springs); and, by way of anti-; climax, Lightburn Washing Ma-: chines. Many of these are the smaller- fry among the war profiteers of today for whom the Vietnam war is a bonanza. Still, they'd hardly notice the £2750-odd that the li pages would be worth, space-wise. ' Interesting that only Sir Frank: Packer's Telegraph copped this cream. She was "dangerous" jRS. Indira Gandhi, by becoming Premier of the world's second biggest country in terms of popula tion, has provided new stimulus to the world-wide struggle for equal rights and opportunity for women. What is not well-known is that she did 13 months inside a British jail for "subversion" when India was still a colony. Shastri and, of course, her father, Nehru— her two predecessors in office— also served jail terms for the same offence. Like the "Vietcong" of today, Mrs. Gandhi was the type of per son who (we were told in those days) would cause appalling peril if she ever secured power in her country. How many thousands of Indians were killed in the vain effort of the British imperialists to prevent it! " It was the same story with De Valera (Ireland), Kenyatta (Ken ya), Nkrumah (Ghana), Banda (Malawi) and others. It is still the story in Aden, Malaysia and, in the American sphere of interest, Vietnam and Santo Domingo. Should be more of it J'HERE is a continuing campaign in sections of the press to "quote" name- less Australian soldiers in Vietnam describing peace; demonstrators in Australia as "ratbags". Latest group of these Australian "ratbags" to make an impact; staged a demonstration outside Australia House, London, last week. They revealed that a letter of protest about the Australian Gov-; ernment's intervention in the Vietnam war had been signed by some 20 Australians working in. London. They included many important representatives of the Australian arts such as actor Leo McKern, composer Malcolm Williams011' art gallery director Lesley Stack, painters John Olsen, Arthur David, Hermia Boyd, Morris Hope, art critic Robert Hughes, car toonist Arthur Horner, TV pro ducer Tom Mainfield, poet Peter Porter, and a number of lecturers and students. Part of the letter said that the Australian Government had ig nored the local base of' the rebel lion (in Vietnam) and the "totali tarian character of the Diem regime which initially gave rise to it." If this is ratbaggery, Australia needs more of it. Incidentally, 50 years ago this year the Australian troops over seas voted WITH the campaign-; ers against conscription in a ref erendum and thus defeated the government's policy. "I will aggravate my voice as that 1 will roar you as gently as any sucking dove." — A Midsummer Night's Dream. Eccles in the London "Daily Worker". 