 WHITE COLLAR MEN ROLL SLEEVES UP The recent Biennial conference of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations at Canberra marked a new turning point for the organisation. This was the first Biennial conference (ACSPA) had ever called. Conferences held previously had niet to discuss single items such as salaries, but this con ference dealt with agenda items ranging from the right to strike, prices, salaries and automation, to long service leave, and the future of the Snowy Mountains authority. Over the whole of the meet ing. 45 dplfipaffls rAnrpsemfinc 300,000 members tackled prob lems facing white collar workers. Although the decisions reached will not be binding on the affiliated organisations, the fact that most were carried unanimously means that many will he carried by the affiliated organisations. Jfhe conference was told that automation was making 811 n industry, tnat confrontation will have to replace consultation. A delegate said that the Caltex company had told one State office that one third of its office staff would be re dundant by April 13 next year. Others said that some occu pations such as ships engineers were being systematically and seriously eroded. The Navigators association said air navigators would be defunct by 1972. The conference called for a conference with employers and the government on this prob lem in conjunction, with the ACTU. It asked the Federal Execu tive to establish an hours com mittee to coordinate action with the ACTU for the 35 hour week, because they believe that tech nological changes in Australian industry, including hanking, are likely to have revolutionary ef fects on employment. Other important resolutions included: A call to the Federal Gov ernment to establish a prices surveillance authority. All governments and em ployers to take immediate ac tion to lift current long service entitlement to a minimum of six months after 15 years of em ployment for all wage and sal ary earners. The Government to take action to correct an appalling deficiency in our trading re sources by creation of a Nat ional Overseas Shipping fleet. Conference was critical of the indiscriminate enthusiasm of the Government for all overseas investment, irrespective of its social value or specific econo mic implications. The Federal Government was urged to repeal the penal clauses of the Arbitration Act. 