 New war burdens in the offing Secret talks in Canberra that will follow the arrival of , British Defence Minister Healey at the end of January are expected to include two proposals by Britain that would in crease the burdens and dangers of Australia's situation. |"HESE are: (1) That Australia should increase its military spending and disposi tions in the south-west Pacific and Indian Ocean areas; and (2) that more foreign military bases should be built in north-west Australia. Important admissions to this effect, have been made by a special defence correspondent in London, writing for the Australian Financial Review (Jan- unary 13). Mr. Healey will come to Australia via Washington, where his job will include explaining the Wilson Gov ernment's plans to develop, in part nership with the USA, a new line of military bases around southern Asia. This dovetails in with the existing US Navy concepts, based on per manent patrolling in the Indian Ocean by parts of the nuclear-armed Seventh Fleet, including Polaris submarines. These will be controlled through the North-West Cape communications base, now under construction in West ern Australia. According to the correspondent, while Britain's total present home and foreign military budget is around £2500 million a year, her problems of overseas payments mean she can in fact afford only about £2000 million. Of the current running costs of all her foreign bases (£550 million a year), some £255 million goes East of Suez. New schemes for bases at the Seychelles and Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean and in the Gulf of Aden could increase this. Noting that Australia spends "only" about half the- per capita military expenditure of Britain, the correspon dent says flatly: "There is a growing opinion which supports the view that Australia should contribute more to the area's defence." This proposition in fact would mean that Australia's 1966 Budget would have to include new tax increases to meet a new inflation of military spending. The whole scheme for the new chain of bases arises because the people of all south-east and southern Asia are ejecting the old imperialist powers; with their military bases and economic exploitation. The correspondent refers to "the decline of Singapore as a base", and the need to "shift" out of Aden. India, Ceylon arid Pakistan are no longer mentioned. What Healey is expected to propose (with American backing) therefore is nothing less than to use the "enorm ous potential for bases in north western Australia". And why? In the words of the correspondent, to "enable Britaiit, along with its allies, to wield a great military influence in the Middle and Far East for some time." However, Australian acceptance of such a scheme would merely tie us more firmly to a policy of antagon ising our neighbors, the people of the Asian countries, and of further surrendering Australian independence. The Healey visit will be a signifi cant test of the stand of the Aus tralian Labor Party on some foreign policy questions. 