 1 Ha nrrrti r go| ELLO, Tribune Juniors, Today is June 1, Inter national Children's Day. Each year more and more children ail over the world are celebrating this day and finding ways .to send greetings to children in other lands. Mr. Brian Rix, of the Junior Eureka League was telling me that the Pioneers of the League (in Sydney) have been busy for this day sending greetings to children in Vietnam, Bul garia, Hungary, Cuba, Ger many, Norway, U.S.S.R., Cze choslovakia and many more. I think you will agree that of all the children in the world who are suffering hard- v ship on this day, the Vietnam- ese children are suffering the most. Children do not make war, and unless they are made to dislike one another they get along well, no matter what the colour of their skin. But they may get hurt and killed and suffer just the same. I am sure that today the Vietnamese children are re ceiving messages and gifts not only from the Pioneers of Syd ney, but from all the children in every country wishing them peace in their country in the very near future. If the chil dren of the world had their way the war would finish now. Not only did the JEL send greetings but they have plan ned functions to celebrate this day, a film showing, picnics, parties. The Women's Commit tees of some of our bigger trade unions are also planning celebrations. DO "you belong to . . . Do you belong to the Boy Scouts, Girl Guides or Bed Cross? There are many chil dren's groups all over Aus tralia and all over the world. Brian (of the Junior Eureka League) has just come home after a wonderful, long trip overseas. He saw on his travels some of the children's groups in a number of countries, very much like our own groups. In our next issue he will tell us something of what he saw. Should anyone who is having a party or picnic dur ing June wish to have it an nounced in the column, do write in to me, for our paper goes all over Australia. To all Junior Tribune read ers, and their brothers and sisters, the staff of Tribune and myself wish you a very happy day on your own very special children's day. THANKS I would like to thank all ot the readers who sent in greet- ing. cards.— They were a real credit to you — also the cards, stamps and pictures of Austra lia. We have a wonderful par cel of gifts to send to friends in the Moscow school. — dinewan. This young girl's name is Natasha Kuchinskaya, and she is a gymnast atteding a young people's conference in Moscow, USSR. Natasha is seen here talking to A. Leonov, the famous cosmonaut. 