 iSLdedjp ' them out iri '66 av , JO" > > Holt's confidence trick on education By W. E. GOLLAN PUBLIC opinion polls have established that of all the major problems facing the Australian electors, education is con sidered to occupy one of the most prominent places — a nation al issue requiring a national policy and national action. The actions and policy speech of the Holt Govern ment reveal how pitifully in adequate is its policy on this vital issue. They also reveal its crude political opportun ism and dishonesty. All educationists and par ents' organisations agree that in this era, when science and technology are playing so sig nificant a role in the life of society, the development of a full education for the whole community is a matter of the most urgent national import ance. Expand The Murray and Martin Re ports on Tertiary Education laid the greatest stress on the absolute need to expand uni versity, technical college and other forms of tertiary educa tion to meet the requirements of production and prepara tion for full participation in citizenship. As a result of the recom- mendations of the Murray Report a Universities Com mission was set up to recom mend grants in accordance with the minimum require ments of universities. This year the Holt Govern ment, whilst increasing its arms budget to $1000m., an increase of one-third, simul taneously cut the grants to universities proposed by the Commission by $56m. Subsequently in his policy speech, the Prime Minister at tempted to perform what amounts to a confidence trick upon the Australian people. The Martin Committee had stated in part: "The factors which deter mine "national survival" (my emphasis— W.E.G.) in the modern world re quire the Australian com munity to provide talent ed young people with op portunities to develop their talents to the max- imum . . . Science and technology have released forces of staggering power . . . and human beings must benefit from a better education than in the past if they are to harness these forces to the well-being of their country." What does the Holt Govern ment propose, to meet this vast problem? Whilst increas ing the" arms expenditure by $252m. per annum, an increase of $756m. in the next three years, it proposes to provide $8m. per annum, a total of $24m. in the same, period for the construction of teacher training colleges. Private The only other educational provision is for the doubling of the amount provided for the building of science labora tories for the private schools —a further endowment of wealthy schools — increasing sharply the contrast between these privileged establish ments and, as H. P. Schoen- heimer (The Australian) ex presses it, "the stark poverty and the increasing poverty of state primary and secondary education." Already the State govern ments are in dire straits. In NSW the Education Depart ment is effecting "economies" by providing for increased class sizes, combining classes at different stages of educa tional progress, increasing the teaching loads on teachers and other steps that are eli minating most of the progress made over the last 10 years. In other states the position is as bad or worse. Official figures based on the present capacity of teachers' colleges show that by 1975, even without any improve ment in conditions, the schools will be at least 5,000 teachers short of require ments. The provision of $8m. for building purposes only, as an nounced by the Prime Min ister, is only a drop in the bucket, and will, in fact, im pose new burdens on the states by requiring them to provide further finance for the training of teachers from resources already stretched to the limit. Diverting At the same time both Fed eral and State Governments attempt to make political cap ital from the "State aid" issue by diverting a propor tion of the educational vote to the private and denomina tional schools, so intensifying the crisis in the state schools. A profoundly important question arising here, but completely ignored by these governments, is that of pub lic (government) interven tion and supervision of the ways in which independent schools spend the public mon eys allocated to them. (This will be considered -in a fur ther article). The N.S.W. Teachers' Fed eration and the parents' organisations have called for the putting into operation of a three point program that will take the first step to wards a realistic approach to the pressing issue of educa tion. The points in the program are: 1. Substantial emergen cy grants to the states to assist in their education programmes. 2. A national inquiry into the needs of prima ry, secondary and tech nical education. 3. Immediate emergen cy grants to the states to assist in their teacher training programmes. On the basis of this prog ram the first steps could be taken to removing the whole question of education from the arena of party political intrigue and putting it' on the level of national policy. 