 Will Japan again take path to war? From Rupert Lockwood THE Seoul (South Korea) Ministers' con ference at which Australia is represent ed is seeking ways to widen the war alliance against national independence movements, further expand the Vietnam war and to in volve remilitarised Japan directly in Viet nam and other American war adventures. 4 There seems agreement on this interpretation in most American, European, Japan ese and other Asian com mentaries (though the langu age is often guarded) and in Soviet press criticisms. A side effect of Seoul and the SEATO and ANZUS meetings to follow soon after is likely to be the speedier conversion of Aus tralia into a major war and nuclear base against Asian in dependence movements. "Market" Just as NATO has its eco nomic affiliate in the European Common Market, the wider Pacific or Asian treaty organ isation sought by Washington may also have an economic off spring — the Pacific Common Market. Preliminary steps have al ready been taken to. form this Pacific Common Market under which Asian and Australasian raw materials and markets would be harnessed to the Jap anese-economy and an American supervised co-prosperity sphere established by the Japanese Zaibatsu. The Canberra meetings of the SEATO Council of Ministers from June 27 to 29 and the ANZUS Council on June 30 and July 1, will review the Seoul deliberations and also discuss a broader anti-liberation pact. UK out? French and Pakistani opposi tion- the Vietnam war and- British reluctance to send troops have thrown SEATO into some disarray. Therefore Washington aims to reorganise the alliance' or sup plement it with a more embrao ing pact of Asian and Pacific satellites and Japan and to ex clude France and Pakistan. Per haps Britain, already excluded from ANZUS, may go out too.. To relieve American, man power depleted by casualties, Washington is ' particularly anx ious to recruit Japanese combat troops for Vietnam if inter im national diplomatic difficulties can be overcome, more satellite battalions from Taiwan and possibly Malaysia and Indo nesia. A special Tass newsagency statement calls the Seoul con ference an attempt by neo- colonialists to knock together a new aggressive military and political alignment in Asia and Oceania "which would increase the threat to peace and the in terests of any country which cherishes independence and sovereignty." Manoeuvres Tass says that the Seoul cop- ference is stage-managed by the United States and warns against moves aimed at "clearing the way for Japan's enlistment in aggressive military and political blocs." The statement adds "By undertaking back-stage man oeuvres with the establishment of. a Seoul bloc, the United States ruling circles are'j, striv ing to strengthen their military ahd' political positions in Asia and the western Pacific, to put in single harness their partners in bilateral military and poli tical blocs. "The quicker this new im perialist plot is exposed the better for' the cause of peace and independence of the peo ples," the Tas$ statement con cludes. Danger course Pravda's Tokio correspondent V. Ovchinnikov says that Jap an's participation in the Seoul conference is "a direct expres sion of the dangerous course which Tokio rulers chose for their policy in Asia." He adds that Washington's desire to thrust the banner of anti-communism into the hands of its Japanese ally "is explain ed by the desire to involve Japan in the struggle against the national liberation move ment of Asian peoples, against the peaceful aspirations of the non-aligned states." 