 Yic. strike | wins public sympathy ELBOURNE: Last week's successful stoppage by 80000 Victorian govern ment instrumentality workers won wide public sympathy, despite daily press and National Civic Council efforts to whip up anti-strike hostility. An additional 300,000 workers were stood down in industry in the course of the 48-hour stoppage. The strike was forced on the unions because of the Victorian government's re peated refusal to negotiate on long-standing claims concerning annual leave. Mass ' meetings of strikers at Melbourne, Yallourn, Gee- long. Horsham, Mildura, Bal- larat and Bendigo unanimously condemned "the unreasonable action of the State Govern ment which has forced a grave disruption of the whole of Victorian industry, rather than grant the just demands of the THC Disputes Com mittee on -behalf of all State government workers"'. "Time anc. again the com mittee deferred action in trying to- achieve a reasonable settlement, only ' to- be pro- vqKe'tl by the Premier with the taunt that they were 'not game' to fight out the issue". It pointed cut that the unions, as bffore, . were pre- pared to work out a settle ment with the government, which was directly responsible ' for inconvenience to the pub lic. The stoppage covered wor kers in electic power and; gas production, rail, tram, Boai-d of Works, ports and harbors, and Country Roads Board employees. As the Government had been warned, it meant the shut-down of all industry dependent on electricity or gas, other than plants spec ially exempted by the disputes committee. Many employers are reported to have contacted the THC to express condemnation of the Government's refusal to negotiate. Exempted When the disputes commit tee made its final plans for i the stoppage on Monday, Feb ruary 7, it worked out exemp- nnc avi fihoco nviimmlfie' Vf.U Sufficient electricity and gas to be produced to meet f all public health, lighting, cocking and similar needs. Board of Works depart ments covering sewerage not to be affected. Safety provisions for shipp ing and l-oads not- to be affected. The dispute is around the / unions' demand for one extra week's annual leave and pay ment. of annual leave accord ing to roster for all shirt workers. t Following an initial approach i in M!ay, 1965, by the THC, to i«- the government on the' leave H issue, these demands were agreed on as the subject of a new approach to the Gov- | ernmerit. :&lt; In October, Premier Bolte agreed to consider a written submission of the claims, which were- then fully drawn jj up by a combined: unions' committee. 'S In November, Bolte was 1 seen and .agreed to meet- -the : unions to give an answer in ; two weeks. I //mv «« Not game Instead, three weeks later he mailed a refusal. The THC disputes committee on Dec ember 15 considered1 strong proposals for a -stoppage but. in deference to the public interest close to Christmas, agreement was reached -to defter action. . Bolte then publicly . said said that the unions were "not game" to act. On January 20, the com mittee unanimously called on the Government to meet the unions in 14 days and wa - again rebuffed. On February 7 the commit tee agreed there was no al ternative to industrial action, and the stoppage was called from midnight Feb. 8-9. At the time' Premier Bolte, in San Francisco negotiating with business interests over Victoria's new-found natural gas dteposSta! attacked THC secretary, Mr. Jordan, and the disputes committee as "strike I happy" On his arrival back on j Wednesday, Bolte added that he would not shift his stand even if there were "50 strikes". 