 ION THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE NSW POSTIES URGE STOPPAGE I . . . | — PMG goes t ' private JJYDNEY : The NSW branch of the Amalgamated Postal Work ers' Union has called; for a national 24-hour strike as a protest against PMG work being handed over to private contractors. This work includes the delivery of mail about which the union said it is not satisfied that the public s mail is being given proper protection, or that the provisions of the Post and Telegraph Act are being complied with". The reeent general meeting of the union has demanded an assurance from the public Ser vice Board that it will imme diately drop all ideas of let ting out conduit and cable work to private enterprise. The Federal executive of the union has been asked to have the whole matter of private contracting ventilated in Par liament. The union's sub-branches at Newcastle, Manly - Warringah, Wagga and Albury and a ser ies of mass meetings of line men in Sydney have . backed the call for a stoppage. Following a call for indus trial action by linemen at Wyong, it is understood that the ' PMG's Department has shelved .plans for a major pri vate contract in that area.. Mr. B. Carey, acting NSW secretary of the APWU, said: "We believe that private firms are only interested in quick profit and will not provide ef ficient, service. '"Breakdowns or faults in the telephone-telegraph sys tem could have serious conse- quences in the community and in many cases endanger the lives of citizens. "The union is completely opposed to the policies of the Holt Government in turning our Australian assets over to private enterprise, particularly where foreign owned", he said. As an example of the wide spread hand-outs to private enterprise, Mr. Carey drew at tention to a recent issue of the Government Gazette con taining 4?- pages of contracts: let for the delivery of mail and parcels, formerly the jobs of PMG transport drivers. "A few weeks ago a $22,303 contract was given to Brambles Industrial Services to. lay con duit in the Baulkham Hills area. A great number of con tracts have been let in the Albury-Wagga district, and tenders are to be called in the Charlestown - Valentine area, which could result in the disbandment of a section of the PMG workforce", he said. Mr. Carey said that prepara tions were under way for the handing out of a big job planned from Dee Why to Duffy's Forest, and at least two main works in the Suth erland area. Other examples of contract ing includes the cleaning of PMG buildings, transport of shipping mails from the wharf by Mayne Nickless and the de livery of PMG . employees' wages by the Metropolitan Se curity Service. 