 9000 GMH sackinas MELBOURNE: When with typical arrog ance General Motors Holden management locked-out 6,000 work ers in Melbourne and 3,000 in Adelaide last week, they used the false pretext of a strike , by Electricity Com mission workers in Vic toria. The fact that at the time there had been no reduction in power supplies makes a lie of the statement by a GMH spokesman that "the suspensions are a temporary measure only and are due entirely to the Victorian power restrictions." Seizing upon a solution to the existing over-production and fearful of public reaction to more outright sackings on top of the 700 earlier in the month, the Company bluntly told its workers at 4.0(1 p.m. on Thursday not to report next morning. By next morning, however, the directors realised that their excuse was so patent and had aroused such an immediate storm that they hurriedly re versed their decision and open ed the gates for a resumption. In an immediate television broadcast, the State Govern ment Attorney-General (Mr. Dunstan) declared "I am auth orised to state that we regard this as an irresponsible lock out" and that the action of GMH had dealt a "body-blow" at the State's economy. Vast profits The SA Trades and Labor Council had called an emergen cy meeting of union officials to discuss the ramifications of the mass sackings. Feeling was so high amongst union officials and workers that united action would undoubtedly have even tuated. Mr. Larry Heffernan, Boiler makers' Society secretary and President of the Metal Trades Federation said that GMH had - jumped at the chance to re trench the workers to cover up its own misplanning and over production. "The effects of the power strike would not be felt in SA for at least a week" he said. Mr. Heffernan claimed that GMH had accumulated such vast profits "that it would have enabled GMH to keep the men on until the power strike end ed". Mr. E. K. Abbot, acting sec retary of the Vehicle Builders' Union said that in a short time hundreds of workers had rung the Trades Hall in a hostile mood and were demanding strong protests and retaliatory action against GMH. AETJ organiser, Mr. J. Shan non, said that his union would noil iinr.n f.bfi AHTTT to tttkfi some definite action. 