 \ PEACE VICTORY i AT TASHKENT ! | From RUPERT LOCKWOOD in Tashkent j ! THE DECLARATION I signed here on Monday I last between India and | Pakistan was a trem- | endous victory for the | peace forces and a tribute j to the Indian and Pakis- j tani leaders for their wis- I dom and resistance to ! pressure for war. | It was a triumph also for I Soviet peace making and India j and Pakistan's renunciation of recourse to force. ! Their pledges to restore nor- I mal relations and to settle dis- | putes by peaceful means owed much to the patience, sympathy I and diplomatic skill of Soviet j Premier Kosygin— warmly ack- | nowledged by both parties in the I Tashkent declaration's reference to "the constructive, friendly and noble part" of Kosygin and the , Soviet Government. | The Tashkent declaration was S certainly not expected on Sunday I night by Western correspond- | ents and most Indian, Pakistan | and Communist correspondents I were not prepared to forecast j anything beyond partial success. | The timing of the strongly- 1 worded Chinese Note to India, j and British Prime Minister Har- | old Wilson's letter attacking In- S dia and reports of Chinese troop | movements seemed to cloud the | Tashkent talks. | This appeared to be strengtn- I ened by Pakistani insistence that j settlement of the Kashmir dis- | pute would be the condition of 1 a no-war pact and of agreement ,| on peripheral issues. 2 Premier Kosygin threw great I personal efforts into aiding In- j dia and Pakistan to reach agree- j ment. S Thus, on Monday afternoon at | four o'clock, the historic Tash- j kent declaration was born, I bringing relief and hope to 600 I million people of the distressed | Indian sub-continent and a re- i buff to those in Washington, i Whitehall and Peking who sought ) to sully the spirit of Tashkent. The spectacle of Ayub Khan | and Shastri entering the final i session together warmly clasp- I ing hands, then signing the de- | claration under floodlights and | a mass of cameras offered a 1 lesson to all nations that talks | in the peace and calm of a 2 Soviet city are the attainable ! alternative to fratricidal war. I Under the Tashkent, declara- tion troops will be withdrawn to positions neia oeiore August j 5, India-Pakistan diplomatic and I cultural relations and transport I links disrupted by war will be | restored, prisoners of war re- | patriated, conditions created to f .prevent an exodus of people (a I vital step toward ending Hindu- 1 Muslim intolerances) peace meet- | ings will be continued with; the j aid of joint bodies and hostile j propaganda will be discouraged. | "What we must provide for our | people and what they demand ! are instruments of life and not j instruments of death", said Paki- | stan President Aypb Khan during S the historic talks. | In those words were summed j up the deep conflict between j Washington-led war camp and f the world peace forces. Both | Shastri and Ayub Khan in their public speeches recognised that I India-Pakistan peace was essen- | tial to relieve their country's j grave economic problems. I Soviet Premier Kosygin more j than hinted that given the ne- I cessary conditions of peace the | Soviet Union could aid both | countries economically. | Ayub Khan said: "The pros- I perity of 600 million people of f India and Pakistan depends on | peace. Both of us have suf- I fered under long and dark per- ' I iods of foreign domination. i B "We must live in peace to be I able to devote all our energy I and resources to liquidation of j the grim heritage of colonialism s and . to open avenues of happi- | ness and progress for our peo- | pie. j "For us peace is vital— it is ! indispensable. j "Neither of us can afford to | divert our resources to prepara- j tions for war. I "This is one lesson we should | have learnt from our previous j experience." j Shastri stressed also that peace I Was necessary if prosperity were | to come to the sub-continent's j 600 millions where India-Paki- | stan trade has been shrinking, j where rivers which flowed in | both countries could enrich both S rather than being the source of ! controversy. | "Instead of fighting each other | let us start fighting poverty, | disease and ignorance," said ! Shastri. j "People of both countries need j not arms and ammunition, but j food, clothing and shelter," he I said. j But from Washington arms j and ammunition are more freely on offer than food and clothing— | instruments of death have prior- j ity over instruments of life. ' On the eve of the Tashkent ! talks Ayub Khan met Averall I Harriman, key dispenser of j Washington handouts in Pesha war. Knowing Washington's desper ate efforts to bring the Soviet Union's good offices for peace to nought, some foreign observers in Tashkent closely associated with American-Pakistan develop ments consider that Harriman offered replacements for 'masses of Patton tanks so easily de stroyed by Indian fire and other arms, . but only inconsequential economic aid under usual condi- ditions of free play for dollar investments and rigid adher ence to American foreign pol icy. In contrast the Soviet Union, through Premier Kosygin, stres sed at Tashkent that the natural wealth of India and Pakistan and their creative capacities gave opportunities for swift economic progress, given peaceful rela tions. The Palace of Textile Workers in Tashkent was one of the meeting places for discussions between President Ayub Khan of Pakistan and Mr. Shastri, Prime Minister nf India.. 