 Luna Nines real message for Earth MOON LANDING: WE'LL ALL GAIN Big effects on science From Rupert Lockwood in Moscow JHE all round success of the historic Luna 9 soft landing on the moon will have stupendous effects on Man's activity on the earth itself. That much is clear' from the many expert comments and statements being published here. The effect on production, on transport ' and automa tion of the new devices developed by the Soviet Union for the highly complex Luna Nine cannot yet be fully I assessed. ! However, the TASS newsagency in its survey of the i moon soft landing said: "One thing is definite: this ! will be a new stage in the development of many branches of science and engineering." It isn't just a question of the Soviet Union being ahead in space. Socialism has accumulated technical knowledge and skill that will allow it to outstrip capital ist proclucdvity more speedily. The next stage in space, after Luna Nine has un veiled, moon mysteries, will be further Soviet studies of the near-sun area and solar system planets, then man's flight from earth to other planets. TASS' science commentator, who reported this, expects great space events in less than a decade, because "the first, and by far not the easiest, steps are being taken 5 now". . He points out that a soft landing on the moon where there is no atmosphere for braking and parachutes, is more difficult than a landing on Mars, which has atmos phere. Huge cosmodrome? | The moon may become what cosmonaut Herman Titov called "a gigantic cosmodrome" from which space vehicles would take off into the depths of the Universe for other planets with great fuel saving. Titov stressed that one stage of moon conquest would 1 be a flight round the moon and back to select a landing | site. I Titov foresaw microtowris on the moon with an arti- s ficial terrestial climate, hot-houses, reservoirs, labora- | tories and industrial plants. | Luna Nine, resting on the Sea of Storms, near two | red pennants bearing the Soviet insignia, has been cnat- | tering away in code, speaking when spoken to by its I designers on earth and transmitting television pictures I of depressions, hills, craters and pebbles in fairly minute j detail, as shown on Moscow television, j From the cameras to the horizon is about one , mile jj and the sky is black. - Luna Nine is helping to tell earth what the moon | ls made of, about its climate and density, about gravi- t tation, radiation and seismic influences. I "Sudden reassurance" $ | Among the flood of congratulations from all over | the world, perhaps India's woman Premier (Mrs. Indira | Gandhi) put mankind's thoughts as well as any. | Mrs. Gandhi cabled "Since time immemorial, to the | human mind the moon has been a symbol of the unat- I tamable — something man can see, but never reach, I something he can sing about, - write about, but which I Would always elude him. , 1 The soft landing on the moon comes like a sudden I reassurance of man's continuous quest to transform the I unattainable into the attainable.1 I I . greet the Soviet scientists who have . made this I ®Xcitmg advance possible, who have extended mam's hori- I on y yet another stride." 