 If US military theory is right ... ESCALATION MEANS NUCLEAR DETONATION By the Foreign Editor ALL. the way with LBJ — the slogan now adopted by Mr. Holt — to express Australia's foreign policy — means all the way to world nuclear war. There can't be any doubt- about this to anyone who has even briefly studied the theory of war now being followed by LBJ. It is generally agreed by all commentators and scarcely denied by Johnson himself that he is guided by the theory of "escalation" of which US military writer Herman Kahn is the most noted proponent, if not the originator. Nuclear war is definitely envisaged, but as something which should be approached step by step up a ladder ("es calation") not entered into by the sickening rush John Pos ter Dulles seemed so cheer fully to envisage. Every step up the ladder was to be taken very "re luctantly" and only because the last step had failed to deter the foe. At the same time the people were to be as sured that this particular step would be the winning one, no further step being contem plated. This is the process everyone recognises to have taken place as US policy on Vietnam has unfolded. Thus, even in Dulles' day, the US rejected the Geneva agreements on Vietnam which meant the withdrawal of all foreign forces. Alarm But general alarm was quiet ened by a declaration that the US would not use force to upset the agreement. A year later the US sent military advisers into South Vietnam to build up a mas sive army for US-backed dic tator Diem— but, we were told, it was not intended to raise their number above the Gen eva-set limit of 685. In 1961 the next rung of the ladder had to be scaled because the people's revolt against Diem was spreading. The US put in 21,000 "advis ers'—a clear breach of Gen- eva — but the world was told they were still only advisers. They would not fight— this was the job of the Vietnamese troops because it was a Viet namese war. > The US wanted peace and would do nothing to spread the war. This was the theme of the Johnson election campaign in 1964. The Goldwater pro gram of having the US take over the war- in South Viet nam and bomb North Viet nam's communications was sternly repudiated at danger ous. All the way with LBJ means all the way to an hon orable peace in Vietnam and to concentration on building the Great Society in the USA. Leap Barely three months later, after getting a landslide ma jority on this program, John son, took a major leap up the escalation ladder by starting to bomb, the north and pour masses of troops into the south to fight, not just "advise". But this, he told the pro testing world, was as far as he would go. It was not a war, it was just a "measured, con trolled response" to a "Viet- cong" guerilla raid on Pleiku. Raids would not hit popu lated centres but' would1 con centrate on bridges, roads and other means of communica tions by which the north was allegedly reinforcing the Viet- cong. Nothing more than this would be needed, the world was given to understand, since the revolt in South Vietnam was not a genuine one of the local people. It had been fo mented and sustained by "ag gression from the north". Be ing denied aid from the north, it would wither on the vine. What happened of course was the opposite. The south erners fought harder than ever, inflicting defeats and near-disasters bn the US and their allies. The Ky Govern ment faced a. Buddhist revolt. The demand for the bomb ing of Hanoi and Haiphong, previously rejected in words by the Administration, was agreed to and the old routine . was followed. The next rung was climbed with the bombardments of the cities on June 29. Once again we were told this was the master-stroke which would finish or drastically shorten the war. Lifted Mr. Johnson said that Hanoi no longer expected a military victory. ActiSig State Secretary George Ball said North Viet nam took "a pessimistic view" of the fighting. Vice-President Humphrey spoke of "flicker ing bits of evidence" that Hanoi wants a way out. A White House statement, backed by Marshal Ky in Viet nam, even spoke of the wa.r ending this year. All this lifted Johnson's popularity rating from a low of 42 per cent to a "high" of 54 — but it seems it will be, temporary since the pollsters say the jump was on the clear understanding that the bomb ings would somehow help stop the war. This has now been speci fically denied. Last Monday Defence Secretary McNamara admitted that all the previous predictions were wrong and said "We do not look for a short war. I do not believe there will be any early ter mination of the conflict." Already the next rung to be climbed is being indicated by such gentlemen as General "Howling Mad" Smith, who wants the US to use atom bombs ("apples" is his happy word for them). Or the South Vietnamese generals who are calling for a land invasion of the north. Most sinister of all, perhaps, is Johnson's attempt to soothe everybody's nerves by suggest ing that he would never at tack China.. The hawks might want it, the Goldwaterites might cla mor for it, but never safe, calm, sober old Johnson. Plausible? Of course— until you remember that every step up the escalation ladder so far has been preceded by even firmer assurances that it will never be taken. Prospect What is there higher up? So far we have come only part of the way with LBJ— what does the prospect of his con tinued company hold for us? Mr. Kahn is happy to tell. In his book "On Escalation, Metaphors and Scenarios" he lists "44 rungs of escalation". . At rung 36, when we have got three-quarters of the way,:. 'withLBJ, this- is what hap-| pens:' "Rung 36: constrained, dis arming attack. . . The attacker tries to destroy a significant portion of the defender's first strike force and even some of his second strike weapons such as missiles in silos. . . The defender's damaged forces might be able only to do a limited amount of damage even with a counter-strike on cities. The defender is also under pressure to negotiate. So that's it. A nuclear "pre ventive" attack on the "de fender" (by now the USSR) in the hope that this will force it to do what none of the pre ceding 35 escalations has done — "negotiate", or sue for peace. Right at the top of the lad der, if the irradiated survivors of Mr. Kahn's program can struggle up that far, we have the crowning glory, what is called the "nuclear spasm", or all-out nuclear war. "They wouldn't be so mad." In 1945 "they" were mad enough to drop an atom bomb on Japan— at a time when the USA was much less desper ately placed than now. TWT OSCOW : Several members of the Australian youth delegation who attended the World Youth Assembly in Sofia later left for Yugoslavia after visiting Odessa, Volograd, Bratsk and Irkutsk. EYL sec retary Mavis Robertson returned to Moscow from Yugoslavia on July 16. 