 Must today's 10-year-olds die in jungle? 10 YEARS' WAR, SAY HOLT AND KY MP exposes real plan QEHIND the manoeuvring of the Holt Gov ernment on the hot issue of conscription f or the unpopular Vietnam war lies a plan to continue that war for 10 or even 20 — years. Holt himself gave the 10-year estimate recently and was quoted on it on April 19 in Federal Parliament by Mr. H. Mclvor (Lab., Vic.) . Last Monday's Melbourne Herald correspondent E. W. Tipping, reporting direct from Saigon, quoted the pup pet Premier, Air-Marshal Ky, as saying it could go on tor 20 years. \ ' Ky said it at a special party at the-Australian Embassy on the occasion of Prime Minister Holt's visit. Holt has spared no effort to display his support for, and agree ment with, Ky's leadership. Holt's External Affairs Minister P. Hasluck said pub licly in Washington a week earlier: "I think, the Ky Gov ernment has done good service to the country/' The same Ky, who recently called for the bombing of China, is being completely rejected by both the Bud dhists and the Catholics of South Vietnam. In a ringing Parliamentary speech last week Mr. Mclvor MHR said: "Ten year old boys of today can expect to . celebrate their 21st birthday in the jungles and swamps of Vietnam." He quoted a statement by Prime Minister Holt that 'this war could go on for another ten years." Mr. Mclvor said that those who supported the war in Vietnam "don't mention that the size and the strength of America's military power has not been able to win the hearts and minds of the peasants of South Vietnam." "No mention is made of the fact that more than oner third of the world's population suffers chronic hunger and many of these unfortunate people are in South Vietnam. "Lord Berlrand Russell said that by the middle of 1963, 160,000 had been killed in this war, and that 60 per cent were peasants who were not involved in military actions. DYING FOR CORRUPTION? "He also said that 700,000 had been tortured and maimed, 31,000 had . been raped, 3,000 had been disem bowelled and gutted while still living, 4,000 had been burned alive, 1,000 temples had been destroyed and 46 villages had been attacked by chemical warfare. "I wonder," said Mr. Mclvor, "what the figures are in April, 1966. The Hong Kong Standard of June 30, 1965, said Mr. Mclvor, had revealed how corrupt were the rulers of South Vietnam, noting that more than 20 generals have been knocked out of military life in the political struggle m South Vietnam, but not one has been killed in five years of war against, the Viet Cong/ "This is the sort of patriotism that Australian troops and 20 year old conscripts are expected to fight and die for," said Mr. Mclvor. "Is it. any wonder that the people of . South Vietnam have risen in revolt against these leaders,- these political generals?" "The gamble is becoming even more costly and more dangerous to world peace due to they use of air bases in Thailand by United States aircraft engaged in bombing raids on North Vietnam." Mr. Mclvor said that there are about 50,000 US troops in Thailand and that the US paper "The Reporter" had featured a report that Australian troops were also there. "As each day goes by," Mr. Mclvor said, "it becomes more obvious that the question for Australia is not hoiw to make or continue this conflict, but how to pacify, how to reconstruct, and how to win friendship— not des troy it." Editorial, page 2. | 