 No star but the show went on DELAIDE: Young people in jail, hunger strikes, a street demonstration and public meetings were features of Adelaide's protest over Johnson's visit. These actions took place without the benefit of the star attraction. Coinciding with Johnson's arrival on Thursday a group of young people commenced a hunger strike on the steps of the State P arliament House with the. intention of not eat ing untii his departure. After the Labor Speaker of the House of Assembly had re fused to take action to have them removed, a charge was lr-id by the President of the Liberal-dominated Legislative Council (Mr. Densley) and the police arrested eight partici pants. They w6re charged with "loitering under the Lotteries and Gaming Act". During the inital hearing . where the charges were laid nearly 100 young people packed the small court-room. Three of the defendants re fused bail and continued their hunger strike in Adelaide gaol. Marchers On Saturday morning . over 300 marched from the steps of Parliament House, including those who under the conditions of their bail were supposed to stay away. The deriionstrators marched through busy streets to Victoria Square carrying banners, condemning Johnson's Visit, demanding an end to the war and calling for the right to protest. At the meeting held at the end of the march, Senator Cav- anagh gave a spirited explana- tionof why he had refused to attend the Canberra dinner in Johnson's honor. Senator Cavanagh said that while eating he would have kept thinking of the suffering of the people in Vietnam. "This would have made me vomit", he said. He pointed out that the Pre sident's visit was a carefully / stage-managed stunt that was faked to show the alleged "spontaneous warmth" of John son. A resolution was carried unanimously at the meeting de manding the unconditional ' re lease of those in gaol and the dropping of charges. A further proposal of indi vidual protests at the sicken ing and biased TV coverage of the visit was made and reports from the TV stations indicated that this was very effective. 