 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman JHE new dollar notes, with their respective de signs, have been aired to the public. Most comments have been favourable although some think them unpleasant to their "aesthetic sensibilities". As a mate of ours said: I wonder how many blokes after diving into the kick for a quid would discard it if it grated on his "aesthetic soul". What worries most work ers is that they will get too few Henry's, will seldom see a Smithy and will be stuck with Liz and Mac! ? QTATE Minister for Labor (Mr. E. Willis) told the NSW Labor Coun cil he would not meet a deputation on prices. Food prices were comparatively stable, he said, particularly groceries which are sold under "intense compe tition." Then added with a bit of double talk that many decreases as well as increases have taken place. There is "intense competition" for an MLA's job, but big salary increases are on the way. I Now to add further insult, all Aussie "pie eaters" are being slugged another Id for their square meal: ? rPHE Chairman of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd. had this to say at the general meeting of the company just prior to Christmas: "Your company's Export Depart ment, however, is embarrassed at times by the fact that the Australian Government, now so vigorously seek ing to persuade manufacturers to ex port, nevertheless buys abroad mili tary communication equipment simi- lar in many respects to exportable commercial equipment and capable of local manufacture. "Our representatives report that overseas purchasers and prospective buyers of our equipment find it diffi cult to understand such action. "I may say that your directors share their perplexity." ? "XME enter space to serve the cause of peace, to make . life better for every creature on earth." Lyndon Johnson, October 1, 1963. "TT'S no longer a question of whe- ther we will have space tanks, space pill-boxes, space artillery and space sentries, but when we will have them." —Quote from a US Congressman, published in the US News and World Report, June 14, 1985. 