 F or and against : The case of the two Soviet writers ALF WATT'S letter (Tribune, March 9) on the trial and imprison ment of Sinyavsky and Daniel opens with an analogy wnicn miows up one of the central issues lying behind the particu lar case. It implies a parallel between journalism and art. It is, of course, possible to take a simple deterministic view of the whole thing and write of "poison pens for the capitalist market", but is the matter so simple? Sinyavsky, at least, has written a satirical account of Soviet life. The distinction between satire and parody is a fine one, and his book "The Make peace Experiment" could easi ly be described as a parody. Such a book cannot be "an objective discussion of Soviet life". If this is all literature is then then there would be no place for satire and parody xin art. Yet in art, if not in journa lism, life can be examined in a way which shows up the pomposities and the ridi culous, the absurd and the venal, to the advantage of the body politic. Alf Watt is of the opinion that the Soviet people would support tne repression ui sucn writing. I'm unconvinced. It is quite conceivable that a significant proportion, even a majority, would be forced to reconsider some of their at titudes in the light of a book I like "The Makepeace Experi ment." The only way to find out is to see that the people making the decisions about publica tion are free from the fear of reprisals if their decisions re bound on somebody who fears ridicule. In a word that there is more freedom. Roger Coates (Sydney). ? T WAS amazed and disgust- ed with the Tribune article (Feb. 23) relating to two- Soviet writers who were put on trial and sent enced for their traitorous acts against the U.S.S.R. L. Aarons article states: "Our approach dealt with the principle involved and with out full knowledge of the facts." That is an absurd attitude for a leader of the working class movement to adopt. To rush into print and speculate when he admits he was not in possession of all the facts is unbelievable and disastrous. i wuura. suggest tnat tne next meeting of the Central Committee, CPA should with out delay write to the U.S.S.R. and apologise. ine well are of tne two trai torous writers is insignificant compared with the welfare of hundreds of millions of Soviet citizens and their comrades throughout the world. Arnold Collins letter on the subject (Tribune, March 2), shows that he is down to earth, whereas L. Aarons is up in the clouds. The premature and illogical public statements made by L. Aarons and, unfortunately, ap parently endorsed by the Cen tral Committee, is too serious, to be ignored. J. W. Davison, Lidcombe (N.S.W.). TTIE statement of Laurie Aarons on behalf of the CPA central committee was like a breath of fresh air. Critical statements such as that of our own CC and. of the British, French, Italian ' and Austrian communist parties can in no way be construed as anti-soviet; on the contrary they; indicate the growing maturity of these parties. If they accept the Soviet Union as the leadership of the international communist move- : j ment then it is both their right and their duty to sue- ( ject that leadership to con- i structive criticism when thai e leadership falls short of oven bourgeois democratic stana- r ards. Such criticism is a sin- cere attempt of the parties to assist the Soviet Union noi f only to reach bourgeois demo- r cratic standards but to far jgj surpass them. , IP The worst aspect of the trial |j| was the return to the methods Kj| of the Stalin "trials". They M were damned and blasted hy ; j» the Soviet press and radio he- ? fore they ever appeared hi , court. 1 ,1 D. Price, J (North Sydney). > V This concludes the discussion on this sub ject in Tribune. Any further letters received &lt; will be passed to the : Central Committee, tg Communist Party || Australia. || P trJ' 