 f. FREEDOM FIGHTER ON TRIAL I 0NE South Africa's most fearless fight ers against apartheid, Mr. Abram Fischer QC, will go on trial in Pretoria i this week on charges that may carry a I death penalty. 4 Failing strong pressure at '-home- and. abroad, he may 'v '&lt; suffer the same fate as Vu.. f;yisile Mini, Wilson Khayinga 1 and Zinakile Mhava, whom , Verwoerd hanged for opposing his policy of enslaving the black Africans to the whites. Abram Fischer's family came to South Africa. in the ' 18th century. His father was I judge president of the Orange Free State. Distinguished career He had a distinguished car eer at the Bar and became a QC. At an. early stage he took fAj up the cause of freedom and ' 1 democracy for the African majority. He successfully defended , those framed under treason charges in the mass trials of a few years ago, and his skill % helped save the lives of Nel- | son Mandela, and other pat- jf riots framed in the Rivonia jf'' trial of 1964. m Eight were sentenced to M life imprisonment. # Soon afterward he was him- I? self arrested. While on bail f i he went to London to con- duct and win his last case before the Privy Council. Back in South Africa, Fis cher forfeited his bail to join the underground fight for freedom. He left a note saying: "I believe it is the duty of every true opponent of the govern ment to remain in this coun try and oppose its monstrous policy of apartheid. . . That is what I shall do for as long as I can." Last November the Ver woerd police seized Fischer. It is likely that his trial will be used to frame not only the South African Com munist Party but all oppon ents of Verwoerd and even the anti-apartheid victims' defence fund which was banned last week with the . seizure of its offices and bank accounts. Police agents and skilled fakers may be depended on to tell a sensational story with appropriate "docu ments", but those experienced in the way of the police state won't be over-impressed. FOOTNOTE: Protests should be sent to the Prime Minister, Pretoria, South Africa. 