 . . ' I lii IJJLJU I iili liiiiii! JE0LMJJL1, iJ Whitlam switch on State Aid kAR. E. G. WHITLAM, Labor Party Deputy Leader, has now been pub licly accused of switching ground for opportunist reasons, in his current attitude towards State aid to non-State schools. A prominent member of the Defence of the State Schools Committee, Mr. E. V. Edwards, in a letter to the editor of the Sydney Daily Mirror (February 21) wrote: "It was reported at a meeting that shortly after the Menzies Government had intro duced State Aid for science build ings, Mr. Whitlam had com municated with several leading protestant ministers in NSW who were strong opponents of state aid and urged them to seek a challenge to the legislation in the High Court on the ground of it being unconstitutional. Now Whitlam has attacked the ALp Federal Executive for tak ing the same line. This would bear out Tribune's statement last week that Whit lam and others were using the state aid issue as a pretext to split the ALP and shift its poli cies to. the right. Antett axes plane plant AN Australian light air craft manufacturer, Victa Ltd. has closed its plant and sacked more than 1 00 workers because of com petition from an Ansett subsidiary selling US made light aircraft in Australia. The crushing of the Australian company swiftly followed Ansett's winning of distribution rights for US-made Piper aircraft. The Federal Government has refused to protect the Australian industry against US competition. The failure of the Victa com pany in light aircraft manufac turing leaves Australia depend ent on two US companies— Piper .and Cessna— for its growing fleet, of light aircraft "workhorses". Question on H. G. Palmer -pHERE is intense specu lation in business circles following a question asked last week by New South Wales Labor MLA Mr. H. C. Mallam, about dealings in shares of MLC Ltd. after their takeover of H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd. shares in 1963. Mr. Mallam directed the ques tion on the parliamentary notice paper to Attorney General Mr. K. M. McCa.w. The Australian Financial Re view llast Thursday wrote: "It has been forecast in parliament ary circles that the question could contain sensational impli cations." The question is:— Transfer of H. G. Palmer Shares: Mr. Mallam to ask the Attorney General— 1 . Will he ask the Registrar of Com panies in his examination of the affairs of H. G. Palmer (Consoli dated) Limited to invoke section ' 1 77 of the Companies Act en abling him to make a report on — (i) did the M.L.C. Limited in June, 1963, make its successful take over of H. G. Palmer (Consoli dated) Limited on the basis that it would purchase all is sued ordinary shares in the company by issuing four £1 shares in the M.L.C. Limited for every 25 5/- Palmer ordinar ies, with fractions being paid for at the rate of 21 A a share; and if so, (ii) did this mean that members of the Palmer family obtained ap proximately 640,000 shares in the M.L.C. Limited out of the total of 3,615,107 shown as fully paid up issued in that company, Herbert G. Palmer and Norma Palmer ' being the prin cipal vendors? 2. Were such , M.L.C. shares at the time quoted at around £6/5/- on the Stock Exchange? 3. Is he aware that the share re gister of the M.L.C. Limited on 9th December, 1 965, showed that transfers of shares had since taken . place from H. G. Palmer to other persons now registered as share- holders and carried' the annotation "ex H.G.P." in respect to such share transactions? 4. If the answer to (3) is in the affirmative, will1 he ascertain whe- . ther such transfers included trans fers to certain directors of the M.L.C. Limited and to members of the family of a highly-placed executive then employed by the M.L.C. Assurance Co. Limited? 5. Will he have the. Registrar sub mit a report as to the consideration received by H. G. Palmer for the transfer of such M.L.C. shares sub sequent to the takeover? 6. Will he inform the House whe ther it is proposed to Table the report of the Registrar, of Com panies in the House A man with a secret : I A SYDNEY journalist, in- Jj trigued by badges being worn by strange men stand ing around at tbe Humphrey- Holt press conference in ;1 Canberra last Saturday, || buttonholed one of them for an explanation. "I'm American secret service", was the reply. "Your guys have fd a different badge." A Since there were so many cops about, maybe they Were afraid some might be mistaken for pro test demonstrators. Nazi-Liberal partnership? £OLLUSION between Lib erals and nazis to break up a discussion meeting on Vietnam is strongly suggested . by the North Shore Times,, published in Chatswood, Sydney. The meeting at Gordon was addressed by Mr, A. F. James, publisher of The Anglican, on his recent visit to Vietnam. j % The North shore Times says \ that "for two hours about 100 | young men (about one-third of J the audience) terrorised— and at $ times virtually controlled — the meeting. $ . The Times adds that nazi party I leader Arthur Smith leapt onto the platform and tried to address vlj the meeting. .If The Times then says: "Serious repercussions are expected to A come from a reliable report that i a North Shore Liberal Branch— or its younger set — was involved in the furore. v; "The report says that the branch held a meeting on the night preceding the lecture by Mr. James and tactics were worked out to disrupt the meet ing." It is believed in Mosman that the Mosman Liberal Party branch was the one referred to in the j report. | ' Despite all this, a good attend- ance is expected at a meeting on Vietnam convened by the Mosman ALp branch next Tues- day night, March 1, in the Mos- ' man Town Hall, Spit Junction, / " when the speakers will be Dr. J. F. Cairns, MHR, and Senator ' \ Lionel Murphy, QC. J : s 