 A FEW FACTS ON THE HIGH COST OF DYING tLetters to the Editor KAUCH is written and 1 spoken about tjie high cost of living, but very little about the high cost or dying. Usually death of a member of a family causes great distress to relatives and very often finds them unprepared to face the loss and the cost of burial. t->me people have the fore sight to pay into a funeral fund which relieves relatives of the necessity, to find the money. Others have made no such preparation. Death is a lucrative bus iness for undertakers — whether the deceased is to be buried or cremated. For the plainest coffin for cremation, with no use of a chapel before proceeding to the cremation the cost is around $140. Business is bus iness and it is the job of the company's representative to endeavour to persuade rel- ... atives to have the most elab orate coffin. Another angle for increased revenue is use of the com pany's cars. Even if told the family has a car or cars, efforts are made to convince relatives to use the company's cars which . would involve extra cost. "They are more dignified and would be sure to be on time." Following cremation to place the ashes in a niche which remains the property of the company will cost an extra sum — somewhat above $20. - For the relatives to obtain the ashes costs- about $3 and to have them scattered $1. Altogether in these days for the plainest and most simple of funerals, relatives would be fortunate to need to find less than $160. Payment to the funeral parlour is something which must be met. But relatives of a deceased person need not be subjected to pestering from printers of cards who watch the daily papers for funeral notices and send numbers of sample cards with price details overprinted, for thanking those who have expressed sympathy at the death. In one case of which I have knowledge three differ- ent lots of - samples were re ceived, unrequested, by the widow. Nor is this all. Some people do not believe in "life after death" — some people do. Both are entitled to their own belief. But there is additional distress for any relative of a deceased person to receive from a complete stranger a letter of sympathy enclosing a printed brochure "Life for the Dead" printed in the USA, for Watchtower! Perhaps the time will come when the high cost of dying will be considered as a matter of importance for some form of government action! incugnani, Sydney. 