 NG writer flays Aust. attitude By Jim Cooper Under the pen- name Pondo Moagan, a New Guinean has sharply criticised Australians in New Guinea and their attitudes to the New Guinea people. Writing in the New Guinea- Australia Quarterly (March- Aprn issue) he states that the master-servant relationships are sharply in evidence and that in the main the only in terests most of the Austra lians have in the Territory is the amount of money they hope to accumulate and how long it is going to take them. The people in the Territory are dissatisfied with what the Australians are doing in the Territory — especially in the field of race and social rela tions." Mr. Moagan draws attention to the slum conditions in which the . New Guineans exist and even top New Guinean public servants who live in tin shacks and square boxes. He gives an example: "In Hohola, in Port Moresby, a Papuan who has served the Administration for the past ten years lives in a. little cubical box in the segregat ed native quarters. "He lives with six children, no (proper (bedding, a (small iounge room 8ft. x ?ft., there is no privacy at all. "The laundry and toilet (soil closet) being in the same block could easily cause sick ness." The lounge room serves as the place where the family sit around and ea.tin the daytime and make their bed at night. Mr. Moagan states: "There is- hot one European who is prepared to go to visit a place like the 'Hohola Dogs' Settlement and see for him self how the Papuan and New Guinean public servants suf fer. "I am sure they would be better off in their, villages than in Port Moresby." Sharply critical He is sharply critical of an Administration which on one hand is encouraging New Guineans to participate in the affairs of their country and on the other hand is not pre pared to understand the jprob- lems of the people, their liv ing and housing conditions. Mr. Moagan is mystified by the announcement of the Administration that it in tends to indigenise the public service but at the same time is actively recruiting Austra lians to do clerical work which could be done by New Guin eans with some training "such positions should be filled with natives who are capable of doing the same job". Mr. Moagan 's article ends with this warning: — "If this Territory is to be closely tied with Australia and its people I would like to make it clear that you Australians must be prepared to change your attitudes towards these natives. They are human be„ ings and should be treated as such." Now that the ice has been broken it is to be expected that many New Guineans will be taking up the problems of their people. 