 Low wages in New Guinea retard economy By Jim Cooper PURCHASING pow er in the hands of the New Guinea people is a basic re- quirement for the development of a real internal New Guinea economy which must be the framework for that country's inde pendent existence and growth. The present meagre basic wage rate is $6. If this was raised to $10 the 80,000 New Guinea workers would distribute another $16 million in the economy. If the rate was raised to the figure envisaged by Rev. P. Chatterton MHA in his evidence before the Public Service Arbitrator — $24 per week — the local economy could be stim ulated by an added! $72 million which would in itself create a home mar ket for goods which could then be produced in the Territory itself. Mr. C. D. Rowley in "The New Guinea Villager" refers to the low output of the New Guinean worker, which he says arises from the workers generally being sick be- cause they cannot afford adequate diets. Failure on the part of managements to adequat ely train New Guineans for their tasks also causes great waste of manpower. In the early history of Australia, there were people who claimed to be shocked' at the workers' demands, that they would wreck the- economy, but the workers were not de terred. They won a wages lead over the rest of the world, together with the first eight hour day, and the actual result was that payment of high wages stimulated the economy. The wealthy companies which operate in New Guinea are- the blood' brothers of the monopolies which exploit South Amer ica as a low-wage, and therefore poverty-strcken, continent. The high profit margins and large issues of bonus shares show that the com panies operating in New Guinea could absorb in- , creased ' wages even with the present inefficient managerial habits. Managerial efficiency and the correct training of the New Guinea workers are economic essentials for the future development of New Guinea. Thie wage workers are a most important section of the people who will have the task of giving leadership to the nearly . two million farmers, most of whom are at a sub sistence . level, i The winning of freedom and independence requires the awakening of the farmers into a force which will join in the struggle for improved living con ditions, universal educat ion and good health stan dards. So far the Administrat ion seems to be mainly interested1 in introducing individual tenure and in alienation of the people's lands by the fiction of "unused lands". But the immediate ques tion is education and the drawing of the people into | modern commercial farm- B ing, with a wide expansion I of the co-operative move- 1 ment, a matter which gets support from the New Guinean members of the House of Assembly. The Agricultural Exten sion Services should be expanded to the point where . they can demon strate the value of the new crops to the people. 