 EXCUSE ME, HAROLD, YOUR SECURITY IS SHO WING By a Political Correspondent » Robert Resha, the ANC and the Defence and Aid Fund have all been the object of a heavy "Communist" smear campaign from local right-wing extremists, bearing all the hall-marks of being inspired by Aus tralian Security, perhaps in collusion with the South African secret police. And for some other examples a=aP of the activities of our local cloak-and-dagger boys . . . finoua \A/E know from the Michaelis case that the Holt Government uses the "security" police for spying on people active for peace. In Parliament recently a Labor senator drew attention to some people it does not spy on, but on the contrary seems to protect. Senator Mulvihill, Labor, NSW, told Parliament he had not yet had an answer to his question to the Govern ment about Hyhory Berkuta, who had been found dead by the roadside near Kurrajong Heights, NSW, in peculiar circumstances. Silent Equally silent has the Government been as to the background of Tomas Lesic, the Croatian migrant who put on a demonstration in Canberra recently. Prime Minister Holt was equipped by the secret pol ice with abundant information about schoolboy Robert Michaelis' mother. He and Army minister Fraser took great pleasure, apparently, in volleying it forth to the House and the world. They also "know everything" about the Association for International Co-operation and Disarma ment. But Senator Mulvihill has been waiting vainly since August 16 to find out how Hyhory Berkuta, named by his wife among others as a member of the nazi Black Shirt SS guard during the war, got into Australia through a "security" screen. "There were all sorts of stories as to whether he had done a deal with our own authorities and whether he actually held Australian citizenship" said Senator Mulvihill. He next asked about "this famous or infamous gentle man, Mr. Lesic". Lesic, a Croat migrant, claimed in 1964 that a "Com munist" had handed him a wrapped-up bomb which blew off his legs The daily press has given full publicity to his version of what hap pened. But Senator Mulvihill gave/ a different V\33 :sion, when he said: "I repeat my allegation which has never been denied here — I know it will not be denied— that Lesic had his own home-made bomb which blew off some of his limbs. "The punisnment he in flicted on hi|nseU' is terrible. "It is a warning tc the Government and to General Spry jthat they should not continue to say that these people are harmless. I hate to think what would have happened if this incident I had occurred, on a crowded bus or train. "The point I make is: If it is good enough to discuss a person's background and reveal the fact that his parents are far Left, I and the Senate are entitled to know the score about Lesic." Stripper Senator Mulvihill also said the Senate was entitled to know whether the secret police had actually called in stripper Sandra Nelson as a sort of Modesty Blaise to help find the missing Lira. Yew Hock, Malaysian High Commissioner. This had been alleged in a daily paper. - Other secret police were not as secretive as ours, said Senator Mulvihill. He pointed out that the top New Zea land secret policeman, Brig adier Gilbert, had gone on TV to explain why he had a spy in Auckland University to report on the students. Even in America, senators could question Central Intel ligence Agency officials. But in Australia we were left to wonder whether the Govern ment paid for Miss Sandra Nelson to come to Can berra and whether it has covered up "as I think i,t has" on some of these Bal kan extremists. Actually the biased ap proach of the Government was: "We will forgive this fellow and cover up for him. But this other fellow is a big radical. Let us lay it on the line and tell everybody what a bad boy he is". Terrorist If the Prime Minister was entitled to hold a press conference (on the Michaelis - case, "I am entitled to specific answers, which I did not receive 12 months ago #and have not received since" about the people he had mentioned, Senator Mul vihill said. He noted that others be sides the political left are worried about the secret police and its blind eye to the Right. Even the Rightwing Sydney- Bulletin contained an article recently by Brian Buckley exposing some of the terr orist activities Of the Croat ian Ustashi in Australia against opponents in their own communities "whom they always call Communists". And. the Financial Review of .Sydney' has- lately .carried two full page articles dir ected towards exposing the political misuse of the Sec urity Intelligence Organis ation both by the Govern ment and the DLP (in the Petrov case). 