 Communists look at automation 1 By a Special Correspondent I Not only fully automated processes but also all other | forms of technological development are matters for concern | and attention by Australian workers and their trade unions. Vigorous action is needed now in support of immediate and long range demands of the trade unions to meet changes following the introduction into industry and commerce of new methods and machines. These were conclusions reached at a special . discussion held i n Sydney on September 24 and 25 by members of the Communist Party of Australia active in trade unions. . Other points made in cluded the following: The sole aim of employ ers in introducing tech nological changes is to further increase profits. In the process they as sume a freedom to dis pense with what they call redundant labor. Thus the problem for workers arises not from the technological changes themselves, not from a conflict between man and machines, but from the profit motive Of private enterprise and class con tradictions inherent in capitalism. No basis exists for op posing technological de velopments but their ser ious effects on workers under these conditions must not be underesti mated. Far from accepting so- called redundancy, the unions must assert and vigorously fight for the workers' right to a job. The scope of union de mands must be broadened to include wage increases, shorter hours, increased annual and long service leave, earlier retiring age and fully adequate pen sions, re-training, reallo cating and re-accommo dating of workers . where this is necessary at the employers' expense, to gether with monetary compensation for any losses suffered by work ers. It is essential for the unions to insist on thor ough consultation con- cerning any proposed technological change and its estimated effects on workers to be held before such changes are intro duced. Arbitration will not sat isfy .these demands. They require the development of widespread united action of a political character by the workers. Such action will be vig orously opposed by the employers and govern ments, but nothing else will meet the needs of the workers and such struggles can win wide support from many sections of the people. In circumstances of technological change, the class struggle will be sharpened and its level raised. Satisfaction of the workers' demands may very well require changes in the structure of so ciety, including national isation of industry, planned control of the introduc tion of technological de velopments and a say for unions and workers in this control. The struggles for such changes will raise the need for socialism, which is the declared objective of the ACTU. The struggles to meet changes arising from technological dev e 1 o p- ments will require changes in the structure of trade unions. These changes include amalgamation of unions, establishment of research organisation capable of independent analysis of trends and developments for the purpose of assist ing the better develop ment and direction of cam paigns, greater involve ment of workers and for ' this purpose the strength ening of job organisation. These struggles also re quire the strengthening of internal and inter- union unity, including unity between the indus trial and white-collar unions. The meeting discussed five papers especially pre pared for the occasion. Further consideration is to be given by those pre sent' to these papers and the discussion, and an other such meeting is to be organised in March next year. 