 Rockdale rowdiness A N article in "Plain Aus- A tralian" (Nov. 23, '66) entitled Delinquent Labor Partv. was indicative of the attitude of too many demon strators—don't let the opposi tion speak. The writer seemed indig nant that Holt would not stop "trying to get a hearing"; he seemed proud that Holt had been drowned out". This mts aiutuuu wiuuii vjuiii- munists, as the leaders of progressive thought, ought to oppose, not condone. I make this somewhat sweeping statement for two main reasons. As Communists, we uphold freedom of speech, not as the Liberals do (only when the going is good), but at all times. This includes Holt. Even though he may tell downright lies, or twist the truth, if our arguments can not stand up to his, then there is something wrong with our arguments. From the aspect of public opinion I urge demonstrators to allow the opposition to speak. The rowdiness of the Rockdale meeting, I'm sure, contributed to the defeat of Reynolds in St. George. The Australian people think they are sophisticated and we must realise this. They are strong supporters of "free speech" and by denying Holt this freedom, we have lost many supporters. This extends to violence at meetings. I believe that a peace demonstration needs to be almost pacifistic. There should be no trying to break police cordons, or attacking the opposition. A quiet meet ing is not what I mean; I mean a highly organised meet- ing, with well planned inter jections, and questions. A room full of people all wearing smocks or carrying a banner, would create a better impression than a wild mob: In no case should a demonstrator throw the first punch, or become rough. it is true that there are groups which believe in physical violence, there are people who lose their tem pers and cannot control them selves. But, as leaders we must show the way, try and restrain these elements and make them aware of the harm violence is doing. We must show the public that we really believe in peace. N. Mortier, Cronulla (NSW) 