 Vietnam; Big protest Friday gYDNEY : A major public protest demonstration against the resumed bombing of North Vietnam will be held this Friday, February 11, at 5 p.m., at the United States consulate, Wynyard St., City. Every person who disagrees with continuation or expan sion of the war has been in vited to attend, by the Viet nam Action Committee. Some 200 people demonstrat ed there last Friday after a short-notice call by the commit tee (see picture). Also listed for Sydney is: Thursday February 10 (tomor row) Mr. Francis James reports on "Hanoi and Saigon— a con trast" in St. John's Church Hall, Pacific Highway Gordon, at 8 p.m. Rupert Lockwood cables from Moscow that world-wide demon strations against the resumed' US bombing of north Vietnam extended this time from the regular centres of protest to towns like Uppsala in Sweden, Where the police had to. break up a demonstration, to Laus anne in Switzerland, to Buenos Aires and new areas of resist ance in America, Britain and other countries. TASS' New York correspond ent says that the opinion of the majority of American military and political commentators is that the bombings mark the be ginning of a new and broader stage of the Vietnam war, with extensions to Laos and Cam bodia and a wider use of Thai bases. A naval blockade of north Vietnam, as the New York Her ald-Tribune and other papers have revealed, is seriously con templated. Cairns speaks At a Labor Party rally in Bai- larat, Victoria, on Sunday Dr. J. F. Cairns MHR called for an immediate cessation of the Viet nam war. The ALP, he added, was con vinced that any further exten sion or escalation of the war, even in the absence of peace discussions, was wrong and unnecessary. Hence the ALP was likely to. oppose such escalation and any' further involvements -of Aus tralia. While not agreeing with Amer ican methods, said Dr. Cairns, "at the same time party policy does not require the immediate withdrawal of Australian troops". Nor was there anything in the policy to .say the ALP' would not withdraw them if it became' the Government. Some ©f 200 demonstrators outside Sydney's US Consulate last Friday. (See story at right.) 