 WA.GOVT. NAILED | ON IRON ORE | DEALINGS I PERTH: The Court-Brand Liberal Govern- | ment, complaining at the Federal j Liberal Government's interference in the | Japanese iron ore deal stands exposed for | wholesale surrender of WA resources to j predominantly foreign capital. j The Commonwealth has refused Hamersley Iron Pty. j Ltd. an export licence for 8,640,000 tons of iron-ore pellets on the grounds that the price is too low and I therefore nor. in Australia's national interest.' j While it is hard to believe, on performance, that ! Australia's real national interests matter more to the Federal Liberals than the State Liberals, this particular j move— whether BHP or American pressures dictated it J — is in the interests of the Australian nation. j The Commonwealth view is that Australia will lose j millions of pounds in export earnings and the Federal | Treasury millions in taxation which could have been ! gained if the iron ore companies had obtained higher j prices. j The Commonwealth apparently wants to establish a j price level below Avhich future contracts will not be j signed. j | ALP leaders' stand ! As Opposition Leader Hawke stated ("West Austra- j lian", 20/1/66): "A Federal Government truly awake \ to the best interests of Australia and the economic wel- J fare of its people would be justified in taking drastic action to protect vital natural resources, especially if I private companies were seeking to exploit those resources only for the purpose of giving cheap iron-ore and partly processed iron-ore to Japanese steel-making companies." Federal Labor Leader Calwell also has supported the Federal. .decision (reaffirmed this week) to refuse to allow 1 "bargain prices". He, said the Hamersley Range had I become -a "foreign quarry"— a situation that should not j be supported by any genuine Australian. j Even the "West Australian" (18/1/66) said editor- j ially: "Thoughtful Australians have been aware in the j past two years that the interests of overseas companies j in the iron-ore business do not necessarily coincide , with j Australian national interests." | It is becoming increasingly clear, as the foreign giants 1 scramble and quarrel over our natural riches and fight J against giving a few more crumbs to the workers who j make their profit possible, that our vast new iron-ore j deposits should have been operated by State-Common- j wealth enterprise, yielding hundreds of millions of pounds i of direct profit to national revenue. j When the State Liberal Government first came into j office all known iron-ore deposits and all deposits to be ! discovered in the future were in the hands of the State. Now we are in bondage to foreign companies to the extent that Japanese industrialists looking over a WA iron-ore deposit could say they felt it "really belonged to them". Foreign rivalries Rivalries are growing among the foreign interests themselves and between foreign interests and BHP, which is trying to safeguard . itself against loss of the monopoly position it has held so long- — and so profit ably. The threat of competition has even forced BHP into some definite plans for an integrated iron and steel industry — long promised but evaded — at Kwinana. It fears the threat of cheap Japanese steel coming back to. the Australian market. BHP, whose pressure on the Federal Government for so long prevented export of WA iron-ore, is now begin ning to export iron-ore from Yampi to Japan. In this they have a big advantage over the newcomers, in that no capital outlay is. called for and so big profits roll in from the first shipment. Hamersley Iron Pty. Ltd. is a consortium of Conziric- Rio Tinto (British and American) and Kaiser Steel (American) . It is already committed, under contract to export 65/70 million tons of crude ore from WA over 16 to 18 years, commencing in August, 1966. Also to establish by 1969 a pelletising plant and export 16 million tons of pellets at £5/4/- a ton. The sale price of the 8,640,000 tons contract now rejected by the Federal Government is £5/1/3 a ton. The royalty to the State of 3/- a ton remains the same whatever the price. 