 More victims of mine neglect |U| EWC AST LE : The tragic loss of five lives at the Wyee State Mine (South of Newcastle) last Friday, brings the death roll of Australian coal mines so far this year to 23. A 24-hour stoppage of miners was held last Mom day as a mark of respect, to their dead mates and in protest against the fail- ure of the Federal and State Governments, Joint Coal Board and Mines Departments to implement amendments to the Coal Mines Regulations Act. These amendments were recommen&sd following the death of four miners in the BuIIi tragedy last November. Of the 28 fatalities this year, 18 occurred in N.S.W. coal mines, four at Broken Hill and one in Queens land. The five , Wyee men lost their lives in a roof, fall during the dangerous ex traction of pillar coal. 'Three other' men escaped death by inches. WALES, TOO Last Friday the world f was shocked by the dis- aster at Aberfan, Wales, where a mountain of coal waste swamped the village school and several houses claiming possibly 200 lives. Although to date 143 bodies have been recover ed, it is expected that a fur ther 60 are still buried in the coal slush. These people, mostly children, are "victims of past get-ricb-quick mining practices of coal owners— which ate still claiming lives 100 yeans later. A meeting of the North ern District Board of Man agement of the Miners Federation, lodge execu tives and other mining unions last Sunday sent a message of sympathy to the people in Wales. -> In discussing their own iGcat disaster it was decid ed that all pillajr extrac tion at Wyee be suspend ed pending a full investiga tion by the Federation's check inspector, Mr. J, . TaPP« The meeting acknow ledges the courage of the miners who worked with out thought to personal safety to recover the vic tims, HOLT HIT Other resolutions criti cised Prime Minister Holt and State Premier Askin, for not sending sympathy messages to the victims' relatives and unions. This is the practice , of Governments .leaders in all civilised countries, the meeting said! The Sydney Daily Tele graph was also strongly . criticised for putting the report of the tragedy on an inside page "among the, trivialities and nonsense of the Johnson visit". HHP RECORD The Miners Federation has good reason to demand that the utmost safety be practised in coal mining. At Kemira Colliery on the N.S.W. South Coast, the men were foreed to strike for 55 days because they refused to he dusted by the B.H.P. The Bulli , disaster, also a BJH.P. mine, was also placed at the feet of Im proper mining practices. Perhaps the Wyee dis aster will help force the. government to tighten up the mining regulations and the policing of them. 