 KB - I FOOTBALL STAR ; FACES CALL-UP I By the Challenger 1 Champion Australian Rules footballer, Carl Ditterich who is a B star of the St. Kilda team in Victoria is the latest young athlete 8 to face an army call-up. I He appealed for 12 months deferment when he was first called up in April this year on the grounds that his call-up would bring hardship on his parents. A magistrate granted him nine months and this has now expired. Carl's father is a pensioner, blind in one eye, and with weak sight in the other. His mother was not in good health when he was called up. Ditterich is a colorful and spectacular ruckman. He is 6ft 5in tall and over 15 stone. Of course the Govern- ment cares not a jot how his parents will manage while he is dragged into the army. Nor would they care about this young giant's future as an ath lete. Sport, culture and com passion come a bad last with a- Government geared to hate and war. Kerry beats Kogo DELAIDE: Congratula tions to Kerry O'Brien, brilliant young South Australian distance run- I ner, who convincingly de- I feated touring Kenyan I Ben Kogo. j O'Brien covered the 3900 I metres steeplechase in 8 I minutes 29 seconds to 1 break the Commonwealth, | Australian and South Aus- | tralian records and is now J ranked the best under 21 1 steeplechaser in the world. 1 The meeting almost I flopped because of no 5 guarantees against loss. | The Government appar- J ently was too busy pre- j paring to send another I consignment of Australian I youth to Vietnam instead J &lt;->f InnlHncr o.ffor t.Vipir TP.al : interests. I i I The ideal situation would | be to compete with Viet- J nam youth on the sports- fl field not jungle battle- fields. 1 Can you I I tell us? II rpHE only really recog- ifi nised wrestling champ- A ions are amateurs. Who g was the only man to hold 1 a world championship 1 Olympic wrestling title 1 and a world championship | boxing title | I WHO are two of the I world's top jockeys, I one riding five Caulfield I Cup winners in six years, J who have never ridden a j Melbourne Cup winner? g j tit WHO was the tallest heavyweight boxing 1 champion of the world? J tit j "WHO was the Australian 1 boxing champion who 1 played Australian Rules- I football for Footscray, in j Victoria? | Answers to last week's 1 questions The answers are in the j order that the questions | appeared last week. | The boxer was Micky :| Miller. He took this name | from Mick the Miller, the J world famous greyhound. | His real name was Nigel J Shirley. J The two test cricketers | were Keith Miller, who | captained the NSW Aus- J tralian Rules football J team, and Vic Richardson, | who captained the South I Australian team. The film star who fought .1 at Madison Square Garden j| was Bob Hope. f| The American fighter I | Meyer Grace beat Jack I J Carroll at his weight. The 1 J weight was lost 7lb. g | Tod Morgan's real name g J was Bert Pilkington. g | Good Friday fell on 1 | Easter Monday in the g | Onkaparinga steeplechase g | in 1931. j i 