 Li iiiwlrfiii LH ii » ill JiiwJIi i J : "J" H E Sydney Morning Herald's normally en lightened DATA column pulled a terrible boner last week with an attempt to dis credit senior Anglican critics of the Vietnam war and the use of conscription. The method was to point out that leading bishops critical of the war policy had not themselves seen military service, while three bishops who had recently declared support for the Government were ex-chaplains to the services. Indignant letters forced the Her ald to look further, to discover that, of the 16 Anglican bishops there were ex-servicemen and non- servicemen on . both sides of the Vietnam fence, and more were publicly against the war policies than for them. In fact, the issue raised by the Herald is quite irrelevant. What is drawing so many clergymen, with thousands of other people, into opposition to the war policies is the basic injustice and immoral ity of the American war and the Holt Government's support for it. Stirred up hornet's nest to that Sydney Anglican coadjutor bishops' Holy Week Letter backing con scription for Vietnam, it has raised a rare old storm of protest from the clergy, publicly and privately" says an article in The Nation by Francis James. Mr. James, editor of The Angli can, says the coadjutor bishops admitted to him that they had not read any of the "standard liter ature" about the Vietnam war- not even the SEATO treaty. "None of them had done any 'homework' on the Christian con ception of the 'just war' " adds Mr. James. By issuing and publishing a "Pastoral Letter" they broke a tradition by which such letters are private and deal with domestic, confidential matters of importance. In Archbishop Gough's absence, the coadjutors felt they had to do something to answer Bishop Moyes whose theologically sound sermon against the Vietnam war on thel BURNED FINGERS ON BISHOPS Sunday before Easter had created a stir, says Mr. James. Bishop Moyes had won more sup port for his views among the bishops than had Dr. Gough. Mr. James says that when Bishop Moyes retired from Armidale and came to live in Sydney, Arch bishop Gough tried to send him away to assist a bishop in another state. When this failed, "the Arch bishop arranged to give the Bishop so many Confirmations and other episcopal chores in Sydney diocese that he would have little time to hear Satan's temptings". However the 80-year-old Bishop Moyes gets up at sunrise and has a cold shower, does all the church work asked of him and still, ap parently, finds plenty of time for "Satan" French atom bomb tests "THE rising political storm in Australia over Viet nam and conscription has pushed aside the issue of the French nuclear weapons tests, due to, take place in the South Pacific atmosph&i; accord- ing to reports, ih July. This week, in sydMy, the Com mittee Against Atjbinic Testing - took up the challenge with a de monstration and leaflet distribu 1?cn at the French Consulate and in Martin Place, at lunchtime Mon day. Picture shows one of the com 3 mittee's supporters, Mrs. iren» $ Graham, in action. || 3 A nasty | piece of work | QN Tuesday at Sydney air- 1 port, the noisy handful of 3 "Lithuanian" anti-sovieteers -3 who had turned up in Can- 3 berra to shout at the Inter- Parliamentary Union delegate ' from the USSR, again made their appearane. Their main target was Mr. j, Paletskis, the white-haired Lithuan ian Vice-President of the Supreme ; Soviet, ..no had made a dignified i and responsible impression among all delegations. jj Just before Mr. Paletskis board- N; ed his plane, a girl thrust an auto- f graph book into his hands and l received a signature. Later the vl boastful demonstrators revealed M that a petition "for the release of "ji the enslaved Lithuanian people" : was folded into the book, and the signature had innocently been ap- : I pended to it. £i| Presumably there will now be a SB publicity stunt staged— but how low can you get? l£ m ,j?j i _ MISS Peggy Somers, a young : , Melbourne woman who | received wide publicity in the daily press after she had thrown a handful of marbles \ at the Prime Minister (Mr. Holt) during his stormy electiop rally in the Kew City Hall on March 28, was dis- L missed from her job four " - days later. 