 WIDE- A WAKE LADS AND LASSES 0NE of the most signific ant and stimulating features of the political and intellectual scene in Australia over the last few years has been the sudden burgeoning of an array of small "new Left" and radical independent maga zines. Ranging from the self-explana tory Dissent through the "inde pendent socialist" Outlook to the marxist Arena, they cover the whole multi-coloured spectrum of left-of-centre opinion. Their emergence and— in most cases — flourishing existence mark something of a change compared with the situation ten or fifteen years ago when virtually the only stable left-wing publications in Australia were those associated with the Communist Party. The point of view of most of these magazines is non-Commun ist and in some cases — as with Dissent — irritatingly anti-Com munist, but nevertheless their editors and contributors are for the most part deeply concerned about many of the vital issues raised by contemporary society, which they often tackle with refreshing vigour and originality. They reflect the growing dis enchantment in professional and intellectual circles, particularly among students and young grad uates, with the "platitudinous values of the so-called Affluent Society and the calamitous im plications of All-the-Way, as well as a quickening interest in social ism as an alternative to the chaos and purposelessness of capital ism. They are generally anti-Estab- " lishment, anti-Bomb and most definitely anti-Conscription and anti- Australia's involvement in LBJ's dirty war. They are con cerned about things as diverse as the inadequacy of Australia's relations with Asia, the effects of modern industrial society on the individual, the corrupting power of the mass media, and the edu cation crisis. The more left-wing of them, like Arena and to a lesser extent Outlook, are trying to assist the development of socialist ideas by encouraging discussion and con troversy on these and other im portant topics, with Arena in par ticular catering for the increasing interest among intellectuals in marxism. The existence of these "mag azines of dissent", as they have been called, is not surprisingly, not to everybody's liking. In particular, they have aroused the righteous ire of that resilient right-wing publicist Mr. Brian Buckley, to whom their sponsors and supporters are nothing but "lullaby lads and lasses", oblivi ous of the threat posed by the yellow — and red — hordes suppos edly poised on Australia's north ern doorstep. BUT. those who do not share Mr. Buckley's technicolor terror will find that the contributors to these magazines are in fact very wide awake — as the latest issues of three of them amply demonstrate. Outlook— in its tenth year the daddy of them all — leads off with an editorial, written before the elections but more timely now than ever, calling on the ALP to move left, warning against a "possible Whitlam leadership" which might whittle away "the little that is distinctively labour", and demanding positive policies from the ALP,dn'otTifKe"nfc)ffib and foreign fronts, "so that it can begin to lead us out of the wilderness the Tories have creat ed". Len Fox contributes an inter esting commemorative article on the World War I anti-conscription struggles, drawing the obvious analogies with today, E. L. Wheel wright describes the rise of fas cism in Argentina following the army coup last June, and New Zealand writer Freda Cook, just returned from working in Hanoi, gives in an interview a vivid eye witness account of the devasta tion caused by the tir.S. ' bombing of North Vietnam. Several articles deal with aspects of apartheid, with Out- look Editor Helen Palmer re counting her expulsion for "com munist thinking" from the South African Defence and Aid Fund on the initiative of newly-elected Liberal MHR Mr. Edward St. John, himself under fire a few weeks ago from red-waiting Sir Raphael Cilento. The Melbourne Dissent, which claims— with over 5000 readers— to be "Australia's largest circula tion journal of opinion", is basic ally a vehicle for radical and liberal thought, as distinct from the overt socialism of Outlook. In this respect it seeks to cater for young graduates and profes sional people who favour more progressive and realistic policies within the framework of capital ism. Though editorially it reflects the general concern over Viet nam and sounds a strong warp ing against hysterical McCarthy- ism, the keynote of many of its otherwise interesting articles is unnecessarily and illogically anti- Communist. With this important reserva tion, its current number contains several informative items, parti cularly a series of articles on "Aspects of Asia", dealing with Indonesia, the Philippines, China and the Indian Communist Party, as well as G. E. Caiden's critical look at the pragmatism and op portunism of right-wing trade unions, John Playford's exposee of the Defend Australia Commit tee, and TV personality Ray Tay- , JL&lt;s.atmsing ,nd;ua _ofhe commercialism of his own medium. "THE young Sydney "rad ical monthly" Com ment comes forward with another bright though be lated number. On Vietnam it makes no bones about where it stands — none of the way at all with LBJ or Harold Holt. Norman Hanscombe writes "an incisive piece on the "gerry mander" in Vietnam— Septepir. ber's National Assembly election, so fraudulent that neither Ky nor the U.S. have attempted to make any capital out of the fantastic 80% supposed to have voted. But if for no other reason, this issue should be read for its rep ublication in full of Bertrand Russell's moving "Appeal to the American Conscience on Viet nam", which takes the form of an indictment of Johnson, Dean Rusk, McNamara and "their fel low war criminals" who have "stolen the U.S. from its people and made the name of a great country stink in the nostrils of people the world over". OUTLOOK, Vol 10, No. 5, October, 1966 (30c); DISSENT, No. 18, Spring, 1966 (40c); COMMENT, Vol. 1, No. 4, November , 1966 (25c) . Reviewed by ROGER MILLISS. 