 SJ&SUsr Separating the men from the hoys By THE CHALLENGER The Australian Surfboard Championships at Coolangatta (Queensland) next month will decide (or should) just who is the best rider for 1966. Many a junior surf-board rider will be sceptical of the overall results — and with a good reason. A recent ruling of the Australian Surf-board Riders' Association prevents juniors from entering senior events. The ruling restricts entries to either junior or senior events — not both. At the recent Queensland and N.S.W. State champion ships, the restrictions of this rule was felt when two red-hot board riders, Peter Drouyn (Queensland) and Kevin "The Head" Brennan (N.S.W.) were compelled to compete in the junior events only, of their respec tive States. Droun, the current nation al junior champion is con sidered in Queensland to be the brighest Australian surf board prospect since "Mid get" Farrelly. Regardless of grading he is rated among the very top of the nation's top board riders. Brennan last year won both the junior and senior N.S.W. titles. However in this year's titles, he was beaten into second place by Butch Cooney of Collaroy. Cponey, a member of the Collaroy Surfri.ders' Asso ciation, is 14-years-old and stands just under five feet. Surf -board riding is simi- liar to swimming in that it is the very young who are dominating the top positions in competition. This is understandable in our society, as it is probably only the young, who are to a lesser degree unaware of the day-to-day cares that tend to stifle any exuberant keenness for sporting and cultural pursuits. This week-end the Sydney Metropolitan Schoolboys' Championship at Maroubra will see many young com petitors capable of taking on more mature opposition. The Surf-board Riders' As sociation's new rule is some what of a face saver for the seniors. It guards against the em barrassment of seeing a judge pat some youngester on the head and say: "You're our top man, sonny." However nearly all will agree that the use of a rule is not a very accurate way to separate the men from the boys. No future in it! IJORSE racing is a very complicated game with very many factors in volved. A superficial look at only some of these factors is enough, to realise that the fellow who coined "mug punter", was the one ex pert who really knew what he was talking about. Just prior to the race crash last week that landed him in hospital, leading Aus tralian jockey Des Lake had ridden only one winner in twenty rides in his racing life in Britain. Lake is riding for the Irish trainer, Paddy Prendergast. _ According to the Sun, Le,ke said: "Don't blame me for not getting winners over here. It's the horses; they're not ready yet . . . give me another four to five weeks. Look out! I'll be riding bags of winners here." Such statements however, are very little help to the run-of-the-mill punter, for as soon as the "good thing" strikes form, its odds either fade away to nothing or as . happened recently at Yon- kers Raceway, New York, it is excluded from the betting. There, the crack New Zea land pacer Cardigan Bay was considered such a moral that it was excluded from the betting i,n the $45,000. Good Time Pace. However, betting was al lowed on the remaining horses. It was just another case of a "good thing" turning into a "bad thing" and an other lesson to the punter that if there is any risk to be taken it is he who will be taking it. 