 Li Ln itdUL Senator Joe for the Uni! AST week saw a blatant reappearance in Victoria of a long-standing plan by extreme right-wing forces to impose McCarthyite political control on Australian uni versities. Over several years "ultras" like B. A. Santama-ria and Dr. F. Knop. felmacher, backed by organs like the Bulletin and the Australian News-Review, have sought to cru cify leftwing and liberal academ ics. The extensive participation of university staffers and students in opposition to the Vietnam war policy, and especially to the LBJ visit, has brought the extreme right to a fury. Now, emboldened by the elec tion result, the rabid right is on the march, this time with new open allies in the Victorian Par liament where Members like Love- grove (ALP) and Mitchell (CP) savagely attacked student demon strators and even respected aca demics like Sir George Paton, Vice-Chancellor of Melbourne University. The aim remains: to secure re striction by rightwing govern - ments- of- ..traditional .democratic practices in university life and appointments. On the other hand, vigorous replies last week by student spokesmen and the Melbourne University Council revealed the strength of latent opposition to the McCarthyite. approach. But the warning is there and it is only one aspect of the devel oping escalation of rightwing acti vity all the way from Federal Cabinet to the pro-Rhodesia rac ist fringe. Guardian- Tribune merger "jpHE Queensland Guardian from this week's issue will cease publication and from January 10, 1967, with the Victorian Guardian, will merge with the national weekly Tribune. With some breaks in continuity, Guardian and its predecessor, the North Queensland Guardian gave 30 years of objective reporting and leadership to the Queensland work ing people. Campaigns initiated by the - Guardian ranged wide and issues raised and fought for or against were legion. Leadership in the prices-pay campaign earlier this year when the basic wage freeze was broken and a sizeable wage rise won are readily recalled by Queensland readers. Legislation won recently to end some aspects of false advertising of household goods and to give better protection to buyers under hire purchase agreements was an other demand raised by the Guardian. Facts on the crisis in education, the raw deal people get on Social Services, free hospitalisation and many other issues concerning the people appeared first in Guardian and were taken up by the Labor movement. No paper did more than the Guardian, in fact it often stood alone, to alert the people to the sell-out of Queensland's resources to foreign monopoly. Only the Guardian, of all the newspapers in the State stood by the workers on Mt. Isa in their great struggle against Mt. Isa Mines. The editor of Guardian for many years, Mr. Pete Thomas, who is also a well-known pamphleteer, will join Tribune staff as its Queensland correspondent. Gone to the wall "THE Victorian Attorney General Mr. Rylah, in reply to a question whether 950 companies had been wound up in Victoria since July 1960 said: Since July, 1962, 289 companies had been placed in the hands of a receiver. 139 companies had been inves tigated and among these 76 be longed to the Reid-Murray group, 11 to the Stanhill group and 10 to the Marthorn group. Mr. Rylah did not disclose the losses to debenture holders and creditors, but this could hardly be less than $200 million. Reid-Mur ray alone was responsible for over $40 million. Mr. Rylah said that 34 directors had been charged and proceeded against since 1960 for breaches of the Companies Act and 130 com panies had been the subject of reports to Parliament since I960. 