 The neglected North STRUGGLE FOR THE NORTH J. H. Kelly. Exposes in detoil he major causes of economic stagnation in the North of Australio. Criticises political maladministration, misuse of the public estate, inadequate husbandry, erosion — analyses resources. Gives details of the exploitation of the Aborigines and o denial to them of human rights. $4.25 ($4.41 posted). THE YARNS OF BILLY BORKER Frank Hardy. Everyone knows Billy Borker of TV fame. Everyone has met a Billy Borker — the one who fascinates with his tall stories and who, in the end, believes his own fables. Compounded of the. stuff of Australian folk-lore, some of the stories are probably originally true. These effortless why-hurry-me narratives are Australiana at its best. $2.25 ($2.35 posted). AMID THE PLENTY Gavin Casey. Deals with the stort of people Casey always deals with — the independent self-respecting, intelligent working, men and ' their families who are intensely critical of the society in which they live. This tale of hard times is not a gloomy tale. $2.25 ($2.38 posted). TOM JONES Henry Fielding. Life in the Eighteenth Century from stately manor house to the London slums, involving the wealthy and yet some of the most wretched men and women in all fiction — exuberantly witty, devastatingly perceptive, this bawdy and high-spirited novel is extremely readable, very relaxing. 85c (98c posted). WITNESS James Cameron. A recent TV program based on film brought back from Vietnam by the author. James Cameron went to North Vietnam, unsponsored — he was nobody's guest and nobody's delegate, and answerable to himself alone. Objectively written and . penned with an undercurrent of humor which is irristible. $2.60 ($2.73 posted). SOUTH VIETNAM ON THE ROAD TO VICTORY An album which graphically depicts the daily activities of the South Vietnam liberation fighters in their struggle to free their country. The collection includes a number of pictures from the US. Their own cameras reveal the bar barous treatment of the population. 95c ($1.20 posted). New World Booksellers I 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607. 