 "It's not our war, Mr Hasluck!" The letter reprinted below in a slightly abridged form was sent to a Tribune reader, who handed it on to us. The writer, Bruce H. Thompson, is Chief Engineer on the "Kingford'' plying between Hong Kong and various ports along the coast of North and South Vietnam. He allso sent copies to Mr. Hasluck, the Minister for External Affairs, who hasn't yet found grace to ueply, and to the "Sydney Morning Herald". It is reprinted without comment. S,S. "KINGFORD", n a ii between Haiphong and Hong Kong. Dear Mr. Hasluck: As a patriotic Australian, and also a discerning one. 1 deem it my duty to write you this letter. Over the past two years I have been sailing extensively in Par Eastern waters, and in the last couple of months have docked in Haiphong and Hon Gay on two occasions. I have also visited Hanoi. I find the North Vietnamese to be hard-working, honest and happy. They are very strong-willed and wholeheartedly behind Ho Chi Minh (they have never had j,t better). It makes me feel ashamed to know my countrymen are a party to this evil being perpetuated on the Viet namese people. For the life of me I cannot under stand WHY WE ARE THERE! What have the Vietnamese done to us? Is it to kotow to the Americans to be involved in Vietnam? The Vietnamese want the election that was promised for 1956; they don'J want this bloodshed of brother killing brother. The Americans are afraid of this election taking place, for they know, as I know, that Ho will sweep the polls. What a once-great freedom-loving nation like America is doing there, and in the role of the aggressor, I will never know. Something has certainly happened to its principles. The Vietnamese will not sit at the peace table with the Americans — they are quite adamant about this. They want to sit with their coun trymen and talk it out. Surely this is fair enough. My concern over this war is very real. I am one of the few Australians to see it from both sides, for I was also in Saigon in November, 1964. I am appalled at the injustice of our participation in this people's war — a war that has nothing to do with us. The Vietnamese are one people, North and South. They speak the iiiBiiiiMiiBBiiiiiiiiiiiii ihmmiiiiiiiii i miiiiiiunmn i iinnifiCTiiiiiirmi same language, nave the same culture, worship the same religions and have the same education. This American policy of cleaning up other nations' backyards becomes very hypocritical when one thinks of Los Angeles, Harlem, Birmingham, etc. I have three sons of military age and I certainly would not like to see them take up arms in this hocus pocus war . . . for hocus popus it surely is as far as we are concerned; we are the aggressor in Vietnam. As an Australian taxpayer I am very concerned that the Americans are pouring some $4 millions a day into this war (i965 "Time"), and, pro rata, we are spending several thousands of pounds a day. Everybody knows that if the U.S. were to really bring its big guns to bear (and providing the Russians and Chinese remain militarily aloof) the Americans would be in Hanoi in a couple of months. Then what? We will then have the spectacle of UUs stumping the streets of Hanoi for years because the fall of Hanoi does not spell the end of this war. The Vietnamese are doughty little fighters who have got a taste of free dom and like it — and they will take to the hills back of Haiphong and the war will go on indefinitely. By then the $4 millions will have become $4 millions plus, and likewise our bill will rise. If the U.S. pushes into North Viet nam you will see the much-vaunted U.S. Marines fighting against women, and what a wealth of propaganda this will give to the anti-American nations. If this is what the Americans want, OK. But I certainly do not want to see Australian troops suffer this indignity. You may consider me anti-American, but I am not. I have visited the States and met many very fine people there. I am anti-U.S. Government. In the last three months I have become anti-Liberal. In 24 years I have voted Labor once, and if your foreign policy continues along the present line, Labor will receive my future vote. In this box seat that I have occu pied for two years I have seen the I both Koreas, the both Chinas, and M the both Vietnams, and what im. ' presses me is the purposefulness and I honesty which shows in the people I on the Communist side. You don't 1 get this in the other places. | China is becoming great, and they 11 are fine people who seek trade and ?! peace, not expansion. || When I hear Messrs. McGpQrge ll Bundy, McNamara, Harriman, Ball 1| etc., talking about South-East Asia,' it makes me sick. ' ' 1 Three days ago one of them was J speaking of the bellicose Chinese. f God, is it any wonder the Chinese 1 are bellicose with their country l| ringed with American bases from 1 South Korea to South Vietnam and H at the back door in India. It is not so very long ago that a I very bellicose America was protesting j| against the missiles in Cuba. &lt;|| Mr. Hasluck, in 1940 I offered my || services to Australia. I served five 1 years in the R.A.N, and would offer l£ my life again for my country if the J cause was right. | But I don't want to see my sons, or any other father's sons, give their M lives in the skullduggery of Vietnam. ?f FOR GOD'S SAKE, GET OUT OP I IT! Militarywise, get out of all of Asia. ff| Your Government is doing Australia il| a grave disservice by being there. II I hope to be home in a few months -$f and would willingly meet the expenses || incurred by a visit to Canberra. If you would interview me, I think I |f could be of some help to you and x| to Australia. . Signed, X's BRUCE H. THOMPSON, # Chief Engineer. P.S. — Please use the "Kingford" 15 address in Hong Kong. One never $ knows when bomb-happy Washington starts dropping them on Haiphong, and I have no desire to give my life i in the hocus pocus going on up ' | there. :l 