 Who controls ALP policy? (By a political correspondent) QISPUTES between the Australian Labor Party's elected ruling bodies — the party conferences and ex ecutives — and its parlia mentary members are as old as the Party itself. Prom the very formation of the ALP and from the election of its first members the question arose — who was to decide and interpret Labor's policy as a whole? Was it the executive or confer ence—state or federal as the case might be — or was it the members of the party who claimed that their election to parliament gave them a special right to say what the policy should be? Mainly (but not always) when the dispute has broken out, it has been because the politicians, or a section of them, have been resist ing the progressive demands of the conference, or executive, which is niore closely in touch with the party rank-and-file (mainly work ers) than are the politicians. Mainly, in such cases, the rebel lious politicians declare that they won't submit to the "outside inter ference" of the conference or ex- ecutive whose ruling they say, will be electorally disastrous. Frequently, though hot always, the progressive policy triumphs, whereupon the intransigent politi cians either leave or are expelled, to the benefit of the movement as a whole, which often does bet ter without them. The question arose- from the very first days of the existence of the parliamentary party in New South Wales, in 1891, when the Party won 36 seats at a general election. The main issue dividing the anti- Labor groupings was the question of free trade or protection. The party had no official view on this and party members out side parliament felt it was a mat ter for dispute between anti-Labor politicians in which Labor had no interest. They demanded that the politi cians seek support from whichever group would implement the Labor platform or part of it. Some of the politicians, more interested in vote-catqhing than in principles, defied this view and attached themselves to the free trade or protection party, with a view to winning free trade or pro- tectionist votes in their constitu ency. The Labor Electoral Leagues con ference of 1892 decided that this could not go on. It carried a resol ution ordering the politicians to support any government "provid ing that a large portion of the Labor platform were carried into law". At the 1893 conference the Leagues went further and ordered the politicians to vote solidly in support of the labor platform and, on questions of interpretation, to support the caucus majority. In his history of the labor move ment E. W. Campbell notes the result: "Soon after the Conference the parliamentarians met and decided to resist the 'outside interference' of the Electoral League. "Joseph Cook, the leader, was especially hostile to the pledge. Thus at this early stage a schism developed between the rank and file and the politicians, with the latter fighting for freedom to pur sue unhampered their opportunist course in parliament. "The executive circularised the Leagues and found that 72 out of 84 endorsed the 'solidarity pledge'. "Thereupon they declared that the recalcitrants were 'rats' and expelled them from the Party. "Fifteen 'Solidarities', as the pledged men were called and twelve 'independents' were return ed in the 1894 elections." The conference of 1895 modified the pledge a little, adds Campbell, and three . 'independents' returned to the fold. The others either end ed their political careers or joined the anti-Labor forces. One was Joseph cook who, was rewarded by getting a protfolio in the anti-Labor Reid administration. He spent the rest of his life in the anti-Labor camp and was anti- Labor Prime Minister when the 1914 war broke out. He finished as Sir Joseph Cook, P.C., G.C.M.G. But he had begun his career as a rightwinger when he signed an ALP politicians' manifesto which attacked the democratically-elected Conference of Labor Leagues as "the unrepresentative proxy-packed and largely self-selected Confer ence." If he had tnough of it, probably he would have called them "face less" or "witless", men, as Fed eral Parliamentary deputy leader Whitlam did last week. The victory of the Conference and the loss of Cook and his col leagues did not mean the end of the party, but were the necessary preliminaries to . its further ad vance in all states and in the Federal sphere. A solidarity pledge became gen eral and in due course the Federal Executive became the Party's rul ing body. In 1916 W. M. Hughes, then Lab or Prime Minister came back from England virtually under orders to conscript Australians to meet the growing demand for cannon-fodder on the western front. He found that the main obstacle was not the politicians, who were divided on the question, but state ALP executives who were in turn influenced by the workers. After announcing his referendum plan in Parliament (then meeting in Melbourne) Hughes went the next night to meet the Victorian ALP executive. But not one word was said for conscription by anyone but Hughes. In his book "Industrial Labor and Politics," reviewed in last week's Tribune, Dr. Ian Turn er notes: tr, Was -M hope (for Ki'Starians: tne executive. ;jaLost all the SS?"?11 even the f-rty leader,: cyj Elmslie" an active supIWrt31X,ruiting. wNSaW Inland premier w- A. HolmaaXed this in , words also quS Turner. to Victoria vJS rt&hhes did no HSTeSSi" tJSSflead etyfe rest of Aus- lSlSJ Vio3nay well have helped determjttteQme. in New Somgies Premier Holman and fiat were al- 25h fu0nynitt|:onscription, with the backup some mem bers f Caucu|£| he state ex ecutive, not jiAS determined the policy. Tggfcutive, after H"ghe$dj against him oy 21 to five. Late in Sepki Turner nar row1? Nsctt;ive expelled Hughes from $g£jy, withdrew endorsement fdSMman and demanded thatphi >r politicians declare themsjl-fo? These actior executives > p Victoria ajgwi powerfully influenced the;? oj the Labor movement ancutd&j the victory of the anti-ccption cause 50 years ago thisp- | For both Bgj-JLcl Holman part of theiijgcjSption cam paign consists, attacks on the executives. Tfoseq as champ ions of freedctainst a soulless machine. | The very sjtihwhich Hol man announoj .bffect that he was ratting ipinirfg the anti- Labor forceitjs douched in language ten dike something we have hastening to just lately. ; |j Declaring lis .puld be gov erned by patellmd "not by a junta" Hcikexjblained that the "nationai'yefhent he was joining was "litroriff pettifogging machine-madf inny" operating by "those worshipped the machine". 1 Holman a discred- ited anti-lw-banch poli tician. 'A marched on,- . .tj Many otherhd|| can be cit- ' ed. The revol&|ji Gair (now Senator) in against a ruling of hil®£:®cecutive in 1957, was thejdq to his form ing the anth2:i|'QLP" and ultimately joii|DLP. Earlier Laifiahce of the ALP conferehnrrNew South Wales when ||ti against him took him out|® Labor move ment and intoPtkLabor camp. The exHutM&ibs have not always the major- ity of poTOpways wrong. But nobodyJpfoe story of past splits ipections can help beinWjPus when Rightwing flfljgpans start filling anting® headlines with talk MJuntas" and "machines";in«ffcelcss" or "witless" :.i$ If there is a persistent prejudice that a symphony concert needs be a stuffed shirt affair, with the audience sorted into income groups by a graded scale of seat prices, it would be shattered by a visit to one of the ABC's series of "Prom" concerts. Here, with the floor cleared of seats and tickets all one price, there can be no division of the congregation into formally clad front stalls, with other ranks receding in social, if not intellec tual, status to the remotest gal leries/ Here all is shoulder-rubbing democracy. We read in a program note that the idea of a promenade concert is music performed to an audience standing or strolling about in a cleared area, but the predomin antly youthful audience at these "proms" does not stand or stroll, but comes provided with an assortment of air cushions, mats and folding stools, or even a com fortable mattress large enough to accommodate several young de votees reclining or stretched out prone as they absorb the splendid musical fa-re provided by the Sydney Symphony Orchestra. During the intervals, when some of the audience do stand or stroll, the floor of the Town Hall takes on the aspect of a jumble sale, littered with bags, rugs, beach towels, paper cups, coats and tem porarily discarded shoes. BY H. McC. But for all its casual garb and lounging disposition, the young audience listens with unfeigned,, rapt attention to serious music, ranging from a massive choral and orchestral work by Monte verdi, who lived at the same time as Shakespeare, to an avant-garde piece by Australian-born con temporary Peter Sculthorpe. This last, heard in Australia for the first time in this series, was composed in 1965 and we were told by the conductor that, with it, Sculthorpe had resolved to compose a piece without "melody, harmony or rhythm." To do this he uses the entire . range and varied tone colors of the full orchestra to build up a succession of patterns which he calls "Sun Music." Thtc cun mucin nrnilnna/1 cunli a way-out glare of sound that, as we were not provided with some thing analogous to sun glasses for the ears, the once-revolutionary music of Beethoven which fol lowed it, heard or seen through the haze of solar sound waves still shimmering about the hall, sounded quite staid and straight forward. The audience, however, born into an age of space and relativity, made the transition easily and warmly applauded the young soloist Elizabeth Leslie, who is to finish her studies in Leningrad, for her performance of Beetho ven's First Piano Concerto. The plan of the series covers many such transitions from new to old, from classic to romantic; western music from all periods to be enjoyed at bargain rates and in an atmosphere of refreshing , informality. Another virtue of this type of concert series is that it provides an opportunity — important as ABC policy favors engaging im ported artists for its main con certs, including the coming youth series — for resident Australian artists to be heard as soloists with the Australian Symphony Orchestra. ARTHUR CALWELL . . . will he lead Labor at the next elections? 