 U-Thant sounds a war alarm JJ"N Secretary General U Thant's warning that the. Vietnam war could spill over the frontiers to become a major war should alert all peace-lovers and arouse them to new efforts. - Naturally the enemies of peace have tried to make U Thant's statement read as though he were con demning the Soviet Government's announcement, through Defence Minister Malinovsky, that it is increasing the strength of its armed forces because of US aggression in Vietnam. The Soviet Government and the other Warsaw Treaty powers have made it clear from the start that they will give the Democratic Republic of Vietnam whatever assistance it needs to defeat the US attacks. So nobody need be surprised if the USSR in creases that aid in proportion as the USA steps up its aggression. Naturally, too, the aid is effective. Time maga zine admits that in a single week 1 1 US warplanes were shot down over North Vietnam by anti-aircraft batteries, MIG jets and a record barrage of 74 sur face to air missiles. Those who object to this form of Soviet aid to an ally must ask themselves what business the US war- planes had to be ever North Vietnam, or over any country except their own. These same people, however, tried to present U Thant's visit to Moscow as though it were aimed to influence, the USSR towards assisting to bring peace in Vietnam. ? U Thant himself stated that he had not pressed his peace plan in Moscow because it is not "relevant" to the Soviet Government. This, of course, is because the first point of it is that the US must stop its attacks on the north. And the place to press for that is not in Moscow but in Washington. That is understood not only by U Thant but by many others, including (in recent statements) the Indian Prime Minister and the World Council of Churches conference in Geneva. U Thant also reported that the view taken in 'Moscow was that peace was primarily a matter for those participating in the war. U Thant has himself frequently said that the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam, as a main party to the war, must also have an inde pendent place in the peace talks. _ Again, those who have still to be convinced about this are to be found not in Moscow but in Wash ington — and Saigon. As recently as July 25 Premier Ky reiterated the old US-Saigon stand — no peace talks with the NLF. The only possible basis for a negotiated peace in Vietnam is that already negotiated in Geneva in 1954 — withdrawal of foreign forces (then French, now American) and recognition of the Vietnamese people's right to choose their own government. Until the Washington and Saigon Governments recognise this then they, and nobody else, stand out as the main obstacles to peace and the proper objects of the pressure for peace which everyone, at this crucial time, must make it their main business to exert. U THANT ... A GRAVE WARNING 