 GLADYS imTjflfV 1 jjj|||||||||jij|| IHHflHnHBBBBBnn BRISBANE: Mrs. Gladys O'Shane, an outstanding champion of Aboriginal rights and other progres sive causes, died in Cairns. North Queensland at the end of last month. She was known and respected among Aborigines, waterside workers, progressive people and Communists throughout Australia. Her death, after a year of steady decline following an opera tion, brought tributes from many organisations and individuals, including the Federal, State and local bodies of the movement for Aboriginal Advancement, Waterside Workers' Women's Committees, Central, State and District Committees of the Com munist Party of Australia, Union of Australian Women's State and local organisations and others. Among the pall-bearers at her big funeral were representatives of the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islands Advancement League, Cairns Trades and Labor Council and WWF Branch and the Communist Party. The Queensland State and North Queensland District Secretaries of the Communist Party went to Cairns for the funeral, at which, in accordance with the wishes of the late Mrs. O'Shane and her family, the State Secretary (Mr. E. A. Bacon) spoke. In. his oration, Mr. Bacon said: "Her departure leaves a big gap in the ranks of those who strive consciously for betterment of the conditions of the working people, a gap that will not easily be filled. "But life demands that it be filled, for the difficulties of the people are great and growing . . . new fighters are bound to come forward and take her place. . "Gladys died in the prime of life — a woman who had developed her talents and understanding greatly, but who gave promise of much further development. Man kind can ill afford to lose such people. "Born in Mossman 46 years ago, a member of the big and widely- respected Davis family, Gladys encountered early the many special difficulties and restric tions in the way of people of her colour in Australia. "A sensitive, highly-intelligent child, eager to learn and to work, she was, however, kept back in primary school and compelled to leave at 14 and seek domestic work. "It is to her very great credit that, throughout her life, she never lost her love of knowledge. She succeeded in educating her self far beyond the limits of her formal schooling, gaining par ticularly strong mastery of the English language and constantly encouraging and guiding her children and other youngsters to improve their education. "She was a woman of strong character, honest and always kind to all. "In 1940 she married Pat. O'Shane, then a militant itinerant worker, under whose comradely influence she began, during the war years, to develop a wider understanding of the great issues before mankind and of the social forces making and directing Man's path forward — in other words, she began to understand what is commonly called poli tics. ... "She became an advocate of working class unity, irrespective of color or creed. Together with her husband, Pat, she began to taken an interest in the problems of particular sections of the working class. . . . "In the big struggles of the waterside workers in the fifties, she became an active member of the Federation's local Women's Committee, gaining confidence as she found that she could answer difficult and sometimes provoca tive questions at public meetings where she helped put forward the wharfies' case. "In the late 50's she made her first trip away from the North to a conference of Waterside Workers' Women's Committees in Sydney. At the same time she became active in the broader women's movement and in the movement for peace. "During the fifties also, as the Aborigines and Torres Straits Islanders were beginning to stand up for themselves and to find that they had reliable and cap able friends among the white working people and some intel lectuals, Cairns and district quickly became an important part of this nation-wide move ment. Gladys joined in from the beginning and held executive positions unopposed till the day she died. "She became a true leader of her people but, like all true leaders, she never became con ceited, never failed to join in the most menial tasks as well as the big political ones. "If she had a fault, it was her excessive modesty, which often caused her to doubt her own ability, so obvious to others. "In 1960 Gladys joined the Communist . Party. This was a natural and logical step for her to take, as she had found by then that the Party could always be relied on to help in the struggles which concerned her, and because she felt that the noble concepts of world peace and socialism, to which the Party is devoted, offered the only real or final solution to the many problems of the people. "As a delegate to North Queens land, Queensland and National Conferences of the Communist Party, she contributed much in helping the Party to formulate a correct programme for the future of the Aboriginal and Torres Island peoples, as well as to help them in their daily struggles. ... "In saying farewell to Gladys, I; all our hearts go out to her : family, to Pat, her husband; to Margaret, Pat and Den, who are here, and to the two lads now i; working in Western Australia. | "In their grief, they can be proud of her memory, and con fident that the things to which her life was devoted will become realities: a world at peace, a world of universal brotherhood, despite all the difficulties ahead." 