 8 Tribune article on the ball: j j Notes are good | but we want ! plentv of them! i | For a designer in applied art to find himself a j (centre of public controversy must be gratifying if J I i not a source of downright amazement. 1 CO many objects handled each day contain elements of ex pert design that are simply taken for granted. No thought is given to the anonymous personality of the designer. The fuss over the design of Austra lia's new decimal notes rages on two fronts. The art critics are con cerned with the success or failure of the design as design, while on the other front the designer's choice of Subject is assailed by some who most likely would regard a successful share manipulator as a superior citizen to a democratic poet or a convict architect. . The common theme developed by hostile critics on both fronts seems to be that Australianism is "corny" and that Aboriginal art motifs are overdone. Not all critics are hostile however and the panel of designers and advisers certainly should be com- . mended on the choice of designs of these notesi Portraits seem to be a must for de signers of currency, which in this case has been approached as though a bank note was a sort of national mast-head or standard — a national emblem. The main difficulty with portraits in designs of this type is to integrate' the necessarily rather stiff and naturalistic portraits with the stylised or symbolic elements of _ the design as a whole. This has not been entirely overcome by the designer of this set of notes, though his success in the case of Lawson and Greenway is masterly. Choice of Portraits The choice of portraits for the notes follows a pattern but is neverthe less significant. It might be said that John Mac- arthur in introducing sheep to Australia was more interested in his private fortunes than in the ueveiupmtuiL ui Australia; just as it might be said that Kingsford Smith was a career flier. But Greenway, our first architect, arrived here as a convict and has left some of our finest buildings as a heritage; Farrer as a scientist worked to improve wheat strains; Hargrave was a pioneer in aero nautics, and Lawson, often without a quid himself, is Australia's national poet of democracy and mateship. The designs are bold, colourful and in the main aggressively Australian. Along with the designer, the tech nicians, engravers, advisors and other experts who worked to pro duce these notes are to be con gratulated. Now lets battle for the opportunity &lt; to examine as much of their works as we can ! H.McC. 