 Sydney seminar on Indo. (CONTRIBUTED) , CYDNEY : The recent massacre of com munists and other demo crats in Indonesia was condemned by several speakers last weekend at a summer school symposium organised by the Australia-Indonesia Association (NSW) with the Indonesian Students' Association. Some 200 Australians and Indonesians attended the symposium at Thornleigh, centred on the theme "the wealth of Indonesia." Lectures were given by Prof. H. Arndt (economics, National University), Dr. H. Feith (poli tical science, Monash Univer- sity, Melbourne), Drs. Penny and Singaribun (Pacific Studies, ANU), and D. T. Tan (econo mics, New England University); Messrs. J. Mackie (Indonesian Studies, Melbourne), K. Thomas (ANU Pacific Studies) and A. Hunter (ANU Pacific Studies). Topics included Peasant agri culture, Indonesia's economic Plans and the oil industry. A speaker from the floor condemned the slaughter of the (estimated) 300,000 Com munists and progressives. This indicated the Army was irre sponsible and also was right- wing-led. The Army could not solve Indonesia's problems. Dr. Feith, from the panel on the platform, also strongly con demned the slaughter and stated the Communists were more the victims than the instigators of these horrible events. One student recently re turned from a brief tour of Indonesia, participated in one students' demonstration to Bogor, Sukarno's palace, 40 miles from Djakarta. The demonstrators travelled mainly in army vehicles. In Bali, homes marked by their occupiers "P.N.I." (Indo nesian Nationalist Party, found ed by Sukarno in 1928) were wrecked by marauders. Stories were /consistent of night execu tions by army and terroristic groups against Communists and left wing villagers. Some lecturers conceded that the Communist Party (P.K.I.) was the only party that could have successfully tackled the problem of over coming the serious economic weaknesses in the country. But with the destruction of the P.K.I. as an effective politi cal force for some time, the only organisation left in con- was the army. The School concluded by initiating a Public Appeal for the Java Flood victims, and nearly $200 was subscribed by those attending 