 Guantanamo base, US aircraft make a practice of violating Cuban air space, naval units cut through Cuban territorial waters, US marines insult and provoke Cuban border guards. Earlier this year, a Cuban sen try was shot dead in cold blood by a US sniper. This has been going on for years. The' daily military report of the Oriente (Eastern) province for April 19, 1964, for example, read: "6 pm: Two marines and inter preter threw rocks at our soldiers who were lowering our national flag. One soldier was hit. "9.35 pm: Eight marines crossed the line to our post, one urinated, against our flagpole, others up rooted plants and threw stones at our soldiers. "11 pm: US marines approached our post, throwing stones at our soldiers, who were then withdrawn 20 metres." Or you can go further hack to the October 1962 ("rockets") crisis: it was the same story. At that time Cuba had lodged its five-point demand that the USA stop its. provocations, attacks, sub versions, territorial violations and economic blockade, and demanded US withdrawal from Guantana mo. Fidel Castro has said: "These imperialists act like gangsters, like killers, like bullies; they be lieve that everyone is afraid of them; they mistake prudence, re sponsibility and serenity for fear." |_|OW prudent? Every day, despite these provoca tions, when the American flag is hoisted at Guantanamo bor der post, the Cuban sentries nearby stand to attention — out of respect, they explain, for the American people, not their government. And Fidel Castro warns: "We are not willing to tolerate certain things which go beyond admissible and tolerable limits. Rather than that, we prefer to disappear as a Revolution, as a nation and even as an island ... let them know that they would have to pay with tens and hundreds of thousands of lives for any attack on our coun try". # These are pointers to the reas- on why, ever since the US mer cenary invaders were defeated at Playa Giron, southern Cuba, in April 1961, the country has been semi-mobilised for war. Now, not only is there an in tensively trained and well-equip ped army, navy and air force de signed strictly for the island's defence. You'll also see an armed sentry on every public building, the duty being rostered from the staff T.are'e numbers train in the armed forces reserve. By day and night, torpedo boats patrol the. coast. At night in Hav ana, the anti-aircraft searchlights sweep the sky and the guns fire practice tracer shells. It is a heavy burden for a small nation, this allocation of men, women and time, as well as the heavy expenditure on equipment. So is the constant strain. Yet what choice have the Cubans? The confrontation is not of their making. MOR is it only military. In November, 1 960 Wash ington put an embargo on all exports to Cuba. This was a serious blow at Cuba, since, before the revolu- NAM /1nUn 'n OH/1 1 YY1 _ tiun, uuao CA.pi/i to i/U cuuvt aaaa ports from the USA had been respectively 67 and 70 per cent of all her foreign trade. By 1962, the same figures had dropped to 0.8 and 0.1 per cent respectively. Today food and clothes are ade quate, but rice, beef, shoes and a few other things are rationed— ' thanks to the blockade. Washington has, by intimidation of Latin American governments, effectively cut Cuba off from al most all of her traditional and natural trading partners. Because of this the economic relations between Cuba and the European socialist countries, par ticularly the Soviet Union, became the lifeline of the new Cuba. Travelling the island, almost every cargo ship I saw in the many good harbors was a Soviet ship. Almost every major new in dustrial installation is built with Soviet aid. Cuba's is an extraordinary sit uation — on the one hand, con stantly alert against attack; on the other, deeply convinced by deeds of the real meaning of soc ialist selfless aid and support. In the light of this, some things become easier for outsiders to un derstand: the energy of tiny Cuba's support for any action, anywhere, that challenges US imperialism, particularly in Latin America; above all, the active political cam paign in support of the Vietna mese people and what amounts to a mass yearning in Cuba, for an invitation to send troops to sup port them. Why is the name of Che Gue vara, who, though not a Cuban, _r -mil Poct.rn's f.wn was one ui f principal lieutenants in the revo lution, still spoken today at all levels with perhaps even deeper affection and respect than before he last yea-r resigned from his high Cabinet post and left Cuba? It is because, departing, he spoke of his "most sacred of duties: to fight against imper ialism" in other places. Y'ET these burdens do not prevent the rapid con struction of a socialist econ omy where already the old residual unemployment, par ticularly in the countryside, has been replaced by a labor shortage . . . They do not prevent the up- thrust of remarkable new forms of democracy; such as the first local public assemblies (I attended one in Santiago) at which the elected local councils must report on their work and subject themselves to open public criticism and sug gestion; and the ballots for the union officials at' the job level (I saw a case where 24 were on the ballot for the post of union sec retary on the job). Nor do the event the vig orous develop of every form of artistic a |y among the young, inciudijfidespread exper imentation in atract art forms . . . or the cauing popularity of street carni or of the night clubs in Hav :in some cases with floor she hat might even make Sydney budge. There is sor ng about Cuba. Provocation at Guantanamo'. a Yankee marine throws rocks at Cuban border guards ocress the fence. 