 In brief . Inbrief vIn "brief &lt; 'krieflS - i i » . » " « -e S - s a &lt; CP leader tortured, murdered THIS brutal torture and murder of Alberto Lovera, a Venezuelan Communist Party leader, by agents of the General Police Direction /mrrapniA in October. 1965, has now been officially con firmed. The Congressional Inquiry was ordered as a result of the pressure of demands by Con gress Members and by a public campaign outside. It was confirmed that Lov era, a member of the VCP political bureau, was kid napped on October 18, 1965 by a captain and 10 other agents of police, sent to Cachipo and Maturin concentration camps, being tortured in front of other political prisoners. The Inquiry revealed the responsibility of Captain Pat ina Gonzales, then DIGEPOL director and now studying at FBI .headquarters in the United States. Alberto Lovera was 43 and a former oil worker. He went to the 1947 World Youth Festival at Budapest as a Communist Youth member, he was elected to the party's central committee in 1961 and became a widely popular leader in the national liber ation movement. Moscow rout celebrated From Rupert Lockwood jyrOSCOW: The Red Army's rout of Hitler Germany's most powerful armies before Moscow 25 years ago was celebrated throughout the USSR not only as a turning point in the war to smash fascism, but as a warning to Hitler's would-be successors. A Kremlin memorial meet ing attended by generals and soldiers who took part in the battle was told by speakers that the historic experience of this Moscow battle and the war was a stern reminder to all military gamblers. The remains of an unknown soldier who died in the battle 27 miles from Moscow in December, 1941 was lowered into a grave by the Kremlin wall to the thunder of a mil itary salute. On Victory Day, May 9 next year, the unknown soldier monument will he unveiled and an eternal flame lit there. Socialism's "shopwindow" rpHE German Democratic Republic seems to he the show window of socialism. The shops are filled with all kinds of goods, the wages seem to he about double those of some other socialist countries and prices lower. Services are on a high level. Cedric Belfrage, the English- born author who was de ported from the US., spent some time in England before coming to the World Journal ists' Congress in Berlin, after which he toured the GDR. I saw him in Moscow and he was convinced that GDR living standards are now def initely ahead of those in England. OAU C't-ee in Congo rpHE Congo Kinshasa Repub lic has proposed to the or ganisation of African Unity's Liberation Committee that it should hold its next session in Kinshasa. This official invitation is further evidence of the colon ial powers' failure to reconvert the Congo to a colony and of Congo Kinshasa's growing un ity with the African liberation movement. 