 ALP DECISION ON STATE AID, BUT . . education crisis Remains unsolved j By a Special Correspondent ANYBODY looking to last weekend s special Labor Party conference to help solve the crisis in education must have been sorely disappointed. The conference called in Surfers Paradise specially to deal with education, adopted r. policy on "State aid" which Mr. Calwell later said "Was operable throughout Australia and all party members would abide with it". Labour has now adopted a policy on capital for private school buildings, and opened the way to offer them all State aid fringe benefits including school equipment and furniture, teacher training, etc. Tackling of the real prob lems arising from the crisis in education is yet to come, for at Surfer's Paradise they concentrated on burying an aspect of their internal fight prior to the Federal elections. A recent statement on edu cation by the Central Commit tee of the Communist Party warned that the State aid issue was being used to divert people from serious thought and action around ways and means of solving the crisis in education. Social needs The statement went on to say: "Australian education is not keeping pace with the scientific and technological advances of this era and the consequent industrial require ments of the nation and the social needs of the people. "Because State Governments have built their education systems on the principle of providing education without 'sectarian or class distinction', the provision of Government aid. for- private schools cannot begin to solve the problems of education in this country. "The proposal to provide such aid. is a diversionary move and is being used by certain parties as a form of political bribery, a way to buy votes. It arouses sectarianism and. disunity amoung the people and tends to sidetrack people from demands on the Federal Government for the provision of large sums of money to the state governments for public education. It tends to turn people aside .from consideration of, and action around, major issues demanding solution." Tho conference also pres cribed two phony organisations, Tho Defend Australia League and The Defend Australia Com mittee, which have been act ing as a front for the DLP and Liberal party extremists. The resolution passed by conference about these organ isations said: Extremists "It was now clear from meetings held under their auspices and. resolutions spon sored. at those meetings that these bodies have come to be controlled and used by mem bers of the DLF, extremist Liberals and fellow travellers". Sponsors of the Defend Australia League include Sir Wilfred. Kent Hughes, DLP Senators Gair and McManus, Dr. Knopf elmacher and ALP members L. Short and Captain Benson. The Federal executive of the ALP which met after the con ference adjourned consideration of a complaint by the Federal president, Senator Keefe, that Labor's Deputy leader Mr. Whitlam had. breached party discipline by deliberately cir culating a minority statement by some members of the Party's education committee.. So far there has been no statement regarding a com plaint to the Federal executive from South Australia of the action of NSW Labor Party president (Mr. C. Oliver) who bitterly attacked the Federal ALP executive and Federal Labor leader Mr. Calwell at their recent conference. 