 WHAT UNIONISM HAS TO OFFER gYDNEY : The third annual Australian Council of Trade Unions' Youth Week will be celebrated throughout Aus tralia from September 12 to September 18. State and provincial Labor Councils will orgamse their own programs oi mterest, en tertainment and other activity after consultation with young people. Mr. A. Monk (ACTU presi dent) in his message to the organisers of Youth Week says: "The purpose of Youth Week is' to help introduce young peo ple to the trade unions, to show them what unionism has to of fer, to encourage them to take part in the activities of the un ions and to gain their support for the Youth Program of the ACTU." Some of the demands and principles of this program are: 6 WAGES: To be related to the adult rate for the job. 0 COMPENSATION: To cov er young workers during tech nical training while travelling to and from home or between work and home. © EQUAL PAY: The ACTU policy of equal pay for equal work for both male and female workers to apply to junior workers. 0 APPRENTICES: Wages to be based no the tradesmen's full rate and not on the basic wage. 0 UNAPPRENTICED JUN IORS: Maximum rate to he rel ated to the total rate of adult non-tradesmen as follows: 16 years of age, 50 per cent; 17 years of age, 75 per cent; 18 years of age and over 100 per cent. 0 COUNTRY APPRENTICES' STUDY TIME: Same time off from work for study as city apprentices with suitable ar rangements for study where there are no technical colleges. © TECHNICAL COLLEGE CURRICULA: Full training in the use of equipment, methods, trends, materials and safety. 0 DAY - TIME - TRAINING: Action to bring this about in all States. 0 ALL-ROUND TRAINING: Regular shop and job inspec tions to check if there is rota tion of apprentices on different machines and plant equipment associated with all phases of a particular trade. 0 OPPORTUNITY TO LEARN: Free education facili ties for apprentices desiring extended training, with Federal and State Governments provid ing improved facilities for non- apprenticed youths to take up higher education. An interesting and varied program has been arranged for the week, the highlight of which will be the announcing of the winners of the Trade Union Safe Drivers Competition. First prize is a new Holden. 