 China's caricature of Marxist ideas A Tribune staff member, last week, put the following questions about China and her policies to the general secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, Mr. Laurie Aarons. QUESTION: How do recent events in China measure up to the ideas of Marxism? ANSWER: It is sad to have to say it but, recent events in China are a caricature of the ideas and principles of com munism. Ideological and theo- ' retical justifications advanced for the so-called "great prole tarian cultural revolution" are ludicrously opposed to the en lightened ideas of Marxism. "One- cannot regard these developments as an internal af fair of China; the Chinese are dragging the ideas of commun ism into the mud, before the whole world. " 'The proletarian cultural revolution' is neither proletar ian nor cultural, still less a revolution. The most favorable class description one could give is that it is inspired by a petty-bourgeois fanaticism. "It is certainly not 'cultural' but obscurantist. Above all, it is not a revolution but a degen eration of the great Chinese Revolution, and a reversal of the policies previously follow ed in China." QUESTION: What do you mean by the reversal of pol icies previously followed? ANSWER: "Specifically, one thinks of the policy of the 'Hundred Flowers', the free contention of different cultural and scientific ideas. Then there is the peaceful remoulding of bourgeois elements, and willing ness to learn from the science and culture of all countries. "There is more to it than that, however. The leading group in the Communist 7?arty of China has reversed almost every policy decision of its 1956 Eighth Congress, on socialist construction, foreign policy, education, and relations with other Communist Parties. It has removed many of the lead ers elected by the Congress, and has flouted its own Consti tution in at least three vital particulars— failing to call the elected Congress together an nually between 1957 and 1962, failing to convene a new Con gress in 1962, and failing to hold the prescribed number of Central Committee meetings (this last was the first for three years, although it should meet twice a year)," QUESTION: Do you think there is a "personality" cult in China? ANSWER: "I'm afraid there is little doubt about that. If there has been no repetition of the worst excesses of the Stalin period in the USSR— as is fer vently to be hoped— it is certain that adulation of Mao is al ready far more extreme— and absurd— than that ever lavished upon Stalin." QUESTION: What do you think are the main causes for . these new developments? ANSWER: "This is a very complex matter. Speaking briefly, I would say that the underlying cause is to be found in Chinese economy, culture and political history, and the present level of development in this great country, which has the oldest uninterrupted and unified civilised history of any nation. A very important cause is to be found in the implacable hostility of American policy to wards China, a continuation of the imperialist occupation for a century, up to 1949. "From these conditions, spe cific responses have developed a degeneration of socialist theory in face of the great problems of creating a new society. Internally, recent pol icies seem to be a preparation for some new variant of the Great Leap which proved such a failure. "Externally, they are proba bly a reaction to the interna tional isolation of China from virtually all other non-imperial ist countries, a self-imnosed Isolation so hard to explain when one recalls the great store of international good will gained by the foreign pol icy endorsed by the 1956 Con gress. "Another very important con sideration is the continued withering away of support for China in the international com munist movement. Again, this must be hard for the Chinese leaders to accept, since it is not so long ago that they cer tainly enjoyed important sup port for at least some of their policies among Communist Parties — in Asia mainly, but not only there." QUESTION: Why do you think they have lost this sup port? ANSWER: "It seems to me that the real meaning of the general line proposed by the Chinese has become much clearer. There is also the dif ference between Chinese words and deeds, which has become more and more obvious. Most important of all is the out right Chinese rejection of the proposal for joint action in support of Vietnam. "This has shocked all Com munist Parties — except perhaps Albania and New Zealand. Many others have publicly de clared their support for joint action, even those who are sympathetic on some questions. Only recently, the Korean and Japanese Parties announced their determination to decide their own policies by independ ent evaluation." QUESTION: What policies do you consider Australian communists should adopt to wards China andi the Chin- I ese Party? ANSWER: "As we have said before, China is a socialist country, menaced by US imper ialism. We stand for Australian- Chinese friendship, trade and complete recognition of the People's Republic. We oppose Hasluck's war propaganda and official incitement of racial ism. "Our Party has made clear its views on the basic issues be fore the international move ment. These have clarified still more recently, and we will con tinue to state our views on them. "We favor continued efforts to restore unity, if necessary step by step. This could still begin with joint action in sup port of Vietnam, and opposi tion to US provocations against China; then we could recom mence fraternal discussions on theoretical and political dif ferences in the spirit of equal ity and testing positions against realities." L. AARONS. 