 [?] pLANS to protest during President Johnson's visit next weekend against the Vietnam war and conscription of Australians are going forward this week all over Australia. In Sydney, Vietnam pro test demonstrations will as- semble on the route of Presi dent Johnson's motorcade through the city. This is stated in a press release by the Project Viet nam Committee. The press statement says: "The initial assembly point will be at the corner of College and Liverpool Streets, at 10 a.m. "The demonstrations will be peaceful but forthright in character. They will be designed to afford respon sible citizens an opportun ity to protest the Vietnam war policies of the U.S. and Australian governments. "It is expected that black will be the predominant colour theme of the demon strations, symbolising the tragedy of the Vietnam war and sharply contrasting with the gala colour and carnival concept being offi cially promoted. "Citizens wishing to parti cipate and intending to pre pare their own protest messages are advised to use a flexible material 'such as poster paper, to facilitate carrying and handling in confined spaces. "For further information contact should be made with Project Vietnam Com mittee, phone 2110077." Clergy It was reported this week that hundreds of clergy and women's organisations were planning visits to Canberra to protest against the Vietnam war during Johnson's visit. Last week Rev. Alan Walker of the Sydney Central Method- , ist Mission, said that many clergymen would demon- strate for peace during the visit. Last Sunday Mr. Walker told his congregation of 800 that the many people who op posed Johnson's policies could not welcome him to Aus tralia. Opponents . of the Vietnam war would have either to stay away or find a way to express dissent. The Union of Australian Women will send protest dele gations to ' Canberra from Sydney, Newcastle and Wol- longong. University of NSW students will start demonstrating against Johnson's visit at the University on Friday at 1 p.m. An overflow meeting in a students' Common Room de cided this last Monday, and established a committee to organise the protest. A skin Lavish spending by the Askin Government on the visit brought sharp criticism from letter-writers to the Sydney Morning Herald. Mrs. Margaret Watts, Chair man of the Quaker Service Council in Sydney, says that the money spent to bring chil dren to Sydney for Johnson should be used to bring war- injured Vietnamese children to Sydney for treatment. She comments: "How iron ical that in a so-called Chris tian country we send troops to Asia to destroy humaii life, burn the villages and then hasten to repair the damage!" 