 CPSU Cong ress a new landmark in Soviet life OSCOW: The 23rd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union which has opened is a new landmark in the life of the Soviet people. The Congress decisions will aiso nave great influence in the world. As preparations for the Con gress were finalised slogans and banners were all over Moscow and the close ties be tween the party and the people were evident. Issues before the Congress have been discussed in party organisations and public meet ings all over the Soviet Union. Before the Congress the daily press carried very much dis cussion material. Democratic All this is demonstrative of the thorough going democratic processes in preparation for and deliberation at the Con gress. The five year plan being dis cussed at the 23rd Congress provides for a 30 per cent rise in living standards of the Soviet people and the plan will strengthen the economic base for the advance to communism, particularly as over the five- year period there will be an increase of 50 per cent in in dustrial production. Tremendous changes are under way in the socialist world. Scientific and technological achievements are most rapid as was shown in the field of space by the soft landing on the moon and! the Venus probe. Anti-dogmatism Technological changes in in dustry and agriculture will call for new methods of produc tion and management. These technological changes are a challenge to all leaders of the party and industry who must adjust their thinking to the solution of these new prob lems. There is no room for dogma tism. The old must make way for the new. At the same time in meeting the challenge of new conditions the party recognises that this does not mean the finding of revisionist solutions which have been advanced by some people. The answer is to be found in the application of Marxism- Leninism to the new develop ments and that is the way the CPSU is tackling it. J? n from the Communist Party of Australia to the 23rd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet union was met at the Mpscow international airport by alter nate C.P.S.U. Presidium member Dmitry Ustinov and by two members of the Central Committee's central auditing commis sion Eugene Bugayev and Ivan Vladichenko. The Australian delegates are: Messrs. R. Dixon (C.P.A. President), R. Gandim and H. Hatfield. MR. R. DIXON. 