 POLITICS I OF JINGOISM W. J. BROWN reviews "THE POLITICS OF PATRIOT ISM ", by G. L. Kristianson (A.N.U. Press, Canberra) . $4,50. \A/HY bas the Returned Services League become the centre of so much bitter controversy? Is the RSL carrying out the functions for which it was originally set up — to be a welfare or benev olent body attending to the needs of ex-servicemen? Are its leaders seeking to mis use it for their own malevolent political purposes forgetting its original purpose? G. L. Kristianson's "The Politics of Patriotism", subtitled "The Pressure Group Activities of the Returned Servicemen's League", probes usefully at some of these questions but does not attempt to reach really conclusive answers. The author, Canadian by birth, is now. Assistant Professor of Poli tical Science at the University of Saskatchewan where he has been awarded a Canadian research grant to study pressure groups in the province of Saskatchewan. Per haps his studies there might take him to a more profound and per haps more progressive standpoint than that which he promises to, but fails to reach in his R.S.L. studies. Dr. Kristianson raises the point v that because the League is an or- ganisation based on events which are receding into the past, con sideration of the R.S.L.'s political future is of some importance. He points out a decline in mem bership will obviously and inevit ably occur unless Australia is again involved in a major conven tional war. The observation overlooks the reality that history has already passed the point of time when an other "major conventional war" is possible short of a rapid escalation into an all out nuclear war. It is a point the R.S.L. leaders them selves repeatedly overlook. That aside, Dr. Kristianson's in teresting study of R.S.L. pressure group activities shows that the leadership have done this import ant ex-serviceman's organisation a grave disservice by taking it a long way from its original aims and in tentions. In an indirect way, the book provides valuable confirmation of the League leadership's general anti-progressive, anti-working class and jingo attitudes. There is clear indication of the . League leaders' concentration of their reactionary spleen on the Communist Party as a particular, militant fighting force for the working people. There are no less than 22 pages in different sections of the book dealing with various aspects of the R.S.L. leadership's anti-Communist activities. The way .these are indi cated in the index, carries its own comment. There are two indexed headings "Bolshevism" and "Com munism". They contain nothing but the brief cross reference ad vice: "see anti-Communism." As a group of Communist ex- servicemen told an R.S.L. spokes man on a recent deputation to its Sydney College St. headquarters, it is high time the R.S.L. leader ship confined itself to building un ity of all ex-servicemen to ad vance the common good of all Australians who served their coun try regardless of their political or religious viewpoints. On balance, evidence presented by this book shows that the pre sent leadership weights League activities more on the basis of the politics of jingoism rather than the politics of genuine patriotism. Certainly, the original RSL aims of advancing the returned man's welfare in pensions, housing and other benefits tend to face heavy competion from the League lead ership's pursuit of their own particular anti-Australian working class bias. It is probably expecting too much that a hook of this kind would come even appreciably close to such a conclusion. Notwithstanding, Dr. Kristian son's work is a useful and exten- sive reference book.— [?] W. J. Brown, secretary of the NSW Bureau of the CPA, is an ex- serviceman of the Second World War. KAARK Twain once re marked that the only reason people travel is to confirm their prejudices. Equally, one might argue, this is the only reason people will read Australia and the Monarchy. Or at least the result of their reading it will he a confirmation of their prejudices, for the var ious arguments advanced in the book in favour of the Republic of Australia seem unlikely to convince anyone, even those whose attachment to the present situation is only slight. Indeed, on the evidence of this book, those who already hold Repub lican beliefs might well wonder whether they have a valid case at all. It is a pity that the hook mis fired as badly as this, for it some how manages to give the impres sion that it , was intended as a Republican tract, a sort of en de coeur of those who object to the fact that, constitutionally, the ultimate allegiance of every Aus tralian is to a person who is also the British monarch. With only a few exceptions the ten contributors, either explicitly or by implication, indicate that their sympathies lie with a severing of this monarchial unit. 