 11 """" hi hi iimim Govt, back in Qland. 1 JbSBANE: In last Satur- 1 day's Queensland State I election, the Nicklin Govern- 1 ment polled more than the I Australian Labor Party, but I still did not get 50 per cent I of the total vote. | The size of its majority in 1 Parliamentary seats comes not I from its total vote but from 1 the "loaded" nature of the 1 electorates. Here are some of the facts: — The Nicklin Government got only about 46 per cent of the votes cast, yet it " gets 60 per cent (47 out of the 78) of the seats in Parliament. In the 28 Brisbane met ropolitan electorates, the ALP's total vote (on Sunday morn- j ing's figures) was over 5000 j more than the Liberals — but j the Liberals are getting 16 cr j ' the seats and the ALP only 12. . j Throughout the State, the \ Government coalition parties' vote totalled only 3 per cent 1 above the ALP's vote. On a j proper proportional basis, that should give the Government about two more seats than the ALP — but, in fact, the Govern ment is getting 22 more seats than the ALP. The labor movement's big obstacle is its position in the country. Outside the Brisbane and provincial city seats, there are 38 fundamentally rural seats. The ALP on Saturday won only six of these. Country The labor movement needs, firstly, to develop virile poli cies for the countryside and, secondly, to see that these are made known to the country people. There needs to be, also, the most thoughtful, positive ap proach to many other sections outside, the blue-collar indus trial working class. To help funnel votes to the Government, the QLP-DtP stood in almost 60 electorates and ran a most expensive campaign of vilification agamS:j ALp leaders. But their overall vote slid downward. The vote for the Communist candidates in the five elector ates contested (four in Bris bane, one in Townsville) via disappointing. The highest percentage 0 the vote in any electorate se cured by the Party was )U under 2i per cent — 1 in 40" in South Brisbane. But the Party's dampa which reached many new P® " pie, will have results that w go beyond the actual vot figure on Saturday. , The Nicklin Government » certainly not as secure as majority in seats would se to show. There is bitterness between the two coahti0' parties (shown in their n ' ries in electorates, and other ways) and within each party OSLVg Liberal State Convention I so many examples). 