 Campaign call on prices, wages ANBERRA: A call for Australia-wide protest stoppages and demonstrations as part of a cam paign to control prices and increase wages has come to the Australian Council of Trade Unions from the Federal Conference of the Building Workers Indus trial Union. The BWIU conference, meet ing last week in Canberra, de manded action to win a basic wage of not less than $44 a week; a margin not less than $20 for tradesmen and $15 for other workers and with higher wa.ges for women and youth. "It is a matter for great re gret that the ACTU leadership which is becoming increasingly conservative has not as yet de veloped a vigorous campaign against the employers' total ,wage concept and in support of a basic wage and margin based fully on modern day needs. | "What workers want from the ACTU leadership is action, not talk!" the conference said. Conference said that thous ands of workers, by a combin ation of direct ' action and col lective bargaining, have shown the wry "to beat the incomes policy of the bosses, Govern ments and compulsory arbitra tion. "Surely even the conservative leadership must now realise after the disgraceful GMH fiasco that direct action is the only way forward!" | Continued on Page 12 Price wage campaign Continued from Page 1 Officers of the ACTU were | also criticised for their failure | "to give the. type of leader- | ship that would assist the Ab- f original workers on strike at j Wave Hill and Newcastle ' | Waters to win their struggle J for full pay. "This was shown by the fact that the terms of settlement accepted by the ACTU secret ary, H. Souter, had been re jected by the North Australian Workers Union and the Ab original workers." "We resolve to continue ouv financial and moral support foi the Aborigines in their struggle," the BWIU said. , | The conference which rep- ! I resents 50,000 building work- | ers, called on the Federal Gov- | ernment to immediately re- | lease the young Sydney school teacher, Mr. William White, The use of the NSW State police to arrest military con scripts was condemned by con ference as a misuse of police. A declaration by conference charged the Australian and United State Governments with using coercion and force to compel Australian and Americ an youth to carry out criminal acts against the Vietnamese people. , | "We condemn the Australian Government's participation in the crimes against the Viet namese people who have never threatened us or shown any desire to injure us in any way. 