 - "guncway, June 22. 10 JUNIOR TRIBUNE 1 H£LLO Tribune Juniors, June is definitely the month for children. A from International Children's Day, it is also the m that Children's Book Week is celebrated. IV? of the big stores have special displays for the Bo Week and authors receive awards for the best b L- in various groups. 3 With T.V. a lot of us have a tendency to stop reading and watch the screen instead. This makes us a hit lazy and also we do not use our imagination to create pictures in our minds as we read the words in the books. Do' you like reading? I know a lot of you do. What is you favourite book? I think one of my very fav ourite books when I was younger was "Wind in the Willow" — and I often have cause to remember Mr. Toad, Ratty and Mole, not forgetting Mr. Badger — particularly if watching a film about these animals. Cobber "QOBBER" is not really a book, it is a magazine and it is produced for young people by young people. It is the Jour nal of the Junior Eureka League. It contains all the news of what is happening in the JEL in New South Wales. Do you have a paper in your State? Write in and tell us about it. There is lots of news in the June issue, about Camps, about the JEL. One item that I thought was a really nice thought was a call to all branches and mem bers who can send a little letter to a JEL in the country, Gay, who is recover ing from an eye operation, to let her know the news and what is happening, also to send her get- well cards. (I'm sure that they will not only send her letters in June and I'm ' sure I can speak for all of you and say to Gay: "Hope everything went really well and that six months will soon fly by.") If you would like to know more about the JEL write to Mr. B. Rix, Junior Eureka League, 168 Day Street, he will give you information about all States. wou a Penfriend" LES are BHU arriving from all over the worlg ' asking us to help with 2? friends: Miss Jean Aires m Snelling Ave., Northfieet, ke £ England. Jean is 12 yeare, is domg a project on AustMU in school and would like so Z assistance, please. From Bulgaria— Ognian Dam- lanov, 15 years old, very well m English (also fo German, Russian and Hungar ian)— Ognian Damianov, ul "Kiril i Metodi" 21, SOFIA s BULGARIA. From Pakistan Rafiruzza man, Mirpur Railway Station, Post Office Mirpur, Dt. KUSH- TIA, EAST PAKISTAN. He is 14 years old, collects stamps and is interested in sport. &&AR P/TA/ PAL 