 i ti n ? n B" + ri h n n ga|ELLO, Tribune Juniors, This week we have a col ouring competition from the French mazarine "Jeunes Annees" that I told you about last week. I hope you enjoy colouring it in. What did you thing of "Ghprnnshlrn" ( fhA Piissi n.n puppy) she really looked as if she was going to say some thing to the scientist. In the same book there are photos of some of the puppies of the other space dogs, so if I have space I will print them. A friend of mine went over seas the other day and one of the gifts she took away were postcards of Australian scenes with Australian stamps wrapped in cellophane. These were pre pared by some children; this was an excellent idea and I thought that some of the Jun ior Tribune readers might like to prepare one or two to send to our friends oberseas. Dinewan. MORE TIME, PLEASE! A young friend of mine in terested in the poster and greeting card competition has asked for more time. I think this is a good idea for a number of our readers will be going into the city to watch or join in the May Day march. So entries to be in by 11th May. MORE ABOUT COINS I don't know if you're like m.e, and know very little about the coins we handle day by day, but I was always under the impression that all our coins were minted in Australia. Wrong again — our coin collector tells me that some of our coins have been minted in London, Calcutta, Bombay, Birmingham and a shilling minted in 1962 was done in San Francisco. Last week we spoke about the condition of coins being either very good, good, fair and poor. The words actually des- \ cribe the condition of the coins. Very Good the wording on the coin can. still be seen, but the dots around the rims have some together, good — the coin's surface is scratched, the rim dots have almost disap peared, the rim is flat; fair — the detail of the coin has dis- appeared, it is badly scratched gf and worn; poor — is smooth |i with wear, all details have gone M and the rim is smooth. if Any coin collectors, young or f|| old, are invited to write in i| with information about coins, S| their" most interesting coin and n any oddities in their collection. g Name .-. Age 1 Address | All entries to be in by the 1 1 th May, Dinewan, 1 68 Day Street, 1 Sydney, N.S.W. There will be a 50 cent prize for each 0 j|| the Senior and Junior Section winners. I 