 Gifts for all ages MBBBBBBBaoBBaaaaaiaaaiBtMninaBnsaanBflBBnBBBHaaBHM mmmtm PICCANINNY WALKABOUT A itory of two Aboriginal children, by Axel Poignant. Written by an Australian photographer — children and adults alike will be enchanted with this picture book of Millingimbi Island, off the coast of Arnhem Land. This story of the two children. Rikili and Nullagumdi, won the 1957-8 best picture book of the year, children's book competition. The pretace will provide parents with the answers to the lively questions which the book will inspire. $1.95 ($2.11 posted). BABIES OF THE WILD Yevgeni Charushin Delightful stories of the wolf cub, little fox, bunnies, fawns and little baby bears. Illustrations .will be sheer delight to any tiny tot. 15c (22c posted). THE GIFT B. Cyteeb — illustrations by V. Suteyev, With some little puzzles to solve. Included are _ cut-outs to make adventure films of small animals and their forest. Woula you like to know what happened when a frog, a chick, a mouse, an ant and a Lady-Bird all went out for a walk? You will, see their pictures too! 20c (27c posted). THE BANJO OF THE BUSH Clement Semmler The work, life and times of A. B. Paterson. The biographer has written of Paterson the bushman, Paterson the Over- lander, Paterson the squatter, Paterson the adventurer and traveller, . and in addition, Paterson the celebrity of the city lawyer, novelist, essayist, newspaper editor, man-about- town, clubman, lecturer and broadcaster. Above all he has written of Paterson the writer. $5.25 ($5.47 posted). THE DAWN IS AT HAND Kath Walker. A book of poems from the Aboriginal author of "We Are Going". A fearless and impassioned fighter for her race, Kath Walker has contrived to write a book of poems which are not 'propaganda-like stuff' — yet the message, is clear. The old tribal tales alone give emphasis to — 'No not assimilation but integration. 1 Not submergence but our uplifting, So block and white may go forward together In harmony and brotherhood'. $1.50 ($1.60 posted). New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607. 