 I Federal trick J The legacy of neglect of I Northern Australian develop-' I ment by the Menzies-Mc- ! Ewen Ministry has nut the | new Holt-McEwen Govern- | ment on the spot in the cam- 1 paign. I In the 1963 Federal elec- T tions Labor leader Calwell announced a policy for | Northern Australian devel- I opment, which provided for | a Ministry for Northern De- I velopment, and the creation I of a Northern Australian ) Authority on the lines of the j Snowy Mountains authority. Menzies followed Calwell S by announcing that he would I establish a Northern Devel- i opment Division within the I Department of National De- S velopment. This was the I minimum he could promise | in the light of Calwell's an- I nounced policy. ! Invitation | In 1964 when the then I Minister for National De- £ velopment (Senator Spoon- | er) introduced a Bill in the ! Senate to establish a north- | em division, while making | no firm commitment as to | charter of authority Under I which the division would | operate, issued an invitation | to senior public servants S with considerable know- | ledge of Northern Australia | to join the division. I Dr. Patterson joined and 1 became its first Director. | Other public servants with a i great deal of experience on | Northern Australia also ! joined. j The Queensland and West- | em Australian State Govern- I ments favored the creation I of a statutory Northern Aus- tralian Authority represent- i ing the Commonwealth and S, the States, but they were J hoodwinked into the belief I that the new Northern Divi sion would have teeth and claws and a firm charter. | Part of the Menzies-Mc- j Ewen confidence trick was to induce the Queensland and Western Australian Gov ernments to appoint liaison officers to work with the Northern Division. Dr. Patterson has been telling the electors of Daw son that the . 1964 Federal budget was the first test of the Government's sincerity, but the North had received precisely nothing. Confidence trick This obviously convinced Dr. Patterson and other members of his division that they were victims of a large- scale confidence trick. Frustrated, Dr. Patterson staggered the Government by announcing that he would contest the Dawson elector ate as an endorsed Labor candidate'. The initiative in the by- election is firmly held by Dr. Patterson. His pin-point ing of Northern Develop ment as the main issue in the campaign is a major embarrassment to the Gov ernment with the election date (February 26) so close to the new session of Fed eral Parliament due to be gin in March. Mr. Holt doesn't relish having Dr. Patterson a£ Labor back bencher aiming heavy blows at the Govern ment on northern develop ment, and is hastening to Queensland to take part in the campaign. Both Mr. Holt and Mr. McEwen know that even if Dr. . Patterson doesn't win the seat, he must give it a mighty big shake. 