 MSB workers hold 4-hr stoppage for more wages JYDNEY : About 1,400 Maritime Services Board workers throughout the Port of Sydney held a four-hour stoppage last week in support of a $6 a week wage increase. The strike, which involved 20 unions, was called by the NSW Liaoor uouncn iouowmg numer ous unsuccessful attempts to negotiate the claim with the Board. , A strike meeting of the men held in the park outside the MBS building at Circular Quay demanded an early satisfactory wage offer from the Board. It was decided that the unions approach the Board to grant an increment scheme for service to be paid at the rate of £1.65 for first year, $3.30 for second year and $4.95 for the third year. Another stoppage will be called within a month to dis cuss further action pending an unsatisfactory answer to the claim. The original claim was first made over 14 months ago by a mass meeting of workers at LAST WEEK: in Sydney mass meet ings of male and female workers de manded substantial wage increases. An other example was the employees of Dairy Farmers (see page 10). Goat Island, in the Sydney Harbour. This claim, the workers .said, was in line with similar over- award payments being received at other waterfront workshops. A recent deputation of workers sought an interview with Premier Askin, who was "too busy to see them." He also would not see the unions. Labor Council organiser Mr. J. Ducker told last week's mass meeting that the MSB has had' a better deal for co-operation and industrial peace than any other employer in NSW. He said we would be only too happy to settle for half the increases granted to NSW poli ticians. General rank and file speakers said the unions should press for the full claim and that the increment be sought as an alternative. It was also proposed that the Labor Council disputes com mittee consider calling a State wide stoppage of MSB workers to back up the claim. - One worker from Goat Island said: "We have been waiting two years for wage increases. "This meeting should have been held two years ago when the Labor Government was in office," he said. See dairyman story, P. 10. Sydney Maritime Service Board workers at their mass meeting last week. 