 | Castro raps i China's \ I trade policy ! ! In a speech to a Havana rally celebrat- j ing the seventh anniversary of the Cuban i revolution, Cuban premier Castro said i Cuba would have less rice in the coming i year because China had cut deliveries by ! half. j This had been done i partly because of a trade misunderstanding and partly because of I China's need to supply I the Democratic Re- I public of Vietnam. 1 China had told Cuba it could not take the full 800,000 tons of Cuban sugar mentioned in the agree ment because the Chinese sugar crop had been good. In addition, he said, I China would cut its ribe I exports to Cuba by 50 per i cent in 1966 compared to I last year. 8 Castro said he had g thought the 1964 agree- j was for some years, but g "the Chinese had not un- | derstood it thus and thought it was only for | one year". S In the past, said Castro, ! Cuba had got rice from the I USA, but since the US | blockade had been insti- g tuted "our source of sup- f ply basically changed to I the People's Republic of . r China." ! China says j "untruthful" 1 He added: "We are ac- I customed to facing up to j difficult problems, even to j problems more difficult f than this one." j The official Chinese news- | agency replied with a long j statement by a Chinese " ! trade ministry official com- g plaining that Castro's | statments were "at var- 1 iance with the facts". 1 . It said that "at the Hav- ! . . ana mass rally Premier | ! Castro had unilaterally and i I untruthfully made public g the contents of the prelim- | inary trade negotiations J now going on. We cannot j but feel regret at this", it 1 said. f The Chinese reply : claimed that although Pre- | mier Castro had proposed I a long-term exchange of j large quantities of rice and I sugar between the two I countries, the 1965 trade I agreements on these com- j modities had been for one g. year only. | . The Chinese statement I hinted that Premier Cas- j ' tro's statement had been j made for political reasons. i l&lt; 