 Return to Greeneland "Seedy lapsed Catholics , steamy Central American jungles , & rigor ous persecutions by a police state " For some time now Graham Greene has oc cupied a position unique among contemporary Eng lish novelisfcs — > a situation no doubt typified by the fact that The Comedians, his first novel in five years, has been hailed in England as "a Teturn to Greeneland". Certainly many of the elements one has come to expect of Greene at his best are here. Seedy lapsed-Catholics, steam ing Central American jungles, and rigorous persecutions by a police state. But it is important to realize that "Greeneland", and hence Greene's strength as a writer, does not merely con sist of a random collection of these features. His real greatness lies in his extraordinary ability to base his novels upon current polit ical situations, in such a way as to make forceful and rele vant comments upon matters of H great importance to our time. The difficulties inherent in Isucn a moae oi wnung iiiubl be enormous. On the one hand lies the possibility that the novel will end up as mere re portage — or as a sort of exotic travel-book in the style of John Gunther. And on the other lies the equally dangerous possibility that Greene will be unable to work his political situation and his fictional characters into a coherent whole. A measure of the achieve ment of The Comedians is that he succumbs to neither possib ility. Instead, a background of terror and corruption in modem Haiti is brilliantly evoked (in deed, it is based on first-hand experience: Greene visited Haiti In 1963, but was refused per mission to revisit the country last year after he had made strong criticisms of the present regime in the English press), and is used as a means of measuring the political aware ness and commitment of the fictional (though representative) characters. We saw this sort of thing previously in the Power and the Glory and Our Man in Havana. Now The Comedians not merely confirms Greene's great gift, but raises it to new heights as well. "pHE focus of the book is the repressive rule of the Haitian dictator, Doctor Duvalier. Through his ruthless but efficient police-force, the Tont- ons Macoute, Duvalier maintains his reactionary regime. And though "Papa Doc" never ap pears in the novel, the extent of his personality cult is shown in the neon-signs which, we are told, flash throughout Port-au- Prince, the capital: "Je suis le drapeau Haitien, Uni et Indivis ible. Francois Duvalier. (The 'f' had fused, so it read 'rancois Dualier')". As a politician he is shown equally effectively: - in an effort to exact further American aid a few prominent Communists are allowed to live in Port-au- Prince. This enables him not only to keep a window open to the east, but also to flaunt the example of Cuba on Washing ton's doorstep. At the end of the novel the American aid arrives. Into this setting too arrive the three main characters: Brown, Smith and Jones. The common ness of their names is deliber ate, for these men are "the comedians" of the title; small, relatively insignificant people, really concerned more with themselves than with the hap piness and welfare of others. Brown, for example, is a dis reputable Englishman, whose link with Haiti is through the once luxurious, now vacant and ramshackle, hotel he inherits from his even more disreputable mother. (She dies in the arms of her gigolo quite early in the book). Brown's tragedy is that he acquiesces in his role as a com edian, always opting out of any commitment to a cause, placing his own safety and well-being at the head of his list of pri- orities. He says that he wasn't born to die for anything, but it is an ironical touch that makes his last occupation that of a funeral director in the Dominican Republic. CMITH and his wife, how ever, feel that they are committed but the cause is so absurd as to be really no more than a measure of their own egocentricity. Mr. Smith, as his wife con tinually remarks, was an Amer ican Presidential candidate in 1948. Running on a pacifist, veg etarian, tee-total (Smith drinks Coke) platform, he polled 10,000 votes. "It was a gesture ... We showed our flag". His life is based on the theory that i,f one exists on a. veget arian diet, then acidity is re moved from the body and hence the passions can be controlled. With this benevolent end in view he has come to Haiti (of all places!) to investigate the pos sibility of establishing a veget arian centre. There is a fine scene the Sec retary for Social Welfare ("Of course you realize, Mr. Smith, . we are not a socialist state. We believe in free enterprise") takes Brown and Smith to the new ci.tv of Ihivftliervillfi f'nur answer to Brasilia"), to select p. site for the centre. On the shoddy plain between the hills and the sea a few white one room boxes had been constructed, a cement playground, and an im mense cockpit which among the small houses looked almost as impressive as the Coliseum. They stood together in a bowl of dust which, when we left the car, whirled around us in the wind of the approaching thunderstorm: by night it would have turned to mud again. . . "Is that a Greek theatre?" Mr. Smith asked with interest. "No. It's where they kill cocks." His mouth twitched, but he put the pain away from him: to feel pain was a kind o fcriticism. He said, "I don't see many folks around hers." The Secretary for Social Welfare said proudly, "There were several hundred on this very spot. Living in miserable mud-huts. We had to clear the ground. It was quite a major operation." "Where did they go?" "I suppose some went into town. Some into the hills. To relatives." "Will they come back when the city's built?" "Oh, well, you know, we an planning for a better class of people here." The point about the Duvalier regime is nicely made, but so too is the attitude of the Smiths and Browns of this world: "to feel pain was a kind of crit icism", and one musn't criticize, for one might get hurt all the more. But whilst there are plenty of comedians in the world, there are also some who are seriously committed, and who are willing to test the proposition posed early in the book, that '"fortune even in the twentieth century does sometimes favour the brave". And here too the names of the characters seem to imply some thing about their relative pos ition when confronted with a vicious and reactionary form of government. There is Philipot, the young Englishman, who leads the re bels in the hills; and there is Magiot, the humanitarian doc tor and Communist who is shot by Duvalier at the end of the novel after he has served his function of being used as a pawn in the bargaining for more American aid. It is on the side of people like these, and perhaps even on the side of Jones, the boasting soldier of fortune, that the novel eventually comes down. though the ending is pessimistic, with the Duvalier government more firmly entrenched than ever, we are left in no doubt to the side on which righlt and justice lie. "A few Communists can al ways be found", writes Dr. Magiot shortly before his death. "Like Jews and Catholics. Chiang- kai-shek, the heroic defender of Formosa, fed us, you remember, into the boilers of railway engines". Yet, paradoxically enough, it is this fact that they "can al ways be found", even in Haiti under conditions of extreme oppression, that makes The Comedians such an impressive and important novel. (Availabls from New World Booksellers and other book- , shops.) Graham Greene : THE COMEDIANS (Bod le y Head , 1966), $2.85. Reviewed by "FIRST CITIZEN" 