 hsSSauwi B . V 1 V ' v" . V ..V --v- " ' V v: 9 The grey beards get off their bikes 3 By the Challenger l SURPRISINGLY so in this day and age, in Australian sporting | circles there is plenty of evidence to show that some officials still have an attitude to the treatment of women that belongs to the Middle Ages. Last weekend the Olymp ic swimmer Nan Duncan was notified of the lifting of her swim ban by the Australian swimming Un ion. Miss Duncan, 19-years-old, represented Australia in the Tokyo Olympics in the back stroke and together with other swimmers, Dawn Fra- | ser, Linda McGill and Mar- 9 lene Dayman was banned I from competition eighteen months ago by the A.S.U. The reason? It was never explained to the public and possibly would have cleared up a lot of conjecture and unneces sary ill feeling if it had been. As it is, a comparison can be made with the current case of female cyclist Marga ret McLachlan, the only woman member of the Dul- wich Hill Amateur Bicycle Club in N.S.W. Mrs. McLachlan recently broke the women's record for the 565 mile ' marathon ride from Sydney to Mel bourne with an actual riding time of 36 hrs. 33 mns. She reduced the old record by almost 3i hours. However this achievement apparently peeved the N.S.W. Amateur Cycling Union as it has banned Mrs. McLachlan from such events and re stricted her to riding in club events only. The Dulwich Hill A.B.C. is furious over the ban and has decided not to participate in combined events so long as it has a "restricted mem ber". An official of the Dulwich Hill A.B.C. (as reported by Cecil Cripps in the Austra lian) has summed up the banning and the type of of ficials who sanction such things when he said that it seemed "... a dictatorial attitude which demonstrates that in some quarters at least, there still exists male objection to full emancipa tion for women. "We have conducted a sur vey among our own riders and among members of other clubs and have come to the conclusion that the only ob jection to women riding against and with men comes from fuddy-duddy officials", he said. Most sports fans would definitely agree with this. Also, ironically enough, the Secretary of the NSWACU, Mr. C. Manins, who advised the club of the NSWACU's ban, is the official cycling team manager for Australia at the Commonwealth Games this year. Indeed a question ably fine "sporting ambas sador". A state of mind TT is often said that en vironmental conditions have a great deal to do with the way people act and react. Thus it is quite unlikely for one to lose one's chastity in church or one's wallet in a palace — though some peo ple would no doubt debate the point. In the field of sport it is acknowledged that the champion is not just the one with the best physical con- dition or the most skill, but is the one who can most ' suitably attune peak physical condition to a good mental approach at the right time- the time of serious matches Sayings familiar to sports fans that "he went stale" and "he left it all in the gym" etc., reflect this atti tude and it must be to the chagrin of most that last week possibly the world's greatest ever women's tennis player, Margaret Smith, broke down because of "nerves". She was beaten by the U.S. player, Billie Jean King, 6-3, 6-3 in one of the biggest up sets of the Wimbledon championships. Reaching the pitch of championship condition and I maintaining it is a problem of all athletes, and. not one I that is easily solved. I The World Cup soccer team of the Soviet IMonl realising this problem, has\ , (May Soviet Weekly) a \ J, couple of staff members of £ the Department of Psychol- i| ogy at the Moscow Physical Culture Institute, keeping V the Soviet players under 1 close observation prior to | their matches. The two psychologists, Galina Gagayev and Boris Novikov in part had this to say: "Naturally there cannot be any standard approach to; j the players. One has to be ; soothed, another needs dis-: \ traction and still another has. to be made to laugh . . ." The department has work-; ed out methods of objective, observation of footballers'# and is able to draw up a psy- rl chological picture of each B player. ;| All this points to the day .1 when the state of mind of g an athlete will not be a seri ous problem. Who says we can't "PROM time to time leading authorities are quoted as claiming that Australia is. too immature ana inexpci enced to carry out certain industrial projects and it is therefore necessary to invite overseas capital to do the job. It is hard to agree with this after studying the evid ence in favour of the con- g trary argument. Last weekend the Austra lian veteran racing car driv er Jack Brabham in winning the French Grand Prix, help- ea to supply some evw- to help disprove the theories of Australia's engineering inferiority. . Brabham became the firs I racing driver to win a woria g championship race in a ca | of his own make. I According to reports, tneg win climaxed four years oi manufacture for Brabham and stamped him as one oi the world's leading racing car manufacturers. The win also gave _Braj> ham a two points lead in tne present world championship series. With 12 points he I leads Italian Lorenzo Ban- dini 10 points, Jochen Rindw John Surtees and Jackie | Stewart 9 points and Mure g Parkes of England 6 points, g Australia's Margaret Smith in action in the international Tennis Competitions recent ly held in the Soviet Union. 