 GOWISI @WMEA yHE Republic of Guinea, on the West coast of Africa, has a rich and turbulent history — of the achievements of its indigenous people and the shameful looting of its abundant wealth for almost 408 years by European traders and colonisers. Guinea is one of the areas of Africa where Islamic and Negro influences meet. From the 13th to 16th Centuries _ the mighty kingdom of Mali flourished on the middle arid upper reaches of the great River Niger, which flows through Guinea . into the sea. The first Europeans to reach Guinea were the Portuguese, who came in the 15th Century in search of gold, silver and slaves. Hard on their heels came the English, and for centuries the Guinea coast was raped of its wealth, both mineral and human. The old English coin, the golden guinea, derives its name from the Guinean gold from which it was first minted in the 17th Century. During the carving up of Africa by the western powers in the 19th Century, the French annexed various coastal areas of Guinea, later adding slabs of the inland as they advanced northwards up the Niger. Guinea remained a French colony until 1958, when de Gaulle, . scenting the winds of change even before MaeMillan, held a referendum on independence throughout French colonies over seas. In this referendum, French possessions were offered a choice between retaining colonial status, becoming "independent" inside the French Community, and attaining complete freedom. Of all such territories, only Guinea — under the dynamic leader ship of marxist trade union leader Sekou Toure— opted for severing all political links with France. De Gaulle's response to this act of. ingratitude was swift and sure. Virtually every item of French technical, economic and educational assistance was immediately withdrawn. Within three months the infant state was left with hardly one French doctor, teacher, agricultural officer or civil servant — and practicallv no Africans to take their place. Only an immediate loan of £10 million from Ghana's then President Nkrumah and large scale aid and trade agreements with the Soviet Union and other socialist countries saved the ."8 Republic from this deliberate piece of economic and political sabotage. Since then Sekou Toure— the first President — had led Guinea along the path to socialism. Toure himself has lbng been one of the marked men in the West's plans to re-establish its positions of strength in Africa. 