 Evidence "sketchy", says Magistrate Protesters acquitted in Sydney court YDNEY : "These young people should be encouraged to do what they did. They represent the conscience of society" barrister J. F. Staples said in the Court of Petty Sessions last week in defence of nine people arrested for demonstrating on Vietnam. The magistrate, Mr. J. A. Letts, dismissed the charges against all nine. Evidence was given that the nine young people sat on a ledge which was part of the structure of the US consulate in Wynyard street on the evening of July 4. They aimed to hold an all night vigil in protest against the bombing of Hanoi and Hai phong. However they were arrested and charged with having ob structed the free passage of a person. Mr. Staples said the evidence failed to show anyone who had in fact been obstructed by the young people standing on the footpath or sitting on the ledge at the consulate. If the young people were com mitting an offence by behaving as they did, then "all who queued at shops, or for tickets for the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, or for tickets for a Rugby League test match would be infringing the law. Purpose A police inspector who charg ed such people with obstruction would be laughed out of court. Yet these people, said Mr. Staples, were doing what they did for a more worthy purpose than attending concerts or foot ball matches. In expressing their views on Vietnam they were acting to en sure that concerts and football matches continued in peace. They represented the consci ence of society. They should be encouraged to exercise peaceful political criticism in the streets. "These young people will have to live with Asia when you and I have gone to a better place, your worship" said Mr. Staples. What other way was there of expressing their political views when the mass media of com munication were in the hands of others? Censorship To tell them that such action would not be tolerated would simply mean that a political censorship was being imposed. Would the world applaud this city if it became known that it would not tolerate an all-night vigil, by people who sought by .silent protest to make their views known? The right of the people to put their views publicly was the most cherished feature of our democratic, system, Mr. Staples added. Mr. Letts: "People have the right to demonstrate, but in a proper way". Mr. Staples: "Yes, but the way you happen to be doing it at a particular time always turns out to be the wrong way." He recalled that the same re mark had been made in the case of the peace demonstrators who had sat down in Pitt Street in October. They were told then there was a "proper way" to demonstrate. Proper What could be more proper than what the nine young peo ple had done — to stand in peace ful silent protest along the con sulate wall in Wynyard Street? Nobody had been offended or scandalised. There was plenty of room left for people to pass. The law on obstruction had never been intended to make people's rights subject to the arbitrary decision of a police officer. Mr! Letts said he found that what the defendants were doing was obstruction under the law. People were entitled to do things to indicate agreement or disagreement with other people, and with the Government. This was one of the cherished free doms of the system under which we live. "It ought to be protected as basic to our rights as citizens" he said. Sketchy The evidence in the present case was sketchy and he thought another police inspector might have taken a different view of what happened. In the circumstances he did not think a penalty should be imposed and the case against all the defendants was dis missed. In another court a charge of offensive behavior against Mr. Phillip Decker, also arising from the July 4 demonstration, was also dismissed under section 556a of the Crimes Act. The nine who were arrested at the consulate were Misses P. Tuckwell, E. Pirog, J. Eatock, B. Ward and A. Bell; and Messrs. R. Vanschie, R. Ham mond, K. Brill and R. TUnks. A number of peace supporters demonstrated with banners in the street when the cases were being heard. Afterwards they warmly congratulated the de fendants on their acquittal and praised the defending barristers. 