 1 Climax ' in schools' crisis 1 Teachers ask why J promises not kept a ji .5 C YDNEY: The "climax" situation in high schools in 1967 will be one of the urgent problems in public education under discussion this week at the annual conference of New South Wales Teachers' Federation. This is closely connected with the two big overall issues of the conference: — more Federal Government finance for educa tion and the working conditions of teachers. It is anticipated that the NSW Minister for Education and Sci ence, Mr. C. Cutler, will draw strong criticism from teachers for his Government's unkept promises. Mr. Cutler, who is also the Deputy Premier, will again open the conference this year in the University of Sydney Un ion Theatre. Teachers are very concerned about the school situation, the teacher training program, and the lack of any move to estab lish the promised Education Commission. Accommodation "Education", the journal of the Federation, asked: "Will there be any high school next year that will have the classroom accommodation it ought to have if children are to be taught as they deserve to be taught? "The situation in the high schools has been brought to a climax with the enrolment of sixth form. "Accommodation shortages are mere dramatic in this seg ment of education than in the' primary schools, but here too sub-standard and makeshift ac commodation is all too com mon." On teacher training, "Educa tion" says: "No provision has been made to incorporate the improve ments Mr. Cutler regards as necessary. As yet no plans have been prepared to enable these improvements to be made. "The Minister is apparently prepared to wait until such time as Canberra tells him that he may move." This year's annual report bluntly states that "unless addi tional action is taken by the authorities to attract a much greater number of students into teachers' colleges and to Uni versities under College Scholar ship in 1967, the staffing posi tion in the early 1970's will be come progressively worse." The report is also highly cri- tical of the State Government's failure to implement its elec tion promise (now over 18 months old) to establish an Ed ucation Commission. "If the Minister will not dis cuss the matter with the leader ship of the Federation, the membership of the Federation must force the issue," the re port said. This year's conference will discuss working conditions of teachers including the right of teachers to campaign for im provements in public education, class sizes and accommodation and clerical assistants. inadequacies A resolution on the confer ence topic has been prepared by the Fairfield-Liverpool As sociation of the Federation. This resolution stresses the right and duty of teachers to make known to parents and the general public the inadequacies of education. "The administration has seen fit to invoke Regulations 17 and 23 against teachers who have been active in attempting to improve conditions in our pub lic school system." The Minister is called upon to have these regulations with drawn immediately. Other points in the resolution declare: O That the State's first res ponsibility is to its own instru mentalities and that all avail able funds should be applied in bringing the State's educational facilities (which are open to all children) up to a standard expected by a modern, progres sive society. 0 That National Service is having an adverse effect upon the already seriously short sup ply of trained teachers. The Minister is called on to have all teachers exempted from the Act. 0 That the problems of edu cation are so complex, with in creasing activity by the Federal Government, that the establish ment of an Education Commis sion, independent of the Public Service Board, is now impera tive. The Premier is called on to implement his election pro mise within the life of this Parliament. 