 STOCKMEN'S TOUR RAISES $15, 000 JYD.NEY : It is estimated that the fund raising tour by the two Aborigine leaders Messrs. Dexter Daniel and Captain Major, has so far netted over $15,000;: The two men, who are organ- icmrr eiiKvwnff fr\r AbnwiMvtnl stockmen, on strike in the Northern Territory tor award wages, arrived back in Sydney last week from Melbourne. Their tour has been arranged and sponsored by Actors' Equi ty- When interviewed by Tribune, they had just returned to Equi ty's offices in Sydney from a lunch-time meeting at Austral Bronze where 800 workers pledged a dollar a man. "What do you think of this?" said Dexter Daniel, handing over a letter from his brother, Davis Daniel, the Secretary of the NT Aboriginal Rights Coun cil. Truck The strikers at Wave Hill (one of Vesteys cattle proper ties) have just bought a second hand truck and are building a storehouse for their supplies. Pension and child endowment money was pooled to buy the truck. This means that supplies can now be sent by rail to Kathe- rine and then taken 200 miles by truck — thus cutting 600 miles off the trip by road from Dar win. The strikers are planning to make Katherine their main depot and are considering buy ing another truck to supply the various camps from this centre. Davis Daniel added that the Aborigines have been refused permission to use the Aborigin al Welfare Department building to store food over the wet per iod — now on until the end of March. Vincent Lingairi is the leader of the 200 people from Wave Hill. Davis Daniel writes: "Wel fare made one desperate at tempt and brought Vincent and two other leaders into Darwin for talks lasting two days. "But the men refused to budge. "I am convinced these people will never waver. They have taken all thev are eoine to take and now they, have called a halt." Dexter Daniel was quick to pome out me signmcance ui ms people handling their own pen sion money. "In a short period they could buy a truck. "On the other hand, Vesteys have been taking money out of the pensions to build houses at Wave Hill. "There must be about $20,000 in the account but only two single room houses-without floor, stove or water— have so far been built." Dexter is a , young man of 25 years. His wife is expecting her first baby. Before becoming an organiser for the North Australian Work ers Union he worked as a hos pital orderly at . Darwin Hos- pital — driving an ambulance, administering first aid etc. Prior to that he worked as a stockman. This is the man to whom the Minister for Territories (Mr. Barnes) said when, he was lob bied recently in Canberra: "You are making it hard for your people." Insult The Minister then insultingly told him that Aboriginal work ers were "too slow," and were not good workers. The Govern ment had done , all it could for them, he said. Dexter told him: "We are de termined to get award wages now and are not prepared to wait until 1968." Later he saw ALP Leader Calwell and commejnted. after wards: "We have to get rid of the Holt Government. The Lab or Party have promised a new deal for Aborigines." This week the two men are addressing pit top and other meetings in ' Wollongong and will leave for Brisbane today (Wednesday). One of them will travel to Townsville to ask meat work ers not to handle "black meat" when the season starts in April. Most of the Northern Terri tory cattle are slaughtered at Townsville. STRIKERS REP DANIEL "What d'you think of this?" 