 Miners call for national fuel policy SYDNEY: The Central Council of the Miners' Federation last week in Sydney decided to organise a conference of public bodies to bring pressure on the Federal Government to establish a national fuel and energy policy. The miners plan to call this I : conference during the latter part of this year to press for I a "policy based upon the use of fuels in strict accord with the interests of the Australian people. "Protection of our indigenous coal industry from unfair com petition and the regulation im mediately of the export trade to conserve Australian resources is imperative," Council said. The miners say that the daily worsening developments in the Australian coal mining industry is shown by the acute imbal ance in the industry. On the one hand there is an expanding export market which has no solid base and a langu- l ishing home market which, in I a healthy situation, would be the most stable. Exported Council points out that last year 25 per cent of NSW coal production was exported to Japan and that official estim ates claim that by 1970, 40 per cent of NSW coal production wui oe tied to tne Japanese steel industry. This raises sharply the whole question of national independ ence. "In addition, our limited sup plies of coking coal are being seriously depleted by this . ex port and it can only strengthen Japanese competition against Australian industry. "It also depletes our nation al resources which are a her- itage to the Australian people," Council said. "Meanwhile the section of the industry which supplies gas and steaming coal is in a depressed state." The miners say this stems from the colliery proprietors' policy of seeking maximum pro fits from export trade irrespec tive of national consequences. Oil interests "In addition we are confront ed by the rapid inroads over seas oil interests have made in to natural coal markets." These same interests are now planning to exploit our appar ent large natural gas resources. This can only lead to. further retrenchments in the Australian coalfields, Council said. Council declared that while economic insecurity is the lot of mineworkers and their fami lies, coal owners with four monopolies producing 75 per cent of NSW coal output, and overseas financial interests be coming more and more domin ant, are making bigger profits. "Some coal owners are fol lowing policies which are com pletely opposed to the national interests and this only emphas- . ises the correctness of our demand for nationalisation," Council said. A protest was also made against the American Peabody Japanese Mitsui Company at Moura, in Queensland being given coal contracts to supply Comalco at Gladstone. A deputation is, to be sent to the Queensland Minister for Mines in an effort to have some of the contract supplied by other mines in Central Quensland. Council condemned the action of the Australian Labor Party's deputy leader, Mr. G. Whitlam, "for taking his persona), 1- pute with the Federal Exo to the point of creating as" This can only result, strengthening the Liberal Cou try Party Government., and also the Democratic Labor Party, Council said. The miners said the most im portant thing that confronts the trade union movement is the need for unity between the pol itical and industrial ranks of the workers to remove the Lib eral Government at the next Federal elections. The ALP Federal Executive is called on to convene a special conference for the purpose of bringing before the Australian electors a unified policy that will result in the election of a Labor Government. 