 I TEN YEARS AGO, IT WAS SUEZ... I W. A. WOOD recalls the Anglo-French- I Israeli invasion of the United Arab Republic 1 in November , 1956. "TODAY it is Vietnam; ten years ago it was Egypt. It was Egypt (now the United Arab Republic) from which our side could not possibly withdraw without the most "terrible con sequences" to Australia and civil isation as a whole! Today it is the "Vietcong"; ten years ago it was the Egyptian "Wogs" led by the impossible President Nasser with whom negotiation could not be contem plated if Australia was to be safe. Nasser was a tyrant, an under cover Communist whose national isation of the Suez Canal threat ened to cut Australia's essential strategic communications and trade routes. Her defences and her economy thus crippled, Australia would stand naked before the hordes to the north. If the Egyptian "terrorists" (as the Vietnamese patriots are call ed today) triumphed and the west collapsed, the same methods would be tried elsewhere. The dominoes (in today's jargon) would start to crash. "Better to stop them at the Pyramids than in George Street". So convinced was Prime Min ister Menzies (and his cabinet, I including Mr. Harold Holt) of this general thesis 10 years ago that they took Australia to the very brink of a disastrous war to maintain it. Their Army Min ister, Cramer said at one stage that Australian forces were ready to move in "at the drop of a hat". And of course, they had the support of the Australian daily press which still sells the same story about Vietnam. News and editorial columns alike were slanted to abuse the Egyptians and their "communist supporters" in Australia, and stress the appalling situation that would result from the unilateral withdrawal of the west. "pO back this line the Lib eral Government of Australia went much fur ther in belligerence even than the British and Amer ican Governments. As Mr. K. E. Beazley, Labor MHR, recalled in Parliament last month in explaining why he did not accept the Government's at titude on Vietnam now any more than he did its attitude on Egypt in 1956: "In October 1956 the Govern ment proposed, planned and sup ported the carrying out of blatant aggression at Suez, "The Government, having plan ned and supported aggression as a junior partner then, has never had the decency yet to admit that Nasser offered at the time, and has offered since, to pay for the canal". Mr. Beazley said that Sir Rob ert Menzies made the first pro positions for war some six months before the event ... He said that here was a situation in which we should not hesitate if it was necessary to use force". But Menzies, Holt and the rest of the Liberals did not get the chance to bury any Australian conscripts in Egypt. Before they could do that, what they had all said was utterly unthinkable and intolerable actually happened. The Anglo-French-Israeli inva sion, which began on October 29, was halted a week later, a few hours after a Soviet warning about what would happen if it was not halted, and after a week of anti-war protests by democra- tic forces in all countries, includ ing the Communist Parties. There followed the unilateral withdrawal from Egypt of the imperialist forces on what would in today's war be called "Hanoi's terms"— namely continued pos session by the Egyptians of their own country and its installations and economic resources. t Everybody knows what happen ed — or did not happen— to Aus tralia's security. It was not af fected in any way. No dominoes fell, though democratic revolu tions broke out later in Algeria, Irak, the Yemen and elsewhere. AND the strangulation of our trade? Not one ship bound fpr Australia has been denied passage through the canal, used by nearly 20,000 ships last year compared to 14,500 in 1955. The conclusion is stark but inescapable: What the Liberal Government of those days, which is still the Liberal Gov ernment of these, was telling the Australian people about their security was a pack of lies. What the Communist Party and the rest of the Labor move ment were saying was the truth. But there is another conclu sion just as important in its way for the people to draw, and to remember in the context of Vietnam: It is possible for the world's socialist and other peace forces to halt an aggressive war even after it has been started and the aggressors firmly and publicly "committed" to win. (A passing thought for the benefit of those thinking of vot ing Liberal on November 26: What was the role of the USA when, according to Menzies, Holt, McEwen and the rest, our security was gravely threatened and our gallant British and French allies went in to battle for us?) According to their own stated attitudes, the Americans should have been right in there battling too. It was the US secretary of State, Dulles, who had really pre cipitated the crisis by refusing finance for Egypt's Aswan dam unless Egypt crawled to him. (Nasser refused, and, to get the necessary funds, nationalised the Canal). Dulles was the main, though Menzies was the noisiest, organ iser of imperialist intervention in Egypt in 1956. He sponsored the "Canal Users' Association" whose members, conferring in London, sent Menzies with an ultimatum to Cairo. gUT when the chips were down or the whips were cracking, where were the "great and powerful friends" Holt bade us rely on in his speech last week? They did not even do what they did in 1914 and 1939— come in a year or two later on our side. They came in from the start over Egypt— but on the other side! Sniffing the wind, they appear ed at the United Nations as the champions of "law and order and democracy against European imperialism." They organised a run on the pound sterling. They not only helped to de feat their loyal allies but gloried in that defeat, profiting by it heavily. Their own campaign to IS penetrate and occupy the Middle H East (under the Eisenhower fl Doctrine of 1957) was greatly as- H sisted by this pose as the loyal H friends of the Arabs against the H cruel and aggressive British! In B short, the USA followed its own H narrow interest. I Today the whole Holt foreign n policy is based on absolute reli- H ance on an ally who has shown H that it is absolutely ready, when H its interests rim that way, not only to dump an ally (as it did H over West Irian) but defeat it (as H over Suez). H The results for Australia over H Suez were not so serious. In the ij present growing crisis in S.E. 9 Asia, they could be much more B serious for the Australian nation. H The "impossible" President Gamal Abdal Nasser of the UAR 