 The burdens on the people The Vietnam war policy of the Federal Gov ernment already last year forced the annual mili tary spending up to $800 million a year— -far and away the heaviest arms budget in Australian peacetime history. This year's budget can be ex pected to bring down increased taxation on the working people in one form or another, as well as continue the critical short ages of money for pensions, education, housing and other needs which are being starved by the war budget. Sir Robert Menzies revealed in London on May 24 that the real plan being followed by the Gov ernment is for continuous ex pansion of this spending and of war in S.E. Asia for 20 years. An example of what this means occurred early in May when the Government admitted it had already had to borrow an extra $150 million in the U.S.A. above the budgeted bor rowings, and at the same time allocated an extra $26.3 million for the anmed services. The continuing drain on Aus tralia's balance of overseas payments is due mainly to the trade deficit which has now con tinued for 21 months in suc cession. "The adverse trade balance for last March, $40.1 million, could be almost entirely accounted for by the cost of the rhissile-firing destroyer HMAS Perth — $38.9 million — paid to its American builders. In recent months there has been growing pressure by big manufacturing interests to secure a snare oi u.o. war con tracts as well as a larger part of Australian war contracts (the lion's share of which are at present Jbeing placed overseas— mainly in the U.S.A.). For example, the Associated Chamber of Manufacturers re cently called for a full-scale government inquiry b.ecause a $1 million order for Army earth- moving equipment had been placed overseas while an Austra lian-made product was less ex.- pensive. However, what is concealed here is that in the earth-moving equipment industry, all the "Australian" manufacturers are 50-100 per cent owned by over seas capital, mainly American. What is happening is that some international monopolies are attempting to utilise Austra lian national sentiment to ex tend their war profits by securing contracts for their Australian subsidiaries. While this would help the Australian balance of payments immediately, in the long run the outflow of dividends would in crease. This would be similarily true with Imperial Chemical Indus tries and other major conten ders for the war contracts through Australian subsidiaries. 