 Dance group with a mission Suse Wolf talks to Les Ballets Africains "| FEEL I have a mission," said Italo Zambo, "to travel the world and show people the art and culture of my country." I was speaking to Mr. Zambo after a last minute dress re hearsal before LES BALLETS AFRICAINS' opening night here in Sydney. He's the company's choreographer and himself one of the leading dancers. A short, spritely, well-built man wearing a short-sleeved over-shirt with blue jeans, he has wide dart ing eyes and a finely shaped, rather rakish-looking moustache. With him, in as heavy a wool len European winter coat as ever I've seen, was Mr. Sakho Sekou, the General Manager of the company— also a laughing, charming man and with none of the pomposity one associates with his status. The choreographer went on to tell me that the company was quite small when it was first founded at the time Guinea achieved independence. During the colonial days people thought Africa had no culture and Afri cans were., incapable of organ ization. That's why his government was prepared to. spend a lot of money in forming this company — to show the world Africa's culture and civilization. And now there are 47 people — sing ers, dancers and musicians — touring the world on behalf of their country. Does he feel his mission is meeting with, success? He smil ed and nodded emphatically. "Just one small example," Mr. Sekou, the General Man ager, put in. "Last year we per formed in Germany. One inter val I saw quite an elderly wom an in a corner of the theatre foyer in tears; so I asked her what was wrong. She told me that she'd never seen any Afri cans before, but had been told that they were a pretty back ward lot, and quite without culture." It seemed she was in tears over the way she'd been mis led, yet she assured Mr. Sekou that she was in fact extremely happy that her preconceptions had been proved so false. ? NEXT I asked from which part of Guinea most of the dancers and performers came. There was no simple answer to this question either. The country consists of 30 dif ferent regions, each with its own music and dance troupe. Once a year these 30 ensembles come to Conakry, the capital, each to present its own pro gramme in a competition. A national commission judges the best dances, songs and per formers. These are then incor porated into LES BALLETS AFRICAINS. But it's not even quite as simple as that. After working on its new material the com pany then take its show round each region of the country— "to get it OK'd" as Mr. Zambo put it. "We want criticism. It does not worry us at all." That means that any member of any tribe can suggest changes. After all, each tribe understands its own dances best, and in the end the com pany aims at becoming expert in the entire country's art. An the same goes for mem bers of the Ballet. Mr. Zambo himself belongs to the Fulani tribe. Although he's the cho reographer he feels he still has much to learn from others in the company, so there's quite a bit of discussion , while dances are being worked on. Knowing what a reputation LES BALLETS AFRICAINS has for polished professionalism, I asked Mr. Zambo, perhaps rather naively, whether he had studied dancing in any country apart from his own. This time the answer was brief. "We have not much need for dancing schools. Africains learn to dance from the time they learn to walk." ? Right through pur con versation members of the company had been coming over with queries. I realized just how many difficulties come up prior to opening night and that I was taking up valuable ; time. Just one more question: "How do you feel about coming back to Australia?" Well, it appears that every one of the Guineans had made friends last time they were here. They'd been pester ing their various managers to come back ever since. Appar ently they're invited out to par ties and dinners — and having a great time. "The food here, and the audi ences are good"— it seemed in that order of importance. "Hav ing rice is very important to us West Africans; and there's plenty of it here— prepared just as we're used to it." Which .reminded Mr. Zambo that he was hungry. Would I excuse him please? The three of us laughed and shook hands. A legend of the Baga people of Guinea re- t hearsed by Les Ballets ! Africains last week at a special press preview: (Above) Nimba, God dess of fertility, as she appears to the Baga, who (below) prostrate themselves before her as they seek her bles sings. The men behind Les Ballets Africains: Choreographer Italo Zambo (right) and General Manager Sakho Sekou. 