 "Take it to Botany Bay" Big Balmain protest over cargo scheme gYDNEY : Five hundred Balmain residents packed out the local town' hall last week to support local protests against a big business plan to jam two containerised cargo port intallations into this densely populated suburb. The meeting called for .a pub- lic inquiry oy tne New South Wales Government into the whole project and demanded that all work on it be stopped pending the outcome. The meeting, sponsored by the Balmain Association, a citi zens' organisation concerned with locality preservation and improvement, was the largest public protest gathering in Bal main for many years. The NSW Maritime Services Board, the State authority res ponsible for waterfront utilisa tion, failed to respond to an invitation to send a speaker. The Stevedoring Industry Authority and the Main Roads Board also declined to be rep resented at the meeting. Alderman N. Origlass, of Leichhardt Council, explained that the MSB plans ' provided for two shipping terminals for containerised cargo handling, both within the small and den sely built-up Balmain peninsula. The Board had not approach ed the Leichhardt Council with its plan. The overseas terminal would be located at Johnston's Bay. The interstate terminal site, at Mort's Bay, had been leased to Associated Steamships for development. The Council had rejected this company's application and plan for the development, but the company had now appealed to the State Planning Authority. Aid Origlass warned of the serious congestion that would flow, from construction of the two terminals on opposite sides of the peninsula, 60 per cent of which was now resi- II II IIIIH | | Mm...... dential, with relatively narrow streets. He said the scheme would make nonsense of the Council's own local plan for Balmain development. Mr. J. Toon, a Sydney Uni versity lecturer in Town Plan ning, predicted that Balmain would become more industrial ised, with big new traffic arteries cutting through it, and only isolated pockets of resi dential property remaining A strong warning that, once established, the terminals would spread to absorb more land was given by Mr. C. Fitz- gibbon, Federal Secretary of the Waterside Workers' Associ ation. Mr. Fitzgibbon said that the sites at Mort's and Johnston's Bay each comprised some 8 acres of land. This was quite insufficient for the proper development of containerisation facilities, since in 10 years ships of 70,000 tons would be in use for container cargoes. The chairman announced thafc 1300 local people had already signed a petition of protest against the scheme. 