 Ghana coup stops Socialist-type construction From Rupert Lockwood MOSCOW: The Ghana coup is regarded by progressive African leaders as one more link in the chain of conspiracies to sustain the surviving colonial and apartheidist re g i m e s and overthrow independent regimes. A/fALI president Modibo Keita said that the Ghana coup "has been spearheaded against everything that is real ly sovereign and free in Africa." Keita noted that the change in neo-colonialist methods — "the evolution of the policy of pro mises to the policy of gun boats'—had begun one year ago. Mali has formed a national revolution defence committee headed by the President and services, youth, trades union and political party leaders to safeguard its independence. Enemies Tanzania president Julius Nyere, referring to the coups in Ghana and other African states, said: "The enemies of African freedom, especially in southern Rhodesia and South Africa, are now jubilant. Guinea President Sekou TOure said that "Africa has again be- , come the target of a broad of fensive of imperialism which is striving to effect a new colon isation of the continent". He added that the imperialists were hatching plots against Africa to restore their control over coun tries "which are likely to join the camp of peace" because the imperialists were planning for a third world war. New Ghana leader General Ankrah has indicated that Ghana will restore relations with Brit ain and revise the constitution. The new government has ban ned Soviet Aeroflot air services to Accra. The future of the Ninth World Youth Festival scheduled for Accra is un certain. African observers claim that not only were American and British agencies involved in the coup but that this time West Germany had a finger in the conspiracy against Nkrumah. Certain intelligence leaders who had protected Nkrumah against previous coups are be- lieved to have been bribed. Later General Ankrah said that the situation of all state enterprises would be reviewed and some would be handed over to private enterprise. The "Liberation Council" said a "new era of competition" would be opened. A tractor from a Soviet-built factory in Accra, Ghana. The factory was capable of manufacturing 500 tractors a year and hundreds of other farming implements. The Right- wing coup in Ghana may mean that it will now be handed over to private interests. 