 and down here, too, i AN URGENT PROBLEM ! By FREDA BROWN WHILE Man's space probes will surely lead to great advances in science and human well-being, we must also face such outstanding immediate problems as the state of millions of the world's children — hungry illiterate and a prey to curable disease. This terrible problem will be re-examined at a special conference in Sweden next October, organised by the Women's International Democratic Federation. The Federation has consist ently campaigned for the rights of children throughout its 20 years of existence. Misery, ignorance and worry burden hundreds of millions of young lives. Hunger haunts two of every three children who die off by thousands in time of famine. And when hunger does not kill, it promotes diseases which can maim for life. In Gambia there is one doctor per 30,000 inhabitants, in Mexico there are about three hospital beds per 1,000 children. In Peru one in every five children dies at an early age; in Angola only one of every five new-born survives. Misery and exploitation go hand in hand; the child hires out his labor and becomes the prey of endless abuse in many countries. At 11 years of age in the Philippines and 10 in Turkey a child has to earn its living. In Latin America the average school attendance as stated by UNESCO is still only 2i years. In South Africa a special law sets the scope of an inferior educational system for black African children. The school integration law in the United States is far from being applied. In Australia the opportuni ties for Aboriginal children are less than for white children in practice if not in law. In Vietnam the war is caus ing thousands of victims among children. In Stockholm, parents, doc tors and educationists will debate questions concerning the wellbeing of children around the theme "Conditions of life, education and health of chil dren." Discrimination based on race and sex, children's work and juvenile delinquency; the role of literature, cinema, radio, TV, press and games; the role of the family and society in assuring children the right to a healthy life in a world at peace. All these will be dis cussed. In Australia, the Union of Australian Women will in the coming months discuss the conference with individuals and organisations interested in children's welfare, and a rep resentative delegation from Aus tralia will participate in the conference. Conferences, seminars and discussions in the various States will prepare submissions from Australia. 