 Moves for poll-tax slug won't solve councils' chronic finance crisis SYDNEY: The proposaB for the imposition of a poli fax on the people will in no way solve the chronic financial problems of local government, Mr. E. M. Burnham told the Royal Commission on Local Government recently. Mr. Burnham was appear- ing before the Commiss- ion on uenair or the com munist Party of Australia. Last week Tribune put the following questions to Mr. Burnham. Q. "What is this poll tax proposal for local govern ment? A. "It's to be a tax on ncn-ratepayers to gain added revenue for councils, which are in generally critical fin ancial straits." Q. How much will it be? A. "It has to be decided, of course, but a figure men tioned is $10 a head. This won't solve local govern ment's money worries, so obviously it'll go up as all other taxes have." Q. Who will it affect? A. Only the people. No business or industry will pay an extra cent. The aim is to increase the tax burden on the working people, par ticularly women as most rate payments are in the names of husbands. ? Irrespective if women are working because they or the families need the extra money, or if they are in home duties. In the latter case the one wage of the husband will be paying both rates, or rent; plus poll tax." Pensioners will be affected. Even if they are living with their children to live rent free and eke out the miserly pension, they'll be eligible." Q. What about those pay- Ing rent? A. "Yes, they'll pay also. ' Despite the fact they pay rates within their normal rents. They'll be double rated in effect. Q, It's said that young people enjoy the benefits of council facilities, vote (when reaching 21 years' yet pay no rates. Will they be affect ed and shouldn't they pay this poll tax? A. Yes, they'll be affected. In fact this tax seems aimea at young people also. One advocate said that the poll tax should be paid by those starting work at 15 years. However there are several things here to be seen. One is that young people don't get any special use of fac ilities as these are commun ally used. Few councils pro vide anything in particular, of course, for young people. ? Secondly, young people, be cause they are single, pay a higher income tax. Should they be hit again? Certainly not! Thirdly, linking the vote with taxation, indicates that you and indeed everyone else should pay for the right to vote. This is quite retrograde and undemocratic, undermin ing the long fought for prin ciple of free and equal suff rage. Q. How will this tax be collected? A. Quite easily. The rate payer will fill in a form that comes with his rate, notice, that indicates the names of the other people in .the house. When the rate notice is re turned to council, it will send out the appropriate poll tax notices. Q. Is this an entirely new idea? A. Only here. Actually it's quite old. The colonialist masters used it . in forcing the indigenous peoples to be come available for cheap labor. It's still used in New Guinea and the racialists used it in the USA to pre vent negroes, poor whites and itinerant workers from vot ing. Q. You say it won't solve local government's finances. Why not? A. At say $10 a head on the estimated 1,300,000 people it's to snare, the total amount in NSW would be some $13 million. But local government needs scores of millions of dollars immediately. e.g. Fairfield council alone needs $27 million for general works, yet would only receive $154,000 under the poll tax. And it has $800,000 owing in back rates. Councils' needs vary of course and soi will the poll tax revenue. ? Q. Well then, what is the Communist Party's alternat ive to the poll tax? A. Regular large-scale fin ance is urgently needed for local government now to ef fectively plan and carry out not only normal works and facilities, but also extend ser vices to the people as part of modern living standards. I. Finance can easily be made available by the Fed eral and State Governments eliminating a whole number of levies and other out-dated imposts on councils. These are the pay roll tax, stamp duty, fire brigade levy, State Planning Authority levy, Mains Roads levy. (Metrop olitan Councils) street light ing levy. These would save local government over $9.2 million annually. 9, Councils need to be allowed to levy big business concerns higher rates. 3. An allocation of 10% of Federal Revenue to local government would be the most efficient way of ensur- . ing the money needed by Councils. On last budget this would realise some $180 mil lion extra to NSW councils, whose annual rate income is some $120 million. Q. Finally, what can people do to express opposition to this poll tax idea? A. Tell your friends, neigh bours and any organisation you may be in about it. We'll be pleased to have a speaker go out and speak anywhere to any number of people about the question. Send pro tests to your councillor, Council, State M.P., or better still, the Royal Commission now enquiring into local gov ernment finance, at Box E180, Sj; James P.O., Sydney. "Moved and seconded that we flog the mayoral chain to pay for the new road work." 