 U.S.A. Party "j"HE Central Committee of the Communist Party of Australia has> received the following letter from the Communist Party of the USA, signed by General Secretary Gus Hall and national chairman, Henry Winston. Dear Comrades: — We want to express our appreciation and gratitude to to you for your message of fraternal greetings to our 18th National Convention. Each message added to the quality of international solidarity which is so vital to our movement. | We also want to express again our deepest regrets that f the U.S. government denied the right to fraternal detegat- | ions to enter our country. At the opening session of our 1 Convention we made a public "apology and an explanation \ to the large number of fraternal delegates and visitors..! who were blocked by the wall of fear — a U.S. wall of .fear— I from being with us tonight." We took the occasion to denounce "the little men in Washington" who were frightened by the thoughts and ideas which the fraternal delegations would bring to our convention. There is unanimous agreement that we had a very successful convention which discussed a series of policy questions and came to solutions. The decisions were expressions of unity and confidence. The convention had a spirit of determination and enthusiasm. We made a bold advance in the struggle for our Party as a major force in the political life of our country. The Convention was in itself an important breakthrough for . the legality and public role of our Party. The struggle for the withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Vietnam, for an end to that barbaric genocidal war conducted by U.S. imperialism, and the whole struggle for full equality of the Negro Americans which is so much to the forefront in our country, a statement on trade union policy, resolutions on political action and on a series of other questions implemented the discussion on the Main Political Report. Our Draft Program, including the path to socialism, was discussed with the objective of final action at a special conference next year. The younger comrades contributed much to the convention. This was indeed a very fruitful convention and we have charted a course of much activity. We will be printing the major report and other materials (from the convention and will send them to you for your information. Again we. express our deep appreciation for your fraternal and comradely greetings. 