 Oil rag in the garret JUDAH WATEN'S LITERARY COMMENT "J"HE author is traditionally supposed to live in a garret, existing on the smell ' of an oil rag. There is a great deal of truth in this public image as far as British and Australian authors in 1966 are concerned. A newly published English pamphlet, "The Book Writers— Who Are They?" by Richard Find- later reveals that two-thirds of British authors make less than £6 a week from their books'; that one- third receive less than 30 shillings a week; and that only just over a sixth earn on average more than £1,050 a year from all proceeds from their books. A quick survey conducted by myself and several other members of the Fellowship of Australian Writers revealed a similar state of affairs here, if indeed not worse. "Something is seriously wrong With the mind and the machinery of a society such as ours which treats so miserably the authors of its books," says Findlater and he couldn't be more right. But the book business both here and in England is booming. And 't is very big business, run by mammoth publishing concerns.' The pamphlet concludes with a clarion call to authors to band to gether for militant, collective and political action. ? RECENTLY I have spoken on Soviet Literature at two functions arranged by the Melbourne University Literature Club. Predictably enough my views were vigorously contested by a number of students who on first hearing gave the impression of wide reading on the subject. But during the discussion it transpired that they had hardly read any Soviet books either in Russian or in English translation; their knowledge was largely deriv ed from supposedly learned pamphlets and magazine like "Encounter" published by the Congress for Cultural Freedom body in England. I suggested that "Encounter" for instance was neither scholarly nor objective. Not long ago the New York Times and the Ameri can Nation alleged that "Encoun- ter" was supported by CIA money. My university opponents admitted this was so; one said he was dis turbed by the failure of "Encoun ter" to repudiate the charge. It is high time that the works of Soviet novelists and poets were read in Universities instead of the political warfare literature issued by semi-official American agencies. ? MORMAN Lindsay's new book, "The Scribblings of an Idle Mind", has created something of a minor stir. As Max Harris and Geoffrey Tebbutt in their brilliant reviews in the "Australian" and Melbourne "Herald" respectively have shown, the book is filled with an ugly racism, directed against the Jews but above all against the coloured peoples. Characteristically Lind say extols Johnson's policy in Vietnam. There is nothing new in Nor man Lindsay's racialist views. For more than 50 years he has ex pounded them in one form or an other. As a cartoonist on the "Bul letin" he fitted in well with its policy, which was always against the colonial peoples, particularly the "yellow Asiatics of the East", in Lindsay's own phrase. For all its present-day sophistica tion and its apparent concern for Jews and Aborigines, the "Bulle tin" today is just as obsessed with the "Yellow Peril" as its predeces sors. With the characteristic de mented relish of the racialist it gloats over the dirty war in Viet nam. The racist ghost in Australia is, after more than three-quarters of a century, far from laid. 