 Eddie Ward, the firebrand EDDIE WARD, for many years until his death, Labor Member for East Sydney in Ff»r)#»ral Parliament re- flexed the outlook of a vital sector of the working people and lived through a stirring and changing period of Aus tralian history. Elwyn Spratt's "Eddie Ward- Firebrand of East Sydney" captures much of the man and his acquaintances and presents an interesting account of many highlights in his life and that of the people. To some extent the work lacks the depth, which a review and. analysis of the political and eco nomic developments that exerted influences on Ward and others would permit. Spratt correctly pictures the people of East Sydney whose I admiration for Ward was un doubted. - He Was one of them, and remain ed so all his life. This .was an outstanding tribute to his work .for the ordinary working people and their causes. Spratt points out that Ward's best efforts were in the parliamen tary sphere where he fought vigorously and used exposure material against Big Business as it came to hand. The book is rich with examples of this. ("Eddie Ward — Firebrand of East Sydney. Our copy from Rigby Limited. $4.50). Ward seldom came to grips with foreign affairs despite his self-education and wide reading the understanding of scientific sociqdism eluded him. The book reflects this. Spratt brings out particular highlights 'in Ward's career. It was Ward who exposed the "Brisbane Line" plan of reaction which aimed to sacrifice North ern Australia to the aggressive Japanese during World War II. Ward also took a prominent part in opposition to the Com munist Party Dissolution Bill and assisted in the defeat of this pernicious legislation. He was a leading supporter of Dr. Evatt during the Petrov "spy" stunt of the Menzies Government and strongly attacked the right- wing elements in the A.L.P. who wanted to go along with Menzies by offering no opposition to the Government's attacks on the trade unions and Communist Party. He correctly appraised Evatt's stand as being vital for Austra lia and for the survival of the Labor Party as a party of the working cla\r-'. In the struggle against Santa- maria and the D.L.P. he was firm, as Spratt shows. "Better to stay in the wilder ness for ever" he told his col- lpntnioc "fhfln horirt tV>o Irnes tn ttiA D.L.P." — J. R. HUGHES. 