 Something for everyone J ABORIGINAL AUSTRALIANS Norman Tindale and H. A. Lindsay. A concise, factual summary of what is now definitely knwon about the Australian aborigines. Much of our present-day knowledge of these people has been published only in scientific papers — which,., are net very widely read — therefore many fallacies about the" original inhabitants of our continent still predominate. $1.95 ($2.08 posted). THE CLOCK OF LIVING NATURE A. Emms. The reader will make a fascinating journey into the world of living nature, penetrate the secret of the cell, follow the variations of metabolic processes, observe the movements of the leaves and flowers, and learn how animals find their way on their long migrations. 65s (72c posted). THE MAN IN THE GREY FLANNEL SUIT I Sloan Wilson. One of the important post-war American novels — deals with &lt; the life of the young executive — his job, his home, ideas ond ideals — if any. Extraordinary perspective — extremely readable. 60c (67c posted). THE CODE OF LIFE I A. Shvarts. 9 Know thyself! This book is devoted to one of the most thrilling problems in biology — the mystery of heredity. It penetrates the secrets of the living cell and indicates how scient sts learn to control its internal processes. 65c (72c posted). THE ORIGIN OF THE SPECIES Charles Darwin — with an introduction by Julian Huxley. One of the most controversial books ever written. His theory revolutionised the course of science. According to Sir Julian Huxely:"a truly great book, one which, after a century of scientific progress, can still be read with profit by professional biologists". $1.25 ($1.35 posted). MATTER AND MAN M. Vasilyev and K. Stanukovich. A popular exposition of the physical laws governing the natural laws of the universe. Among the subjects broached are fluid and gas dynamics, the theory. of explosions and field dynamics. Explores various hypothesis that have been ad vanced and which require verification and discusses the imme diate and long-range prospects of the exploration of the universe. $1.20 ($.130 posted). | JNew World Booksellers ! 425 Pitt St., SYDNEY. — Phone 211-1067. i nWimWWWIWnRWWWmil«iPWPniinnMWIlWWW 