 SINGING THE PLANTERS' TUNE By Jim Cooper JEW Guinea's Public Ser vice Association Presi dent, Mr. John Greville Smith, has charged the uovernment witn Keeping public servants pay scales down to protect plantation interests. In a statement in The Australian (July 13), he said: "The economic argument used by the Administration in arbitra tion ignores the simple fact that the indigenous public servants will still not be paid at levels which adequately reward them or enable them to meet their real and reasonable needs. "A married man with three children will now be paid a little less than $18 per week against a little more than $14 under the old scale. Food alone for a mar- ried officer with three children costs upwardly to $14 weekly." Contrary to Australian proce dures, the Government has an in volved allowance scale. It will pay the special family allowance to married officers. This will vary from area to area, depending on cost of living estimates and on the size of the family. Adjustments will be made to the base salaries range "to recog nise degrees of skill and respon sibility." There will be increases in rates for officers under 21 years and most importantly will provide equal pay for the sexes. In an attempt to provide in centives for promotion rates for senior position involving a high degree of skill will be increased. Public servants in the, base range will now be classified In five groups. The first group will be on a scale varying from $440 to $560 and the fifth group from $600 to $850. Mr. Lepani Watson, MHA, said he had no doubt that most people thought the salary cuts (of 1964) were on a simply racial basis. They saw the wide gaps between their salaries and the Europeans and they had strong feelings about it. He said:— "If an independent New Guinea found it necessary to cut salaries it would be accepted, but this was not a decision to be made by Australia. "Salaries would take into ac count the present way of life and the present actual cost struc ture." Mr. Watson's involvement in this wages struggle is an indica tion of the depth of feeling en gendered by the Barnes regime with its narrow planter outlook, whose immense fortunes are bas ed on. the exploitation of low paid labour. This planter group whose out look is limited to the narrow field of the export market cannot see and does not want to see that the basic requirement for the ad vancement of New Guinea is an expanding consumer demand. To achieve this there must be money in the hands of the people. When this happens the industrial situa tion will change rapidly. Demand will cause new industries to arise and the consequent employment will create further demand. Instead of an economy stag gering from one crisis to another, caused by world over-production in the major export crops of the Territory, a many-sided industrial complex will weather these crises. The fight for reasonable living standards is also a struggle for the development of New Guinea. It has wider implications than the narrow trade union demands imply. It is the basis of Hie movement which will carry New Guinea forward to a viable and independent future. 