 ALP BRANCH NAILS VIOLENCE TREND 1 JYDNEY : A pamphlet, Violence in Australian Politics, has been published | by the Mosman Branch of the Australian Labor Party, organisers of the I meeting at which a murder-attempt was made on Labor Leader Arthur f Calwell. I The branch "feels a special responsibility to alert the Aus tralian public to the recent rise of dangerous extremist public groups on the political right" says the pamphlet. "An attempt was made to disrupt the first public meet: ing held in Mosman this year and the Branch was host to Mr. Calwell on the night he was attacked. The pamphlet does not say that rightwing organisations were connected with the at tack on Mr. Calwell. "We do argue, however — and the evidence is clear — that the groups create an at mosphere of passion and hatred which readily and rapidly breeds acts of viol ence. "This is the danger— an im mediate danger— to which we call your attention. By recog nising it and exposing it you will contribute to the pre servation of political liberty." The pamphlet tells how, at a meeting called by the Branch at Mosman Town Hall on March 1 several groups armed with sticks, flags and banners made an organised attempt to disrupt the meet ing. They were led by Michael Darby of the "Australian Ac tion Co-ordinating Centre, Dr. Charles Huxtable of the De fend Australia League and Owen Warrington of the "Friends of Freedom". 'The meeting chairman call ed on Michael Darby to leave, says the pamphlet. "When he and his followers left the hall they gathered outside the en trance, where Darby offered, amid cheers, to go to Viet nam and send back fingers of the Vietcong to all who would like them". Attempt Encouraged by the good attendance at this meeting, which was addressed by Dr. J. Cairns MHR, the Mosman Branch invited Mr. Calwell to address the next meeting, on June 21. Here again there were groups scattered throughout the hall who heckled loudly and persistently, most of them being indentified as DLP or Young Liberal supporters. It was after this that the attempt was made on Mr. Calwell. Comments the Mosman pamphlet: "The events in Mosman oc curred against the back ground of a rising trend to wards violence of thought and action among certain extrem ist groups in Australia. The pamphlet identifies these as including local branches of international organisations like the Anti- Bolshevik Bloc of Nations, the Ustashi and the US- ! centred "Christian anti-Com munist crusade". There are also Australia nationalist and racist groups which have mushroomed in the last four years such as the "League of Rights" ihe \ "Friends of Freedom" and the I Australian Nazi party. v> Encouraging these, witting- $ ly or otherwise, says the & pamphlet, are "respectable" persons of ultra-conservative 1, outlook such as Sir W. Kent U Hughes and Dr. Malcolm Mackay, who accuses the op ponents of the Vietnam war of "de facto treason". The pamphlet says the ex tremist groups have resorted to physical force at a number of public gatherings, includ ing the Mosman meeting on March 1 when they tried to bring sticks into the hall, two meetings at Sydney University and a public meeting at Gor don where they rushed the platform and destroyed the assembly. The Australian Labor Party; always opposing extremism, I "now stands resolutely against I the new Right-wing fanati- J cism; in defence of' basic i human values which the ex tremists deny and in defence of the civil liberties which the extremists infringe." 