 For embattled Vietnam fUDAH WA TEN'S LITERARY COMMENT in most countries the writers in Australia are increasingly coming out against the barbarous war on the Vietnam people. Not only by their signatures to various . statements but also in their plays, stories and poems. At several recent poetry readings of young, unpublished poets, including the one on the ABC, a high percentage of the poems showed great sympathy for the embattled Vietnamese. Well established poets too are making their protest. For 'nstance, Judith Wright in her sadly ironical poem, "Newsreel", which begins: " 'Sinister powers,' the Ambassador said, 'are moving into our ricefields. We are a little people and all we want is to live.' But i chemical rain descending ! has blackened the padi-fields, and the buffalo die, and we are bombed and starving." From discussions in various' literary groups many writers, who previously rarely spoke on political questions, realise that the war in Vietnam is no abstract ideological conflict, but a war fought; by US Imperialism for control of one of the richest war material areas in the world and for the re-establishment of colonialism. ? JT is not a secret that the newly appointed head of NATO forces in Central Europe, the German General Johann Adolf, Count Von Keilmansegg enthusiastically served Hitler .as a tank specialist and took part in the nazi invasions of Poland, France and the Soviet Union. What is less known is that he is an author. In fact he now rather regrets having joined the rank of authors and not sticking to soldiering. This is because his opus. "Tanks Between Warsaw and the Atlantic," published by the Nazi Die Wehrmacht in 1941, reveals him to be a rabid anti-semite and mad racialist. In the true nazi "Der Sturmer" style he describes the Jews of a village in Poland which his tanks destroyed together with its Jewish inhabitants. The book also shows that he just loved killing. His motto was: '"Advance over graves." Naturally enough there have been many protests against his appointment, in England, Holland, France and most European countries. In the USA tno. But we have heard few protests from Australia, notably from those who claim to be concerned with anti-semitism and anti-semites. How about it, Mr. Leibler? ? INHERE is an enormous amount of money made out of the smut I in the USA, England/ and many other capitalist countrje. Sold cheaply in paperbacks it circulates in millions of copies. The titles speak for themselves: "The Housewife's Handbook on Selec- , five Promiscuity", "Raw Dames", "Screaming Flesh", "Siesta Sin", "Lust Legacy", "Always Wanton", are only a few examples. Don't imagine that sleezy backyard publishers get them out. The big businessmen of the publishing industry are in full charge: they own the subsidiaries which specialise in cheap pornography. Other of their subsidiaries publish the higher quality erotica which S is a sure money maker too. Publishing today is in very few hands although there are still a considerable number of apparently independent concerns. 