 [?] Papua-New Guinea's first university graduate meets ... , BAR ON COLOR IN N.G. CLUBS PORT MORESBY (NG): Mr. John Natera. New Guinea's first university graduate with a Bachelor's degree in Agricultural Science at Sydney University claimed recently that he had been faced with racial discrimination since his return to Lae, New Guinea, to work for the Department of Agriculture. Mr. Natera said in Lae that the first incident ! occurred at the Lae KbL LJ.ub during an agricultural | staff conference about two months ago. | "We had finished the morning session in the con- I ference room and I bought a drink at the bar. Most j of the other chaps were also drinking. "| WAS then told by some one that people were objecting to my drinking on the premises. Two other indigenous people were also told to stop drinking. I knew of three people who objected to my drinking. "If the reason was that I was not a member, I cannot understand it, as quite a lot of1 the European people drinking also were not members." The second incident occurred a few weeks ago at Wau club. He was the only New Guinean or Papuan there and he went with a European member. "As we walked up the steps the bartender asked the European what he was doing," Mr. Natera said. "It's all right, we will drink on the verandah," the European said. The bartender said, "You know you can't do that." Mr. Natera said there was ialso trouble when he swam at the club's pool. Discrimination on licensed premises on the basis of race or colour is an offence under the Discriminatory Practices Ordinance, therefore the lai/iatia wnu xuw uicac ulULUa lliusi, Uc careful to provide excuses. I It is evident that the incidents at I both clubs were based on race. The | action at the Wau club should make it liable to a fine under Section 4 of the Ordinance. ivxcxnucia (jjl uneat; uuus, uatienmg on the exploitation of the local people, are only able to meet them on the basis of master and servant and they would regard it as presump tion on the part of a New Guinean to assume equality, whatever his talents and manners. Mr. Natera more than qualifies and it is to be hoped he presses his claim for equality. 