 SCIENTISTS WORRIED AT WAR CRIME RISK By a Special Correspondent LEADING United States medical scientists are concerned over the use of universities for secret military projects in chemical and germ warfare. Some say it place scient ists in punishable violation of international law. This could have relevance even now in Australia, where some university science pro jects have, for some years, been sponsored by the United States Air Force, though de tails are unpublicised. Professor Seymour Melman recently told an audience at Columbia . University that scientists , should refuse to participate in germ warfare research rather than later "stand in the position of Ger man scientists who, in ' the name of solving problems of heat transfer, designed the ovens used to destroy Hitler's concentration camp prisoners." Violation The meeting was called by the Public Affairs Forum of . the College of Physicians and Surgeons to discuss "The Uni versity and Secret Research." Melman, a professor of in dustrial engineering, told the group of about 180 students and faculty members, that scientists who engaged in such research were in direct and punishable violation of inter national law. Citing a US Army handbook dealing with the "law of war" Melman emphasised that civilians, no less than members of the armed forces, may be prosecuted for use of prohibited weapons, or for complicity in their manufac ture and distribution. "Those who are accomplices to these acts," he read from the handbook, "share in law ful responsibility for perform ances of these acts." Rationalisation by scientists engaged in germ war re search, said Melman, have produced statement of a phil osophy "developed to its full est by the council for the defence at Nuremberg. . . . 'After all,' said Eichmann, 'all I did was to put people on trains'." Scientists engaged in chem ical or biological warfare re search, he declared, are ac complices in the crime. Viruses Melman pointed out that particularly virulent strains of deadly viruses and bacteria have been developed for dis tribution over wide areas, which can be made resistant to many drugs and can be produced at relatively low cost. The issue can no longer be treated in the abstract, he said. "We have to choose," he declared, "between life and death. We have to choose be tween the integrity of science and the rule of the Department of Defense." Dr. Albert Mildvan, of the University of Pennsylvania's Department of Biophysics, de- tailed the fight over the school's participation in a military-sponsored project. "Who controls the Univer- ity?" he asked. "The military, or the faculty?" Despite widespread faculty opposition to secret military work on the campus, he said, the original contract with the US Air Force was renewed. Prohibited And when a recent steering Committee of the Faculty Sen ate strongly recommended to University President Gaylord P. Harnwell that the project be dropped when it next ex pires, Harnwell made it clear that the decision of the com mittee was not binding on the University although he would give it "serious con sideration." Mildvan made the following points: Chemical and biological weapons are prohibited by in ternational law, and are used mainly against civilian popu lations. They are not, as has been claimed, "more human itarian" and a substitute for more conventional ordnance, but a supplement to it. Mild- van cited a case i,n Vietnam where a poisonous gas was IIIU used to flush guerillas out of a cave. As they ran out, they were attacked with grenades. Such projects reverse 2,500 years of medical re search. The Hippocratic Oath, although no longer taken by beginning doctors, is still con sidered the basis of medical ethics. It states, "I will not give deadly medication nor recommend its use." "NO THANKS, NO CHEAP TEASE FOR ME!" 