 ALR: IS IT STIRRING THE STEW ENOUGH? By Roger Milliss "THE third issue of Aus tralian Left Review — out last week — shows a continuing improvement in both presentation and the range and quality of con tributions. - Main item of interest in this neat number is CPA General Secretary Laurie Aarons' article on "China's Ten Years", in which —writing as "a member of the Australian fraternal delegation to the last Congress of the Commun ist Party of China in 1956" — he traces, the decline of the theory and practice of China's leaders over the last decade. Mr. Aarons sees the roots of the degeneration of China's re latively enlightened and realistic position of ten years ago to the absurdities of the "Great Prole tarian Cultural Revolution" as lying in the difficulties of trans forming a vast overwhelmingly peasant country into a modern industrialised society, complicated by the strains of nationalism and national pride, and "not least" ,by the "almost mystic belief of Mao Tse-tung in his own 'thought'." He also contrasts the isolation this turning inwards has produced —instanced by the comparatively thin array of foreign visitors at tending this year's National Day celebrations in Peking — with China's high standing interna tionally in 1956, following her role at the Bandung Conference, the "Five Principles of Co-existence" declaration with Nehru, and other achievements of her then flexible and imaginative foreign policy. The biggest single external fac- tor in effecting China's isolation, Mr. Aarons considers to be the United States' aggressive policy of "containment", which has ringed China with bases and made her ever-conscious of the threat of American attack and invasion. He emphasises that Australian Communists will do everything they can to defeat this policy, help restore to China her rightful seat in the United Nations, and patiently endeavor to rebuild unity in the world communist move ment. Dr. Eric Fry, of the National ' University, contributes an inter esting! analysis of the roots of the traditional Australian opposi tion to compulsory military ser vice, in comparing the historic defeat of the 1916 Conscription referendum with the struggle against conscription today. The main motivating idea of the 1916 "No" vote, says Dr. Fry, was the radiqal-egalitarian , notion, originating in Australia's convict past, that "armies were undemo cratic, strongholds of caste divi sion and unthinking obedience". This basically anti- authoritarian attitude is still, he maintains, one of the reasons why Australians are sceptical about conscription today. Rex Mortimer discusses the sit uation in Indonesia twelve months after the coup, arguing that the coming to power of the Suharto regime has solved none of the country's basic problems; Judah Waten makes an interesting survey of the decline of Yiddish culture in the West, and W. A. Wood writes a pleasant profile of Pro fessor Frederick May, of the Ital ian Department at Sydney Uni versity, who— in addition to the impact he has made on the peace movement in the two years he has been in Australia — also has some outspoken views on censor ship. A fairly lively discussion section includes comments by Eric Aarons on Rex Mortimer's controversial remarks in a previous issue on the question of factions in the Com munist Party, by Noel Counihan on Picasso, and by Alf Watt on the flagging sta.te of the economy. Technically, the magazine is becoming more professional in its appearance, though there is still room for improvement, particu larly in the delineation of separ ate items — as in the editorial comment, which could also per haps become more catholic and comprehensive in its scope. If there is any general cri ticism that could be made — and this, it seems to me, is a pretty basic one — it is that as yet ALR does not contain enough material of a fundamentally stimulating and thought-provoking nature. This is a necessary quality if the magazine is to fulfil its de clared role as an ideological ral- lying-point for "left" and socialist forces in Australia, dealing with grass-roots political and theoret ical problems of today and sug gesting possible paths of progress for the socialist movement. In the three issues so far, perhaps John Sendy's article in ALR l on "Democracy and the Commun ist Party" best demonstrates this quality. 