 Miners in angry mood Company couldnt care less about mine dust menace yOLLONGONG : Miners at the Australian Iron and Steel's Kemira Colliery oh the NSW South Coast are in an angry mood over the company's arrogant insistance that they work in high concentra tions of coal and rock dust. Last Wednesday the dispute took a dramatic turn when 300 mineworkers took further strike action to defend their safety and health. Miners' Federation District secretary Mr. W. Smart said the men throughout the District are greatly concerned over the issue and see it as a life and death struggle. . "Hundreds of miners have died from the effects of dusted lungs in the past and unless we stand and fight this issue wt believe many more of our mem bers will suffer the same fate", he said. The men are complaining against being forced to work on the dusty side of a machine which has been introduced in to the mine. An earlier stoppage, which lasted 11 days, resulted when men were suspended for re fusing to work in dust caused oy this machine. Following this stoppage dust counts were carried out by of ficers of the Health Depart ment and Mines Department, but of the 24 samples taken, only four were taken while the machine was actually cutting. The men say this is not a proper method of dust counting as it is not a test of the actual conditions of working. Now the local coal Authority, on an application from the company, has ordered the men to work in the dust. This order was made despite the fact that the Authority (Mr. Dobb) has no jurisdiction over safety and health mat ters. The order was also made in the face of a proposal by the Federation that by a modifica tion of the machine it could be successfully operated without causing a dust hazard. But again the consistant ar,- rogance of this company pre vailed. They were not even prepared to listen to the prac tical ideas or opinions of the Federation! So far the only response from the company to the miners' proposals is to insist that men work in the dust. And when they refused they were suspended, causing the whole mine to stop in protest. Last week Tribune demand ed to know whether there was anyone in the NSW Mines De partment or Government big enough to stand ud to this steel . monopoly. This is the same company which Judge Goran said adopt ed a "cavalier attitude" to the , problems of gas at it's Bulli mine. Where, the Miners' Federa tion said, safety principles were ignored in the interests of coal production. And as a result of this, four miners were killed seven months ago but as yet no move has been made to prosecute the company. This company also owns the Corrimal colliery where only the other week a stoppage occurred over the suspension of men for insisting on additional roof sup port in the dangerous section where two men were earlier crushed to death. The evidence against this company is sufficient to con demn private ownership in the industry and to justify the de mand for nationalisation, mak ing a management responsible to Parliament and the public. But despite all the damning evidence against the AI & S, Mines Department officials have been publicly defending it. Also the Minister for Mines, Mr. Lewis (a nephew of BHP's late Chief, Essington Lewis) has shown no desire to prose cute the company following Judge Goran's inquiry into the Bulli tragedy. The Miners' Central Council last week in Sydney said in formation has been received "that some Government Mines Inspectors in NSW, if not all, are members of the Mine Man agers' Association". , Council said this was a com plete negation of the principle of impartiality. 