 jMHlND POSTAL DISPUTE ' : lesting time is near on automation By Tribune's Industrial Roundsman SYDNEY : Automation, the main issue in volved in the postal dispute, is a matter for serious attention by the whole trade union movement — both industrial and white collar. THIS dispute is the first big test as to whether the unions are going to allow the Federal Government to use new electronic equipment in the GPO to lower wage standards and dispense with jobs. New equipment for sorting mail is to be installed in the Mail Exchange at Redfern in Sydney as a forerunner to uni versal application -throughout Australia. The Department planned to employ girls on this new equip ment at about $14 a week less than received by a Mail Officer. Mr. G. Slater, the general secretary of the Amalgamated Postal Workers' Union, puts the issue as bluntly as this: "Either automation has an open go and men are tossed aside like so much rubbish, or automation is controlled and introduced for. the benefit of all!" Fighting policy Mr. Slater sees the struggle not so much against "a few departmental heads who want to show how bright they are by introducing coding machines and cutting costs — we are fight ing a general and well-thought- out Government policy. "The Federal Government is under great financial pressure. It is pursuing policies in op position to the people which involve the spending of millions on militarisation and conscrip tion of our youth. "It finances its wasteful ex penditures by increasing direct and indirect taxation and by pursuing what it describes as 'stringent economies' in Gov ernment Departments. "This includes the Postal Department. The wages bill is the first thing that is trimmed. Hence the urgent desire to automate and dispense with labor," he said. Perth support In Perth, the Western Aus tralian Trades . and Labor Council secretary (Mr. Cole man), calling for industrial and moral support for the postal workers, said that the introduction of automation into industry was a bigger question than the conflict within the GPO itself. He said the Government was causing the crisis by breach of International Labor Organisa- ! tion agreements signed by Aus- ! tralia for full and candid talks I with workers before the intro- | duction of automation in full or in part, "The unions are , realistic about automation, but they want machines not as masters but as servants, to keep the people happy, and maintain wages and not push them into dead-end jobs," he said. Possibility , reality Last year, at the International Congress on Human Relations in Melbourne, Mr. W. McMahon (then the Minister for Labor and National Service); spoke of technical change giving "the possibility of a richer life for the individual." There is a lot of difference between possibility ana" reality. Mr. W. Evans ( Australian Ccuncil of Trade Unions' vice-president) said at the same congress: "Automation in itself will never improve people's lives. It is the use that the nation makes of it that will do that." Under capitalism where the "virtue" of profit prevails human values are the last con sideration. Automation that could bring about a new era of shorter working hours and higher living standards _is. already causing mass unemployment and misery for millions. As Professor J. K. Galbraith, from America, told the Mel bourne congress: ". . . one of the advantages of having the United States is that it pictures the various forms of paradise and purgatory to which other countries can look forward." Another American, Mr. D. Michael, describes this purga tory in his book, "Cybernation: the silent conquest." Employees in manufacturing alone have been reduced by la million in the last six years. In the highly automated chemical industry, the number of production jobs has fallen 3 per cent, since 1956, while production has soared 27 per cent. Though steel capacity has increased 20 per cent, since 1955, the number of men needed to operate the plants- even at full capacity— has dropped 17,000. School leavers Auto employment slid from a peak of 746,000 in boom 1955 to 61.4,000 in November. . . . Since the meat industry's 1955 employment peak, 28,000 work ers have lost their jobs despite a production increase of 3 per cent. Bakery jobs have been in a steady decline from 174,000 in 1954 to 163,000 last year. On a farm one man can grow enough to feed 24 people; back in 1949 he could feed only 15. These facts are again a back ground of a growing population and consequently an expansion of job seekers. This is the reason why 30 per cent, of the youngsters in America who don't finish high school are unemployed. In one almost exclusively Negro slum of 125,000, 70 per cent, of the boys and girls between 16 and 21 were out of school and unemployed. The ACTU and the Australian Council of Salaried and Pro fessional Associations have both called on the Australian Govern ment. to take a lead on this problem. Last year's ACTU Congress called on the Government to convene conferences before . intensive mechanisation and automation was introduced. Congress said the Government had not faced up to its respon sibility, despite persistent de mands by the trade union movement. The postal dispute has clearly exposed the Government's atti tude—not only disregarding the jobs and welfare of mail offi cers, but planning similar changes in other sections of the department. This is why all the postal unions covering 100,000 workers declared their solid support for the mail officers. Mr. J. Baker, the general secretary, Third Division Tele graphists and Postal Clerks' Union, has warned that "unin formed attitudes of people like PMG Hulme may be about to provoke one serious industrial dispute after another." TL|ISS DEIRDRE PRATT is this year's May Queen candidate for the Combined Unions. At 18 years, she reckons May Day is important as it's "the workers' day." Deirdre is a typiste at the Milk and Ice Carters' Union office in Sydney and is counting on heavy sup port from the milkos with their 10c votes. Firemen and Wool and Basil workers are also backing her in the com petition. The winner of the May Queen competition will be announced at the May Day Ball to be held in the Sydney Town Hall on Friday, April 29. 