 Soviet Union says thanks to Aussie war time hero By a Victorian Guardian Correspondent "|"HE Soviet Govern ment has awarded a gold watch inscribed with the thanks of the Soviet people, to each of 20 people of the Chare- ne! Islands. One of them is a Melbourne man, Frank Huelin. The Soviet Ambassador in Australia, Mr. V'. A. Loginov, presented Frank Huelin with a watch in Melbourne last week. This is a tribute to the her oic activities performed by Frank Huelin, now a worker in a Melbourne powerhouse, and many others in the under ground resistance on the Chan nel Islands during World War II. Their courageous work saved the lives of many Russian POWs. Frank Huelin told me this week of the crucial years of the war, when he returned to his home town of Jersey in the Channel Islands, just two weeks before the outbreak of World War II. He remained throughout the German occu pation of the Islands from 1940-45. "When I returned to Jersey there was no Communist Party there at all. My brother and I and a few others decided to form one. . Our party was born out of the struggle against Hit ler, born of the economic con ditions in the Islands. "The people were looking for some lead, for an answer, and the German occupation con solidated their resentments. "When the occupation came we were made illegal, but we carried on underground. Yes, there were great risks, but in the circumstances we didn't mind if we were caught. - "We concentrated on hiding the Russi2-n POWs with our people, after they had organ ised their own escapes from the camps on the Island. "Some of those Russian lads were such marvellous chaps. I remember one we helped es cape by getting him an iden tity card. He was one of the happiest fellows I ever knew; he made himself a balalaika and was always singing. There was another, as game as Ned Kelly he was. "The occupation of the Is lands was not a savage occu pation like France or the USSR. But it was an occupation, and we watched them land and X) march in their jackboots along our coastal roads, their lead- tipped whips and guns ever moving. "The Russians and Poles they considered sub-human and they were the worst . treated. The people of th,e Island saw this, and they were horrified. "Of course there were good Germans there, too. We heard that one chap in the German army was anti-Hitler and anxious to meet us. It was a risk, it could have, been a trap. But two of us decided to risk , it. What were two lives after | all? Life is pretty cheap in wartime, you know. He turned out to be all right, in fact he joined the army as a means of fighting against Hitler from within. - "Two years after the war I came back to Australia. By then I . was sick of war and Europe. All I wanted to do was hear the magpies and smell the gum trees." Mikhail Krokhin, a citizen of South Kazakhstan, and for mer POW in Jersey, recently learnt of Frank's whereabouts ; and wrote to him. "Our old good friend, leader underground during the war- ! time. i "Have you received grati tude from our government for your helping of Russian prison ers of war during wartime? "All my family send you best regards and . wishes, be there always the sunshine above your house. . Frank Huelin. 