 feBusin©ss;>.crime, 3, A. » Faking company's balance sheets down to a fine art By a Special Correspondent B ALANCE sheets are generally accepted as the last word in authenticity, but this is not the view of a Sydney accountant, Mr. Mutton. Addressing the Australian Shareholders' Association (July 6) he saw many public com panies faked theii balance sheets. "There is no point in hedging, consciously fake is what I mean. "Many companies maintained secret stock reserves, not re vealing more than 60 per cent of the value of stocks in bal ance sheets. "Long term assets are in the books at their cost 40 or 50 years ago, although they have appreciated in value 5 or 10 times since," he said. When asked why accountants passed these figures in their audit certificate, Mr. Mutton said "It is wonderful the way accountants convince themselves they are entitled to slide around the issue." Notes to the balance sheet, disclosing what has been done was one way this happened. "Accountants feel it is alright i,f it is disclosed in the notes," he said, "although the notes are merely proof that what is in the balance is untrue." To those who are familiar with financial columns in the daily press this is well known, but to the very large number of small investors, who have great confidence in the integrity of businessmen, it must be a rude shock. That this situation has been allowed to develop is a serious reflection in our legislators. Surely the public is entitled to a true and correct statement of company affairs? Failure The failure of companies to make a real assessment of their assets places shareholders at the mercy of takeover mer chants. Over the years we have been treated to demonstrations of such piracy. Such people, make it their business to closely scan balance sheets looking for undisclosed stocks. When they feel confident that a sizeable nest-egg is hidden in the accounts, they swoop. A few years ago the very conservative firm of Burns Philp Pty. Ltd. was the sub ject of such a pirate bid by a company many times smaller than Burns Philp. There is every reason to believe that had the bid been successful a great hoard would have fallen into tho pirate's lap. This decay in business morals is part of the general decay of capitalism, but that does not excuse our Legislators from doing their duty to pro tect the public. Another of these corrupt practices is the effect the "cooked" balance sheets have on the Arbitration Court: It is well-known that evidence is taken on the profitability of business and the profits of companies are shown in the balance sheets vthe figure pro duced must be lower than is the real position. This provides the Bench with the necessary grounds to re fuse increases. Such faked balance sheets are a double- edged weapon which not only conceal profits but also de press wage standards, which means added profits at the ex pense of the worker. 