 SPJjrTS W A GUN FOR DOUG WALTERS? By THE CHALLENGER LAST Saturday, the Cumberland eleven qualified for the final of the Sydney grade cricket competition by soundly defeat ing Wesley Hall's Randwick team. Great credit for the victorv must so to the 20-year-old Dous Walters. who took five wickets for 52 runs. This was a follow up to the century he made the previous week. Such performances are by no means exceptional for young Walters — as rave notices in the daily press | during the recent Australia | versus England Test series indicated. He is certainly the best all- round cricketer around since J Don Bradman. \ One English cricket writer, Crawford White, of the Daily Express rated Walters even better than "the Don" at the same age. Cricket expert Richie Benaud, was quoted as say ing of Walters after last Sat urday's game, "We ought to give him a 21-gun salute." And many of the fans there would have readily agreed. However, the tragic irony of this timely comment is that Walters will not get the salute, but is now almost certain to get a gun — hand ed to him by the Depart ment of the Army — and then be rail-roaded off to Viet nam to participate in the dirty war. Walters last week under went a two-hour medical examination to see if he is fit for National Service, and indications are that he's O.K. The United States and the Australian governments are endeavouring to tone down the mounting hostility to their war policy and have battened on to every conceiv able gimmick to try to win support for their venture in Vietnam. They have subtly utilized the field of sport to this end. Thus in the daily press, an Army spokesman is quoted as saying that after his initial training period, Doug Wal- ters could be posted to , a capital city which would en able him to play first class grade cricket; that U.S. Vice- President Humphrey, during an inspection tour of mili tary establishments in South Vietnam, wanted to sign up a 6ft 7in. Australian army officer as a basketball player. Also reports are that the Australian army has set up a surf life saving association at a beach resort in Viet nam, where soldiers spend their rest leave. The inference is that the army life evert in Vietnam is not too bad, so why kick up a fuss — or think about it! In reality the Vietnam war is one of the dirtiest and sportsmen are among the victims of it. Ronald King, who set 22 U.S. records in race walking and finished sixth in the Olympic 20 kilometre event in 1964 was last December posthumously nominated for the James L. Sullivan Award by the U.S. Amateur Athletic Union. King was killed in Vietnam in July last year. Viet-nam effects The Vietnam war is un necessary and Ss having strong repercussions in sport — as almost every cricket fan will, if they do not al ready, realise. Two years is a long time for a cricket er of the calibre of Doug Walters, to be kept out of big time cricket, for the sake of supporting a wrong in Vietnam. Any illusions that Austra lians may have had about Asians were shattered last November in the field of sport, when the Australian soccer team in its first ven ture into the World Cup Soccer competition, was easily defeated by the Demo cratic People's Republic of Korea 3-1 and 6-1. Latest reports from that part of the globe show that Korean women are just as capable as their men folk. Women skater Kim Song Soon of the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea was recently placed second in the overall classification at the world women's speed skating championships in Trondheim, Norway, trounc ing strong rivals. Kim Song Soon came first in the. 1,500 metres, second in the 1,000 metres, fourth in the 500 metres and fifth in the 3,000. Fellow country woman Han Pil Hwa a medium and long distance skater, was placed sixth in the overall classification at the cham pionships. It was in 1959, that Korean women skaters made their debut at world champion ships. Since then they have improved their records and have become world skating aces. Many thinking people in Australia know that because of our geopraphical position we have to live with Asia. Developments show that if we are to play sport with them, we are going to need a lot of serious training. Soccer, basketball The Sydney district of the Eureka Youth League has issued an invitation to any body interested in playing soccer and basketball to take the opportunity of joining one of the League's teams. N.S.W. secretary of the League Paddy George said that boys and girls of a11 ages are inyited and the only thing required is a keen de sire to play. Paddy said that the ke&' gue's soccer team were win ners of last year's St. George Association K.O. competi tion and will play in |he St. George area. Interested players should phone 54-4479. In basketball, t|ie girls team is currently playing in the Western suburbs ano have won their last two games. Boys' basketball will com mence soon. , Interested players shorn phone 30-6546 or the centre, 26-2165 for all infr' mation. KIM SONG SOON 