 N.G. REFERENDUM- REJECTED BY HOUSE PORT MORESBY : A proposal by a member of the House of Assembly for I a referendum on the future of New Guinea was rejected by the House I of Assembly. I "THE referendum, proposed by Mr. Graham Gilmore, asked Should New Guinea em erge as an independent sov ereign state? Should New Guinea have a free association with an in dependent state? Should New Guinea be integrated with Australia as a seventh state? United Nations and General As sembly and Trusteeship Council re solutions, and moves for independ ence from within the New Guinea House of Assembly, have alarmed tlio Australian Government and other ex ploiters of New Guinea. Only last month the UN General Assembly, by a vote of 86 votes to 0 (22 abstained) called on Australia to grant independence to New Guinea at an early date. The House of Assembly in 1964 on the motion of Mr. John Guise, MHA, set up a committee on Constitutional and Political Development. The alarm created in reactionary circles by this committee is evidence of its success in the development of a sense of nationalism and unity of New Guinea's people, a sense stimu lated by the committee in its search for a name, a national anthem and a national flag. This move to nationhood prompted and assisted by progressive decisions of UNO is feared by Australian ex ploiters of New Guinea, the Minister for Territories and the Menzies Gov ernment. They fear it will be im possible to maintain monopoly ex ploitation while New Guinea remains a Trust Territory. The problem is how to take New Guinea out of Trust and retain Aus tralia's standing in world affEiirs. It is generally recognised that a decision of the people on the question of independence or the association of the Territory with another country— in this instance Australia — would be 1 tantamount to a decision to end the Trusteeship. The sponsors of Mr. Gilmore's pro posals are playing for big stakes and they are prepared to take a risk on whether the electorate would vote for independence. It matters little whether Mr. Gil- more is aware of the far-reaching nature of his proposals. These proposals will not solve the problems of the people of New Gui nea. Mr. Gilmore indicated that he sup ports the institution of the Seventh State. The referendum did not include Papua. Mr. Gilmore proposed that # lowing the referendum a plebiscite I should be taken in Papua to ascer- j tain whether the people would sur- i render their Australian citizenship t ' J share a common future with New d Guinea, and later another plebiscite | J be taken in New Guinea to decide j if the people wanted Papuans as poll" 11 tical partners. If 