 NATO: Myths and facts 'pHE setback for West German Chancellor Erhardt's Christian Democrats in the North-Rhine-West phalia State elections last week means more than is usually meant by purely provincial elections. Foreign policy was an issue and the result was a rebuff to the hard-line anti-Soviet policy of the Erhardt Government. - The Social Democratic Party, which has shown signs of leaning towards a more progressive line, - found that this was what the electorate wanted. The election followed quickly on French President cle Gaulle's visit to Moscow and his conclusion of-new agreements with the USSR. Returning home in triumph, De Gaulle has found that what he has done has completely accorded with the French people's wishes. The Government's order to NATO to get out of "France has obviously also received the full backing of the people, - Obviously De Gaulle' was speaking not only for France but for the rest of western Europe when he declared that there was no danger of eastern Europe attacking the west. ' . Despite the frantic efforts of Rusk, Erhardt and others to drum up more support for NATO by re kindling the myth of "Soviet aggression", it is clear that Europeans as a whole will no longer believe in it. Increasingly they resent the fact that for 17 years or more they have had to bear gigantic burdens to avert a peril which, as they clearly understand from De Gaulle's attitude and from other obvious facts of today's situation, never really existed.. And it is no use- Rusk or anybody else trying to . claim that .the new climate in Europe is due to the USSR bowing down before NATO's big stick. Relatively to the rest of the world and especially to western Europe, the USSR is infinitely stronger than in 1949, when NATO was formed. What has really happened in the 17 years since 1949 is that the peace policy of the USSR and the intensive efforts of the peace supporters in western Europe have won important victories. They have won recognition from increasing num bers that the socialist countries of eastern Europe cannot be overthrown by force and that they have a right to make their own choice of social order and form a government. Because he accepted this, De Gaulle was able to make his historic journey to Moscow. What can be achieved in Europe is also possible in Asia, even though tensions are as acute as they were in Europe during the worst of the Berlin crises. At least one cause for hope is the fact — loudly lamented by Mr. Holt and still more loudly by Mr. McMahon — that Europeans are showing the same scepticism about the myth of Chinese "aggres sion" as they are about the similar Soviet myth. As the Tribune has already pointed out, the British decision to cut down military strength east of Suez indicates that the Government doesn't believe in a Chinese threat to British interests there. ERHARDT ON THE LEFT WITH EX-CHANCELLOR. ADENAUER. BEHIND THEM IS THE NAZI MASS MURDERER GLOBKE, WANTED IN EAST GERMANY AS A WAR CRIMINAL. 