 Legal loophole leaves workers unprotected THREAT TO SAFETY ON THE JOB U.S. firm's challenge By Tribune's Industrial Roundsman gYDNEY: A big American construction company has succeeded in using a loophole in the law to fotieak down vital safeguards protecting the lives of workers in New South Wales. As a result, it appears that employers in the NSW building industry are not obliged by law to provide certain safeguards on the job. For example, if a shoddy scaffolding, situated some 15 storeys up, happens to go then the worker's widow cannot secure damages from the employer. This now is the legal position following a decision last year by the English Privy Council over a case spon sored by the American company Utah Construction and Engineering Pty. Ltd. The "legal brains" of this company found a loophole in the NSW Scaffolding and Lifts Act and, no doubt delighted with the find, rushed the matter to court. Now both Privy Council and NSW Supreme Court | have declared that certain regulations of the Act are invalid. These regulations require the employer to provide: suitable ancl safe scaffolding, a safe means of access, by fencing ,or otherwise some means to secure workmen from falling a distance of more than six feet. AFTER 50 YEARS In practice these three regulations are the main ones affecting the safety standards on building and construc tion sites. Breaches of these regulations by employers are also the main grounds for damages claims, for killed or injured workers. v It seems incredible that in 1966 an employer would have ths audacity to challenge the legality of such elementary safety standards. j These standards have operated in the NSW Act since i 1912 and have been enforced by the Department of ' Labor and Industry through its many inspectors. ! ti This do'cs not mean that employers have been beyond slumming" their responsibilities. Stoppages and action i by building workers, to enforce these regulations, have been a constant factor to ensure a safe j,ob. But workers will be particularly hostile at the action of this American company which came to Australia with . ptactically nothing and has since made a fortune. Utah Construction has a long history of management prac- I tices leading to disputes on the job. j The loophole found in the Act is that Section 22 (2) | only authorised the making of regulations which pre- I scribe means for securing the safety of workmen, but I does not authorise the making of regulations which I impose on the employer an absolute duty to secure I safety. I Mr. L. Schurr, the secretary of the building trades 1 gioup of unions, said the NSW Labor Council will be 1 asked to lead a deputation to the State Government to I have the Act made watertight. I T' O'Sullivan, NSW president Building Workers' I ndustrial Union, said his union and members will be I emanding that the Government take urgent action I on this matter. 1 m ?\ilurfi tae prompt action will mean that I t l workers will be without any recourse 1 h? , a® action in the event of an accident arising. I h an emPlyer's failure to provide safeguards," 