 PROVEN UNTRUTHS IN GOVT. PAMPHLET — bbhm — aaa— — a—— mm w«hhiiiiui»iiihih I THE BIG LIE! CAMPLE question from the Federal Gov ernment's latest pro - Vietnam - war pamphlet "Vietnam Questions and Answers". ® "Are the allied forces in South Vietnam using poisonous gas against the Viet Cong? ANSWER (supplied by the pamphlet : "No. The gas used by the allied forces is ordinary tear-gas such as is used by police forces In all countries which causes no injury — only tem porary discomfort. ANSWER supplied by the Sydney Daily Telegraph on May 10, 1966, under a Saigon dateline: "AMERICAN planes dumped nausea gas on Viet Cong positions to clear the way for an infantry assault, it was disclosed today. "Three gas masked battalions took part in the assault ... "It was one of the largest doses of gas American troops have spread over enemy territory ... "The gas was in powdered form and spread around in choking clouds upon impact." The Telegraph story, which comes from Australian Associated Press and Reuter, makes it plain that the gas used in this operation was not "ordinary tear gas" but nausea gas, designed to produce vomiting. A question most readers of the pamphlet will ask, on learning these facts, is whe ther the Government will now withdraw it for correc tion rather than continue to circulate a proved untruth — at the taxpayers' expense, incir dentally. The New York Post on May 12 editorially condemned the use of gas by the U.S.A. in Vietnam at the discretion of field commanders as "doubly incredible". Any gas established a dan gerous, potentially deadly pre cedent for the use of lethal gas, it stated. The rest of the pamphlet is equally misleading. — It admits that the division of Vietnam into northern and southern zones at Geneva was meant to be temporary pend- ing the holding .of all-Viet nam general elections in 1956. Trying to explain why this promise was broken by the South Vietnam authorities it repeats the old story that no free elections could be held in the North because it was Communist-led. But it does not explain what justified the refusal to hold any elections at all in the south, a refusal main tained right up to last April, when united action by the Buddhists forced the elections promise from Pre mier Ky which he is now trying to repudiate. Only after elections were barred by the South in 1956, and the U.S.-backed Diem dic tatorship began its reign of terror did the patriots take up arms (those arms they could capture from their enemies) in self-defence. The pamphlet follows closely the lines of the Liberal Party pamphlet called "The Facts about South Vietnam" (the main difference being that the other was paid for by the Liberals and this one by the taxpayers). Thus it repeats the Liberal Pamphlet's statement that the International Control Commis sion in 1962 condemned infil tration by the north. It does not add that the Commission had earlier indi cted the south scores of times and, in the very report quoted by the Liberals and this pamphlet, finds that South Vietnam had broken four articles of the main Geneva agreement. The pamphlet does not note that this ICC report of 1962, contained the first adverse comment on the north and that the infiltration alleged was in response to the U.S. military take-over of South Vietnam beginning in 1955. Perhaps the most dishonest part of the pamphlet it its attempt to picture "Hanoi" as the obstacle to peace which the U.S. and Australian Gov ernments are said to be always earnestly pursuing) The pamphlet .'admits that the U.S. won't negotiate with the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam (the force they are fighting) which clearly would have to happen before there could be peace. But the real obstacle, it claims, is "Hanoi's" insistence on its four points — a . total withdrawal of the U.S. and other foreign forces from Vietnam, a return to the military arrangements of Geneva, a settlement of the internal affairs of South Vietnam in accordance with the NLF program and peace ful reunification of Viet nam by the Vietnamese people in both zones. The pamphlet claims that this would mean submitting to "Hanoi's terms" — al though these were basically the terms agreed to not merely by "Hanoi" but by every participant in the Geneva conference and later accepted by Australia. The main difference is that the foreign forces to be wihdrawn are now American, not French. Although the pamphlet can't claim that the Ky Gov ernment is "representative of the people" it claims it is searching for a "broadly based and stable political and social system." Marshal Ky's threat to shoot the Mayor of Da Nang, his police attacks on Buddhist demonstrations and . his- determination to hang on for another year or more, come what may, seems a queer way of doing this. The pamphlet has the im pudence to claim that Aus tralia "has not damaged her standing in Asia" by her actions in Vietnam. Resentment necessarily ar oused among the Vietnamese who officially complained to the International Control Commission over Australia's breach of the Geneva Agree ment, the condemnation of Australia's action by 700 mil lion Chinese, the reserved attitude (to put it no stronger) of India and Indonesia who have declared their opposition to intervention in Vietnam, isn't seen as damaging to Australia. Only one degree more in credible than this is the state ment that in waging the war "we do all we can to avoid innocent and helpless people suffering" and that "all South Vietnamese servicemen have been instructed to act humanely towards prisoners". Who can erase from his mind those press and TV pic tures of Vietnamese being dragged along by the neck, hung upside down, drowned in water pots, kicked on the head, , cut with , knives, ... and burned and bombed wH6le-( sale? u The pamphlet costly as it is, ' can't make Australians forget or forgive what is being .done 1 in their name, nor could a i dozen such pamphlets. "OUR CASUALTIES WERE LIGHT" (Official statement.) 