 \ HH Looking hard at 'The Realist' |N his criticism of "The Realist" magazine (Tribune, June 8th) "First Citizen" indicates the dilemma which has faced its contributors since its birth: what to write and who to write for. ' Like their old-time Bulletin precursors, most realist writers ' would claim they write for "the common people" more specifically the working class, and their task in art to be to arouse and enlighten the wor kers to the crucial class issues of the day, to Socialist hopes and ideals. But the working class has not responded, sales ' of "The Realist" have not boomed. Seeking reason for their fail ure in method, writers have tended to ' make everything "plain", the "message" clear, treating stories as simple moral lessons, and poetry often as didactic doggerel. Many be ginners saw this as the only suitable way to write. All this has ignored the changes in the working class since the turn of the century. The working class is still basically what it was then, bound in exploitation to a vastly-grown capitalist class. But workers are no longer looking for a class and nat ional identity that fired such zeal and ferment in the nine ties. Some observers would say that sections of the workers have become conservative in method and static in outlook. A postwar Left has arisen in the unions and the ALP but it is not seeking expression in literature. It must also be said that large sections of the working class do not read (in a liter ary sense) as a regular activ ity. This is no intentional slur, neither do big sections of the other classes in our society. The infant Bulletin was as omnipresent as a Bible among the older workers, but it can't be resurrected, or put in new clothes. How then to get a largely unresponsive working class in- terested in a literary maga zine which is trying to express I their experience and ambitions: this is one horn of the dil emma. The other point consists in this: there is an audience for literary magazines, comprised in part of the "reading wor ker" (for want of a term) but mainly of the literary-minded of the middle and university strata. There has been an in crease in the number of mag azines with a stable existence. Young readers prefer the sat irical article and cartoon, lit erary "send-up" and fantasy. Aware of this, "The Realist" has tried to appeal to this audience, mainly by inclusion of literary criticism and com ment. But efforts here have been largely defeated. The overall quality of "The Realist" has been below that of the other magazines, criticism has too often been naive and narrow-eyed. Technically, al though continuing improve ment can be seen, "The Realist" is also a poorer ' magazine. Conversely, those members of "The Realist Writers" groups who believe that the magazine should appeal primarily to worker audiences have dep lored articles "too heavy" or "too long" and poetry that is "too deep". Where to go? Speaking for myself, "The Realist" should actively compete for its share of the existing literary aud ience, raising a voice for the Left and Socialism, taking the important social issues of the day as the pole of its literary expressions and giving a lead to solve the problems of writers as a whole (such as lack 'of avenues of publication, censor ship, the Americanisation of our culture). To take the stand of the pro gressive working class does not mean that a magazine has , f., to concern itself exclusively with the working class as , audience or subject. Realist stories are needed on such themes as Liberal Prime Min isters, Security agents, captains of industry and love and family in a society of computers and contraceptive pills. As workers come to recognise that "The Realist" speaks for them in literature, so they will come to claim it as their own. "The Realist" does riot gain by trying to" "descend" to the "simple level" of the plug on the job. Has this gained reg ular worker-readers? On the other hand, to insist on quality in story and criticism does not mean preaching a synthetic refinement and meaning only for the precious few. Realist criticism needs to mature. It is an uncomforting fact that we have yet no Left critic of recognised stature in Australia. 