 In 20 years fighting against France and the USA Vietnam loses FIVE MILLION DEAD L By W. E. GOLLAN, well-known former Sydney headmaster and member of the World Peace Council, who last year visited the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, where he spoke to President Ho Chi Minh. IN the long history of if European and United States aggression against the people of Asia, the atrocity of Vietnam oc cupies a special place. f A distinguished Vietnamese lawyer whom I first met in Hanoi and subsequently in Cuba, told me of the losses already suffered by the Vietnamese people in their 20 years of struggle for free dom, first against the French pnd then against the United States. Five and a half million people have died from direct military action, famine and disease; another two and a half million incapacitated. Five million major casualties in a total of 30 million people -one-sixth of the entire pop ulation. Even a country with an advanced economy such as Australia would have found the loss of almost two million of its people such a crushing burden. Yet this country, relatively backward in terms of its economy, fights on, and the most powerful nation in the capitalist world, supported by a group of satellites cannot extinguish the flame of res istance. How is it possible? In 1962 in Europe I met the President of the National Liberation Front — a small, slight man, also a lawyer but from Saigon — not Hanoi. He had had a thriving legal practico but realising that his country was being taken over by a foreign power he left his comfortable Saigon life to join the guerillas in the jungle. During the years 1960-62 no fewer than 20,000 "puppet" troops crossed from the American to the National Liberation Front. (They are called "puppets" to distinguish them from the Koreans, Aus tralians, New Zealanders and ethers who are described as "mercenaries"). Those who changed sides ceased to be "puppets" and became "patriots"— fighting with .technically inferior weapons, without air-cover, but inspired by the same spirit that enables the leaders and the great mass of the people to face overwhelming odds with fortitude and con fidence. In 1962, when the US I spokesmen were claiming that it was necessary for them to increase their military inter vention because of "aggression from the North", I asked President Ho Chi Minh what military personnel were being supplied to the National Lib eration Front. His reply was: > "We are bound by the terms of the Geneva agreement. That Is our safeguard; and -wo arc certainly not going to break it. Our compatriots in the South can defeat the Americans as we defeated the French, because the NLF is fighting for its cause of freedom against soldiers who have no cause." He went on to say that when the temporary division of the country was made in 1954 over 20,000 men whose families were living in the South, had been regrouped in the North. Individuals from time to time, desperate for news of their families, set out in small boats to try and make contact with them. If captured they were tor tured and killed by the Saigon "puppet" forces. However, there was absolutely no sub stance in the US claims of military detachments, from the North intervening across the 17th parallel. Yet this myth was sedu lously blown up to make it appear that the US was defending a weak south against an arrogant and tyrannical north. It was used to justify the terror bomb ings of civilian targets in North Vietnam without a declaration of war. Yet even on US figures the "puppet" Vietnamese forces in the south exceeded 500,000 whilst the National Liberation personnel was never calculated at more than 50,000 — odds of 10 to 1. The two parts of the . country have been separated for years, living under differ ent governments and differ ent social systems. Landlordism in the North has been completely abolished; but although the National Liberation Front have carried out land reform and provided land for landless peasants it also protects the property in terests of landlords who join the struggle against foreign aggression. Both North and South are agreed that a period of separate government will be necessary before reunification can be brought about. This hardly sounds like the policy of an "aggresseor". On the other hand, the US- sponsored Ky regime, suppor- ted also by Australia, is one which restores the landlords, opposes any genuine land reform and bases itself on military and feudal privilege and oppression. It has no mass support and., obviously, no future. US SOLDIER GUARDS VILLAGERS IN CACTUS CLUMP. "Saved" from Communism. 