 Vietnam threat "arrant nonsense" CONSCRIPTION : LEGAL CHALLENGE LIKELY "Vietnam is a dirty war, and I don 9t want to he in it /" LEGAL challenge is almost certain to be I made to the Federal Government's decision to send 20-year-old conscripts to 1 the Vietnam war. Advertisements appeared this week in the daily press, sponsored by the Save Our Sons movement, inviting parents of conscripts to participate in the challenge. Mrs. Peggy Ashcroft, secretary of Save Our Sons, told Tribune this week: — "The Save Our Sons movement has received legal advice that therte are grounds for challenge to the Government's constitutional power under the Defence Act to send conscripts overseas. "The Save Our Sons movement, which has no political affiliations, nevertheless feels that the grave emergency threatening the lives of Australian youth, calls for action through all possible channels. "In its ranks are women who have formerly been warm supporters of the . Government." ' ' ' V;-:\ - . ; V Expanding Opposition Word of the likely legal challenge came after a week of expanding opposition to the Government's Vietnam war policy, centring particularly on the conscription issue. Major demonstrations are plannnecl this week. Even before Prime Minister Holt's announcement, a Gallup Poll suryey (taken at the end of February) showed' some 57 per cent of Australians against sending conscripts to Vietnam. In Parliament on Tuesday, "Federal Opposition leader Calwell reaffirmed the Labor Party's united opposition to the Government's decision to use conscript Australian boys in the "unnecessary, unwinnable jungle war". Mr. Calwell moved a motion of censure against the Government for having increased Australia's commit ment in Vietnam arid for its neglect of the Australian economy. He challenged the Government to hold a referendum on the question. He said that otherwise v the Opposition would make this the main issue at the next general election and at the Kooyong by-election. He accused the Government of using conscription in Vietnam "to curry favor with international capitalism." Mr. Calwell said it was "arrant nonsense" to claim that the war in Vietnam was a case of North Vietnamese and Chinese aggression. Unions Reaffirm Stand The New South Wales Labor Council last Thursday unanimously condemned the decision to send conscripts. Council said that the policy of the trade union move ment was opposed to any Australian troops being in Vietnam. All unions in NSW were called on to protest to the Federal Government, and the Australian Council of Trade Unions was asked to lodge a similar protest. The Sydney Branch of the Waterside Workers' Fede ration, which sponsored the resolution, also called for the convening of a special ACTU Congress to determine action on the issue; .&lt; ; The WWF said that when the Australian people were confronted with conscription for overseas service in 1916 by the Hughes Government, the Melbourne Trades and Labor Council took the initiative and organised an Australian trade union congress. However, Mr. R. Marsh (assistant-secretary Labor Council) said the present wages struggle would make it difficult to call a special congress. "But; if the whole trade union movement in all States rallies behind the NSW . resolution it will have the same effect as a congress." A protest from the Queensland Trades and Labor Council last week demanded a referendum or election Continued, Page 12 ABOVE: Mr. Paul Melrose, 20, arts student of Burwood (Sydney), defiantly burning bis conscript draft card in protest against last week's decision to send conscripts to Vietnam. "I don't care what the conse quences are7 Vietnam is a dirty war and I don't want to be in it," he said. RIGHT: Mr. Barry Robinson, secretary of the Youth Cam paign against Conscription, addressing the student protest meeting. Mr. Robinson, who a month ago had publicly burned his national service draft card said this week he had been summoned later to the Depart ment of Labor and National Service. He told the official he had ourned his card and declined to fill in a form to obtain an- \other. \\ i CONSCRIPTION Continued from Page 1 on the overseas conscription issue, said that no conscripts should be sent and that all Australian troops be recalled lrom Vietnam. It called on all unionists to support these demands and press for peace in Vietnam on the principles of the 1954 Geneva Agreements. The Federal Executive of the Miscellaneous Workers' Union last week in Sydney declared full support for Opposition Leader. Calwell's demand for a referendum. The Australian Railways Union has also demanded a referendum on the issue. A telegram to Mr. Holt from the Federal secretary of the ARU, Mr. M. O'Brien, said: "Those whom you are forcing to serve in overseas areas are entitled to the same consideration as Menzies and yourself enjoyed when eligible for military service." Crews of ships at sea off the Australian coast radioed messages of protest to the Government. The Ship Painters and Dockers' Union (Fremantle Branch) sent a telegram to Calwell supporting his referendum call and a protest telegram to Holt. The Superintendent of the Sydney Central Methodist Mission, the Rev. Alan Walker, hoped that "a great wave of angry defiance against the Government will arise and spread "across the country"! He denounced the Vietnam war as "immoral and unjustified". "The Government has no mandate to send Australian conscripts to fight and die- in this dirty war", Mr. Walker added. "Young conscripts will be morally right in refusing to fight in Vietnam." The former Anglican Bishop of Armidale, Dr. Moyes, said: "It is unethical to take young people who have! no vote and send them to fight overseas where no war has been declared." 