 Mounting peoples' action can win Vietnam peace The much publicised world-wide U.S. peace offensive to end the war in Vietnam is assured of immediate success if they accept the four simple straight forward provisions that conform to the 1954 Geneva Agreement. ""|HESE provisions for a just settlement of the war are put forward by the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam: and the Peoples' Liberation Front. The four points are: 1. Recognition of the basic national rights of the Vietnamese people which are independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity. In strict conformity with the Geneva Agreements, the US Govern ment must withdraw its troops, military personnel and weapons, ammunition and war materials of all kinds from South Vietnam, dis mantle the US military bases there, abolish its military alliance with the South Vietnam administration and at the same time stop its policy of intervention and aggression in South Vietnam. The US Government must stop all its acts of war against North Viet nam and put a definite end to all acts of encroachment upon the ter ritory and sovereignty of the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam. 2. Pending the realisation of the peaceful reunification of Vietnam, while Vietnam is still temporarily divided in two, the military provi sions of the 1954 Geneva Agreements on Vietnam must be strictly re spected: the two zones must refrain from joining any military alliance with foreign countries, there must he no foreign military bases, troops or military personnel in their re spective territory. 3. The affairs of South Vietnam must be settled by the South Viet namese people themselves in accord ance with the program of the South Vietnam National Front for Libera tion without any foreign interven tion. 4. The realisation of the peaceful reunification of Vietnam must be settled by the people in the two zones without foreign intervention. Massive and mounting interna tional public action and opinion has forced US President Johnson to send his envoys to the capitals of the world to seek their opinions and advice on Vietnam. Most of this advice will be to find a way quickly to end the war. Whether it is accepted or not will largely depend on the stepped-up action of the world's peoples to end US aggression in Vietnam. SENT TO DIE The Australian people have already played a role in the struggle for peace in Vietnam. Ending of the war is vital to them. Their sons are dying there, and it is clear that many more young Australians, including con scripts, will be sent to die there in 1966. Increased action by Australians for peace in Vietnam is a top priority for the coming year. The Geneva Agreement was de signed to bring an end to the war in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia in 1954. An international commission con sisting of representatives of India, Canada and Poland was set up to control the Agreement. One of the cardinal points of the Agreement was that it prohibited establishment of foreign military bases in Vietnam, Laos and Cam bodia. The Agreement provided for free elections in 1956, for both parts of Vietnam, to prepare for unification of the divided country. PROMISE BROKEN It also declared that States must not enter into military alliances, or resume hostilities. While the US was not a signatory to the Agreement, its representative, Mr. Bedell Smith, officially stated that his Government would refrain from violating its implementation. However, it is a fact that the US poured armaments into South Viet nam and caused Ngo Dinh Diem to refuse the elections for 1956 as laid down in the Agreement. The US and Menzies Govern ments now claim that it- is the North Vietnamese and not they who have violated the Agreement, but the facts speak for themselves. Practical deeds, and not pious words, are needed by the US if its present peace moves are genuine. Not one spokesman, for the United States has so far put forward one practical proposition for peace in Vietnam during the present negotia tions. DOUBT This leaves serious room for doubt as to their real intentions. Is President Johnson, faced with the greatest hostile upsurge of public opinion that any American President has ever faced, trying to justify further even more serious aggression in Vietnam? Does he hope that after his "peace" envoys have returned he will have a good excuse to lever more money from Congress for intensification and expansion of the war, because his demand for "un conditional talks" has been rejected? American troops are already engaged in military manoeuvres in Thailand, and the Cambodian leader, Prince Sihanouk, has said that he feared the US was prepar ing to re-enact on Cambodia the 1941 invasion by Japan which took over Indo-China. He denounced American charges that the Peoples' Liberation Forces (Viet Cong) and North Vietnamese troops were moving through Cam bodian territory, being re-supplied there and using it as a sanctuary. ESCALATION The Prince claimed that the US had given permission to the Ameri can Commander in Saigon to attack Cambodia when and where . he wished. This Is a clear-cut indication that America would like to spread the war and is hardly a fitting back ground to peace moves. A genuine move towards peace by the Americans which the whole world is waiting for would be an offer, at least, to discuss the four points of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and the NLF as a basis for settlement. — — mnnni—wnmr— oww— Tngrimriininni— n—n hw . . and take your bloody toys with you!" H 