 t . , . ff — — f ri n M ff ff ff — |agELLO Tribune Juniors, You may remember some weeks ago I said that you can find so much interesting scenery close to the cities? Well, Manly (I'm sure that our in terstate readers have heard of this beach) is famous for the saying "only seven miles from Sydney but a thousand miles from care". This is not a boost for Manly Beach but for something I dis covered at Manly that reaches back more than a hundred years into our history. At Manly in a natural valley there is a reservoir made by man. On the gentle hills be hind the reservoir a little stream has made its way down into the valley for centuries. So long has it been running that it has formed into the sandstone rocks deep round holes full of clear cold fresh water. It was near these holes that I made my discovery— for here carved into the flat sandstone rocks surrounding the water holes are aboriginal carvings. Credit for my discovery must go to my friend who is a mem ber of the National Geographic al Society and who showed me these fine examples of abori ginal carvings. Time has worn the carvings down and you really have to look to see them— but they are there. Near the water holes you can see a hunter with a fish, there are many drawings of fishes and other animals. However, my most excited moment was when I discovered a carving of a kangaroo and spear which my friend did not know existed. I felt that this must have been a very popular place with the tribe that lived there, Even on the wintery Sunday the sun was warm and there was no wind. Had the hunters after a good day sat down in the sun and with a small rock carved a drawing of his game. This area must have abound ed in game and fish. The fish must have been bountiful, with the sea so near, for the most prominent carvings are fish. Perhaps it was not this but a ceremonial ground, for worn into the rock is a circle, was it worn away by many stamp ing feet, were the drawings us ed to teach the young men the art of hunting? Many thoughts came to my mind as I gazed at the carvings —how little we know of the ab original people and their cul ture. What was the fate of the gentle tribe that lived here. Were they killed or were they driven from their tribal land to die in unfamiliar parts, homesick for the sight of the sea, from lack of their usual diet? What is b :ing done to save the culture of the aboriginal people that have survived, what is to be their future— how long before they are recognised and take their rightful place in our land? Perhaps in your area you have spent a day, of discovery as I did— perhaps you know more about their culture. If so please write in to the column and share it with all of us. Dinewan. 