 SPffffrS '/! Interstate League I trials not enough 1 With the big rep. matches just around the corner, many Rugby i League followers must be asking themselves how much import- I ance the Australian selectors are going to attach to the Country 9 City and Queensland — New South Wales fixtures when I choosing the Australian test team. I The development of Syd ney's big city and suburban Leagues clubs and the in creased drive towards total professional Sydney League, has meant that Q'ld. clubs cannot compete for the pro mising Sydney reserve grad ers. The same also applies to Country clubs in N.S.W. The days when players like Ken McCaffery, Bob Banks, Dave Parkinson, Bernie Drew, etc., could be induced to go North are over. Instead, we have most, if not all of Q'ld's best players now with Sydney clubs. Noel Kelly, Kevin Ryan, I Ken Day, Mick Veivers, Noel Thornton, George Ambrum, Kevin Yow . Yeh and Ras- mussen, to mention a few, would all be considered cer tainties, if they were still in their home State, to play against N.S.W. If such players were eli gible for Queensland selec tion, and if New Zealand (which is only hours away), came to Sydney each year, very interesting three-cor nered, or if N.S.W. country was included, four-cornered games could be arranged. These games, particularly when the Englishmen are in Australia, would be ideal in assisting the Australian selec tors in their difficult job of choosing the best 13 players to represent Australia. Last week, the North Is land of New Zealand sent a team to Queensland, and this coming weeks ' sees a team from N.S.W. Country go to N.Z. for a flying seven- day tour. At least the Queensland and N.S.W. Country League officials see the value of these games. Both the selection of the South Queensland side and the 18 Country players to tour N.Z., revealed no new talent that is likely to dis place more favoured Sydney players from the likely First Test line-up. Are the City selectors go ing to stick to form players? If they do, many outstand ing internationals will be scratching to make either of the city teams. Dick Thornett, Brian Ham- bly, Jim Lisle, Mike Cleary, and Paul Quinn, couldn't be considered on this season's form. JACK MUNDEY. i'J/ ii; Wi Water-skiers hanging a couple of hundred feet above the I. water from a kite, while being towed by a speed boat are quite a common site now days. An innovation of this low flying sport is shown in the above picture. / Soviet woman parachutist, L. Masich, is seen flying along behind a plane at low altitude, holding on to a cable. - SHE is the world's first woman to accomplish such a feat. This is probably one case in which those who are some what reluctant to admit women's capabilities, would say not only: "Ladies first", but "Ladies only". 1 