 — — — — nr mum iiiihiiiii mi The Establishmen t wins i\. ' V V ... Theatre JHE class war gets a new and unorthodox twist in Arnold Wesker's con troversial play, "Chips with Everything", now showing at the Independent Theatre at North Sydney. With our own boys being bal- IM.J . luucu away to an aggressive war in Vietnam, Wesker's work — first performed in London four years ago — assumes topical in terest in Australia to-day. It is about the first eight weeks' basic training in the Air Force received by a group of nine English National Service trainees — eight of them work ers and one, Pip, the son of a General. Pip hates the upper class from which he comes, and de cides to buck the Establishment of which he is a part by lead ing the other trainees in a. revolt against the Air Force system. The response of the officer caste against which he has pit ted himself is swift mid sure. They remorselessly set out to break the young rebel's resist ance—to win back to their own ranks one of their errant fel lows. And they succeed. In an iron ical ending, Pip joins the of ficers against his mates just when the other trainees -filially oecide to jack up against auth- onty. fQ ere is no mistaking the bit- Wesker's attack on apitaiism and the false barriers t erects between people. The Jm? also makes a devastating hl cm of the brutality and in humanity of military life. At the same time, there is a peculiar sort of inverted snob bishness about the play. The only individual ready to raise the banner of revolt is the wealthy young prig Pip. The working-class lads are either too apathetic or too scared to do anything themselves. And although the young work ers are drawn with a consider able amount of sympathy and understanding — reflecting Wes ker's own working-class back ground—there is also an un- pleasant degree of condescen sion towards them. Perhaps this is because of the English setting of the play. It is certainly hard to imagine a group of ordinary young Aus tralians puting up with the ar rogance and studied insult that Pip heaps upon his fellow- trainees. At any rate, Wesker seems to be saying that the working-class is to blame for putting up with capitalism— a rather over-simpli fied point of view from a writer who is himself not exactly ex cluded from the capitalist estab lishment. Young producer Jim Sh&rman whose direction of "The Sport of My Mad Mother" at the Way side Chapel theatre recently was so impressive — does not quite succeed with "Chips with Every thing". This seemed on opening night to be mainly because of the production's lack of a clear line and also lack of weight among the actors- Most of the young actors play ing the trainees didn't seem to understand the people they are representing and some of the performances were caricatures rather than characterisations. Exceptions to this were Peter Fisk as Charlie and David Yorston as Andy, both of whom lent their roles a great degree of sincerity and authority, as well as Martin Magee as Smiler. John Gregg was effectively smooth as the effeminate Pilot Officer and Dan O'Sullivan ef ficient in the key part of the Corporal, though he could have done with greater military authenticity. Uneven though the production was, there were a couple of ex cellent scenes — particularly the passing-out parade at the end, when the playing of the Nat ional Anthem left the Independ ent's comfortable audience as uncomfortably embarrassed as playwright Wesker intended them to be.- -R.M. 