 Coming to grips with Australian reality By L. AARONS, general secretary, Communist Party of Aus tralia. Based on a report to the Central Committee. COMMUNISTS have a contribution to make to th$ working class and socialist movement because they take their stand on the theory of Marx and Lenin. But unless Communists con tinually work to develop this theory, summarising practical experience and tackling the real issues of contemporary society, the Marxist-Leninist theory be comes a dogma. Differences in the international Communist movement have al ready sharpened the appreciation of Communists of the danger of extreme dogmatism — a danger that is by no means ended. There is need, not only for Communists but for all political students in the working class and labor movements, for more and better study of the classic works of Karl Marx, Frederick Engels and Lenin, to master their prin ciples. But if we rest content with principles, or still worse confuse principles with the historical context in which they were de veloped, we would be missing the very essence of Marxism. It is necessary to tackle the real problems of our time, to throw ourselves boldly into the struggle of ideas which is richer, more varied and more widespread and sharper than ever before. Some think that the struggle of ideas is important only to intellec- , tuals. In fact, ideas must be the corncern of practical working- class politicians who wage the class struggle. By way of illustration, in the class struggle in the Australian Labor Party a whole body of ideas has been developed by certain forces to underpin the campaign for a new rightwing ALP. It covers the whole gamut of theory— classes and class structure ("the changes in the class struc ture lessen the significance of the working class and the trade unions"); democracy ("democratic socialism versus Communism"); monopoly capitalism ("we can depend upon advanced liberal thinking within the US"); foreign policy, and so on. These ideas affect not only the theoreticians or would-be theore ticians; they also have great prac tical significance. Intellectuals today are changing —in social origin, in growing alienation from monopoly capi talism and the establishment (Menzies' hostility to academics and intellectuals is known). Today, more intellectuals are salaried employees of huge im personal concerns which only want profits; their talents, know ledge and idealism are often wasted or distorted in the big business rat-race. Others work for government departments, and find their concepts of national development thwarted by govern ment subservience to overseas and domestic monopoly. Lenin often wrote on the im portance of ideas. In "What is to be Done" he quoted from Engels: "The German workers have two important advantages over those of the rest of Europe. They belong to the most theoretical people of Europe; and they have re tained that sense of theory which the so-called 'educated' classes of Germany have almost completely lost. Without German philosophy which preceded it ... German scientific socialism would never have come into existence . . And Engels drew this conclu sion: ". . . it will be necessary to redouble our energies in every sphere of struggle and agitation. It is the specific duty of the leaders to gain an ever-clearer insight into all theoretical ques tions, to free themselves more and more from the influence of traditional phrases inherited from the old conception of the world, AND CONSTANTLY TO KEEP IN MIND THAT SOCIALISM, HAVING BECOME A SCIENCE, MUST BE PURSUED AS A SCIENCE — THAT IS. IT MUST BE STUDIED." It is our task to study this science. No science stays still; Marx studied British capitalism to discover its laws, but modern monopoly capitalism is no longer only the capitalism that Marx studied, just as no physicist after Einstein can depend only upon what Newton discovered. Today, all communists and other conscientious workers in the labcr movement must study Australia and the world, and tV.e ideas which contend1 as the social systems and classes con tend1. Communist and non - party marxists should discuss all kinds of questions and contribute to formulating policy on the most vital questions. Among the questions requiring more creative study and work is the economic structure and changes in the work force. What sort of perspectives for future development of capital- . ism? Can we envisage another 1929; if not, why not? If mon opoly capitalism has been able to avoid repetition of such severe crises, does this mean an unin terrupted growth? If not. what sort of contradictions and crises are likely to develop? Three main features in modern monopoly capitalist economy can be noted: 1. Economic growth rates are higher. 2. Cyclical fluctuations, certainly not abolished' are no longer severe. 3. There has been a substan tial growth of employment in all advanced capitalist countries, even the USA which still has four to five million unemployed. In the past, attention has been drawn to sieveral causes for this: the effects of World War II, the growing importance of militaris ation to the economy; the in creased exploitation of the un developed countries through un equal exchange; the economic effects of trade With socialist countries' and of peaceful com petition. AH these features are impor tant. Who can, for example, fail to see 1 the dependence of the US economy upon war spending dramatised by the fact that a new report of a letter by Ho Chi Minh to India calling for peace initiatives, can bring a collapse on Wall Street? Yet is seems tihafc we can see other, deeper features; the accelerated capitalist socialisation of production by1 huge internat ional monopolies, and a new type of state intervention and cap italisb planning. There are objective processes wl.ich. require deeper study. They point to new. types of economic problems, the need for Marxist analysis and policies; they al'-o raiise in a new and! urgent form the need and) tremendous poten tial of Socialism and of socialist planning. The new development? pose new problems for capitalism, too; and new opportunities for the labor movement. If in 1933 Australian capital ism. could survive a 30 per cent rate of unemployment, today even a Harold Holt can warn that a 3 per cent rate can mean defeat for a '.government. The Dawson by-election confirmed thiis. We need not, and must not, bo constantly turning back in bur thoughts to the 30 's. The working people of Australia want a solution to PRESENT economic problems and they want them now. - We. have to supply those solutions to build a mass movement that will raise other more far reaching and revolutionary demands. What are the social forces for this movement. What sort of changes have been made in social structure, and what are the consequences of these? The Australian work force of 4,000,003 in 1961 iwas made up of 2126, tflOO industrial workers (ii?. production, transport and other tertiary and service in dustries) ; of 1,3 50 >000 .professional and white collar workers (870, OOf of these being sales and clerical workers) ; finally about 584,00Ci employers and top administrators (including 286,000 farmers and fa i-m managers) . ,lt is clear enough then, that while change has taken place and Will accel erate, the industrial werkers are still decisive numerically as well as for their special position in industry. Further, the shifts whiich have taken place, drastically reducing the number of the old petty bourgeois sector, are in fact eroding the social basis of conservatism, provided the labor movement finds the way to unite with the new professional, technical and office workers created by capitalist develop ment. 