 ________________ — _ words for the theatre [?] MONA BRAND is one of Australia's best play wrights and her work is well known to audiences in this country and abroad. INew 1 heatre, Sydney has produced Here Under Heav en, Strangers In The Land, Better A Millstone, Our Dear Relations (winner of the 1 963 Arts Council Drama Festival), Out Of Commission and Hold The Line. She also wrote one-third of the items in their current successful revue, YOU'VE NEVER HAD IT SO GOOD. Since 1954, HERE UNDER HEAVEN and STRANGERS IN THE LAND have been playing continuously in dozens of East German theatres. Four of her plays have been published in eight languages, including Lat vian and Hindustani. STRANGERS IN THE LAND, NO STRINGS ATTACHED And BETTER A MILLSTONE are now available in a new collec tion published (in English) by Progress Publishers, Moscow. STRANGERS IN THE LAND is set in Malaya during 1952. , A young girl comes from England to marry her fiance, a British planter. Gradually she sees the reality of the conflict between . the British and the "terrorists." She is horrified when her fiance mercilessly shoots a Malayan patriot. "This is their own country! We don't belong here, we don't belong. WE are the enemies!" she cries. She decides to go back to England. This is a powerful play with a deep understanding of the social pattern of change in the former colonial countries. It was written in a few weeks in 1951 when Mona Brand heard a planter's .wife speak on the BBC. She felt that the true picture of these people should be pre sented. The pTemiere of the play was given at Unity Theatre, London, in 1952. NO STRINGS ATTACHED is also about as Asian country. Although i,t is called Taikong, there is no doubt that the true locale is closer to Thailand, Laos or Vietnam. Mona Brand spent two years in North. Viet nam and knows well the back ground of American intervention in the South. NO STRINGS ATTACHED is a satire and in many biting scenes it exposes the American advisers and business, men who use their position to interfere in the affairs of South-East Asian countries. Judd Wrexall, the central character, states: "Me?. Oh, I'm in the electrical business — im porter—you know, refrigerators, lamps, radios." But his real purpose is to bring backing for Cabinet Ministers and others favorable to the USA. The play is most, topical for today. The third play in the collec tion, BETTER A MILLSTONE, is based on a real incident that took place in England in 1953. Two young hoys attempt to break into a shop and one of them shoots a policeman. This boy is sentenced to be detained in jail at the Queen's pleasure, but Ronnie, his companion, who is over 18 and therefore not a minor, is given the death penalty." The play is concerned with the fight by Ronnie's family to ob tain a more merciful sentence, especially as both boys were influenced greatly by the vio lence they found in. comic books, films, television and radio. The background of English working life is excellent. In particular, Ronnie's parents are very well characterised. BETTER A MILLSTONE, like all of Mona Brand's plays, has a theme and treatment that makes for good drama. She is a playwright who has always worked closely with a theatre and her plays come alive on the stage. The three plays in the present volume are commended to readers and theatres alike. — E.A. 