 | TRIBUNE 1 For price pirates it's C for confusion RESPITE the extensive official campaign to prepare the community for the currency changeover, it goes with out saying that, to a considerable degree, C-Day will be Confusion Day. Far more important, however, is the clear evidence that this confusion is to be deliberately used as a cover for price increases by profiteers of private — and some public — enterprises. Months ago it was noted that manufacturers were adding ha'pennies to prices, to provide an excuse to gain an extra decimal cent. The drought has been used as an excuse to raise prices of bread and, it is expected, milk. Manufacturers are juggling sizes of packages to conceal price rises. Liberal governments are playing a big part in this blatant robbery of the people. The New South Wales Chief Secretary served early notice that no price control obstacles would be placed in the way of profiteers; and there has been nothing more cynical than this government's raising of fares in the changeover. The Federal Government, whose higher taxes for war have added to living costs, has contributed to the swelling round of rises in local rates (another tax) by refusing the wide demand for Federal aid to local government. ? The year 1966 thus faces the people with a continuing prospect of falling living standards (possibly aggravated by unemployment) partly obscured by currency changes. This makes all the more vital the need for determined and united action, particularly in the trade union and labor movement, in support of demands for wage increases and control of prices, and to expose all cases of price increases. The unscrupulous practices outlined above were foreseen months ago by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which decided to set up a watchdog committee. Campaign decisions have been taken by the NSW and other Labor Councils. Petitions have been circulated. But, with employers proceeding on their profiteering way, as required by their economic system, it is clear that only a most vigorous, high priority campaign, by unions and workers in unity at the job level can arrest a more rapid de cline in the Australian living standard. Agony in Indonesia "yHERE have been may contradictory reports of the num ber of people killed in Indonesia in the past 3% months. The latest — the first official statement — is President Soekarno's announcement of 87,000 killed. The full story of these terrible events remains untold but this is clear:- a power clash involving two groups within the Army and resulting in the deaths of six officers has been made the excuse for the wholesale slaughter of those scores of thousands of revolutionary progressives — communists, trade unionists, peasants, intellectuals. The murder campaign, which calls for the strongest pro tests, has been done at the instigation of rightwing extrem ists of the Army and some politico-religious bodies, and has delighted neo-colonialists in Australia and elsewhere. Now those enemies of Indonesian independence and democracy are attempting to undermine and overthrow Soekarno himself. However, reports continue to reveal persistence of the struggle of the Indonesian people for democracy and a better life. There is no doubt that the communists, all other genuine national revolutionaries and the majority of the people will find the way to defeat their would-be oppressors, to develop democracy and to find their own solution to Indonesia's great economic and social problems. ,| _ 