 [?] Doctor No! P\R. F. Knopfelmacher ex treme rightwing propa gandist, after a speech at the Monash University last week was asked on what he based his statement that the In donesian Communist Party (PKI) had organised the coup in Indonesia. He replied that was based on evidence presented by the Indo nesian Government. When he was then asked whe ther he had read the evidence of . the Indonesian Government, he staggered the audience by reply ing "no". The meeting in the quadrangle CIX hundred staff members and students of the Queensland University, by a protest meeting in the grounds, helped make a suc cess of the recent Queensland Conference on South East Asia. Meeting in the quadrangle, they protested against the refusal by the vice-chancellor, Sir F. Scho- nell, of permission to hold a ses- . sion of the conference in the uni versity. The ABC reported that over 600 attended and overwhelmingly voted to petition the vice-chan cellor to reverse his decision. The demonstration won extra publicity for a conference that was voted a big success by those taking part— 228 delegates plus 30 proxy delegates. The NSW' participants, including .Bishop Moyes, Mr. Barry Robinson (secretary of the Youth Campaign Against Conscription), Mr. Geoff Anderson (secretary, Association for International Cooperation and Disarmament) and Mr. N. Docker (industrial officer of the Water side Workers' Federation) were among those paying tribute to the . value of the conference. Mr. Francis James, Anglican newspaper chairman of directors, also from NSW, noted that par ticipants had included members of the ALP, DLP, Communist Party and Liberal Party, and Roman Catholics, Anglicans, Baptists and other churchmen. From the conference emerged a strong resolve to do more than ever to make the truth about South-East Asia known among Australians. There was also a great deal of emphasis on the need for posi tive policies to build goodwill be tween Asians and Australians. Mr. A. Macdonald, secretary of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council, agreed that the 2,000,000- strong Australian trades union movement should do more for peace and that the message of the conference should be taken through the trades union movement. The champagne was rationed "THERE'S an untold story about the launching last Friday of HMAS Stalwart, a new Navy main tenance' ship, at Sydney s. Cockatoo Island. . . Launchings there are usually something of a special occasion, with visitors allowed on to the normally inaccessible island run by a subsidiary of Vickers Ltd., the British armaments giant. But this was the biggest sip yet built in Sydney (14,000 tons), a big achievement by the Cockatoo workers. It became known that, as usual, there would be a champagne party afterwards for the "heads"-7-this time including Lady Casey, who was lined up for the onerous chore of breaking the customary bottle over the ship's bows. The question was, were any workers to be invited to the party? Yes, said the management, there could be two official representa tives of the shop committee. Under what conditions? (the committeemen wanted to know). "The two men will bring then- good clothes to work in the morn ing as usual. At "12 noon, after the launching, they will change into these clothes and attend the social gathering. At 2 pm, they will change back into work clothes and return to work." FOOTNOTE: The shop com mittee, we understand, was NOT represented at the grog-up. Where have the Soldiers gone? "M ORE than 11,500 des erters and draft- dodgers have been arrested in South Vietnam in the past three weeks" wrote the "Australian" Saigon corres pondent last Monday. "Desertions have always been a problem for the Vietnamese and in recent years they have risen almost as fast as the American military commitment", he adds. "There were 37,000 in 1963, 74,000 in 1964, 113,000 in 1965 and 67,000 in the first half of this year." 