 Australian people fight against Policy of war and hypocrisy A PROMINENT spokesman for the powerful peace j .movement in the United States, Senator Wayne i Morse, said last week that the Australian Govern- I ' ment "is performing the functions of a puppet ... ; following the bloody US course in putting men into that immoral war. On March 8 last Pi;ime Minis ter Holt told the Australian Parliament and people that Aus tralian conscripts in Vietnam would be operating under Aus tralian command in an all-Aus- lian unit. Later he had to admit that the first conscript killed was operating under American com mand, with an American unit. This is only one of a long string of false assurances fed to the people by Mr. Holt, his external affairs minister, Mr. Hasluck and others. Gas On March 30, 1965, Hasluck told Parliament, in reply to urgent queries and protests arising from the Americans' use of gas in Vietnam, that "neither the United States nor the South Vietnamese Government is carrying on gas warfare." The official Government pamphlet, Vietnam , Questions and Answers, says the U.S. forces were using only "harm less tear-gas" in Vietnam. But on January 12 last Aus tralian Corporal R. Bowtell was asphyxiated while using gas in a tunnel against Viet namese near Saigon. Mr. Hasluck told Parliament that newsmen had "misinter preted" Marshal Ky's statement c)f May 7 that he would stay in power for another year at least, irrespective of elections. The very next day, Ky re peated the statement even more clearly than before, show ing he had not been mis quoted. Hasluck declared that there was "absolutely no anti-Ameri can trend" in the Saigon May Day demonstration which the U.S. newsagency United Press International itself described as "anti-American". With Hasluck's assurances, still in their ears, Australian T- viewers themselves saw the demonstrators chalking up their "Yanks Go Home" signs. Blow-up Back from his Vietnam tqur on May 5 Mr. Holt told the nation that the military situa tion had been secured, recent political disturbances had had only a "minor diversive effect" on the war, the "general will of the Vietnamese to resist Com munism" was tremendous and "not everything is grim." Almost as at a signal South Vietnam blew up with Ky's at tack on the Buddhists; US planes had to be pulled out of the major U.S. base at Da Nang, key South Vietnam divisions had to be rushed from the jungle to attack the Buddhists. Six days later in Washing ton U.S. defence secretary Mc- Namara contradicted almost everything Holt had said. He admitted that he was "anything but optimistic". The "general will to resist" that Holt found did not pre vent desertions running "at a very high rate" (said Mc- Namara) and the problem was serious. Not security The Government has been similarly hypocritical on the basic questions of reasons for the involvement and for con scription. They have presented it as a matter of national security. But Hasluck admitted in Lon don on April 23 that there was "no foreseeable risk of an in vasion of the Australian main land." The pro-Government press is more frank. The Sydney "Herald" (May 14) said: "Far and away the strong est reason for sending Austra lian troops to Vietnam is the need to preserve and strengthen our alliance with the United States." In other words, the Australian Government does what the U.S.A wants, right or wrong. 