 KENYATTA MOVES TO THE EIGHT pACED with growing criticism '' the right-wing leaders de cided to act. A Conference of KANU delegates was convened, at the bare fourteen days' "nbtice legally required, to consider a new Party Con stitution drawn up by Mr: Odinga's bitterest oppon ent, Mr. Torn Mboya, Minister for Economic Planning and KANU Sec retary-General. Mr. Mboya has become indentified with Western influence in Kenya, ana was derisively labelled in Parliament last year as the American . Ambassa dor to Kenya". Under the proposed Con stitution, subsequently ad opted by the Conference, the single post of Party Vice-President, then held by Mr. Od'inga, was abol ished and replaced by eight Vice - Presidencies filled by representatives from each of Kenya's eight regions. Although he was the KANU Vice - President, Mr. Odinga was informed neither of the convening of the Conference nor of the proposed new Con stitution. Despite Mr. Odinga's protests, the Conference went on as scheduled. He himself declined to partic ipate in the election of office-bearers, which saw the re-election of Mr. Kenyatta unanimously as Party President and of Mr. Mboya as Secretary-Gen eral by a large majority.. The eight regional Vice- Presidents elected were all anti-Oa'inga men. Allegat ions have been made of irregularities in several of the ballots. The groundwork for the Conference had been well prepared by the right wing. In the preceeding months, it had carefully secured' its position by a number of stage-managed "coups" in key KANU Branches. In addtion, the correct atmosphere for such a Conference was establshed immediately prior to its commencement by the sud den expulsion cf six cor respondents and diplomats from the socialist countries and another four a few days later. No definite charge was preferred against them, apart from the claim that their presence in Kenya, was "contrary to the in terests of national secur ity". Immediately after the Conference, the formation of Kenyan people's Union was announced. Its policy was reported to be free education, free land, free medical treatment, full employment, economic in dependence and the elim ination of all forms of exploitation and oppression. Four weeks later, Mr. Od'inga announced his own resignation from the 1 Republic's Vice-Presidency, I declaring that he could no I longer be part of a Gov ernment which was "ruled by underground masters serving foreign interests". At the time of writing, 26 Members of Parliament had also resigned from KANU to follow Mr. Odinga into opposition, and' further resignations were expected to be made. (Two of these MPs are now reported to have re joined the Government — Ed.) This decisive split in KANU comes at a critical stage in the young nation's history. It marks the end of the artificial unity of Ken ya's "voluntary" one-party system, a unity which was of vital necessity in the struggle for the country's political independence, but which became increasingly redundant as it was sab otaged hy right-wing forces In collusion with Britain and America. Kenya faces many enor mous problems which the Government has largely failed to tackle. The standard of living is appallingly low, unem ployment is incredibly high, the country is still reeling under the effects of last year's catastrophic drought and' famine, and parents have to pay often exor bitant amounts in school fees for their children's education. Most importantly, there is the all-pervading ques tion of land. Unless this is confronted no Govern ment can hope to hold popular support for long. It was the overwhelming factor behind the heroic Mau Mau revolt, as the Kikuyu people of Central Kenya rose to expel the British settlers who had' dispossessed them of their farm lands and land-hun ger is still the main force in Kenya today. The Government has admittedly resettled a large number of people on former British farms. But it has done this by buying back the land— which the settlers originally seized gratis or bought for a few I pence an acre — at out- I itageously inflated prices I with money borrowed at I interest from the British I Government. And for 1 every Kenyan so far I settled, there are several 1 others crying out for 1 grants. 1 Instead of nationalising I the land' and distributing I it to the peasants, the I Government has allowed | individuals to buy up I settler farms and thus I become the new proper- 1 tied class of Kenya. I The exact role of Mr. | Kenyatta in the anti- 8 Odinga movement is diffi- | cult to fathom. For some 1 years after Mr. Kenyatta's | release the two men were | extremely clc:e and' co- | operated in a number of | progressive moves. But it | is known that Mr. Ken yatta himself is now ex tremely wealthy, reportedly the biggest African land holder in Kenya, and that over the last eighteen months he has come in creasingly under the in fluence of Ministers like Mr. Mboya, Dr. Mungai and Attorney - General Charles Njonjo. The men opposed to Mr. Odinga are mqstly clever, competent administrators and totally unscrupulous — mostly younger men who played comparatively little part in the real struggle for Kenya's free dom in the early 1950's. It is alleged with cert ainty by many Kenyans that they are supplied with money in abundance from the Western Powers, and that they have used this money shamelessly to I buy politicians over to their side. And they are assuredly wealthy men, owning land, service stat ions and even secondary schools, from which they extract a lucrative income in fees. So the cards now appear to be down in the Kenyan political contest. Confronted by such astute opponents who control the reins of power, and who are backed by powerful foreign interests which see Kenya as an important pawn in their 8 efforts to contain the lib- 8 eration movement in 8 Southern Africa, Mr. Odinga's task is a diffi cult one. But he knows that he can count on the support of many Kenyan people, who recognise his sincer ity in leading them to a better life and freeing their. potentially rich country from the embrace of imperialism and neo- 1 colonialism. | In his previous article ROGER MILLISS des cribed how reactionary elements in Kenya, backed by Western in telligence agencies, init iated a campaign to force out of the govern ment progressives head ed by vice- president Ogina Odinga. Since Roger Mtfllilss wrote the article its theses has been confirmed by events in Nairobi, includ ing a new law to unseat the opposition MPs and a threat by President Kenyatta of further re pression against the pro gressive elements. 