 When you're marching on 6-Hour Day ... I REMEMBER ELSIE BYERS By Jim Stevens |H&N Monday, October 3, thousands of trade unionists in Sydney will take part in the annual Six Hour Dav Drocession. Colourful floats and banners will spotlight the demands of . the labor movement — shorter hours, made urgent by mech anisation and automation — higher wages — end to price robbery — peace — sack Holt— and more. And while the crowds lin ing the streets clap the marchers, many of the young people will - gain their first introduction to a movement which has helped to improve the lot of the working man. Pew will give much thought to the amount of work which goes into making a successful march. Fewer still will know that the secretary of this organ ising committee is an ener getic 69-year-old grandmother Tucked away in a dimly lit room at the Sydney Trades Hall, Mrs. Elsie Byers was busily going over details for the annual Six Hour Day Dinner when I spoke to her last week. This year's procession, the 111th anniversary of the original Eight Hour Day movement in NSW, is the . twelfth that Mrs. Byers has organised. She stepped into the breach to organise the 100th anniver sary celebrations following the death of her husband who for many years had been Sec retary 'of the committee. "This day is not only a land mark in the lives of work ing people, but is something handed down as a tradition — it was a hard battle," she said. ' "If you want to find out about the history of the 8-Hour Day Movement, read the introduction to the souv- j enir booklet we produced for j the 100th anniversary cele brations," she said handing over a copy. The struggle for shorter working hours in NSW goes back to 1855 with the form ation of the Stonemasons Society. In this year following a strike at the Trinity Church ' at Argyle Cut and the Marin ers' Church in lower George Street, masons on these jobs were the first workers in NSW to win an eight-hour day. This reform was won by building workers four years earlier in Victoria. "Many young people today just regard Labor Day as another public holiday," said Mrs. Byers. "It is up to us to explain and keep alive the tradition. "The struggle for a shorter . working day is just as im portant today because of automation. | "The only other alternative is unemployment," she said- % 