 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman THE Teachers' Feder ation .and parents have called for urgent action by the N.S.W. Gov ernment to complete Bel- rose South Public School. Six new classrooms and septic toilets should have been ready for use at the opening of the 1966 school year. The children are being taught in two not-yet-completed rooms, the assembly hall and in an old port able room at French's Forest school. Although Worringah Shire Coun cil insists on septic toilets in homes, youngsters attending this school have to make do with pans. At the French's Forest school 200 pupils, plus about 50 from Belrose South, share the only one WC available. This is part of the Askin Gov ernment's "economies". ? have been hearing a lot of "news" about a new inmate at another school in Victoria. According to a front page re port in the Daily Telegraph, an English lad by the name of Charles roughing it on hi,s first day at Timbertop, sneezed once and blew his nose several times. ? 'pHERE appears to be com plete unity between the Liberal and Labor party lead ers in N.S.W. for a parlia mentary salary handout, at a time when workers are batt ling high prices on low wages. It is expected that the present "inquiry" will yield something like a 47 per cent increase, giv ing an M.L.A. a tidy £5,000 a year. The Labor Leader (Mr. Ren- shaw) has made it hard for his mates in the trade unions. They now have the job of convincing the workers, as last week's Labor Council showed. Members of the . Legislative Council, who include Labor Council secretary (Jim Kenny) and assistant secretary (Ralph Marsh) plus at least seven other trade union leaders, are also expected to get their pre sent £15 a week plus £4/4/- a day adjusted by the inquiry. ? JHE main officers of the N.S.W. Labor Council were re-elected unopposed. They are: Jim Kenny (secretary), Ralph Marsh (assistant secre tary), Fred Bo wen (president) and John Ducker (organiser). A contest was fought for vice presidents and ACTU executive by six members of the ALP's N.S.W. executive, resulting: C. Dolan (172) and M. McCarney (165) defeated E. Bennett (118) and J. Scully (117) as vice presidents. Ralph Marsh (175) defeated Jack Heffernan (110) for the ACTU executive. 