 I VIETNAM WAR EMBARRASSING HOLT GOVT. I 2500 ! SAY NO TO WAR y ; j CYDNEY : The biggest M protest action yet seen | in Sydney against the Viet- A nam war . polity — in- eluding overseas con- | , scription — went on for If three hou#3 last Friday I night. ft A huge mobile TV traflsmit- H ter was used to broadcast the 1 scene throughout greater Syd- ff ney for about qne hour. Press, f radio, TV and police cars lined f both sides and the centre of the ; , street. !# Beginning in the City centre— I; Martin Place— at 5 it finished | with speeches, songs and the 5(. chanting- of slogans at Garden Island gates, a few yards from the aircraft carrier Sydney / which is due to take Conscripts and other troops to Vietnam. In front of the barred gates of the naval dockyard, the Sec retary of the Youth Caimpaign Against Conscription, Mr. Bar ry Robinson, congratulated „ more than 2,000 demonstrators, ... who had marched all the way from Martin Place,? on the suc cess of the demonstration. He said that peace supporters would not fall for the Govern- ment's provocation by demon- strating next Thursday, April \ 21, during the troops' march T through the city. \l However they would hold , I an all-night vigil in Hyde :h| Park on the preceding Wed- y| nesday night. Jf Jam-packed ijP Police held up long lines of i|J traffic to allow the 'marchers 'P to proceed safely along George ftf Street, Park Street and Wil- _i liam Street through King's | Cross to Garden Island. .1 There, Mr. Gould climbed on- 1 to the roof of the dockyard j gatehouse and in the glare of j spotlights, announced that he was committing an act of civil disobedience to emphasise his protest against conscription and the Vietnam war. Others sought . &lt; to chain themselves to the dock yard fence, but were rapidly freed. .te rrru ... _ _ $ A1Ae demonstration had been jy; supported in advance by a half- || Page advertisement in the Syd- il £ey Morning Herald sponsored M the Association for Interna ls tional Co-Operation and Disarm- f-.I ament, and paid for by a num- '% er of unions and pro-peace Cv bodies who inserted supporting statements. |! The unions included the AEU, Vj Building Workers, Boilermak- Ys wS', Printers and Waterside t i ,"hers; the other bodies in- eluded the Women's Internation- &lt; "'League for Peace, the Hum- r 1 anist and Rationalist Societies, K !r,.ur Sons and the Kurin- jg gai Study Group. SMALL SECTION of 2,500 demonstrators against the Government's Viet nam policies, who jammed Martin Place footpaths last Friday. (See story at left. ) 