 spJPj£3uL HEADS I WIN ; TAILS YOU LOSE BY THE CHALLENGER 'THERE have been many incidents in sport when decisions have at times been influenced by patriotic fervour. One good example was years ago, when the then world light heavyweight boxing champion Battling Siki de fended his title against Irish I Mike McTigue in Dublin on St. Patrick's Day. Siki lost on points. Recently Tribune was told by Sydney wharfie, Bernie Simpson, one of N.S.W. lead ing archers, oif this year's Un ited States National Archery I championships. I Australian archer Hans I Wright won this tournament I by more than a hundred I points from his nearest rival I —but lost it on a technicality. I Hans is not a U.S. citizen. and one law of the U.S. championships states that the winner must be a' U.S. citizen. Why? We don't know. But one thing is certain— such laws in sport are not favour able to the development of international goodwill. Sport and long life CEEK health and long life through sport. This is the moral of the following news item from Tribune's Moscow correspondent, Rupert Lock- wood. "Is it dangerous to take up sport after serious illness, hardship or heart trouble? And is age an insurmountable barrier? Soviet doctors say that with proper medical care, athletics- can often prove more benefi cial than medicine for people aged over 50. Victor Bunak, a Soviet citi zen now aged 60, was bashed around in a Nazi concentra tion camp. When liberated in 1944, he was enfeebled and could hardly move. £e sought rehabilitation through sport, but pain al most beat him. He stuck to it— and won walking events and marathons.. In 1964 Bunak won for the sixth time the 30-kilometres walk from Pushkin to Lenin grad. Tanya Ilyina, bom with a faulty heart, wanted to be an athlete, but few believed it possible. After proper exer cises and training Tanya won the junior 100-metres hurdles title, and then equalled the USSR national record in the same event. Australians can readily re call the example of Dawn Praser who though burdened with asthma from early child hood went on to become one of the world's greatest swim mers. She won through persisted training and exercise. Overseas notes A REPORT on a recent Rumanian sports bulletin says that a collection of stories on sports topics, beau lined "Boxing Bout" has been brought out by the Ruman ian Union of Physical Culture and Sport Publishing House. It includes writings by such writers as the Rumanians Academician George Calines- cu and Radu Boureanu, MaxK Twain, Jack London, Ernest Hemingway, etc. It would be interesting to know just what Mark Twam, who was one of the Unitea States greatest humorists, has to say in this publication, about sport and physical exer tion. One saying attributed to Mark Twain is, that whenever he felt the need for physics exercise coming on, he wouia lie down until the feeling went away. He & j)&lt; The Soviet schoolgirl Galin Prozumenshchikova last week chipped 0.7 seconds off the world's women's 200 metre® breastroke swimming record. Competing in the U.S.S.R versus German Democratic Republic swimming match m Moscow, Galina clocked mins. 44.6 sees, for the 2w metres race. This is the fourth world record set by Miss Prozu menshchikova in this event. Miss Prozumenshchikova won a gold medal at tn Tokyo Olympics in this event. The success of the athletic way to health is reflect ed by these young girls seen taking part in the 3rd National Sparta'kiade in Prague last year. 