 The Hill: back to fight on FROM HARRY STEIN gROKEN HILL: A mass meeting of striking miners here on Tuesday decided to return to work »n the two idle silver-lead mines and carry out an on- the-job struggle for better contract rates. The meeting was solidly determined to fight against tne wage-cutting policy of the employer, Cdnzinc Riotinto. considerable number thought the fight should con- tmue outside the job but the «nal decision (400-337) was for on-the-job struggle. The lead bonus, withdrawn by the company, will he re stored. . Mr. Arthur Treglown, presi dent of the Broken Hill miners' union, told me on Monday the real background of the dispute was the aim of some mining companies to split the unions and smash down conditions. He pinpointed as the main cul prit Conzinc Riotinto of Aus tralia (CRA) which is 85 per cent controlled by foreign (Brit ish) interests and which last year made a profit of $12.8 mil lion. In the last few years they took over the two mines now in the dispute— the Zinc Corpor- ation and the North Broken Hill Consolidated mines. Ever since I have been here, miners keep repeating: "There are far more blues between the unions and the CRA than with the other companies." They say there has been con tinuous pinpricking and setting out to eliminate existing condi tions. The current dispute hit the headlines when the company cut the contract price by 3d a ton for some mining teams. A meeting of. the miners' un ion (the Workers' Industrial Union of Australia) rejected Judge Taylor's decision that in essence backed the company. The WIU offer to negotiate the question with the company in return for another conces sion met wtih a blank wall. The company was prepared to neg otiate only providing every underground condition was thrown on to the negotiating table. The miners then decided to work only until they earned 45/1 a shift over and above the basic wage, which was the minimum they were obliged to work ac cording to the agreement. The company then took ac tion aimed at pitting union against union— they withdrew the lead bonus from all union ists and later closed the two mines. 