 LLJJ. JiStkiJ JLLJ L l Making migrants happy JUST how happy Australia's migrants must be feeling these days can be. seen from the concern expressed by overseas Governments at their nationals in Australia being conscripted. We got our signals crossed a. bit last week when we said that Holland and West Germany — un like Italy and Greece — had not objected to Holt's latest how-not to - win - friends - and - influence- people scheme. The thing is that all the above Governments are opposed to the conscription of their nationals. The Holt Government's decision to call up un-naturalised migrants has given officials of the Immigra tion Department a lot more to worry about. Already the high rate of immi grants returning home is under investigation by order of Mr. Op- perman, Minister for Immigration. In 1963-64 migrants returning home represented 6.9 per cent of all arrivals. Twelve -months later it had1 gone up to 7.4 per cent, while last year it rose to 11.3 per cent. ' Next year's figures are going to be very interesting. Thank you indeed! READING Australian busi ness tycoons are at the moment forwarding their donations to the Country 'Party $300,000 appeal to build a headquarters in Can berra. It's to be called John McEwen House. The appeal is being built around the slogan to say thank you to John McEwen, Deputy Prime Min ister, Minister for Trade and Leader of the Country Party. A prominent member of the appeal committee in Queensland is Mr. J. Fisher, the head of Mt. Isa Mines. Mt. Isa Mines, as the producer of 70 per cent of our copper, stands to increase their profits by $33,000,000 a year as a result of the gigantic increase in copper prices, which the Federal Govern ment refused to do anything to prevent. Thank you indeed, Mr. McEwen. Which piece? PRESIDENT Johnson has just received an award as the American who during the last year had contributed most towards the cause of peace.. The peace award was from the 8th Armoured Division Association of World War II veterans. Of course when Lyndon was pre sented with the award he re mained true to form by saying: "That the US would continue its stand against Communist aggres sion in South-East Asia." Johnson's activity has also been under investigation by "Lifp» magazine, who put a team into toe Mid-West to run a the-street survey about him and last week announced that 'their findings are "deeply disturbing " "Life" said: "Distrust of thP President is largely based on the deep, dour conviction that he k thP nlhg lhe f Aerican People truth about the war thai- American casualties are beinl played down and Vietcong death! greatly over-estimated." Under one flag yyHEN it was announced last week that the Aus tralian Government had agreed to US Commander General Westmoreland having operational control of the Australian forces in Vietnam, Harold Holt didn't even blush. The main reason Harold gave on March 8 for sending of two more battalions to Vietnam was so that Australian troops could be under their own command. " Apparently the breaking of such promises is now so much routine with the Government that it doesn't feel any need to make any special occasion of it. I 