 WHY THE STERLING CRISIS? IAlf Watt examines some basic aspects of Britain's growing economic worries gRITAIN is suffering from a currency crii3is for the umpteenth time since the war. Crisis and fears of crisis have indeed become part of the Englishman's daily food. The crisis raises the spectre of a monetary collapse of the dollar and other currencies as well as of the pound. Last time, at the end of 1964, the bankers' Magazine of Wall St. admitted that no other econ omic sphere was so fraught with explosion and danger to the world capitalist system in 1965 as the world currency system. Last year passed with the monopolists thanking their lucky stars, but 1966 is a dif ferent story. Australia is deeply involved; immediately because the time- hallowed policy of tightening the workers belt will reduce our markets at a time when our own pundits tell us we must export to survive; more so if devaluation materialises. Britain would be able to get by if she were only a commercial nation. She has her imports and exports, the dividends from her still large overseas investments, the in come from shipping, insur ance, banking, tourism. Even after deducting outflow on each of these items she would get by. But then there are the mil itary commitments; the army on the Rhine, Nato, the over seas bases, the big forces in Malaysia and South Arabia, the cost of the weapons sys tems imported from the USA. increased imports A increased imports bill, a downward slide in exports, and the cost of the East of Suez policy triggered off the present crisis. They are not chance factors. For instance France. Italy, West Germany and Japan are crowding others on the world market. "Crowding" may be an understatement. Sir James Vernon, for instance, said re cently that as a result of over- " capacity" "in the " chemicals in dustry, "on international mar kets dumping, price cutting and disruptive pricing have become almost the order of the day." At any rate, with Britain unable to pay her way in the world, holders of British paper rushed to change, it in to other currencies or into gold, and the European dominated Bank of Interna tional Settlements came in with loans to bolster the pound. This is something new, and significant. In the last crisis, in October 1964, America and Europe shared the rescue operation. Always before it was America and its Interna tional Monetary Fund. Why this change? Truth is that the old capital ist horse "it ain't what it used to be," despite the economic growth and the boasted dis coveries of sophisticated means of managing the econ omy. And the Almighty Dollar has lost much of its almighti- ness. Together with the pound, the dollar is the main medium for financing capitalist world commerce. But gold comes in to it too. In international ex change cash is' gold, and only gold. The dollar and pound are accepted only because they represent gold, because sterling can be changed into dollars on demand, and dol lars into gold at 35 US dol lars per troy ounce. War-ravaged world That was sound enough when a war ravaged world was hungry for dollar goods and dollars, when the strident declamations about this being the American century dinned in our ears. But the world has recovered from the war, and the US, like Britain, is being crowded on the world market. It still has, of course, a favorable balance on commer cial transactions, but this is far from enough to pay for its cold and hot war policies; for the so-called "aid"' to other countries, the costs of NATO and other alliances, the monstrous system of bases and forces that cover the cap italist world like an octopus' tentacles, the CIA and the rest. The result, a chronic deficit in the American balance of payments. America has be come a debtor country, with those holding the debt (or dollar balances) keeping them in the Federal Reserve Bank with the Government guaran tee that they can be exchang ed for gold at short notice. But many, government treasuries and private specul ators, lack confidence in this arrangement, and have chang ed dollars into gold. So the U.S. gold reserve, which reached nearly $US 25,000 million in 1949, the year NATO was born, drained away to $US15,000 million in 1964, with seven of the nine thous and million drain taking place in the last seven of the 15 years. And (eloquent evidence of the changes in the capitalist world), when NATO was formed the US gold reserve exceeded that of the Common Market six by $US23,000 mil lion, but in 1964 this had been reduced to $US3,000 million. Put in another war, in 1949 the US held 70 per cent of the total gold reserves of the cap italist treasuries, and fifteen years later only 35 per cent. Further, the total of Amer ica's short term debt to other countries is many thousands of millions greater than its gold reserves, which, in any case, cannot all be used in international transactions be cause, under U.S. law, a sub stantial gold backing must be kept for its internal currency. The pound's link with the dollar means that, if the Brit ish have to devalue, there will be a rush to change dollars into gold, and the dollar will also be devalued. Currency panics are like a mountain avalanche. Once that rock starts to hurtle down the mountain side it dislodges others. Nobody wants to wake up next morn ing and find that their pounds and dollars are worth less gold, or that restrictions have been placed on their convert ibility. De Gaulle underlined the waning confidence in the dol lar when he announced, in February last year, that a large part of France's dollar holdings would be changed in to gold, and stated that gold should be the only medium of international exchange. Since then, a committee of 10 nations has been trying to devise a scheme for a reserve currency that, some Europ eans hope, would gradually supplant the pound and dol lar, but the contradictions be tween the Powers have been too great for agreement to he reached. Peaceful competition Currency stability could, of course, be achieved by liqui dating the cold war, foreign military bases and expendi tures. That would mean rely ing on peaceful competition with socialism. It would also open the gates to those pro gressive forces in the third world who want to overcome backwardness, poverty and hunger by the far reaching economic and political recon struction of their country. The fly in the ointment is that the economies of the ad vanced, imperialist countries depend upon open access to the natural resources and markets of the backward. The "haves" feed on the "have nots." "What other reason is there for the snail's pace growth of the economies of these countries, and the grow ing gap between them and the advanced? Besides which, huge profits are made out of this business of war. - Then there is the evil ideo logy of anti-Communism, whose mainsprings are in the material factors described. « It is correct to fight for the liquidation of the cold war and war policies, but it is not enough. Only a socialist transformation will remove this cancer from society. It is a cancer that can dev our its host. The immediate cause of America's inability to bolster the pound in the present crisis is the huge and rising costs of the Vietnam war which Defence Secretary McNamara says amounts to $US900 million a month. The chain reaction, as I have pointed out, could he a cur rency collapse. UK Premier Wilson 