 I The housing | I gap: Govts' | "Pitiful" efforts I Sydney: The plight of the many thousands of low-income home seekers in Australia can only be described as desperate, yet Government efforts to solve it, both Federal ana state, are pitifully inadequate, said Mr. F. Purse, Building Workers1 Union Federal Secretary, Bast week. yPPROVED applicants for Government housing num- ! ber 82,000 a year and the t combined efforts of the Nation- i al Capital Development Com- mission and the State Housing Authorities build on an average of only 12,000 dwellings a year. This means that 70,000 approved applicants appeal 'to the Government in vain each year to have their hous ing needs satisfied. On the basis or rour to a family, some 280,000 .people appeal to the Federal and State Governments for a dwelling to live in without success every year, Mr. Purse said. Yet Sir Robert Menzies had the gall to remark a few years back, "Where is the housing problem? I fail to see it." There are many things that Men zies has failed to see and the housing shortage is. obviously one of them, because during his Government's long term of office its attitude to housing has been one of national neglect, Mr. Purse said. Mr. Purse added that the Federal Treasurer, Mr. Holt, has released £12 million for housing, none of which will go to people on low incomes. Menzies' failure to see the hous ing shortage makes a mockery also of the much-vaunted home savings grant scheme. It was introduced for vote-catch ing purposes prior to the last Federal election. Maybe a few would benefit from the grant of £250, but for the great majority inflated land costs and high interest rates would leave them at the mercy of land and finance sharks. ' The origin of this grant was fraudu lent and its application contributes nothing to the solution of the grave housing problem. The marriage rate tor 1963-64 was over 82,000. That was 10,000 greater than it was eight years previously, and there will probably be a further increase for 1965. The number of migrants who came ;o Australia in 1964 was 452,357 and ;he 1965 intake would be about the same. Add these figures to the 70,000 unsatisfied approved applicants for aovernment housing and you get some idea how chronic the housing problem is, he aid. He added that, if the Government decided to build all the houses that were needed, the people in the low income group who are unable to house themselves would not be able to buy and maintain them at today's prices. Government failure to face up to the drastic housing problem springs not from any lack of advice, finance or lack of materials, but from a deliberate refusal to serve this basic need of the people. The Commonwealth Housing Com mission's final report of August 25, 1944, laid down that a "dwelling of good standard and equipment is not only the need but the right of everv citizen," This was the basis of the 1945-55 Commonwealth-State Housing Agree ment. Purposes of this agreement was to enable the States to build homes for rental with finance pro vided by the Federal Government. Under the Agreement those in urgent need of rental housing would have been able to secure a home with their rent based on family income, with the balance, if any, made up from the overall operations ' of the. State Housing Authority. AH this was thrown overboard by the introduction of the 1956 Common wealth-States Agreement. Imposed It was imposed on the States by the Federal Government and provided mainly for the building of homes for sale. The Federal Government with drew its guarantee aginst losses by the States incurred through the rental rebate system. This ended almost without excep tion the rental rebate, system. The housing problem will only be solved when a Government is elected that is determined to tackle the prob lem and not ignore it as the Menzies Government has done. 