 A VOICE FROM THE OTHER AMERICA By JOHN SENDY , who recently attended a round-table conference of delegates from the Communist Partu Western countries. IN Prague recently I was privileged to meet an outstanding representative of the other America of which we hear too little normally — the grow ing democratic, anti-war, anti-racist section of the American people. He was George Meyers, a member of the National Committee of the Communist Party of the USA and southern correspondent of "The Worker". A big man — simple, human and tough, with a resounding southern accent and infectious good humour which seem to fill a room — Meyers was bom and reared in Maryland's Appalachian Moun tains. Prom childhood his life has been one of constant struggle against poverty, racism, Ku Klux K|an terror, fighting for trade unionism, peace and democracy. He recalled, as a small boy, local robed Klans- men burning a fiery cross 20 yards from his parents' home during a strike, while his Irish mother standing on her verandah indentifying the terrorists despite their robes, loudly abusing them for the whole neighbourhood to hear. Only a few months ago, he told me, Klansmen had picketed his Baltimore home with slogans saying: "Send the Commies back to JEW York". "Man," he said, "the neighbours were terrific. They gave those sons of bitches hell. .They were going to burn a cross on our front lawn, but they didn't have the guts." Before the War, Meyers was the full-time I President of the 10,000 strong Textile Workers' Union in Cumberland, Maryland, during which time he joined the Communist Party. After serving as a mechanic in the U.S. Air Force during the war, he became a full-time Communist organiser. At the height of the McCarthyist period in 1953, he was sentenced to four years' gaol under the notorious Smith Act, but actually served, he said, "only" 3Vz years. On his release, Meyers worked as a construction worker until his appointment as Southern corres pondent of "The Worker" in 1960. George Meyers loves his America and especially his native Southland. Brimful of confidence and joviality, he needs little excuse to sing the Negro blues and mountain songs he loves — and sing them well., too! From him I learnt a great deal about the democratic and peace struggles in America today, summarised in the questions and answers which follow. ? SENDY: What is the attitude of the US people to the war in Vietnam. MEYERS: The majority want the U.S. to get out of the war. While President Johnson was in Manila busy escalating the war, a public opinion poll conducted by. the Louis Harris organisation showed that- 56 per cent of those polled wanted a de-escalation of the war, an increase of 3 per cent on the figure a few months previously. Only 38 per Imported the Johnson objective of "total.' y y". In other words, 62 per cent of D'.S. 'Citiz&lt; iih .one way or another, want an end to the lor There is ?, splits ivth&i ruling class itself and an increase irintt Umber of peace fighters and demonstrators a st ,the war. Workers are refush sacrifice for the war effort. Frequent appeals to the grow ing number of sti® 'fo jtreturn to work in order not to disrupt War effort are largely ignored. SENDY: How -re > -the demonstra tions in Auslj® Against President Johnson received lihe USA? MEYERS: They a lot of publicity in the States. Especially Paint- thro wing incident and the big Sydwy Melbourne demonstra tions. The peace i ?" jWere really tickled by this. The fact that' _ was an opposition in Australia and the no note it, gave great heart to the peaca oent in our country. SENDY: Hf u think Johnson compares wit"5 01 late President Kennedy ? MEYERS: ledy recognised the political time of day. But Johnson thinks he can turn the clock of history backwards. John son. ran. on, many of Kennedy's program points but has now made an alliance with the American right wing. Mind you, we need to remember that Kennedy first began the U.S. interference in. Vietnam but I doubt if he would have pursued the issue as Johnson has. The real facts of the assassination of President Kennedy are a big issue in the U.S. The real truth of that event is likely to be very startling indeed if and when it is fully revealed. ? SENDY : What would you say about the industrial and trade union move ment in the US? MEYERS: There is a rising militancy in the trade unions. The war in Vietnam has caused a tremendous rise in the cost of living. Taxes and food prices are higher, and look like increasing and social services, expenditure proportionately declining, the proportion of Johnson's "war against poverty" campaign is floundering badly through insufficient funds. Well, the unions are fighting all this. House wives have initiated a very big movement against rising prices by picketing supermarkets in many cities. Big business is striving to introduce even greater legal restrictions on the unions through compulsory arbitration laws. This is being vig orously resisted in the unions. Now I want to make one point clear. Many people in other countries seem to think that all Americans live like kings. Perhaps the majority live reasonably well, but huge numbers are in dire straits. Take the Appalachia region where I was raised, with its 15 million people. As against the 650,000 soft coal miners in 1946, there are now a little over 100,000, due namely to the introduction of automation and mechanisation. This is a terribly depressed area. In many districts the majority are unemployed. Schooling, roads and services are shocking, housing is horrible, with tens of thousands of homes having no running water or toilets inside. In some counties 80% of the houses are like this. Ana this sort of thing is not restricted to the Appalachias. SENDY: How would you describe the present position of the Communist Party of the USA. MEYERS: There is a big revival in pur Party following the difficulties of the 1950's. This began with the mass rejection of McCarthyism and the development of a free speech movement partic ularly among students and intellectuals. In the past few years since 1961 Communist spokesmen, and in particular our Secretary, Gus Hall, have addressed hundreds of thousands of students and spoken to huge audiences on tele vision and radio. ' Our Convention held last June received very big factual publicity in. the country. We are grasping every opportunity to appear before the public and this is having its effect. There is an increased interest in Marxism, especially in. the colleges. Three tremendous movements in the USA are growing in volume — around, the Vietnam war, the civil rights movement and the working class struggles on economic questions. In much of the civil rights movement and peace movement there is a rejection of anti,- Communism. This does not mean that these movements are pro-communist, they are rejecting anti-communism and that is terribly significant. So our Party is on the move again. Our member ship and support is growing again and. we are fighting the anti-democratic laws with some success. There is a growing air of confidence. 