 Unions condemn employer case at waqe hearing By Tribune's Industrial Reporter |T was no surprise to unionists that both the Commonwealth Government and the em ployers' representatives attacked the unions' wage claims before the Arbitration Com- mission last week. "A large increase in the basic wage could have a variety of unwanted and damaging consequences, Mr. Kerr Q.C. (for the Government) said. Again the employers, | through Mr. J. Robinson, of fered about 60 cents increase, which was not presented as a "moderate" increase, but as the maximum applicable in an economy which was perform ing moderately. Insultingly, he called the un ions' claim "outrageous,,' a pro position that "should be digest ed and discussed by each of the claimed 80 per cent of whatever it is Mr. Hawke (ACTU advoc ate) purports to represent." (The unions are claiming a $4.30 increase in the basic wage and $5.90 in margins for skill. Already Mr. Hawke has spent 14 days in court and filled 900 foolscap pages of arguments backing these claims.) The executive committee of the 250,000 strong Metal Trades Federation of unions were quick last week to condemn the Gov ernment's opposition to the claims. This was seen by the execu tive as further evidence that the Government "pursues a policy of lower living standards while at the same time wasting nation al resources and manpower in war adventures in other coun tries." These 250,000 workers repres ented by the Federation are also part of the "80 per cent of whatever it is" Mr. Robinson refers to. These happen to be the work ing people in Australia who create all the country's wealth including the huge profits. The Boilermakers' Society in a booklet, "The 1966 Wages Fight", showed the large amount robbed from each worker only through the abolition of quarter ly cost of living adjustments in 1953. In Sydney, about $374; Adel aide, $654; Melbourne, $1276; and so on. These figures, alone show the bonanza employers have struck over the past period. The unions' claims, if granted in full, would do no more than re-establish standards previous ly won and substantially abol ished by the arbitration tribun als and give to most workers a small reward for increased pro ductivity. As an example, for workers in Melbourne the increases claimed will do no more than re-establish their 1953 basic wage standard plus 10 cents and heir IP 47 margins standards. Many unions have submitted that the basic wage should be no less than $44 a week and should he adjusted to provide for the minimum needs of a family. The present claim if granted in full is far less than this amount. The unions know that, for. the claim to be met, it will have to come out of profits. Mr. Hawke during his sub missions exploded the employ ers' "capacity to pay" and "price stability" theories. "Price fixers" It was argued last year by the employers that a small increase would keep prices down. Mr. Hawke pointed out that ...ince 1965 after a 60 cents in crease, price rises were greater than after a $2 increase in 1964. He said employers were quick to use the prices-plus-productiv ity formula to protect their own interests but denied the same right to wage earners. Decimal changeover was a good example how "price fix- 3rs" looked after themselves, ie said. Mr. Hawke showed that when the guaranteed home consump tion price of wheat was in creased by 8d a bushel late last year, flour automatically went up and bread manufacturers put up the price of bread. "No annual or even quarterly waiting for them to adjust to increased costs. "But when the wage earners make a simple request to the Arbitration Commission to ad just wages because of wage earners costs they are denied 'lis right," he said. 