 INBAL-fEAUTY AND TRLDITION By SUS WOLF |T seemed a terrible waste to see. the many empty seats in the jTivoli Theatre audit orium while the members of the Israeli Inbal Dance Theatre were giving their all. They are a fine Arabic-looking company of forty dancers, singers and instrumentalists— originating from various parts of the Middle East, Yemen, Iraq, Iran, Moroc co and other North African coun tries. The women all with dark large eyes, strong black hair, an aqui line nobility and proud agile bear ing. The male dancers also carried themselves with dignity and were amazingly fasti i : light on their feet. They wets' irded and wore Arab head-geani iraost dances. They are' to modem Israel as well' the company's founder-direct ftruetoxchoreo-j grapher— Saraf-i' vi-Tanai— -herself of Yemenite oi though born in Jerusalem. Before eachsd ue a handsome woman with -w iseemed almost manly strength: fid: confidence stepped out « the ;very front of the stage, » ft towards the audience, and to p that the next item was to ll® put. I'll never, 'fojpher, her deep resonant voice jp.- the intensity with which 'wjted out each word she spiJfl»th her whole graceful body- R Her tone w# Jptt'one of strict conspiration#®6. or such grandeur your very life dependedv'®what she Was saying. Noho®$K cugh or fidget whilen(8tSCOnfronted the audience! i rlRST we ja work tell- ing dical tale of Ruth gleanil n fcke wheat fields of! a rich land- owner. Movements, _based on the gathering M of the grain but the strength, control ang 8sciated with Arabic danctfl L The purposefulness of upturned feet and a definite rhythmical beat were combined with liquid, languorous feminine wrist move ments. Scenery throughout was kept to a minimum— just enough to give an. impression of the setting as well as to add to the total design of the stage. "Sabbath Peace" expressed the mutual tenderness and respect felt by a husband and wife on the traditional weekly day of rest and religious devotion. "My Land" had a modern Isra eli motif— pioneering round the Sea of Galilee. Ancient and mod em dance were beautifully blend ed. But without doubt the climax of the entire performance was the representation on stage of a "Ye menite Wedding"— a dance in four parts— encompassing the main rituals of the ceremony which does in fact last for seven days. Celebrations begin at the groom's house. His father blesses him, his young men-friends sing hymns and in dance express their exuberance and love of fun and life., On the fourth day the women celebrate at the bride's home. The groom's gifts are brought and the bride's hands are painted with henna. Women were allowed only to sing in Yemenite Arabic. It was forbidden that they use the holy tongue— Hebrew. After further ceremonies in which the rabbi dresses the groom in white robes and the groom asks forgiveness of his mother for his transgressions, the bride is brought to the young man's house and the couple see each other for the first time. The sanctity of the Jewish mar riage and family which this dance expresses could be one of the rea sons why the Jews— divided into minority groups, dispersed throughout the world— have been able to maintain their identity right to the present day. | THINK it is a fine thing that any people's traditions and folklore should be preserved and even en riched by a top-rate dance company. Everything this troupe did was done in a tasteful manner. Expression of emotion was sen sitive. Costumes and decor— simple and unobstrusive. There was nothing gimmick or phoney about any part of the production. That's why I felt so sorry about the many empty seats around us despite the company's short Syd ney season of only nine days. I hope the reason for poor at tendance was that we've had here lately, perhaps, too much of a good thing— as far as national dance , companies are concerned. Next time Israel's Inbal Dance Theatre comes to Sydney I hope it will get the packed houses it deserves. The Israeli "Inbal" Company performing the "Shepherd's Dance" B 