 NED KELLY WAS A GENTLEMAN: The copper robbers leave him for dead By Pete Thomas While a rather quaint new controversy has sprung up about personal aspects of the Kelly gang, the Kelly s' less-romantic and more implacable modern counterparts, the Bushrangers of Big Business, have been making a killing. These robbers have been headed by two of the best- known of the monopoly Public Enemies. These are:— Broken Hill Pty., the stand- over company in steel. Mt. Isa Mines, which fun nels loot to USA from our min eral wealth (copper, silver, lead, zinc, coal, etc.). These two monopolies have carried out a Stand & Deliver hold-up on prices for steel and copper which will snatch from Australians something like $60 million a year directly, and will launch a rolling and growing ball of added indirect costs. Steel and copper products are used in an almost endless list of things — from jam tins to houses and skyscrapers; from your light cord and plug to locomotives. Unload The companies and other enterprises which will have to pay the estimated $40 million a year extra for copper and $20 million a year more for steel will look for ways of unloading it all. After the copper price rise, we were told that the price of a house would go up by from $50 or $80 to $500, depending on the amount of copper plumb ing and accessories. All our unhappy experience WdriJo Uo, LUU, txiat Wilt/IJ a UU1- lar extra cost is passed on it swells like a boil, and the original dollar extra cost some how becomes a dollar and a half, or maybe two dollars, in extra prices for us to pay. So, if you've got your com puter handy, feed in the cards for an extra $40 million a year for copper, and extra $20 mil- 1 lion for steel, and then the all- along-the-line process of pass ing on the extra costs plus a bit extra each time. And what will come out at the end is a sorely bruised and squeezed Mr. & Mrs. Public. Rise The BHP has shoved up the steel price for the second time in 19 months. The 1965 rise averaged out at 2% to 3%; the latest is about 32%. This latest rise comes soon after BHP disclosed a group net profit of over $36 million for the last year. The announcement of the price rise was made the day after BHP had released figures showing that last month it had produced more steel than in any previous month in its his tory. So now it takes a price rise on record production. Who said: "Produce more, and prices will come down"? The BHP is the same mono poly which earlier this month forced 13,000 Wollongong (NSW) workers at its Australian Iron & Steel subsidiary's plant to hold their first one-day general strike in 14 years, on the ele mentary demand for 100% un ionism. Glum xii ts news ux me yiiue xwc prompted a glum Sydney Morn ing Herald headline: "Untimely rise in steel prices." But Governments do nothing to stop it. Their sacred cow of "private enterprise" must not be even barked at. Huge though it is, the steel price rise is overshadowed by the increase in the Australian price of copper: up from $870 a ton to $1250 a ton in one stunning wallop. The Queensland State Opposi tion Leader (Mr. Duggan) sug gested that US interests had dictated Mt. Isa Mines' deci sion on this. "Oh no," said the so-pious American Smelting & Refining in New York (which holds 54% of the Mt. Isa shares). Mt. Isa Mines, from its far north-west Queensland mine, provides over 70% of the Aus- tralian domestic copper sup plies. Awed As a result of the price rise, an awed Sydney Morning Her ald writer said: — "The immediate profit possibilities for Mt. Isa Mines become fantastic . . . ". . . Mt. Isa Mines stands to earn an additional $30 mil lion a year, before tax . . . "The additional $3j0 million of sales revenue would be all cream for Mt. Isa (subject to income tax), because neither its mining royalty commitments to the Queens land Government nor its wage contracts are geared to variations in metal prices, by contrast with the arrange ments applying to the Brok en Hill mines ..." xne minion extra saies. revenue (while the price stays up) will be on top of the so- very-remunerative basis which has already brought Mt. Isa Mines disclosed net profits, which have four times been over $10 million in a year, and with Mt. Isa Mines' 50 cent shares bouncing over $4-50 on the market , last week. The new price of $1250 a ton is, incidentally, higher than the peak price ($1130) in Australia of the costly copper which was imported from overseas when the great 1964-65 dispute halted the Mt. Isa mine. Foreign-controlled Mt. Isa Mines still operates under most favorable tax and other Fed- , eral Government conditions and under the umbrella of the Nicklin Government's crude Arbitration Act which bars Mt. Isa Mines workers from get ting a rise in their "bonus" ' through arbitration. Exclude The law also has allowed Mt. Isa Mines to exclude over 40 workers from re-employment after the 1964-65 dispute. The trade union movement has gone through legal proceedings to as far as the High Court to try to have Mt. Isa Mines made to re-employ these men, but with out success. Governments have indeed been good to Mt. Isa and the Americans behind it. Up to Mt. Isa soon after the price snatch went US Ambassa dor Ed Clark, the loud-mouthed prophet of new US bombing horrors in North Vietnam. The US policies in Vietnam and elsewhere about which Mr. Clark brays are most pro fitable to metal and other monopolies: there's money to be made from bloodshed. It's time for Australians to hit back purposefully and solid ly with such demands as— O Real Government control of prices, with particular res traints against monopoly-dictat ed rises on basic productivity. Removal of the Arbitration Acts' handcuffs, hobbles and , gags, by which Governments try to pinion and silence un ionists seeking better wages and conditions from profit- stuffed Big Business. MT. ISA MINES Down to their last ten million 