 RqiB unions deride . . . Stand against shotgun policy One of the most representative conferences — and probably the most important — ever held by the Com- .-hirificLJB.&U. UniP-as..jdsdded„Jast.eek__on_a militant stand against the Government's shotgun policy of en- forced down-grading, or even dismissals, as a result of dieselisation and other changes in the. .railways. The conference decided that railwaymen should not accept down-grading or dismissal, and it also proposed a set of con ditions for any cases in which transfers might be inevitable. It voted for a levy to estab lish a fighting fund for the campaign. The conference, which was held at Rockhampton, was attended by more than 70 dele gates. They came from 14 unions, six Combined Rail Unions committees and four shop committees. Axeing jobs The conference was called after the issues had been brought to boilover point by the department's axeing of positions at Rockhampton. The men involved are, at best, being told to take trans- / fers or down-grading (such as blacksmiths and turners being offered positions as porters) or else leave the railways. Opening the conference, the Queensland Trades & Labor Council president (Mr. J. Eger- ton) said that what was happen- Ulglllg LU LliC XWUJYliaUijtJl'UXjL railwaymen is not a matter just for Rockhampton or for railwaymen; it is an Australia- wide problem. The Deputy Leader of the State Opposition (Mr. Tucker) said that the department's annual report indicated that in recent years over 1000 railway workers have been displaced in Queensland. The Government's policies are badly affecting country towns. Charters Towers, Hughejiden, Richmond and Julia Creek have lost over $500,000 a year as a result of displacement of railwaymen. Letting out railway contracts, worth millions of dollars, to private enterprise, instead of having these, done in the rail way workshops, is a scandal, he said. . The conference declared that railway workers will not accept dismissals or demotion, and asked the Commissioner to meet the CRU to discuss a sane and proper approach to the effects of dieselisation. It insisted on consultation with the unions. Improvements which it urged included a 35-hour week in the railways, four weeks' annual leave, modernisation of railway workshops and other establish ments, retention by the rail ways of work now let 'out on contract, an end to systematic overtime, and re-training of railway workers where neces sary. 