 [?] If you can chuck as I well as Charlie... £INCE the publication of his book "Captain's Story", Australian Test cricket captain Bobby Simpson has found himself more on the defensive than he ever was against the "chuckers" on the I cricket pitch. Theme of the contro versy is Simpson's con demnation of "chuckers" and his indirect compari son of West Indian of fenders to "vermin". West Indian speedster Charlie Griffith received the ' full hroad-side of Simpson's criticism. "Grif fith is the most fearsome and deliberate chucker of all time", said Simpson in his hook. An article by Ted Dex ter in the London Observer throws some light on the reason for Simpson's severe criticism of chuck ers. Said Dexter, "Only Grif fith put him (Simpson) out of his stride, and it is this technical upset one suspects which irritated . him and made him discuss throwing and throwers with such feeling." From this we may con clude that chuckers would still just be the subject for pavilion conversation over tea and biscuits if a chucker as good as the accused, Charlie Griffith, had not come on the scene. In any case, might not the average cricket fan . ask: Is there any great differ ence between high speed bowling and throwing? Is there any great ad vantage in speed and ac curacy? The thing is that, as one cricket expert once said if you can run twenty yards and chuck as well as Griffith apparently can, you deserve to get away with it. What's the point of sport, when all is said and done? Obviously, to develop the body and to give plain enjoyment. Also, as the good books say, to develop the sports man morally and mental- I ly, to breed in him certain I positive attitudes towards life and people. But sometimes these standards go by the board. Any protest against apar theid in South African sport, for instance, is usu ally attacked as introduc ing politics into a non- political subject. Our cricketers will soon commence a tour of this country which refuses to accept visits from the I West Indian cricketers or I Maori footballers. f| And among sportsmen || generally, there are very / J few who have spoken out I m against the Vietnam war. 1 £r But last week, a 15- W year-old Sydney Grammar » school diving champion, i| Robert Michaelis hit the |L headlines for his refusal to |f participate in the school's If army cadet corp train ing because it was being I used to propagate approv- I al for the Vietnam war. I WHO IS SHE? A South Sydney Rugby League supporter? No, the girl with the rabbit mascot is a Russian stunt pilot, Ludmila Vassilieva, looking perfectly groomed although a few minutes earlier she had been hurling a plane around the sky in the world aerobatics championships at Tushino airfield, Moscow (men and women competing). Her makeup wasn't even smudged. And the rabbit? Her boyfriend gave it and the chocolates to her as she climbed from the cockpit. 