 ON THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE Vital move towards Labour movement unity , but . . . What gives on AWU's about-turn? fRADE unionists are keen to know the real reason behind the switch by the Australian Workers Union leaders to join the ACTU after 40 years. g Maybe the simple ex planation is: "If you can't beat them, join them!" By "joining them", does it mean the AWU will use its powerful industrial strength to back up ACTU demands for nationalisation of mono polies, peace and higher liv ing standards? . . . Only time) will tell. The Council for Member ship Control of the AWU earlier challenged the mot ives behind the moves to ward ACTU affiliation. "Voice", organ of the CMC, said it suspects that it is part of an attempt to move the Australian trade union movement to the Right. At the recent AWU Con vention a "big debate" cen tred on the question of affil iation but with no decision taken either way on the matter. Moves at eaz-lier Conven tions to affiliate have been rejected, as in 1964 when a resolution rejecting affilia tion was carried unanimous ly. The CMC said a study of this debate as published leads to suspicion that AWU officials have been party to or are aware of a plan to move the ACTU to the Right — part of which succeeded at the 1965 ACTU Congress. It also suspects that an other part of this plan is affiliation of the AWU to the ACTU conditional upon certain changes in ACTU policy and organisation. It was immediately after a visit to this country a few years ago by a prominent US trade union official that Mr. Dougherty got Conven tion to support a breakaway body in opposition to the ACTU. The extreme rightwing-led unions have been the only ones to try and disrupt the ACTU as a national centre. The clerks, Ironworkers and a few others walked out when they couldn't get their own way in 1960. Workers recognise the im portance of a united indus trial movement of this coun try to improve wage and job conditions and defend living standards. They would also welcome the AWU after its 40 years outside the united movement and rightly expect that union to .play its part. The living standards of the Australian people have declined to such an alarm ing degree that the NSW Labor Council is organising a public conference to tackle this problem. Such matters as the de cline in social services, hous ing, education and the need for a change in economic policies are topics of the conference which are draw ing wide public support. The Commonwealth Arbi tration Commission is con tinuing to bring down wage decisions which make a mockery of the so-called im_ partiality of the court. Since the Commission abolished quarterly cost of living adjustments in 1953, workers have been robbed of millions of dollars. Automation is another ser ious threat to workers' jobs, particularly at this stage in the clerical fields. Foreigners, Ame r i c a. n, Japanese, British and oth ers, are plundering our nat ural resources. And to cap it all, the Holt Government is conscripting young Australians to die for a puppet dictatorship in Vietnam. It is against this back ground that white collar unions see the need for and are moving toward affilia tion with the ACTU. Challenge But it appears not to be so with the AWU leaders. All the above matters, which have become a vital challenge to the Australian labor movement, have evi dently passed by these lead ers unnoticed. To them the "main prob lem" facing the trade union movement is communism and communist trade union leaders. Mr. T. Dougherty (AWU general secretary) made a call for working class unity during the recent Conven tion debate and said: "We are dedicated to fight communism. Look at your objectives. "The whole of your funds can be used to de stroy them and their in sidious, dangerous activi ties. "We must destroy com munism." The Council for Member ship Control replied: "And so say Santamaria, Holt, McMahon and every spokesman for anti-working class forces in Australia. "We had thought that the whole of our funds must be devoted to fighting for im- proved wages and working conditions and against the anti-working class forces." The CMC also took issue with a statement made by a Queensland delegate at the Convention (Mr. Buckman) who said he was happy the ACTU was "getting back to what we recognise as our principles." Answering this, the CMC I said it did not know any- B thing about the "principles" B of some AWU officials but B did know that the activities B of these leaders are marked B by: |. Desertion "Desertion of members when they are on strike as occurred at Mt. isa; failure to defend members against victimisation as oc curred following the. isa strike; opposition to the ALP and withdrawal of fin ancial support for that party; support for the Holt Government's involvement of Australia in the war in Vietnam; improper use of rules to sack officials pro perly elected by the rank and file in a secret ballot as occurred in South Aus tralia. "Are these the so-called 'principles' which the AWU officials aim to have the ACTU adopt?" There is no doubt that the 170,000-strong AWU could be a powerful force if its weight was used to back up the pressing demands facing the Australian people, Unfortunately the present AWU leaders see the union | as a force to try to impose I anti-working class policies I on to the ALP and now the 1 trade union movement. | AWU'S DOUGHERTY Welcome back . . . ACTU'S MONK ... to the fold 