 A jolly atmosphere up at the (Crime) Club W: by , . f- Jury jfrom the inside i K a /j (By a Juryman) | HAVE got another summons and next week I shall be up for one of my regular visits to Sydney's Dar- linghurst Crime Club. They are happy souls up there. It doesn't seem like a law court at all, most of the time. Once when I was present, the youth in the dock was on a morals charge— indecent be havior with a male, or some thing like that. He was a chronic offender. Everyone — all the members of the Club, clerks, police, ushers, tipstaffs the rest were highly diverted . Jokes flashed back and forth. The physical and moral ruin of this young lad didn't seem to matter at all. . . Another time the club mem bers had the laugh of their lives and the prisoner joined in— at the expense of us poor simple mugs, the jurymen, the amateurs, the guests for the day. The prisoner was again a youngster, nineteen or twenty, I suppose. He was accused of stealing a car with a view to stripping it and selling the parts as spares. Apparently this is, or was, quite a lucrative racket, with big money changing hands, but not too much of it finding its way into those of the skilful young thieves. This boy defended himself and put on a tremendous act, to the great and tolerant amusement of the Bench. The judge's enjoyment seem ed to increase as, one after the other, a perfect platoon of other young hoys appeared in the witness box. All came from Long Bay, where they were serving sentences for similar thefts. All. swore that the prisoner had no connec tion with the crime he was accused of. Because the prisoner was defending himself the judge allowed him all sorts of lati tude. "This is not relevant, I sub mit" said the prosecutor at one stage as the prisoner was questioning another youthful witness, resulting in all sorts of odd information coming out. "No" smiled the judge, "but it's very interesting, isn't it?" Acquitted There was a weakness in the evidence and the prisoner seemed a nice young fellow. We acquitted him, to the ill- concealed amusement of the Crime Club. The prisoner gave gasp of relief in which glee was plain ly evident. The .judge, still smiling, thought our verdict somewhat surprising "and nobody is more surprised than the prisoner". The prisoner concurred. Afterwards we were told he had a record as long as your arm. Thieving was apparently the only trade he knew. "I don't care" said the fore man over a beer. "We gave, him another chance. If he can do a job and wants it, he can take it". Few members of the Crime Club would have given the boy that- chance. But 12 untrained, inexperienced men, knowing little or nothing of the law, and nearer to being "peers" of the accused than any mem ber of the Club, were prepar ed to give him a break. That's one reason why I favor the jury system, and op pose moves by the New South Wales' Liberal Government to scrap it. The reasons are stronger in compensation cases. As one of a jury of four I had to deter mine compensation for an electrician who had fallen off a ladder onto his head. In cases like this the work ers' friends and counsel have to abuse him while his oppon ents give him an enthusiastic boost. "Look at him," Mr. Buzzfuzz QC will say to the jury. "A „nice fellow by nature, but "since the accident he's been a sour, miserable misanthrope, quarrelsome, abusive, hated by all. Give him several thousands." "Rubbish!" counters Snub- bin QC for the boss. "He's made a wonderful recovery. Full of fun and laughter, pop- ' ular wherever he goes. Don't give him a cent." What a lot of time and mon ey it would save (quite apart from the feelings of somebody hearing himself discussed in , these terms), if an injured worker got free medical and hospital treatment and a pen-, sion equal to a guaranteed proportion of his previous, salary. I understand that this sys tem operates in socialist coun tries. Until it operates here, how ever, I believe that all juries should contain at least citizen strongly sympathetic to the workrng class viewpoiS and able to give a lead in that direction in the jury room Several times I have been that juryman. That is whv t am going willingly to Darlinv hurst next week. g" Burden The burden of jury service falls unfairly. I have been told that there are only 70,000 on the panel in this city of (T suppose) a million adults. Not too many industrial workers seem to get on the roll and I have neverxyet seen a woman called. This will be my second call in less than eight months (I got off last time because of office problems). It means dif ficulties for my employer and fellow workers. Just the same I would rather i have the system as it is than have it abolished and leavev the fate of defendants to be decided by the Crime Club. Editor: "Not quite fair, is; it, to call them the Crime Club when they're anti-crime?" Juryman: "Of course it isn't and . I unreservedly withdraw the term. What I was trying to convey was that a large part of the professional adminis- I trators of justice seem to dep- ' end on crime just as much as'- the criminals do (or even- more, for most criminals; could do better jobs). With-? j out crime, where would they - be? Because they are so con- ; tinually in contact with crime, . the sensitivity of some of them to .the tragedy 'that it often in- , volves seems somewhat blunt ed; It is because the jury isys-. tern makes it possible for others to take a hand who can . still be appalled at what goes on in our society and want not only to punish, but prevent it, that I unreservedly favor that system". "SO ... you're a free-lance burglar-alarm tester!" 