 Metal unions' meet: calls for prices action ADELAIDE: The Metal Trades Federation (SA Branch) held a successful night meeting of shop stewards and metal union executive members which called for strong trade union action on living standards and for price control. The meeting was called to report back from the recent Federal Metal Trades Confer ence and there was unanimous support for the decisions made. The meeting endorsed a pro posal for the metal unions to ask the SA TLC to initiate and lead a campaign on three major questions; To end rises in. living costs. To advance the needs of the people in relation to educa tion, housing, hospitals and social services. To break the growing grip of the monopolies over the lives of the people. Some suggestions were put forward for the Council to con sider. These included. Endorsement of a proposal of the Boilermakers' Society for a State 4 hour stoppage in sup port of the ACTU wages claim. The launching of a petition for strict Federal and State price control. , The convening of a confer ence during the Federal Gov ernment Budget Session. This conference to consider ways and means of achieving:— Higher living standards. Strict price control. D Federal financial grants for education, housing, local government and improved social services. The following night the TLC met and considered the Boiler makers' proposal of a State wide stoppage. The executive recommenda tion whilst rejecting any stop- work action on wages stated:— We demand that the Arbitra tion Commission on this occa sion, reverse the majority judge ment of 1965 on the grounds that it abandoned the 1961 and 1965 principles of adjustments for prices and productivity. Wage cut The 1965 majority judgement deliberately imposed a reduc tion in real wage standards while specifically recognising that the real capacity of the national economy has increased. Further, the judgement ignor ed the fundamental importance of proper wage levels of the basic wage margins. We suggest to the United Trades and Labor Council Basic Wage Committee that they con sider arranging a campaign to include:— Lunch hour meetings at sel ected factory sites to be ad dressed by union officials. The advisability of printing, for distribution generally, 6 | suitable leaflet in support of | :;he Trade Union claims. Invite the co-operation of ACSFA, and the High Council of the Public Service in the campaign. Call on all affiliated unions to actively assist to secure the im plementation of the ACTU wage policy. This recommendation was supported by Mr. J. Convery secretary of the Boilermakers' Society, and became a unanim ous decision. Melbourne Last week the Victorian branch of the Metal Trades Federation (group of unions covering the metal industry) called for mass, stopwork, pro test action on increasing prices. Spiralling prices and lower ing of living standards have forced many workers in fac tories and workshops through out Melbourne to demand wage increases and some have held stoppages or imposed overtime bans. The Metal Trades Federation declared its belief that mass protest action must be taken over the continuing rise in prices and the threat of further immediate increases with regard to food, clothing and other basic necessities-. The federation considered that stopwork protest rallies of all metal trades workers should be convened, and decided to approach the Melbourne Trades Hall Council to convene a meet ing of al\ metal unions to organ ise such stopwork action. Printed and published at 21 Ross St., Forest Lodge, by D. B. Young Pty Ltd. of the same address. 