 LBJ's America: not a nation but a battlefield By the Foreign Editor XA/HEN President Johnson comes to Australia he will have another war to explain to Australians besides the one against the Vietnamese. This is the war being waged with Johnson's full connivance with the same (if better-concealed) ferocity as in Vietnam, against the US Negroes struggling to emerge from their ghettoes into the light. ... . ... . Johnson can't disavow his complicity in this war because staridard-bearers of his own party — the Democrats — are taking P30ne is Lester Garfield Maddox who won Democratic > Party nomination last week as Governor of Georgia. Maddox, says the US magazine Newsweek, is "a tiny, whiny segregationalist who made his biggest splash trying to scare Negroes away from his Atlanta, Georgia, cafe, with a revolver and a stockpile of axe handles. The axe handles were issued to white segregationist customers of the cafe when Negroes dared to approach it after Maddox had broadcast his intention to defy the 1964 Civil Rights act outlawing the color-bar in public accomodation. (Maddox's Republican opponent in the contest is also a segregationist and a Goldwater man into the bargain.) Meanwhile in California another Democratic Party colleague of President Johnson — Governor Pat Brown — used something more lethal than axe-handles when he called in the troops to attack Negro demonstrators in San Francisco. In the bigge&t action since the Watts incident in Los Angeles last year the troops and police arrested 369 people, 51 being injured. For two days the troops and police patrolled the streets like conquerors of enemy territory, enforcing a dawn-to-dusk curfew at bayonet-point. However some students courageously demonstrated at the Town Hall demanding that the troops be pulled out. Immediate cause of Negro demonstrations was the killing by a white policeman of a. Negro boy allegedly fleeing in a stolen car. But the basic cause was the Negroes' determination to break out of the San Francisco ghetto. As Newsweek notes, "Hunter's Point (one of the demon stration areas) is a world apart from the glittering San Francisco' of the Top of the Mark and the topless girl — a black world of jerry-built World War II 'temporary' housing tiered like barracks on the slopes of a bald dirt hill." In effect admitting the real reason for the Negroes' action Mayor Shelley, at the height of the shooting, wired on S.O.S. to President Johnson to provide jobs for unemployed Negroes "in the name of God and all human decency". Johnson's colleague Governor Brown, however, was not relying on God, decency or anything else but brute force to crush the Negroes. Moving in behind 4000 national guard troops he said "This is no time to talk about grievances." As in Vietnam the troops were given full freedom to shoot the coloured men. Notes Time Magazine: , "Patrolling both the Hunter's Point and Fillmore ghettoes with fixed bayonets, the Guard had orders to 'shoot to kill — take no guff from anyone'." Meanwhile in St. Louis, Missouri, Negroes demonstrated for five days in succession in protest against the killing by a white policeman of a Negro simply because he suspected him of having committed an offence. Showing his basic sympathy with the white racists, Johnson allowed to be defeated in Congress the civil rights (housing) bill aimed to outlaw the color bar which forces Negroes to) reside in ghettoes. The Bill was defeated in the Senate, where Johnson won at big majority in the landslide of 1 964. The London New Statesman points out that this was the most liberal Congress for 30 years. The veto power of the conservative midwest republicans and southern Democrats waSl broken. But Johnson did not use his powers to win the changes the Negroes and their white sympathisers demanded. "Mr. Johnson stopped pressing for major social change this year and Congress stopped delivering" the New Statesman wrote. Repeal of the law against the 'union shop' also died in the Senate. "If Mr. Johnson cannot do better than that with the most liberal congress in 30 years, it will be hard for him to do anything with next year's collection." Street scene in San Francisco — fully armed white police fight LBJ's second war of oppression 