 hmmhhiHM—otiii i mill iimfwmrrrm»f¥rTi — r — rn—ig— — fit " Rebuff aggressors, " strengthen unity-CPSU From Rupert Lockwood OSCOW: The need for further firm rebuffs to aggressors and for inter national Communist unity were stressed at the meeting of the Central committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union last week, i The CPSU central committee stated its agreement with the view of fraternal parties that "favorable conditions are now being created for a new inter national meeting of representa tives of Communist and Work ers' Parties which must foe well prepared in the course of mu tual consultations among the parties." The plenary session made special point that today it was more important than ever "to strengthen the unity and in crease the might of the world socialist system, to develop political and economic coopera tion between socialist states, to strengthen the international solidarity of the working class, to support the peoples fighting against colonial oppression and neo-colonialism and to pursue undeviatingly a policy of strengthening alliance with the national liberation forces". The meeting pledged contin ued all-round support to the Vietnamese people and deliv ered sharp, warnings against West German revanchism in its decision to take measures to . strengthen European security. The plenary session fully ap proved the line and practical activities of- the Political Bur eau and Soviet Government as regards relations between the CPSU and Chinese Communist Party, between the Soviet Un ion and the People's Republic of China. "The latest developments in China and the decisions of the CPC central committee 11th plenary session show that the great power anti-Soviet policy of Mao Tse-tung and his group ha.s entered a new, dangerous stage." The central committee noted "the course promoted by the present leaders of the CPC in the international arena, their policy in respect of socialist countries, the hostile cam paign against our Party and the Soviet people and the splitting activities in the in-- .. ternational communist move ment — all this has nothing in common with Marxism-Lenin ism. Friendship "This policy and these actions damage the interest of social ism, of the international work ers and liberation movement, the socialist gains of the Chin ese people themselves and as sists imperialism. 'The Central Committee plenary meeting confirms the immutability of our Party's course toward friendship and international solidarity with the Communist Party of China, with the Chinese People's Re public. i "At the same time the plen ary meeting finds it necessary to expose resolutely the anti- Leninist views and the great power nationalist course of the present Chinese leaders, to step up the struggle in defence of Marxism-Leninism and the gen eral line worked out by the Moscow conferences of 1957 and 1960." The decisions arose out of general secretary Leonid Brezh nev's report "On the Internat ional Policy of the USSR and the Struggle of the CPSU for the Unity of the Communist movement." The meeting also dealt with drafts of the national economic development plan and the USSR 1967 Budget. Mikhail Solomentsev was elected secretary of the CPSU central committee. 