 Mt. Isa conies to life SYDNEY : An enthusaistic gathering of 150 people last week applauded the official launching of "Copper Crucible" (Jacaranda Press, 35/-), a novel on life in Mt. Isa and the first book by Betty Collins. The launching was sponsored jointly toy itihe publishers and Sydney Realist Writers' group, of which Whs. Collins is a mem ber. A warm tribute was paid to the author by Mr. J. Egerton, President of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council, who flew to Sydney specially to speak at the launching. Mr. Eger ton was a leading negotiator for the - T & LC during the 1964-65 industrial dispute at Mt. Isa Mine. The book, dealing with aspects oi life in Mt. Isa in the fifties during an earlier period of in dustrial disputes, revealed a side of real life there that the press and the , tourists would never see, he said. "Much is revealed of the trials and tribulations of the wives and mothers up there that makes this book valuable for every Aus tralian library and home. "I know very well the life of the shop stewards and the com mittee workers in Mt. isa, but I learned a lot from; this book." he said. Mr. Egerton said he believed many Australian authors had difficulties and as the full story of Mt. Isa and of Australia as a whole was still to he told, it was an obligation on the labor movement to sponsor Australian authors and books, A decision had been taken re cently to sponsor a conference UX l/I « UC UXJLII/AI'AOK) anu. auwiws in Queensland, to discuss the future of Australian authorship, he said. Betty Collins, who is a mother of three children, said the book, based on recollections of a year living at Mt. Isa, had been re written four times before pub lication. It set out to show how people who went to Mt. Isa to make a "quick quid" were transformed by the place, the heat and the high prices into some of Aus tralia's best fighters for a better deal. It dealt with activities of a big company in a company town, where the wealth of Aus tralia was being sent off to a foreign country without refer ence to the government. Mrs. ' Vera Deacon, speaking ,for .the Realist "Writers' Group, said' "Copper Crucible" was an important landmark in Austra lian literature being in authentic continuity from earlier books based on mining communities, yet (Healing honestly with the new period of the -domination . of international capital in this industxy. Mr. Brian Clouston, managing director of Jacaranda, presided. BETTY COLLINS 