 Sugar growers sour on Holt's non-help ITH an election on the way is the Federal Government making a late run to try and sweeten its relations with the sugar producers. It is well aware that &lt; the sugar growers, with their in dustry in a depressed state, voted solidly for Dr. Patter son who this year tipped out the sitting Country Party member in the Dawson by- election. Last Wednesday night in a joint statement Deputy Prime Minister McEwen and Queens land Premier Nicklin announc ed a $19 million interest-bear ing loan to the sugar industry. The sugar industry this year is expecting to harvest a re cord crop of 15,000,000 tons at the lowest world prices. The tragedy is that as sugar growers' production increases, their income is declining. They expect this year's re turn to be $20m. less than that of last year. In the last three years, 1000 more producers helped to in crease production by 25 per cent to meet the expansion of the industry as requested by the Queensland .Country-Liberal Party Government. , In 1963 the Queensland Gov ernment gambled on benefits it expected to receive from the loss by Cuba of the American sugar market, and in the hope that the then high world price of sugar would continue. Facing very serious difficul ties ignored by both the Queensland and Federal Gov ernments, sugar growers found they "had a very good advocate with the election of Dr. Pat terson to Parliament. Last April he proposed that the Federal Government grant an $18m. interest-free loan to the sugar industry for a price stabilisation scheme. This sug gestion was ignored. According to a sugar farmer who was present at a meeting addressed by Mr. .McEwen shortly after Dr. Patterson made this proposal, Mr. Mc- Ewen made it clear that while the Government did not like the loss of the Dawson seat it would, anyway, help the indus- try. He gave the distinct impres sion, however, that growers would have to wait a long time for such help. While ' Dr. Patterson kept hammering . in Parliament at the Federal Government for assistance to the sugar indus try, the sugar producers were pressurising both the" Nicklin and the Holt Governments. With the Federal elections on the agenda the Federal Govern ment had to make some pro position. The question, was how this could be done so as not to give any credit, to Dr. Patterson and the Labor Party. At this stage Mr. McEwen invited two -representatives of sugar producers' organisations to , make proposals for some assistance. It was then suggested to Mr. Nicklm that he should make a public request to the Feder al Government for assistance in order that the Country Party would get the main credit. It was revealed in Federal Parliament last Thursday the Government did not accept the proposals from the sugar industry organisation repres entatives. who had asked for interest-free loans. Mr. McEwen deliberately issued the statement outside Parliament House - in order to prevent his proposal being debated. Last Thursday, Mr. Calwell out-foxed Mr. McEwen by forc ing the Deputy Prime Minister to table the statement. The debate will now bring out the cynical use of the sugar in dustry by the Federal Govern ment for electioneering pur poses. What is "obscene" (above right) and what is not (left) according to the Liberal Gov ernment in Victoria. Despite the Liberal ban or because of it, sales of the pamphlet American Atrocities in Viet nam continued at high levels last week. The printery was reported to be printing its 20,000th copy of a pamphlet originally estimated to sell about 4000. In George Street, Sydney, 150 were sold by five sellers in an hour. The Mel bourne Guardian asks whe ther the seizure of the pamph- .Tle'iS in Melbourne was promp ted by Liberal MHR Stokes who told a meeting of Liber al parliamentarians that the'1 flow of Vietnam protest liter ature should be checked. 