 Tanker ban hits o'seas monopoly JYDNEY : "The refusal of members of the Fire- j men's and Deckhands' Union with members of j the Seamen's Union to man tugs for tankers is j an expression of hostility at Government and oil j monopoly attempts to drive K. W. Miller s Aus- I tralian owned tankers out of the trade," Mr. E„ V.. Elliott, general secretary, of the Seamen's Union said yesterday. The Firemen's and Deckhands Union placed a black ban on all tankers in or out of all NSW ports from 8 o'clock Monday night. The Seamen's Union whose members man tugs in all other States had already banned tow ing overseas and interstate tankers as a protest against the Holt Government not guarantee ing petroleum cargoes for Mil ler's tankers. Mr. Elliott said that if all Miller's three tankers were sold 700 seamen would lose their jobs. One of these tankers the Canopus has already been sold to a Philippines' company and will leave Australia this' week. A conference before Jiustice Gallagher, with all parties con cerned with tanker trade was held on November 11. Government, shipping and oil representatives as well as the union officials attended. At the end of the conference Justice Gallagher asked Com monwealth Departmental offi cials to study the transcript and to make whatever comments and proposals the Department thought necessary. All the ' maritime unions met again on November 15 and ex pressed concern and disgust at failure of the Government and oil companies to produce a working and fruitful solution to the problem. Fair time in Townsville fOWNSVILLE: The 15th an nual Townsville People's Fair will be held on November 26 commencing at 9 ann. in the grounds of the Waterside Workers' Hall. A great variety of goods is available — Bowen tomatoes. Tableland potatoes, and Ingham vegetables donated by farmers Other supporters have supplied many and varied toys. Women from Mackay North have excelled themselves in making jams, preserves, sweets, chutney and cakes. Others have made a fine range of clothing for babies, toddlers and school children. Again this year there is a supply of portable barbecues, tubular steel swings and gar den seats. 