 'iffTlie. real' faceless meil ; Claiming "No politics in coun cils" the Liberal Party do not directly stand candidates in council elections. However the "Action Committee" who con trol Woollahra Council and the "Civic Reform" of the .City Council are very active around the Liberal Party at State and Federal elections. These people are fond of de nouncing "control of the Labor Party by faceless men." For example, according to the Daily Telegraph (June 6), Syd ney Civic Reform Alderman D. Griffin stated: "A small junta deliberating behind closed doors decides the policy to be pursu ed by the Council and thereafter enforces its decree by ostracism and expulsion . . . The junta is frequently composed of of ficials and Trades Hall rulers and imposes its views and deci- I sions on the ALP Aldermen. J "Sydney is the capital of I NSW and everyone is interested j to see that its administration ! is democratic and efficient. I Civic Reform Aldermen free of i political and other outside con- | trol will supply this kind of I administration." 8 The 42nd Annual Report of the Civic Reform Association of Sydney issued in 1963 shows that no Civic Reform Aldermen are on the Association's govern ing body, which consists of prominent businessmen and in cludes the names of several Action Committee Aldermen (e.g. Woollahra Mayor M. E. Lawrence, last year's mayor G. Crouch and his deputy, Mr. W. J. Holt). This report clearly indicates who are the real power behind the Civic Reform. It lists the following "affiliated organisa tions": NSW Chamber of Manu factures, Employers' Federa tion, Master Builders' Associa tion, Master Carriers' Associa tion, Retail Traders' Association, Sydney Chamber of Commerce, Sydney & Suburban Timber Merchants Association of NSW. Thus the Civic Reform and Action Committee are control led by the "faceless" representa tives of big ' business. The af filiated organisations cover all the main opponents of the workers' just claims for better wages and conditions. Big Business is not interested in the problems of the tenants and the home-owning rate pay ers—their only interest in local government is in their drive for maximum profits. At present the Labor majority in the NSW Legislative Counoil is preventing the Askin Govern ment from introducing the Bill to alter the Sydney boundaries; however the Liberals hope to have control of the Upper House by next April and to introduce the changes in time for the next local government elections. 