 A SADDER (BUT NO WISER) EX-COMRADE ONCE A JOLLY COMRADE, by Keith McEwan (, Jacaranda Press, Melbourne), $3.25. Reviewed by W. A. WOOD. Ma Keith McEwan ap parently had to screw up his courage to write the story of his years as a mem- ber of the Communist Party of Australia. He seems to think something terrible will happeh to him in consequence. "Ex-members who publicise their views" he says 'fare classi fied as foul traitors. Often the ex-member is dealt with severely. His character is besmirched. He is ridiculed and slandered". Actually the few people who drop out of the CPA do it, as they may leave other organisations, for a whole variety of reasons. If they have anything interesting Q.iL-JASeM-_to.._say k about it— and quite a lot have— they 'are" welcome to do so. And actually Mr. McEwan is not specially foul at all, not nearly as foul as he apparently thinks he is, or (for some reason that remains a mystery from first to last) seems to want to be. The fact is that Mr. McEwan has got nothing to be foul about and this will grievously disappoint any Rightwing readers who may have forked out their dollars on the dustcover's promise of a "sensa tional story" that will "LASH out at the Communist Party". But the only sensations in the book are the ' highly pleasurable ones that Mr. McEwan, on his own account, enjoyed as a member of the Party and the less agreeable state in which he now finds him self since he left. "I was in a continuous state of enthusiasm, even exhilaration" he says of himself as a Party mem ber. "I thought I was assisting the historical process towards a won derful new world. I. was a Marxist. I was not bewildered or lost like most people who felt apprehen sive as to the future. I knew where mankind was heading and more over I was consciously helping it to get there." What on earth it was that turn ed that "Jolly Comrade" into this mnonifu molemiVhnlv. frnsfcrafcfid. ex-comrade will tax the brains ot the most sympathetic reader. Was it Mr. McEwan's three years' stay in China which he seeks to invest with a- great deal of drama? Mr. McEwan agrees that he had a free trip to one of the world's most interesting coun tries and a chance (at no cost) to study the theory and practice of socialism. He can't claim (and doesn't) that this was hard to take. He ridicules any idea that they were being trained to "take over" Australia or anything else in the least sinister or subversive. All he has really to complain about is the Chinese way of poach ing eggs and the dogmatism and insistence of some of the Chinese tutors that they should spend a long time brooding over their past political errors and the appalling results which should have followed from them (even if they didn't actually). "THEY might have taken a leaf from the book (if not the book itself) of the wife of one of them who was not a member of v the Party ancT" refuseS to become oneT Not only would she not repent of the error, but went on erring, without penalty. They didn't boil lier eggs harder than anyone else's. Returning full of zest to Aus- . tralia a new and even happier "sensation" awaited our jolly com rade. He became still jollier when he fell in love with a nice girl— and it was mutual. But perhaps the soul-destroying organisation of which he was a part stepped in to forbid it? Just the opposite. On consulting leading CPA member Eric Aarons, "this comrade sensibly advised me to go ahead; and marry and have chil dren if I so desired." The happy family group pictured on the book's back cover is the best possible tribute to the excel lence of the advice. Certainly Mr. McEwan does not regret taking it, nor does he seem to be sorry over his years as sec retary of the Australia-Soviet Friendship League in Victoria. Cri ticising some aspects of socialism in the USSR, he still says that "considering the history of the USSR, the achievements there were truly great". Like other CPA members Mr. McEwan disliked much that hap pened in the 1956 discussions over r AVtrl fVCi lofor "Kaffir PUVlCt aUblAJAiO CM.AU auvv wwvw.v with the Hill Group. But it all ended happily for Mr. McEwan, one would think, with the exit of Mr. Hill and the elec tion to the Victorian State Com mittee of Mr. McEwan himself along with allegedly like-minded Communists. Yet he thereupon decides to leave the Party! JN his resigning letter, here quoted, he makes criticisms which had already been ac cepted by the Party and acted upon both before and since. Of this his own election to a leading position, the reader may think, would be ample guarantee. Obviously Mr. McEwan finds the task of sorting himself out beyond his powers and in formulating "his" conclusions, as he admits, "draws heavily from the contents of that excellent book, Appeals of Communism, by the American author G. A. Almond." Most of the chapter could very easily have been written by the American gentleman because it is at variance almost everywhere with Mr. McEwan's own experi ences as earlier described. Thus "Party members are taught that Communist theory is always correct . . . Only a few specially endowed leaders are capable of developing Marxism". And this after he has been telling us in the rest of the book how ,all through his years of member ship he, a rank-and-file member, not specially endowed, was engag ed in vigorous theoretical and practical discussions! Again, "human compassion is replaced by the class-love and class-hate principle". Was Mr. Mc Ewan really devoid of human com passion in those years when, with others, he toiled to raise living .« standards and to stop world war. If that was not human compas sion, what is? And where will it be found? In the hearts of the g napalm-dropping baby-burners in 1 Vietnam? | Closing the book and noting | again the smiling, happy family on | the back cover — perhaps also see- i ing, in imagination the benign I figure of de facto godfather g Aarons in the background— the I reader may himself feel a twinge I of some sort of compassion. fl What's the future for these young | Australian children, growing up 8 under a Liberal Government into a war-threatened world? What are their chances of good health, edu cation, careers and families? Mr. McEwan's main contribution to the problem is to "LASH out at the Communist Party in Aus tralia." Perhaps the children, as they grow older, will help him work out something just a shade more sensible and constructive. 