 Rusk: " A lot of people are going to get hurt" Charlton shows who those people are By a special Correspondent |T is reported that the Michael Charlton TV film, Vietnam, War and People, which was delayed by the Censor may be screened again after its success ful first showing on July 4. Everyone who saw it and who knows the meaning of the word compassion will want it to be shown again, mainly for the benefit of those who may have missed it. They would wish most of all for it to be viewed by "Mr. Eyeball"— Dean Rusk, the cold- faced, hard-eyed US Secretary of State who, the authorities apparently felt, had to be got .out of the country before the film could be safely shown. The film spelt out in fine detail just what the Secretary of State's policy meant. Mr. Rusk had expounded it to some effect in Canberra the preceding week to the Nat ional Press Club. He didn't rant and rave. He was coldly menacing in a quiet way. He relied, on understatement rather than hyperbole and never more so . than in his key sentence, to the effect that if Vietnam's answer to the US continued to be No, then "a lot of people are going to get hurt". Mr. Charlton's film showed us who was doing the hurting — and it was not the "Viet Cong" or "Hanoi" or anybody else among those described by Rusk as aggressors. Those being "hurt", the film i showed, were Vietnamese, mainly villagers, women and children. You couldn't call them aggressors. The killing is done largely with napalm firebombs which burn people alive in a slow, linger ing agony. Mercifully, Charlton only showed the explosions — not the victims. Also used, of course, are the more conventional bombs that just blow people to bits or cut off their arms and legs. Legless Like that legless mother we saw in the film with the one- legged baby crying in pain. . They had been hit in an American air raid in the Me kong Delta. . ' We are only in Vietnam, Rusk had kept saying in Can berra, because of the aggres sors from the north. If they only stopped coming, the US would go. But that one-legged girl in the film ("She was engaged tc be married. She isn't now'' said Charlton)? Is she an "aggressor"? "The peasants are suspicious of liberators" said (harlton, reporting an observed . fact. One could see why. One American liberator was shown starfding over trussed and terrorised Vietnamese vil lagers. ("You VC? Yes? You VC? etc. etc.). Another was shown planning to liberate a village suspected of harboring "Vietcong". He tells how they plan to surround the village and pre vent anyone escaping. They will have Vietnamese agents with them to finger the "Viet cong" suspects. If any of them try to run, says the liberator with a smile, "Blat! We kill him". The raid takes place but all the men, including the "Viet cong suspects", have gone. The women and children are herded away. They ask when they can come back. The answer is, .never. The village is about to be blown off the map by the liberators' artillery. The final shot of the film shows a village mother flee ing from the village in an ox cart. Scared by helicopters, the oxen bolt and the mother's pathetic possessions fall out. Says Charlton, in effect, as the film fades out with the woman trying to salvage her belongings, it is this woman's mind that we are trying to win. . / Some hope! Praising the film, Mr. Peter Michelmore of "The Sun" says it shows the "Viet Cong" as "cowards". You could apply many des criptions to those Vietnamese who stand up to what the film shows the Americans dealing out to those who oppose them. But "cowards" somehow doesn't seem to fit. TV's CHARLTON The meaning of compassion 