 Workers angry at insults by employers BRISBANE: Queensland workers have been angered by an attack from the employers' spokesman (Mr. R. James) during the State wage hear- ing. He said why should "the fat and greasy citizens (meaning the workers, not the wealthy) continue to have their living standards maintained or even im proved" while those in ,the primary industry are suffer ing. He doubted whether increases in retail prices had reduced living standards of the average worker, and then in case it did added the following advice to housewives: "The prudent housewife has ample opportunity to offset food price increases by substi tuting cheaper for dearer food stuffs, and curtailment of ex penditure on luxury items, such as cigarettes, tobacco and beer, could easily prove beneficial rather than detrimental to the health of the consumer." Insults Reporting Mr. James' insults, the Queensland Guardian asks; "Who's for another helping of grass? "If you can't afford the up- and-up-again prices for food, then buy cheaper stuff. Eat grass ! . "That— and some assorted in sults—is the answer of Big Business to the people's pro tests on the Great Prices Steal," the Guardian said. The Queensland Trades and Labor Council b2.sic wage ad vocate (Mr. G. Dawson) told Mr. James his advice to the "prudent housewife" was "a shameful statement to make on behalf of the price racketeers." Denouncing the line of "sub stituting cheaper for dearer foodstuffs," Mr. Dawson de manded to know "What do you substitute for mince?'' "Grass, I suppose," said Mr. R. Brown (appearing with Mr. Dawson). Mr. James also resorted to insults against women who have been protesting on prices. He spoke of 'foolish women" and 'frustrated females." They were no,t housewives, he said, If they had been, they would have been at home doing the housework." Mr. James' statements 'that talk about excessive and. whole sale price rises is mainly ex- aggerated nonsense" was made two days after 150,000 Queens land workers went on strike in protest against low wages and high prices. That stoppage, together with earlier strikes and protest meetings throughout the State were called by the Labor Coun cil to back up the unions' $4.30 a week basic wage increase. Despite the employers' argu ments, and no doubt influenced by the mass movement, the Crown representative told the Commission that the state Government favored the lift ing of the basic wage peg. . 