 WHY NATO IS CRUMBLING gUROPEANS fear the North Atlantic Treaty Organ- _ isation (NATO) for the same reason that Aus tralians increasingly distrust SEATO — fear that the United States will use it to get them into a major war. This, and not the personal characteristics of General de Gaulle, is the real reason for the crumbling of NATO which continued at the Brussels con ference last week. "There is a growing feeling in Europe that we might in volve them in' a great . war al though they would not even be consulted about it", writes US commentator Walter Lipp- mann in "Newsweek"/ The brunt Echoing this, the Dutch paper Haarlem Daily says : "To Holland the value of NATO as a defensive organisation has grown less. The danger (ahd what dangers!) of member ship in it have grown". A French general has accused the, US of modifying its policy so that Europeans would bear the brunt of a . future war in Europe, leaving the USA . un scathed. The general, Pierre Gallois, says that this modification be gan when the USSR developed an intercontinental ballistic' missile in 1959-60. US "change" _With this development, says Gallois, America's invulner ability was gone. A war in Europe would henceforth in volve the destruction of the USA and, without admitting it, the Americans modified their policy." Soviet New Times comments on this: "West European fears, that in this new situation Washing ton might expose them to at tack in order to attain its ends, were confirmed by the altered American strategy for .a. war in Euprope. . "Fearing Soviet retaliation to aggression, the Pentagon has been / pressing on NATO- a strategy whereby in the initial stages of a European war only tactical nuclear weapons would be used. "The idea is simple enough: with nuclear strikes exchanged only at tactical level, the US would be out of reach of re taliation. "The US imperialists' designs would be pursued at the cost of European cities and the deaths of millions- of Euro peans." In brief, Europeans think the US is regarding them as ex pendable—which is what Aus tralians are also beginning to think about their role in the US' Pacific strategy. Europe's new mood has been greatly assisted by the consis tent neace nolicv. over the yeai's, of the USSR which has led ' to inci'easing impatience with the NATO financial bur den?, / Unfortunate" George Kennan, then a US diplomat, master-minded the cold war with an article in 1947 which preceded the formation of NATO in 1949. Now he admits, notes New Times, that NATO had been set up for military defence "against an attack no one was planning". He added : , "The Atlantic Pact was unfortunate because it was quite unnecessax-y." Other countries besides France now want to review the structure of the alliance. Even British Foreign Secretary Ste wart admits the size pf the forces should be reviewed and, notes the London Observer, "even in Bonn a new mood is emerging." Last week Willi Brandt, West German Social - Democrat leader, formally accepted the Oder-Neisse frontier with Pol and, something his 'party had till then refused.. 