 Unrest grows I m Ceylon By air mail from R. Dixon, President of the Communist Parly of Australia, who visited Ceylon last week. i QOLOMBO: There is strong discontent in Ceylon against the government of Premier D. Senanayake, which is seriously violating the democratic liberties of the people. On January 8 the Gov ernment proclaimed a state of emergency on the ground that it was necess ary for the preservation of public order. The incident seized on by the Government to obtain these sweeping powers was the killing of a Budhist monk by police when they fired on a peaceful demon stration by Colombo citizens. One of the outstanding figures in the fight to de fend the freedoms of the people is the general secret ary of the Communist Party Pieter Keuneman. Representing the people of Colombo in the national parliament, he has scathingly exposed the real aims of tne government. The emergency had been proclaimed, he said, "to gag and silence the opposition parties and to win time for the Senanayake government in which to consolidate it- seif in power." Banned Under Government regu lations the daily newspapers of the opposition parties j have been barred and their printerie? placed under lock and key. Many trade union leaders have been prohibited from entering trades union offices situated on government premises. Public meetings have been banned. In February the Govern ment, in order to prolong . the emergency, circulated the stories about a "plot" by army officers to stage a coup d'etat and seize pol itical power. ; Ridiculing the Govern ment's statements, Mr. Keuneman showed that those supposed to be involved were, in fact, NCOs who were engaged in nothing more than a, harmless discussion which was suppoed to have taken place in a club in Colombo. "Are we seriously to believe ' that ten sergeants aiid cor- j poral-. could have possibly ' j| believed that they would 1 M seize and run the state?" he , asked parliament and the j nation. iu In face of Government ' ;j attacks, unity in action is I j growing among the parties J and organisations opposed to the Government. Such is the pressure of ' ; j the people that, it is ex- pected, the Government will I- 1 be forced to lift the state ; j of emergency in the .near j future. f'i ' J 