 Landlords pushing pensioners around SYDNEY : Landlords were exceeding the limitations imposed by | Section 17A of the New South Wales Landlord and Tenant Act, Mr. J. Sharrock said this week. Mr. Sharrock is a well-known communist parliamentary can- didate in the Redfern area. Mr. Sharrock warned tenants to be careful . when entering into agree ments with landlords under Section 1 7 A Section 17 A allows an agreement to be made be tween the landlord and ten- . ant as to the amount of rent to be paid when the premises in question are pro tected (fair rented) and the tenant is considered to be a wealthy tenant ($6000 per year income) including in come from family living on the premises. He added: "With other peo ple interested in protecting tenants, I opposed 17A in the first place and still do. It is like asking the lamb to lie down with the lion." Minister's replies Mr. Sharrock , said that, arising out of complaints from tenants in regards to abuses of Section 17A, through his local Member he put three questions to the Minister for Justice (Mr. J. c. Maddison): 1. Can a landlord, having en tered into a 17A agreement with the tenant, during the course of that agreement seek cancellation of the agreement, and enter into a fresh agree ment with the view of obtain ing more rent to cover addi tional costs, such as rates, etc.? 2. What is the position of a landlord who, having entered into a 17 A agreement with the tenant and having pro mised at the time to carry out repairs, then fails to carry out repairs within a reasonable time? 3. What is the position of a landlord or his agent who an noys a protected tenant (espe- cially pensioner) to enter into ?. 17A agreement when that tenant in no way comes within the category of a wealthy ten ant Mr. Maddison's reply indi cated that where an agree ment has been entered into in writing between the lessor and the lessee as to the amount of rent to be paid, then this is the fair rent and shall remain in force for the period expressed in the agree ment; if no period is fixed in the 'agreement, then the period shall be 12 months. Further, it is an offence under the Act if fraud, dur ess, intimidation or improper means are availed of in the execution of a Section 17A agreement, and any variation in an agreement would be a matter for negotiation between the two parties to the original agreement. Should a lessor, and lessee in entering into a 17 A agree ment come to any arrange ment in addition to those con cerning rent, the question of the enforcement of the addi tional terms would foe a mat ter upon which legal advice should foe sought. Mr. Sharrock said that at tempts had been made by land lords, many times with suc cess, to push pensioners into agreements under this Section, despite its specific reference to "wealthy tenants". He said arrangements made should be put in writing and signed, preferably written into the agreement, especially in regard to repairs. Pensioners should seek ad vice from the Public Solicitor. Workers and other tenants can always check with the Rent Controller, Wall House, 18 Loftus St., Sydney (phone 20-5161) or ask their State Member to check for them. 