 The necessity of BHECHT BY ROGER MILLISS "THE tenth anniversary on ' August 14 this year of the death of the great Ger man Communist poet and playwright Bertold Brecht islipped by virtually un noticed at the time. In Sydney earlier this month, the occasion was finally — if some what belatedly— commemorated by an evening of renditions of some of his best-known poems and songs, together with an excerpt from his play "Galileo". Through it all, his genius and peculiar rel evance for today once again shone out like beacon lights. Brecht i,s perhaps the dominat ing figure of the theatre of the 20th Century, and one of its most outstanding poets, a writer whose influence far exceeds familiarity with his actual work or even knowledge of his name. For instance, those veterans of the working-class movement who remember singing with the fer vour and enthusiasm it inspired in the thirties the stirring "United Front Song"— "Then left, two three! Then left, two, three! There's a place, Comrade, for you. Come join the workers' united front For you ore a worker too!" — may be surprised to learn that its words were written by Brecht, to the music of one of his three main collaborators, Hans Eisler. And today's (or should it be yesterday's?) teenagers, who gyrate to the rhythms of "Mac the Knife", may also not know that this is a hotted-up version of another of Brecht's songs— "The Moritat" from his 'Threepenny. Opera", with music by Kurt Weill, the play that really put him on the theatrical, map in 1928. gORN into a middle-class Augsberg family in 1 898, Brecht belonged to that generation profoundly effected by the First World W ar and the consequent chaos in Germany that led to the rise of Nazism, His uarly plays — like "Baal" and "In the .Jungle of Cities"— v/ere nihilistic pictures of the break down of hamuli relations in bourgeois society, heavily influ enced in form by the experiment in expressionism led by Max Bernhardt. As the 20's progressed and Germany's crisis deepened, Brecht's ideas underwent a steady change until by 1926 he was taking pri vate lessons in marxism. This shift in his thinking was reflected in Iris subsequent plays, commencing with the anti-milit arist; and anti-imperialist, burl esque "Man is Man" a.nd culmin ating in the "Threepenny Opera" —whose main point is an outrag eous equation of capitalism with robbery, with the underworld king McHeath saved from the gallows by a royal pardon which also elevates him to the peerage for his services to society. By this time Brecht, under the influence of the then Communist producer Erwin Piscator, had more or less fully developed his theory of "Epic" Theatre, which he be lieved best answered the needs of the modern age. Brecht's work now took a more overtly marxist turn, as he sub jected the basis of capitalism and bourgeois morality to sharper criticism in plays such as "St. Joan of the Stockyards", the opera "The Rise and Fall of Mahoganny" and his adaptation of Gorky's revolutionary "Mother". 3r» the early thirties his series of "didactic pieces" — short and direct, agit-prop music- dram as — rained enormous popularity through their performance by Com munist and Social Democrat, workers' groups, antagonising the Nazis so much that Brecht was said to have been M urnber 4 on I heir blacklis t. With Hitler's coming to power Brecht — together with many of his associates— fled abroad, begin ning a 16-year exile ("changing our country more often than our shoes") which took him to Den mark, Finland, America and. Switzerland. This is the period in which his greatest plays — "Puntila", "Mother Courage," "The Good Woman of Setzuan," "The Caucasian Chalk Circle" and the masterly "Galileo" —were written. After spending the War and the early post-war years in the USA — where he worked in Hollywood and had the distinction of being interrogated hy the Un-American Activities Committee investigating the motion-picture industry — he returned to Europe, finally ac cepting an invitation from the German Democratic Republic to return to East Berlin, where in 1949 he rounded the famous Ber liner Ensemble. On his death in 1956, the direct orship of the Ensemble was taken over by his widow, the great actress . TleST Weigel, who had achieved wrA fame for her playing of many uH 'Brecht's best parts, particularly fhe r0e in "Mother Couris"- QNE of the i I incipal reas ons for. >1 echt's great ness an,d -hisf iimpact on drama lies in | ,e revolution He effected fi b theatrical techniques. I . Dissatisfied wit! the naturalist tradition, Brecht © t out to estab lish a new types;' f.drama, best described by theibrm "Epic" or narrative theatreF in'- which main emphasis is piaceion the tellin of a story to . indicate a point. There was notlH i s0 veiY new in this approach ff ) theatre> said Brecht— indeed, I often quoted the plays of Shi speare as ex amples of narrati drama. But Brecht alsl 3ied to create a new relations!) between the audience andv-tl) play. Instead of the spectator. ientifying him self with theioai ion.-, on stage, Brecht wanted ; hi ito be "alien ated" from it— 3 -'observe the play in a detach! manner, with out becoming; >Jj solved in it, always conscious! bthe fact that he was in a thea e-i-i In short, he sal .-the spectator must be like "okUvho sits and smokes at ;a bcici match", or like one who %>' witnessed a street accideht-feited,.' aroused, even moved, ; htfitill separated from the event, jf! In this way, b| &t .maintained, the audience rcfi I 'retain its critical faculties' | Sead : of being swamped by'thl aiotionality of conventional diiiat Spectators, would be able-;'! pass judgment on the action-cdi Sng for them selves the right 'and wrongs rather than :ach ting passively what they 'saw before them. Abover all, theidj Wer of action "to change theiiy rid" 1 would be awakened, by thit $e of play. To achieve : ! thi effect, Brecht ' used a number: ofl artling devices. Captions wereo .1 rejected onto screens, the dacte ibstepped for ward to addt€sJfo£h£u/-aucUence: directly,' scenetyAfcrrecluced! 'to" a bare minimum®® stage mach inery was reveale® the audience, dramatic action I as interrupted by songs and | f actors often wore masks in t| mariner of the Chinese land Ja| jse theatre. At the end of '1 !Good Woman of Setzuan", fox® fence, one of the actors addreg the audience: ill consternation We see the cal tlosed the plot unended. In your opinion m what's to be done? H Change humqi ilure or — the world? Wdljj ich? . . ." Similarly, Bri 5 asked his actors to "stanc mtside" their characters and | tent on them, rather than i® If/ themselves emotionally witpar parts. And he evolved in tf|fe prose and hi:; verso a cool, sparse, unem otional and often ironic language best suited, he considered, for conveying his ideas. INCE his death ten years ago, Brecht has under gone something of a revival in the West, following years of virtual obscurity. This resurgence of interest, in him has sprung -directly from the sharp concern emerging in the 50's and 60's at the state of the world— particularly at the tower ing shadow of the H-Bomb— and the consequent growth of an awareness of the need for "com- mitment". For Brecht was the epitome of the committed writer, a man who felt deeply for mankind and whose dispassionate yet intensely partisan examination of human f problems gives his ideas special significance for today. j All his major plays contain f direct- relevance for the present I time: in "Mother Courage", the « tragedy of a woman who learns nothing from the way her pursuit of profit out of war has destroyed her; in "Galileo", completed in the aftermath of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the responsibility of the great pioneer scientist who still lacked the moral and physical courage to resist the Inquisition's misuse Of his work. In "The Good Woman of Setz uan", it is the need to change a society where the good suffer and the evil prosper, while in the beautiful "Caucasian Chalk Circle", the simple moral is that . "what there is shall belong to those who are good for it". In an age of cynicism, we need his clear belief in the power of Man; in an age of chaos, we a need his marxist affirmation of t the possibility of changing the world; in an. age of mass-produced c hogwash, we need his precise and simple language; in an age of the t abuse of truth, we need his cool r judgment and his scientific scept icism. I i£> Brecht -were alive today, . j there is no doubt that he, like j so many present writers through out the world, would be utilising the power of his talent in the campaign against the brutal war f in Vietnam. His influence can . already be seen in Australia in d Alan Hopgood's admittedly am- biguous play, "Private Yuk Objects," recently performed in Sydney and Melbourne. But we need a greater . know- g ledge of his work — to see more o of his plays produced, to read more of his poetry, to learn more a! of his ideas through critical assess- s: ments of his contribution. Brecht ' fi today can . give guidance and v, clarity in a confused and com- v, plex world, seeking to emerge, as o he put it himself, "from the flood tl in which we are sinking". BRECHT IN SYDNEY: Marie Armstrong, John Mulligan and Patti Assange in New Theatre's production of "Mother Courage and Her Children" earlier this year. 