 Voltaire on Vietnam ANOTHER July 14 has passed, i with France's name tarnished throughout the world by what is being done on Mururoa atoll. i It was only fair to recall that it was from France that there arose one of the first and noblest appeals ever made for the renunciation of war— and it was made by a man whose name will ever be , associated with the great movement that destroyed the Bastille on "July 14, 1789. Voltaire's criticism of the churches of his day was never stronger than when he condemned their support of war. "Miserable physicians of souls, you declaim for five quarters of an hour against the mere pricks of a pin and say no word on the curse which tears us into a thousand pieces" he wrote. "Philosophers and moralists, burn your books. So long as the caprice of a handful : of men will cause the massacring in all t loyalty of thousands of our brothers, the part of the human race which is devoted to heroism will contain all that is most frightful i,n human nature. What concern to me are humanity, ben evolence, modesty, temperance, gentleness, wisdom, piety so long as half an ounce of lead shatters my body and I die, at 20, in torments unspeakable, surrounded by five .or six thousands dead or dying, while my eyes, opening for the last time, see the town I was born in delivered to fire and sword, and the last sounds that reach my ears are the shrieks of women and children expiring in the ruins— and the whole for the pretended interests of a man that we do not know? Voltaire strongly criticised Montesquieu for allowing the justice pf what is called today a "preventive" war. Replying to | Montesquieu he wrote: — , "If ever there was a war evidently unjust it is that which you propose; it is to go and kill your neighbour for v fear your neighbour should be in a position to attack you; that is to say you must run the risk of ruining your country in the hope of ruining without reason some other country". Thus was the Vietnam war condemned 200 years ago. L.B.J. (NOT Johnson), Mosman. 