 Naivete in China "\7"OUR interview with L. Aarons, secretary CPA (Tribune August 31) was timely. Mr. Aarons clearly indicates the Communist Party's position regarding re cent and current happenings in China. That he, and the party, are not afraid to explain why they have taken such a stand is much to their credit. The deification of Mao Tse-Tung and the recent excesses of the "Red Guard" are correctly explained as "petty bourgeois fanaticism". The disruptive activities and belligerent remarks emanating from China are aimed osten sibly at the "revisionist" and "reactionary" elements. But they merely serve to undermine and split inter national working class splid- arity. It is therefore the cap italists who stand to gain most, from this crisis in the world communist movement. The intelligent reader will be affronted by the naive reverence given to Mao's "thinking", many examples of which car. be found in China perhaps quite rightly, con gratulates itself on its first nuclear explosion but sees it as a "Great victory for Mao Tse-Tung's thought" (a recur ring phrase, incidentally). Doesn't anyone else think? Another instance: "Iron Man" -Wang arrives at Taching oil field, but when the equip ment arrives at the nearby railway station there are not enough cranes or tractors. "What were we to do? As revolutionaries, we must always use our heads to find r. way out. I reached for Mao's works, which I had brought with me." So they use Mao's head in stead. What is revolutionary in using someone else's head? "Mao Tse-Tung's thought . . . an integration of the universal truths of Marxism-Leninism". There can, be no doubt there pxists a personality cult in China. ,, In maintaining and pursu ing the personality cult, in ostracising the world at large, the Chinese adopt a reactionary, un-marxist line. Not only do a "Hundred Flowers" not bloom, but there is bound to be, to some degree, intellectual and cul tural suppression. . In the struggle between capitalism and communism, in the ideological struggle that is raging throughout-the world, a united front is essential. That the CPA favours efforts to resore unity "if necessary step by step" and calls for joint action is an indication o:! its appreciation of the necessity for a united front. H.B.Austin, Henty, (NSW). 