 Australian air safety an issue behind strike NOT only international but also internal Australian air safety standards- affecting hundreds of thousands of Australians — are at issue behind the firm stand of the Qantas pilots. This was given point in last weeks false claim by respon sible Federal Minister Bury that the pilots were trying to take over the authority of the Department of Civil Aviation, which prescribes "minimum safety standards". The pilots' strike is a safety issue. And to their credit these men have refused to be "bought off" with a package dead of salary increases providing they, don't "interfere" with opera tional safety matters. As the Pilots' Federation says: It seems "incredible" that in a short space of a year or so the company (Qantas) should seek to introduce: .Two-pilot crewing (instead of three, as is general on big jet aircraft) . Crews being rostered on long return trips without ade quate rest spells after the for ward journey. Operation to lower alti tudes and into poorer visual conditions when bad weather occurs. Removal of the navigator over certain sectors, thus in creasing the pilot workload. Night operation into Ja karta in defiance of the strong recommendation of the Inter national Federation of Air pil ots' Associations. A key point to remember is that these moves by Qantas are condoned by the Depart ment. The DCA has already been under heavy fire in recent months with a series of acci dents and engine failures of Ansett-ANA domestic airlines, including the tragic Winton Viscount disaster. DCA criticised Exposures by Mr. L. Devine, MHR (Lab.) in Federal Par liament, reported extensively only in Tribune, showed that the DCA permits aircraft to be operated over long distances even though important compon- ants are known to be unser viceable. There can be only one ex planation for this procedure — that the Holt Government's policy directives to the " DCA experts are to help the air lines make profits, even if safety is sacrificed. The Department evidently is not given the power to make spot checks on, or to super vise, implementation ,by air lines of its inadequate "mini mum safety standards". The official inquiry into the Winton crash has been long delayed, even though its find- ings could help save other lives in future. Now the Pilots' Federation has revealed that the DCA has for two years pigeonholed an expert report on aircrew fat igue in jet operations. Answering the two-pilot crewing argument, the pilots concede that the DCA is cor rect in saying that some com panies do operate with two pilots. "And the very companies DCA nominated are those or ganisations with the worst ac cident record — one having four jet accidents to its credit", the pilots said. More deaths Last year 1038 people were killed in 49 major accidents of the world airlines — a sharp in crease over the 1964 figures of 923 killed in 44 accidents. The fact that in these two years Qantas had an unblem ished record of no accidents and no deaths is due, the pilots say, to excellent training, first class maintenance and a con sistent policy of conservative operational practice — now be ing sacrificed under pressure of international competition for profits. Continued on Page 12 Fed. Govt, hit on air safety Continued from Page 1 The Director of Qantas' Technical Services, Captain P. W. Howson, in July this year warned of the need for the in dustry to carefully examine the reasons for the above mentioned accidents. "How much more tragic would these accidents have ibeen had the aircraft been 'jumbo jets' which are projected to come into airline service with in the next five years. "The thought of losing a complement of some 450 pas sengers or a vehicle costing $35 million cannot be contemplat ed", he said. The international pilots' or ganisation have backed the Qantas pilots, as have the Aus tralasian Airline Navigators' Association. Meanwhile Qantas is stand ing down its workers no doubt as part of an attempt to turn the public against the pilots. The issue in the pilots' strike are readily understood by many workers. Miners, wharfies, building workers and those in work shops know that safety is an issue they continually have to enforce on their employers even though minimum standards are prescribed by law. No longer do all workers ac cept the employers' philosophy that management and work operation is the bosses' sacred domain. 