 PROTON S ORP LA NTS ? Letters to the yHE article "How did the Earth evolved" is a very welcome innova tion in Tribune. However, there are two corrections I feel it necessary to make. Your correspondent stated that the theory put forward originated from Dallas, Texas. I do not doubt that work is being done on these lines in that part of the world, tout the originator of the theory behind this work is the fam ous Russian biochemist A. I. Oparian, whose book "Origin of Life" was published in 1936. This is acknowledged in a recent scientific American publication "The Physics and Chemistry of Life." This paper-back contains a chap ter entitled "The Origin of Life" by George Wald, of Har vard. I quote: "Much can be added now to Oparian's dis cussion, yet it provides the foundation upon which all of us who are interested in this subject have built". So in fact the originator of the theory is a marxlst; of course this does not mean that a non-marxist scientist could not have thought of it; the scientific method is in itself a marxist way of think ing, or perhaps we should rather say that marxist thought is an extension of the scientific method, applied to the fields of economics, poli tics and history. The second point is that your correspondent suggests that the first life was plant life. This idea has been a stumbling block because the methods by which plants and other photosynthetic organ isms use solar energy are highly complex and it is dif ficult to imagine how they could have arisen by chance from non-living material. Later work by Oparian and others, and other work quoted in the American publication mentioned above suggests that simple proteins and carbo hydrates could have arisen under the conditions de scribed and under the in fluence of the much stronger ultraviolet light, before the Earth had any oxygen in its atmosphere. The first forms of life would thus have de veloped in a kind of organic soup; later some began to use solar energy while others con tinued to rely on organic nu trients. It may well be that your correspondent intends to deal with this latter point in a later article, but I feel that the idea that plants must necessarily have been the first forms of life needs correction, although clearly they must have been established before oxygen-using animals. — Ann Gregory, Balmain. 