 Nurses take action for higher pay SYDNEY : The low wages paid to nurses in NSW reflect the shocking exploitation of women and girls dedicated to caring for the sick. After paying board and taxation, a first or second- year trainee nurse is left with about $10 a week. A first-year nursing, sister receives $36.55 and after 15 years' service can get no more than $45.10. These are the main reasons for the demonstration today (Wednesday) by nurses in Syd ney for higher wages. Nurses at almost all Govern ment hospitals throughout the State have rejected a paltry wage offer of 60c for a third- year trainee to $2 for a fifth- year sister. First and second- year trainees would get nothing. As a group of lasses from the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital said: "You bet we'll be at the meet ing in force!" These girls plan to march down George Street to attend the big rally in' the Sydney Town Hall. About 30 buses have been chartered by the NSW Nurses' Association to bring the nurses to the meeting starting at 4 p.m. A leaflet has been issued ap pealing for public support. "In the public interest and because of our dedication to our patients we have refused to strike. As a result of this we are being exploited." Nurses say that because of low pay, hospitals in NSW are short of nursing staff. This fact was borne out dur ing an interview by Tribune with nurses at the Bankstown District Hospital. Due to staff shortage at this hospital, dressings which should be done at 10 a.m. are often not done until 2 p.m. This shortage is also the rea son why patients are awoken at 3.30 a.m. for their morning wash. ; The Bankstown nurses say i there are only 110 trainet nurses to look after the 300-bed hospital. "We could do with almost double this staff!" Because of low wages only the most dedicated remain. Of 21 girls who started train ing iast April there are only 11 I left. ! Another lass explained that i there are only five left of her ; group of 19 who started two : and a half years ago. To try and cope with staff shortages, the girls work over time most days for which they do not receive penalty rates. j On top of the long woric hours, the girls devote j hours to study during then ; four years of training. i They are quick to point out that in other States nurses get higher wages and only do three years' training. The girls are also "narked" that their work shoes and stock ings are not provided as part of their uniform. The two pairs of shoes they need a year cost $20 and they are "generously" given 30c a week stocking allowance. "Why do' they treat us like this?" one girl asked. "People like Menzies go trip r ping round the world with Dame Pattie free of charge." 