 Guys & dolls kAONA Brand's "Bar bara", at the New Theatre, represents per haps her most serious attempt so far to come to grips with contemporary Australian reality. She examines with warm sympathy the problems and attitudes of teenagers caught in the vortex of the so-called affluent society — complete with hire-purchase, home ap pliances and the desire for a facade of respectability with out meaning or direction. Barbara herself is the elder daughter of a typical lower middle-class suburban family, enveloped in a cocoon of ex cessive love from a domineer ing mother and over-indulgent father. Trying to establish her in dividuality and find her own identity, Barbara fails her University examinations and, in her desperate seeking for real love, becomes pregnant. Her parents' middle-class mores are shaken to their foundations, but Barbara fights for her right to have her baby, only to find — in a surprise ending — that there is no escape from her mother's possessiveness. In the competent and thor ough direction of David Mil- liss — who also provides an impressive true-to-life set — New Theatre tackles "Bar bara" with the sincerity and compassion one associates with this group. Recovered from her open ing-night indisposition, Denny Tagg is a sympathetic and sensitive Barbara, Golda Mee- han offers a well-balanced in terpretation of the assertive though well-meaning mother-,' while Peter Dyke is effective as the kind-hearted but weak- willed father, as is David Cal- cott as his easy-going brother Os. Saturday night's perform ance was marred by a certain glibness and lack of projec tion by the cast, but this will no doubt be remedied as the season progresses. The "Q" Theatre ventures into evening productions at the AMP Building at Circular Quay with a welcome revival of Ray Lawler's "The Sum mer of the Seventeenth Doll", which disposes of any fears that its original success may have been due to an extrava gant delight at seeing a recog nisable picture of ourselves on the stage. John Gray's production proves beyond doubt that "The Doll" can stand on its own merits with the best of modern world drama. Certain ly no other Australian play probes so deeply and moving ly into character, or presents the country and its people with such convincing unself- consciousness. The highlight of this pro duction is Moya O'Sullivan's magnificently realised per formance as Olive. Robert Bruning brings strength and bearing to his deeply felt portrayal of the reluctantly aging Roo, and Ethel Gabriel repeats her original triumph as Emma. Margo Lee as Pearl and Ben Gabriel as Barney are somewhat less convincing, with Miss Lee in particular coming dangerously close on occasions to caricature. The South Australian Thea tre Company concludes the Interstate season at the Old Tote with a polished presenta tion of Ralph Peterson's "The Night of the Ding Dong", one of the best examples of farce in the Australian reper toire. Its send-up of a Russian scare in Adelaide in the 1870's has obvious relevance today. John Tasker's production is first-class and some delightful performances, especially from Dennis Olson, Ron Graham, Loreiel Smart and Anne O'- Shauehnesav. make the most of this hilarious play.- -R M. „ 