 A nil-conscription Big protest in Sydney W ednesday . SYDNEY: The Youth Campaign Against Conscription and the Save Our Sons organ isation are planning a big demonstration at Sydney Central Station next Wednesday night, February 2, at 7 p.m. Earlier in the day there will be a vigil at the Marrickville military reception depot from 8.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. This will coincide with the reception and despatch to camp of the next intake of 20- year-old military service conscripts. The Wednesday demonstration will follow a national anti-conscription conference to be held in Sydney next weekend, convened by the Youth Cam paign against Conscription. Appealing for. support of the February 2 demonstra tion, Save Our Sons warns of the danger of escalating the Vietnam war. "The Australian Government has doubled the in- take of 20-year-olds to be compelled to serve in Viet nam. "We are being asked to sacrifice our sons in a war about which opinions ( differ, widely in our country and in the USA arid' the World; The secretary of the Youth Campaign! Against Conscription, Mr. Barry Robinson, said the first national anti-conscription conference since the first world war would be held in Sydney next weekend, with delegates from all States attending. It would begin with a social, where the public could meet the delegates, at 8 pm on Sat urday night, probably in the Building Workers' Industrial Union Hall, 535 George Street. On Sunday the main confer ence would begin at 10 am, With a session open to the press be ginning at 8 pm. The Sunday meetings would be in the offices of the Asso ciation for International Co operation and Disarmament, 17 Parker Street. The conference would con tinue on Monday. Mr. Robinson said the con ference would have a historic as well as a political signifi cance. He recalled that Mr. A. A. Calwell had been secretary of the last such conference, held during the first world war. New pressure on USA If the US resumes the bomb ing of the Democratic Republic of (north) Vietnam, as seemed likely this week, it will do it in the face of world-wide op position. As the week began there were more demands that the bomb ing pause be continued, despite the pressure of US militarists to resume bombing and expand the . war. According to the Sydney Morning Herald, Britain, France and Japan, as well as socialist and neutral countries were ask ing the US to continue the pause. They were joined by UN Sec retary-General U Thant, who said publicly that the prospects of peace were improving while the lull continued. In the US, 76 Congressmen joined in an appeal to Presi dent Johnson to stay the bomb ing pending further efforts to achieve peace. Australian clerics speak Last Saturday a statement by 58 Australian churchmen calling for peace in Vietnam was re-' leased in New York as part of a statement sponsored by an international Christian Commit tee. While addressed to both sides, the statement asked the US to stop air attacks both in north and south Vietnam, to express a clear intention to withdraw its forces from Viet nam and to state unequivocally its readiness to negotiate an end of the war. The horrors of aircraft and the massive firepower which the , US was inflicting on the Viet nam people were "beyond any moral or political justification" 1 said the statement. Among the signatories were „ the Archbishop of Perth, Dr. Appleton, Bishop J. S. Moyes, Rev. Gordon Powell and Rev. . Alan Walker. 