 WHITE PAPER LETS BLACK CAT j OUT OF BAG Defence estimate at billion a year By a Special Correspondent CANBERRA: The forthcoming Federal Budget of the Holt Government could be a Phoney Budget designed to conceal at least ini part that the Government intends to spend more than $1,000 million on war purposes in the next 12 months. This estimate is based on the White Paper on the Australian Economy published last week. Last year's Budget imposed tax increases "to slow the growth of consumer spending" by the public and facilitate a heavy switch of resources to financing the new aggressive build-up of Australian forces in Vietnam and elsewhere over seas. Military spending by Australia had begun to rise steeply in 1964. In the first half of that year it was 16 per cent higher than in the previous year; in the second half, 28 per cent higher. As the White Paper says: "In the last half of 1965 defence expenditure surged upwards. It reached an annual rate close to $800 million, whereas in 1964-65 it had totalled $544 million." This represented a rise of some 50 per cent in the rate of spending within 12 months. Axe To compensate, the axe went into the public's spending on homes, motor vehicles and other consumer durables, such as household appliances. However, the Budget proved to have understated the Govern ment's intentions on spending and early in 1966 a substantial new allocation of finance was approved, for defence and other expenditures. — — — mnM—MMaaaa Since the White Paper admits that "there will be a further big rise in public authority ex penditure and ESPECIALLY IN DEFENCE EXPENDITURE" (our emphasis), it is regarded as certain that the Government will seek to postpone the im pact in part, so that a supple mentary budget can be brought down after the Federal election. Even if the 1965 rate of in crease in defence spending (50 per cent) were not to be reach ed in the 'coming period— and it may well be surpassed— it seems clear that the annual war spend ing rate will go far past the $1000 million mark by the end of this year. Inflow In the past year the anticipat ed large further drain on Aus tralia's overseas reserves did not eventuate, and this was mainly due to an unexpectedly large inflow of British and Un ited States private capital in cluding further big American in vestment in Australian mineral resources. However, the recent restric tions on British capital export and development of US policy in the same direction are ex pected to reduce this compon ent of Australia's international balances. As a result, there will be more dependence on the problem of the real trade bal ance which has remained un favourable for almost all of the past two years, though showing a recent upturn. The past rate of private cap ital investment, however, is ex pected to decline. Since the Gov ernment professes to be con cerned to maintain the rate of national development alongside nf milifnrv snAnrtim. this must, VJ. ----- raise more sharply the question of investment by governments themselves in nationalised enter prises, particularly including mineral extraction and process ing. In general the latest White Paper is a whitewashing docu ment for the Government's elec toral purposes. It boasts of "four years of strong continuous expansion", but finally has to admit that this could not have occurred without the "wheat sales to China and Russia," whose stable socialist markets have had an immense stabilis ing effect on what would other wise have been a serious situa tion in our international pay ments. 