 GAS WAR DEATH EXPOSES LIES And troop landing bares "peace" trick Last week's exposure of Australian involvement in gas warfare — and resultant death of an Aus tralian soldier — have laid the Australian Govern ment and its Washington overlords once more open to the grave charges of felling lies about the Viet- nam war. On January 12 an Australian soldier, Corporal R. Bowtell, died of asphyxiation in Vietnam while using gas against Viet namese patriots near Saigon. Use of noxious or any form of harmful gas in war is prohibit ed by solemn international treaty — the Geneva Protocol of 1925, binding on the USA, Australia and all other countries claiming to be civilised. Last year the Australian and American governments gave re peated assurances that the gases admittedly being used by the USA against the Vietnamese would not kill. FALSE PLEDGES When reports of the US' criminal use of gas were first raised External Affairs Minister Hasluck rushed in with "assurances" that the gas was harmless. "It is a disabling gas which leaves no lasting or damaging effect" he said in parliament on March 24, 1965. "It is a disabling gas, certainly not a lethal gas", he repeated the next day. A few days later, on March 30, he recklessly asserted that "the latest, information that we have received confirms that neither the United States nor the (South) Vietnamese Government is carrying on gas warfare." On April 5, 1965, US State Secretary Dean Rusk came in with the bland assurance that "we do not expect that gas will be used in ordinary military operations". No wonder, then, that the death last week of an Australian soldier while waging gas warfare saw frenzied efforts at "ex planation" by Army Minister Forbes and then a sudden silence by the daily press. Here was an Australian dead from the use of a "non-lethal, non-damaging" gas which was "not being used". Further, ac cording to the original press report, four army engineers also were overcome by gas poisoning during the operation. THE HARD FACTS Dr. Forbes tried to explain that Corporal Bowtell did not die from the poison gas but that "non-lethal" gas, smoke grenades and high explosives used in the tunnels deprived Corporal Bow tell of necessary oxygen, resulting in his death. If Dr. Forbes thinks this will comfort Corporal Bowtell's rel atives or get the Government off the hook, he must be naive. The Corporal was killed taking part in gas warfare, what ever the clinical details may be. Although the Australians' operation did not win an inch of territory (while costing, in all, eight 'killed and 3 1 wounded) it was reckoned "successful" by some commentators because the tunnels are now said to be gas-filled and unusable by the "Viet- cong". Similar operations with gas were foreshadowed by the writer of this report in The Australian. REPORTS indicate that Presi dent Johnson's plan to ex pand the war includes expansion of gas warfare. The USA, by landing this week the first of 113,000 more troops in Viet nam, confirmed that its "peace" talk in recent weeks has oeen a cover for the new troop move ments. A week before Cpl. Bowtell's death the Wall Street Journal said the US Joint Chiefs of Staff were considering a plan to expand gas warfare in Viet nam. They were expected to put a con crete proposition to President John son "within a few weeks". American military spokesmen in Saigon disclosed on January 3 that gas was being used from helicopters and on the ground in operations on the Mekong Delta. Thus, behind the Government's deception, a new and more terrible phase of the Vietnam war — the regu lar use of gas — is being quietly in troduced. It follows a long, sustained cam paign from US military leaders about the "humane" nature of gas warfare. The Indian paper Patriot comment ed last April on the US use of gas: "America has decided to use poison gas and napalm in Vietnam because the people are Asians. Asians will never forget that Americans used the atom bomb only against Asians, and will not be surprised by these new enormities". Further deception of the people by the Johnson Administration has been disclosed by US General James M. Gavin. Shattering Johnson's assurances that he has been merely continuing the Vietnam policies of the last Republican Fresident Eisenhower, Gavin, who was Eisenhower's chief military ad viser, has revealed that Eisenhower in 1954 considered massive interven tion in Vietnam and rejected it. 