 CHILD OF STORM HITS 83 By Judah Waten pOR the best part of 83 years Katharine Susannah Prich- ard has served humanity as a Communist and as a writer. She has spent a working life time studying the Australian people, white and black, caring about them, writing about them, and celebrating their achieve ments. Today she is being honoured on her birthday. Her novels and short stories are an in tegral- part of our literature. Her novel "Coonardoo" pion eered. a deeper understanding of the Aboriginal people, for the first time bringing the Aboriginals alive in Australian writing. Published, in 1929, few Aus tralian novels before or since have made the same immed iate impact on the reading public. Equally it has made a big impression throughout the world, being one of the , , most widely translated. Aus tralian novels. Katharine Susannah Prichard may not like being t treated as the doyen of literature. After all she 'has not retired, frojn writing or from social-political activity. Yet she has been moved through a long life by a sense of social responsibility, has been deeply involved in the struggles of the Australian -people and. her concern de serves to be reciprocated. Lnlike some of her contem poraries who believed that writing alone absolved them from social-political activity. Katharine Susannah Prichard always considered, that the fight for peace, the.' . fight against facism, was a necessary condition for the very contin uation of culture and. liter ature. Champion Since the end of the war she has worked hard and long to prevent war and fascism happening again, and she has been a great cham pion of friendly relations with the Soviet Union. Since those pre-war years when she wrote about her visit to the Soviet Union she has stressed the importance of friendship with the Soviet Union as the cor nerstone of peace. Katharine Susannah Prich ard 's literary life covers a period, of 60 odd. years. Her first novel, "The Pioneers", won £1000 in an Empire-wide competition then a tremen dous achievement for an Aus tralian writer. With Henry Handel Richard son and Vance Palmer, she pioneered the realist Austra lian novel, helping to liberate the Australian novel from mid-Victorian conventions and the aggressive, sometimes, chauvinistic, Australianism and. obsessions with dialect that were characteristic of the earlier novels. At an early age Katharine Susannah Prichard chose her path. She could have lived a purely literary life that might have seemed quite idyllic. It was, among all her other merits, her particular merit that she knew it could be I nothing of the sort. Katharine Susannah Prichard 