 Women and their books AUSTRALIANS ate among the women authors featured in a special calendar of books in English issued by Seven Seas Books, the Berlin publishers, in honor of International Women's Day, (March 8). They are Katharine Susannah Prichard's collected writings in "On Strenuous Wings", Dorothy Hewett's "Bobbin Up" and Mena Calthorpe's "The Dyehouse". Seven Seas honoured East Ger man writer, Christa Wolf, for her prize- winning first novel, "Divided Heaven", which they have just pub- ished in English. Miss Wolf's novel, highly praised by critics from both sides of her homeland!, describes what is new in the life of Germans and realistically de picts both the inner and outer con- . flicts. A book to be published this month by Seven Seas is "The Seeds of Hiroshima" by Edita Morris. Swedish by birth and nationality, married to the Amer ican writer Ira Morris, and a resident at various times in divers lands on various continents, Edita Morris is the author of "Flowers of Hiroshima" which ran up a record sale of over two and a half million copies. German writer Rosemarie Schuder's novel "Witch's Son," the story of the German mathe matician Johannes Kepler and the witch-hunt oil the early 17th century, has been praised for its erudition and translation. Anna Seghers, known to English readers of an older generation for "The Seventh Cross" and "The Dead Stay Young," is among fore most living German writers. Her early books, "Revolt of the Fisher men of Santa Barbara" and "A Price on His Head", were among the first to appear in the Seven Seas English translation series. England is represented by "The Adventurers" by Margot Heine- mann, and the U.S.A.' by "The Descent" by Gina Berriault. Last but not least on the calen dar is a volume about nothing but women, called "Wives, Women and Wenches," edited by Margaret Stewart. For those who want to know what writers thought about this controversial subject down through the ages — from Chaucer right up !o Mark Twain — this is required read ing. 