 WHAT IS WRONG WITH TARONGA? By Harry Roberts . . . better than some humans, in fact The animals have it pretty . good m SH i I ATELY — and for many years, in fact . — the press has been criticising Sydney's Tar- onga Park Zoo. They say it's ugly, the ani mals are overcrowded and badly treated, and that it's losing money because it's un attractive to the public. Likewise, the State Liberal Government — which, in its years of opposition when it was desperately looking around for points on which to dis credit the Labor Government, seized on this suhiect like a drowning man clutching at a straw — is now trying to res cue its tattered reputation for promise-breaking and has had a report drawn up which nat- urally supports all the previous criticism. ? DUT what are the facts? First of all, it is claimed that this Zoo — widely agreed by the thousands of tourists who visit it each year to be one of the best-situated in the world— is ugly. All I can say. is that these critics would be doing the community a greater service if they raised their voices against the ugly conditions many workers and pensioners are forced to live under. Secondly, the charge that the Zoo is overcrowded. The gorilla "King Kong" didn't look too overcrowded the last time I saw him. He has an air-conditioned brick building all to himself, with a window that gives him a clear view across; the har bor. The baby orang outangs have a well-equipped nursery that many parents would be proud for their children to have, along with the money it costs to run. Thirdly, as for the myth that the animals are badly treated, in actual fact they have the maximum shelter from the elements, regular veterinary check-ups and a planned diet which includes' only top-grade fruit and vege tables. Indeed, one gets the impres sion that Taronga's inmates fare better food-wise than do those unfortunate enough to be committed to the State's hospitals, if reports like those in the Sydney "Sun" (July 1) are any indication. ? |ASTLY, it is alleged that the reason for the Zoo's financial loss last year was the fact that it is unattractive and that consequently the public is no longer patronising it. As far as I can see, the Zoo is just as attractive as it ever was. If the turnstiles have shown a drop in attendance, I would say it is due primarily to the fact that the cost of making a. safari to the Zoo, and all other charges involved, have risen so steeply. The bare cost of going to the Zoo and back from Cir cular Quay and getting in to the establishment amounts to a cool 80 cents for anyone ' over 14. . This is based on 20 cents return ferry fare, 10 cents return bus fare from the Tar- onga Park wharf, and 50 cents admission to the Zoo itself. For a child between 4 and 14 the cost is 40 cents. Thus poor old John Wage- plug, taking his wife and one kid under 14 and another over 14 out to look at the animals for the day, would be up for at least $2.80 before he even got to King Kong's comfort able little cage. On top of this must be added the cost of the inevit able food, soft drinks and ice creams without which such a family outing would not be complete. And if John Wage-plug happened to come from an outer suburb like Blacktown, he could add close oh another $3 for the train fares .into the city. As anyone in John's position knows, when you plan a day like this, you usually end up with pensioner parents, neph ews and nieces and even neighboring kids, and the cost goes up correspondingly. ? |F it is correct that the 1 Zoo is running at a loss, then 1 suggest it's mainly because of the re construction of cages and buildings and also the " high cost of top-grade fruit and vegetables. It may appear that I am criticising the high-class treat ment the animals receive. Far from it — i think they should have the best food and living conditions possible. But then so should humans. 