 AUSTRALIA SOLD "ACRE BY ACRE" JYDNEY: It was on economic issues that the Holt Government can be overthrown because it had only one policy — to sell Australia oult acre by acre, factory by factory until the country is a financial statellite of international business. Mr. W. Colbourne NSW, gen eral secretary of the Australian Labor Party, said this during an address to last week's NSW Labor Council in Sydney. The challenge to the Austra lian Labor movement today is to develop our country, not to sell it to foreign exploiters, he said. Mr. Colbourne told the Labor Council it was anticipated that by 1970, at least 60-75 per cent of Australia's secondary indus try would be owned by over seas companies, domiciled and wholly owned by companies headquartered in New York, London, Tokyo and Toronto. "Of the top 50 Australian companies today, already half are fully foreign controlled," he said. Foreign "The degree of foreign owner ship of Australian industries is now: motor industry 95%, chemical industry 97%, petrol eum refining and distribution 95%, soap and detergents 80%. "Overseas control is increas ing in all secondary industry. It has now reached 85% of oil exploration (which is heavily subsidised by the Federal Gov ernment), 75% of bauxite, alum inium and iron ore. "There is more than 50% overseas control of food pro cessing, motor parts and acces sories, lead-zinc, copper and mineral sands." Overseas control, said Mr. Colbourne, had resulted in for eign dictation of local indus trial policy and ultimately could mean dictation of Australian political policy. Speaking of huge profits, Mr. Colbourne said General Motors Holden's profit return has been more than 150 times the origin al investment. "GMH are no exception. Broken Hill Pty. Ltd., Wool- worths and Coles are concerns that readily come to mind as having made huge profits over the .years." The average Australian must be shown how his standard of living is being held back through extortionate hire pur chase rates, through bonus shares and excess profits and through monopoly tactics. The resources of science and technology and the benefits of economic expansion must be passed on to the wage earners and not syphoned off in divid ends, tax rebates and interest payments to huge combines overseas, Mr. Colbourne said. "We have to convince the people that they have a right to work even shorter hours, to get higher margins, and have bet ter long service conditions— be cause the system under which they are living is well able to afford them much more than they are receiving," he added. 