 WA Govt, maintains Victorian attitude to women workers pERTH: The decision of Charlie Carter's supermarket to pay all female shop assistants full male rates reflects the strength of the campaign for equal pay in Australia and the changing tide of public opinion which is sweeping many Victorian ideas into the dustbin. A similar expression of this change was the Reserve Bank's decision last, year to end the sacking of its women employees on marriage, and introduce limited equal pay opportunities. Antiquated government pol icy on married women teach ers is one reason why the Education Department in W.A. is advertising here and in Britain for part or full time trained teachers. Denying an acute shortage of teachers, the W.A. Education Director (General T. L. Robert son) said the advertising cam paign was "insurance against the. extended crop of resigna tions by women teachers leav ing to get married." Handicapped The Teachers' Vtv.or, State secretary (R. Darragh) said that the department was handicap ped by the old policy that car ried women could not be em ployed as teachers on a perman ent basis. At present it was using about 1000 of these women as "sup ply" or temporary teachers. Many of them were told at the end of the year that they would not be required next term unless they were advised. Mr. Darragh said that the State Government had not kept pace with WA's demand for teachers. Facilities at Claremont Teach ers' Training College had been overtaxed for years. Graylands college was only makeshift and needed rebuilding. A third college — which should have been opened three years ago to' train secondary school teachers — had still not been completed, and a fourth should be opened. The pay was not high enough to attract enough specialist teachers at a time when WA's industrial expansion had creat ed good new jobs This year's intake of 750 students was not enough to counter the heavy drop-out. Many parents are critical of the "starvation" allowance paid to trainees. ($700 a year.) A new development preceding A.C.T.U. Equal Pay Week this v.n,. "Worner . Work". Mel- ' bourne on 'May 3 and 4 by the Employers' Federation. It is described as "a national conference to examine the status of women in the Aus tralian working community, to highlight their potential con tribution to national develop ment and to educate employers and others concerned in the need to afford women opportun ities to develop and utilise their capabilities in the national in terest." The Minister for Labor and National Service will open the Conference. The .Employers' Federation points to the "country's short age of labour" as "the biggest factor in setting an effective ceiling on the real expansion of the economy ... "Experience had shown that the demand for female labour would increase at a rate of about twice that of the male work force." It says that employers in Aus tralia "Still have not reached the enlightened approach of overseas countries." Although equal pay is not1 men tioned, it can hardly be ignored. The Federal Government has the power to legislate for equal pay for all women government .employees a.nd; expunging of the bars to the employment of mar ried women. 