 living standard! Conference will attract pensioners SYDNEY: Aged and invalid pensioners have enthusiastically welcomed the NSW Labor Council's Living Standards Conference to be held in Sydney on July 30. The conference has been organised to aJlow for public discussion and action on the pressing problems of [hous ing, education, social services and an Australian economic policy. Mr. J. Frazer, general secre tary of the Original Old Aged and Invalid Pensioners' Asso ciation, this week said his or ganisation will be fully sup porting the conference and urging all branches throughout the State to take an active part. He said that old people will congratulate the unions for tak ing up the pressing problems of the people. "An immediate way to over come the plight of pensioners is for the Federal Government to raise pensions to the level of not less than 50 per cent of the basic wage", Mr. Frazer said. Dr. G. W. Ford, Senior Lec turer in Industrial Relations, University of NSW, will deliver a special paper on social ser vices. Papers Other papers to be delivered at the morning sessions are: HOUSING, Mr, B. McFar- lane, Research Fellow in Eco nomics, Australian National University; EDUCATION, Mr. H. Schoenheimer, Senior Lect urer, Monash University; AN AUSTRALIAN ECON O M I C POLICY, Mr. J. Kenny, Senior . Vice-President, ACTU. The general session of the conference, under the chair manship of Labor Council pre sident Mr, F, Bowen, will be held in the Sydney Town Hall commencing at 2 pm. A local organisation, asso ciation, club or workshop can be represented by . four dele gates and a State or national organisation by 10 at a cost of 50 cents per delegate. The Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress' in 1961 established a policy to ensure social security as part of a campaign to defend and im- . prove living standards. This policy includes: Construction; mainten ance and conduct by the Gov ernment of homes for the aged. ® Totally free pharmaceut ical benefits. Free hospitalisation in public wards. Child endowment of $2 fou each child, up to four child ren, plus an additional 25 cents for each child thereafter. Aged and invalid pensions of not less than half the basic wage. Sickness and" unemployed benefits to be equal to the basic wage and not less than 50. per cent for young workers under the age of 18. Abolition of the means test throughout Australia for pensions or social service bene fits—and that these be avail able to all Australian people, including Aborigines. The special session of an Australian Economic Policy will discuss overseas control of our industries and exports, re strictive trade practices; alien ation of Australia's natural resources, overseas domination by shipping interests, inflation, taxation inequalities and fal- "ng levels in social services. Assistant secretary of the Labor Council, Mr. R. Marsh, bas called a press conference for today (Wednesday) to dis cuss details of the conference. An Australian ship goes to the war zone: (Above) the Jeparit loads supplies for Vietnam at Walsh Bay and (below) seamen show how they feel about the war outside the wharf. 