 What thev aive with one hand ... . . . They take with the other By Jack McPhillips ""HE basic wage increase of $2.00 has already been eroded by price increases and further price rises, as forecast in the pre ss> will quicken this process. This emphasises the in justice of the continued reiusai 01 tne ArDitration Commission Judges and State Governments to res tore the system of quarter ly adjustments to meet - price rises. The $2.00 increase left the Commonwealth basic wage for each capital city (except Hobart) lower than its June 1964 purchas ing power by: Sydney 20c, Mel bourne 40c, Brisbane 70c, Adelaide 30c, Perth 10c. Average decline for the six capitals: 30c. In Hobart the $2.00 /res tored the 1964 purchasing power of the basic wage for that city. This decline in the real wage applies also to State Awards in all States except Queensland and W.A. Since the $2.00 increase operated, the Statistician's Consumer Price Index for the quarter ending June reveals a further decline in the purchasing power of the basic wage rates Indications of future prospects are revealed by increases in fares,. freights and gas charges made by the anti-working class Bolte Government in Vic toria. The "Financial Review" reckons these increases to add at least 40c to a typical family budget. Further increases in living costs by way of higher charges for water supply and hospital treatment will extend the erosion of the Victorian basic wage. Increased charges in these same fields are anti cipated in N.S.W., and in creased transport charges plus raised prices for manufactured goods will further seriously depress the value of the basic wage in that State. So already the value of the $2.00 increase is down and going further down. Prevention of this by restoring the system . of adjusting the wage quart erly in accordance with price movements measur ed by the Statistician's Consumer Price Index was an important part of the . unions' recent basic wage claim. This claim was again refused by the Judges. — wwhiwhiwimi ii»w—wmaB3taai They did agree that past price increases should be taken into consideration in basic wage assessments. But this means that some price increases are paid for by workers for many months before any wage rise to meet them is even considered. This is a form of wage robbery and must be resisted to prevent serious declines in living stand ards; Price control, increased payments to the States by the Commonwealth Gov ernment and further wage rises to offset price in creases are just demands of the trade unions. But much more vigor must be given to campaigns sup porting these demands be fore they can succeed. 