 — I j Vietnam step -up challenged DRAFT OF YOUTH TO JUNGLE IS "OUTRAGE" | By Our Parliamentary Roundsman I £ANBERRA: Shouts of anger and disgust I from Opposition Members greeted the 1 announcement by the Prime Minister on Tuesday night that Australian forces in Vietnam would be trebled to 4,500 men. This decision went far beyond all press predictions of the- Government's intentions to expand its military intervention against the Vietnamese national independ ence movement, following the visit of United States Vice-President Humphrey. I The announcement, together with another that all future Australian units "deployed overseas in any theatre" will include conscript youth, will cause wide repercussions. Opposition Leader Calwell said that the decision to send "voteless conscript youths" to fight and die in an unwinnable jungle war "is an outrage to Australian democracy", . \ He called for ari election or a referendum- on the issue. A major public protest demonstration already is planned in Sydney next Wednesday, March 16. The enlarged "task force" to be sent to Vietnam by June will include the first of the conscripts to go over seas, as members of the 5th and 6th Infantry Battalions. "It's murder!" shouted Labor MHRs. Some called to Government Members: "Why don't you go?" Lives for war contracts Holt, who was appearing in the House of Repre sentatives for the first time as Prime Minister, virtually admitted that horse-trading had gone on in the Feb ruary 18-19 talks in Canberra with Vice-President Hum phrey — in the form of more Australian troops, in return for a promise that USA would buy Australian munitions and other profitable war supplies for the Vietnam war. "We put the matter of Australian supplies in Mr. Humphrey's m'ind," Holt admitted, and in the same breath boasted that the. first order had come in for Australian small arms ammunition. Holt's references to the talks with Humphrey, although guarded, made it clear that the US Government had indicated that the Australian contribution of men was too small. This conclusion emerged, despite Holt's feeble attempt to pretend that the troops were being sent "in response to a request from the South Vietnam Government." The trebled Australian commitment of troops in the form of an independent task force of varied troops will extend the kind of participation of Australian servicemen in the war. Apart from infantry (which previously has been re stricted to limited actions on foot) there will now be a Special Air Service Squadron and a flight of eight Australian helicopters. Such aircraft, under US command, have regularly .engaged in aggressive actions against villages. Ignores economic decline Holt astounded Opposition Members and business interests by his failure to announce any steps to bolster the sagging economy, apart from a decision to authorise release of a further $50 million for drought relief. The serious 18-month decline in the balance of over- ' seas payments, the fall-off in the motor, steel, domestic appliance and building industries received no attention ' from Holt, nor did the specific immediate problems in | drought-stricken areas, including growing unemployment. Mr. Holt also confirmed that broad preparations have ; begun to provide major air and naval, base facilities in - Australia to the British forces when they find it neces- | sary to leave Singapore and Malaysia. Sydney Domain protest rally, Sunday. 