 Neo-Nazis and anti-Semites From CHARLES DUKES in Berlin "QWING to great demand we urge you to place orders immediately". This sentence appeared as a fnnfrinfo fn a furaltra im/iVi advertisement in the West Ger man weekly "National Zeitung" dated October 21st 1966. Offered for sale was not a new hair tonic, dog food, cut loaf what have you. The advertiser in question was a book retailer called Buchversand Ekkehard with a head office at Biesingerstrasse 18a, Tubingen 74, West Germany. And his "prize plum" was a set of two records. Here you might still maintain that such a sales venture is nothing unusual but this case is different. The Ekkehard Buchversand was marketing, and here I quote from the advertisement, "the most im portant German military despat ches and special announcements in original tone on two 30 centimetre long-playing discs with songs and marches from that period for in stance the parachutists song, from Finland to the Black Sea, Tanks are rolling in Africa . . ." The price for these two records glorifying the Hitler period was given as 50 marks. And the "Nat ional Zeitung" containing this ad vertisement is by no means a "fringe" journal. This openly pro-nazi weekly has a weekly circulation of over 100.000 in West Germany. It is on sale at all main news stalls in West Ger many and West Berlin. Typical article headings from past issues include "The Lie about Ger many's War Guilt"; "The Lies about the War Crimes"; "The Lie about the Six Million Dead Jews"; "Great Britain's War Guilt and Europe's Future".. In its October 21st 1966 issue, the West Germany "National Zei-. tung" once again revealed its arch- reactionary character. In addition to the above mentioned advertise ment, which incidentally had al ready appeared on previous occa sions, the "National Zeitung" wrote editorially on that day about the "challenge facing the Austrian FFO" (nazi party). The "National Zeitung" urged the FPO to step up its demand for the return of Austria to Ger many. It will be recalled that Hit ler's Brown Shirts had already once marched into Austria back in 1938. In another article the "National Zeitung" is sharply critical of the death sentences passed twenty years ago by Nuremberg War Crimes Tribunal against the archi tects of Hitler's anti-Jewish poli cies. Julius . Streicher, one of the sen tenced men, was the most out spoken anti-semitic under the nazis. Another of the hanged war criminals, Wilhelm Keitel was Commander in Chief of Hitler's General Staff. A third, Seyss-In- quard, personally ordered the dep ortation of hundreds of thousands of Dutch and other Jews to the nazi concentration camps of Dachau, Maidanek and Auschwitz. Auschwitz Elsewhere in its October 21st issue the "National Zeitung" dis cusses a book by a certain Hans Laternser called "The Other Side of the 1863-65 Auschwitz Trial". This work contains speeches made by Defence Counsel Latern ser during the trial attempting to show that the men responsible for the murder of over six million Jews were only human, had been acting on "orders from above" and thus could not be found guilty. N6xt to this book review an an nouncement appears in the same issue of the "National Zeitung" drawing attention to a four-volume collection of Hitler's speeches from 1932 until 1945. The West German Government has never attempted to ban the "National Zeitung" and, although stringent efforts have been made to keep figures from the public, there is little doubt that this news paper is heavily subsidised by West German industrial circles. Turning to the Hitler period it self the Oct. 21st issue of the "Nat- . ional Zeitung" includes a one page splash headlined "The Power of the Jews in Germany". This feature maintains that nazi anti-semitism was not Hitler's fault, but arose because of the mass pre-war emigration of Jews from East European countries to Germany. Although the "National Zeitung" briefly mentions the Nuremberg Race Laws which supplied the nazis with "legal backing" for their race ideology, there is no indication as to the contents of . this "legislation" and the master minds behind it. For example, one of thoin, Hans Maria Globke was State Secretary in the State Office of the West German Chancellor un til 1963. Globke has been sentenced to death in absentia by the Supreme Court of the German Democratic Republic. Today he draws a high pension in the West German state. One of Globke's closest accom plices, Friedrich Karl Vialon, was a top member of the "Reich Com missariat for Ostland" during the war. In this capacity he register ed the valuables of Jewish vic tims of the n.azis in Poland and the Soviet Union. In 1964 Vialon told a West Ger man court he knew nothing about the wartime liquidation of the Jews. The GDR has often exposed Vialon's war crimes, yet today he is State Secretary in the West German Federal Ministry for Econ omic Co-operation and enjoys great esteem in such publications as the "National Zeitung". Guilt This neo-nazi newspaper has never admitted the guilt of such men. In fact it tries to do exactly the opposite. Witness, for example yet another piece in its Oct. 21st 1966 issue asking "Did Hitler Want War?" The article in question does not provide us with a conclusive answer to this question. The "National Zeitung" craftily tries to shift the blame for Hit ler's misdeeds onto the Allies. The late US President Roosevelt, who played such a patriotic anti-nazi role during the war, is accused of planning aggression against Hitler Germany. I mentioned earlier that the present weekly circulation of the West German "National Zeitung" has already topped the 100,000 mark. This represents a 50% in- , crease over the past four years. Nonetheless the publishers remain dissatisfied. A sales-boost blurb to this ef fect appeared in the Oct. 21st 1966 issue of the paper. It states, "It is really easy to canvass readers for the 'National Zeitung'. New subscribers will be grateful to you for introducing them to an un usual newspaper in Germany". Unfortunately the neo-nazi, anti Jewish "National Zeitung" is by no means an unusual newspaper in West Germany. Recent figures show, that in addition to the "Nat ional Zeitung" more than a quarter of a million pamphlets and books of a similar hue are on sale in West Germany during a single year. nnoannnnH Neo-Nazi leader Fritz von T hielen addresses an NPD rally in West Germany. . . . students protest against the NPD 