 Business, crime', etc. The mighty pound sterling has had it and the UK crisis grows By E. W. Campbell |>|AROLD Holt's time spent in trying to persuade British PM, Harold Wilson to go more than half the way with LB J would have been better employed in discussing mutual economic problems. Britain is experiencing an acute economic crisis that threatens also to have an adverse effect on Aus tralia's economy. Steps taken some few months ago to clamp down on foreign capital investment have not remedied Britain's balance of payments problems nor halted the rim on sterling. Once again the question of devaluation of the pound sterl ing is being raised. If this hap pens Australia's foreign res erves, most of which are held in sterling will lose a large part of their purchasing power. Fallow Additionally, Australia will be faced with the problem of whether to follow Britain by devaluing the Australian cur rency, and thus further dis rupting existing foreign trading relations. On the last occasion that Brit ain devalued the pound, in 1949, Australia followed suit, but the balance of payments problem still remains unsolved for both countries. Sections of the daily press are attempting to blame Brit ain's current economic prob lems on the policies pursued by the Labor Government. This is unprincipled and untrue. The problems have their ori gin in the general crisis of world capitalism, of which the disintegration of the British colonial empire is an integral part. The Labor Government in herited from the Tory Govern ment a staggering deficit of A slight case of imbalance. A$1850 million. A more valid criticism of the Labor Govern ment is that its attempts to solve the problems by orthodox capitalist measures— tightening up credit, restriction of im ports, wage freezing, devalua tion, are fruitless and doomed to failure. Profits Workers' conditions will be worsened and capitalist profits perhaps be temporarily main tained, but the basic problem will remain unsolved. The Chancellor of the Ex chequer, Mr. James Callaghan, has said that the restrictions would probably raise unemploy ment to between 1.6 and two per cent, which would mean between 350,000 and 460,000 un employed. Mr. Frank Cousins, leader of the 1.300,000 strong Transport and General Workers' Union and a senior Minister in the Wilson Government until his resignation 18 months ago, has announced that his union would not co-operate with the Govern ment's plan for six months wage freeze. inevitable It is inevitable that other un ions will follow this lead from Britain's biggest union. At the core of the immediate problem is Britain's A$5000 million "defence" bill, of which A$750 million goes in foreign exchange. If the British Labor Govern ment, spurning Holt's advice, were to take its courage into its hands and break decisively with America's war policy, it would be taking the first steps to finding a solution to its prob lems. Wilson's so-called crash prog ram of a six months wage freeze, restrictions on hire pur chase and increased taxation will lose him the support of the working class, without achieving their desired aim of staving off the threat to the pound. PREMIER WILSON 