 Holt could hinder A-tests CYDNEY: While joining world protests against the French atomic tests which began last Sunday, the rlolt Uovernment re fused to take action which cpuld. have stopped them. It could, hinder if not tot ally prohibit the continuation ' oi' the tests. Tlio deputy leader of the Federal Opposition, Mr. E. G. . Whitlam, said, this last Sun day at an anti:.test rally in the Lyceum theatre, Sydney. : Mr. Whitlam said, that by agreeing to ban planes and ships , carrying equipment to the testing ground, Australia might have prevented the tests. But the Holt Government had refused, to join. New Zea land, Chile and. Peru in bann ing planes or ships carrying test equipment. "The ships might have been unable to make the voyage if they had been, unable to re fuel and refit at Australian ports", said. Mr. Whitlam. Prosecuted Neptune bombers certainly could not have reached Tahiti from France. Earlier ths year r, French Neptune for Tahiti had landed at Moresby. > (An Australian who did some minor damage to it to demi- cnstrat-i his resentment against the tests was prosecuted by the Holt Government). , : Mi. Whitlam said, that further tests could be hindered and probably prevented altogether if the Australian Government banned from Australia all French, ships and. planes bound tor Tahiti. Last month, the airport wor kers of Nandi international air port at Suva, put a ban on . tho handling of French ^air craft. '.The Australian Amalgamated Engineering Union called for r, teri-minute stoppage of Aus tralian workers on the day the tests began. .Australian Council of Trades Unions general secretary H. Souter rejected the proposal, to the regret of a. large num ber cf Australians. A conference of trades unions convened by the ACTU and the NZ Federation of Labor in Sydney last December called on Pacific area workers not to handle French nuclear test equipment and resolved that if the French or any other nation , continued testing, sanctions and other steps should be considered. - J 