 Gunner p— i—niiMiiiiii ' Harold To the Rt. Hon. Harold Holt, M. P. Mr. Prime Minister, T THINK you may be inter- Qcto tn IrnflW what DeS- mond Victor O'Connor (Ser vice No. VX 19998), formerly of the 2/12th Field Artillery Regiment, has said about your short-lived army career: "I can remember vividly that Gunner Holt was a mem ber of my Regiment at Pucka-, punyal for about five weeks in 1940, only to be recalled by Prime Minister Menzies a few days before we sailed for the Middle East." Sir! You then became a Minister, and I believe the fellows of the 2/12th were pretty hostile towards you at the time. The Regiment from which you were so unceremoniously withdrawn . saw service prac tically right through the siege of Tobruk and later New Guinea. That you should have spar ed yourself war service, Mr. Prime Minister, after having trained at the tax payers' ex pense and now ensure that to day's youngsters have no such choice is utterly hypocritical and cruel. However, Gunner Holt, you are not the only one to have taken such a course. Your predecessor, Sir Robert Men zies, about whom it has been said that "a brilliant military career was cut short by the outbreak of war", did exactly the same in 1914. As shown by official Parlia mentary records, Sir Robert Menzies said in Federal Par liament (April 20, i939) in a statement on his attitude at the outbreak of World War I: "I was in exactly the same position as any other person who at that time had to answer- the extremely import ant question— is it my duty to go to war, or is it my duty not to go? The answers to those questions cannot be made on a public platform. Those questions relate to a man's intimate personal and family's affairs and in conse quence I, facing those prob lems, problems of intense dif ficulty, found myself, for rea sons which were, and are, compelling, unable to join my two brothers in the in fantry of the Australian Mil itary Forces." Asked Mr. Frost: "Is it the business of nobody but your self?" Mr. Menzies: "I say that." Prime Minister Holt, I can see no reason why the young men of today should not have the same right to decide for .themselves as Sir Robert for himself in 1916 or yourself m 1940. The people of Australia should vote on November 26 to bring our conscripted Nat ional Service lads home from the unpopular war in Viet- nam. Ex-AIF, Sydney. 