 Station strike 'only the beginning" ABORIGINES JOIN WAGES FIGHT City unions' support From HENRT MCCARTHY |)ARWIN : Trade union support is growing fast for the 80 Aborigines who walked off Newcastle Waters Station recently to strike a resounding blow for wage justice and for the equality of their people. Food and money is being sent to their camp at Elliott, about 80 miles from the station. Sydney waterside workers last week collected $250 at the pay centres and many telegrams of support have also been sent from job meetings throughout the waterfront. Other financial and moral support has come from branches of the Building Workers' Industrial Union, in Sydney, Brisbane and Wollongong (NSW South Coast) , the Boilermakers (Federal and Sydney branches) and the Miners' Federation, have already sent .financial assist ance and messages of firm support. Three coastal ships berthed in Darwin harbour — the Baralga, Endeavour and Kabbarli — donated $40 a ship and purchased food that has been sent to the Aborigines at Elliott. They set out to deliver the food themselves, but a car breakdown prevented this and the supplies were handed over to NAWU organiser Mr. D. Daniels, who delivered it. The Baralga crew has suggested that the Seamen's Union donate $400. BACKGROUND On March 7 this year the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission handed down its decision in the Northern Territory Cattle Industry Award case after a long battle by the North Australian Workers' Union for full award wages for Aborigines. The decision was that Aborigines would not be paid lull award wages until 1968. In protest on their own initiative, 80 Aborigines, including old-age pensioners and children, as well as stockmen, walked off Newcastle Waters station and camped at Elliott. Secretary of the NAWU, Mr. P. Carroll, said that Aborigines would be asked to leave the stations grad ually and this would continue until they were paid award wages. "Our recent action at the Newcastle Waters property is only the beginning. We have encouraged the Abo rigines to leave the property to seek award employment. "They are being fed by the NAWU and by the gen erous assistance of southern unions", Mr. Carroll told L?&lt; rbune on Friday last. A suggestion of the Commission was that the union, pastoralists and the Goverment consult in an attempt to smooth the way when the Aborigines have complete award coverage, but it is not the intention of the union to allow a state of stagnation to exist until 1968," Mr. Carroll said" Mr. Carroll said that Aborigines could be employed m many industries in the Northern Territory at full award rates, including railways, Commonwealth works, waterside workers, shop assistants, breweries, motor gar- ages, building trades, cleaners and many other unskilled occupations. Aborigines are entitled to full award rates in these ani other industries, why is the Government so anxious keep them working in the pastoral industry? e said that on some stations" where there were from to 10 stockmen employed, there were at least another oi 80 Aborigines there, including elderly people and o hers who were exploited without pay by pastoralists. 