 ran AlR Vice Marshal Nguyen Cao Ky, the current Premier of South Vietnam, was a French nilnf On occasional visits to the countryside he appears be fore the peasants in a trim black flight suit with a lav ender scarf around his neck and a pearl-handled pistol at his waist — a kind of Asian Captain Marvel. The Deputy Premier, Lieut. Gen. Nguyen Huu Co, and other generals in the Saigon military junta, were officers or sergeants in the French colonial forces. Their fondness for French cuisine, snappy uniforms and cocktail parties and receptions creates a pale hut faithful re flection of the social round of colonial days. Premier Ky and the earlier successors of Bao Dai have also promulgated rent-reduc tion and land-reform laws at the urging of American ad visers eager for social pro gress. All of these measures have been sabotaged because the regimes were and are com posed of men who are mem bers of, or who are allied with, mandarin families that held title to properties they have no intention of ren ouncing. While there are some pat riotic and decent individuals among them, most of the men who rule Saigon have, like the Bourhons, learned noth ing and forgotten nothing. They seek to retain what priviliges they have and to regain those they have lost. In Vietnam, only the Com munists represent revolution and social change,- for better or worse according to a man's politics. The Communist party is the one truly national organiz ation that permeates both North and South Vietnam. The men who lead the party today, Ho Chi Minh and the other members of the Polit buro in Hanoi, directed the struggle for independence from France and in the pro cess captured much of the deeply felt nationalism of the Vietnamese people. Smuggling saboteurs In 19 58 the late President Ngo Dinh Diem organized a Committee for the Liberation of North Vietnam, and since 1960 the Saigon Government with American connivance and aid, has been smuggling sab oteurs and commando teams into the North in a so-far vain effort to instigate . a guerrilla movement among the Northern Catholic and mountain tribesmen. Communist leadership of the anti-colonial movement led to the involvement of Vietnam in the larger con text of the cold war and brought the intervention of the United States, first to aid the French and then to develop and support a non- Communist administration and army in the south. For its own strategic and political ends, the United States is thus protecting a non-Communist Vietnamese social structure that cannot defend itself and that perhaps does not deserve to be de fended. Our responsibility for pro longing what is essentially a civil conflict may be one of the major reasons for the considerable amount of con fusion, guilt and soul-search ing among Americans over the Vietnam war. The Saigon regime, on the other hand, has experienced great difficulty in increasing the strength of its armed forces because of a very high desertion rate. Desertions are greatest among conscripts, an indic ation that the average South Vietnamese feels little or no commitment to defend his own society. From the contrast in be havior of the two sides, I can only conclude the Viet namese will die more will ingly for a regime which, though Communist, is at least genuinely Vietnamese and offers them some hope of improving their lives, than for one which is committed to the galling status quo and is the creation of Washing ton. ! The official assertion that the Communist soldier en dures the appalling conditions of his daily life and behaves so commendably in combat out of terror of his superiors becomes patently ridiculous to anyone who has witnessed a battle. Terror may drive a man to march toward the enemy's guns, but it will not make him fight valiantly. We are continually chag rined to discover that ideal ism and dedication are largely the prerogative of the enemy. Individual interests Most non-Communist Viet namese are incapable because of the values- of the society in which they live, of looking beyond individual and family interests. Their overwhelming con cern with "me and my rel atives" deprives the society of a social consciousness Americans take for granted in their own culture and fosters the corruption and nepotism that exist through out the administration. The disease of corruption appears to be worsening in direct proportion to the burgeoning amounts of Am- erican aid flowing into the country. Province and district chiefs' positions are frequently sold to the highest bidders by those responsible for making the appointments. The incumbent is then expected both to re coup the cost of his job from corruption and to make payoffs to the higher officials who sold it to him. Some American officials with long experience in Vietnam esti mate that about 20 per cent of United States aid supplied for counter-insurgency proj ects in the countryside finds its way to the Vietcong and that another 30 to 40 per cent is diverted by Govern ment officials. Cement, roof ing, steel bars and other building materials destined for schools and refugee hous ing mysteriously end up on the open market or in pri vate villas and apartment buildings. A drive through Saigon demonstrates another fashion in which the social system works. Virtually all the new construction consists of lux ury apartments, hotels and office buildings financed by Chinese businessmen or affluent Vietnamese with rel atives or connections within the regime. The buildings are destined to be rented to Americans. Saigon's workers live, as they always have, in Civilian casualties ' No comprehensive statistics on civilian casualities are available. The nature of the war would make the assembling of such statistics very diffi cult, but the military author ities have also never seriously attempted to gather them. An indication of what civ ilian casualities may be, how ever, is given by the fact that American and other foreign medical teams working in three-quarters of the country's 43 provinces treat 2,000 civil ian war-wounded each month. If one accepts the normal military ratio of one dead for two wounded, the monthly figure is 1,000 civilian dead. Although civilians are being killed and wounded by both sides, my own investigations have indicated that the maj ority of civilian casualities result from American and South Vietnamese airstrikes and artillery and naval gun fire. Last November, I found one fishing village in Quan- gngai province, on th6f central coast north of Saigon, in which at least 180 persons — and possibly 600 — had been killed during the previous two months by aircraft and Seventh Fleet destroyers. Hamlets are also habitually bombed and shelled at the request of a South Vietnamese province or district chief who has been told by some paid informer that Communist troops are present there. In formation from informers is notoriously unreliable, the peasants are often not res ponsible for the presence of the Communists and since ground units do not exploit the bombings and shellings, these attacks seem to have negligible military value. Ferocious weaponry The extraordinary firepower of American weaponry, whose ferocity must be witnessed to be comprehended, is another contributing factor to widespread civilian suf fering. The cratered landscape seen from an airplane window is an excellent advirtisement for the ingenuity of American munitions makers. The flow of refugees from the countryside is the most eloquent evidence available of the gradual destruction of rural society under the im pact of the war. The number of refugees has now passed the million mark. Most refugees I have ques tioned told me that the Viet cong taxed them and made them work harder than usual, but that they could live with the Communists. They left their homes, they said, be cause they could no longer bear American and South Vietnamese bombs and shells. Deserted hamlets and bar ren rice fields, now a com mon sight, are other evid ence of what the war is do ing to rural'- South Vietnam. In several provinces on the northern central coast as much as one-third of the rice land has been foresaken. - The American policy of killing crops in Communist- held areas by spraying them with chemical defoliants from aircraft is hastening this process. During the first six months of this year 59,000 acres were destroyed. The corrosive effect on the country of the American pre sence is not confined to mil itary operations. Economic ally and culturally, the ad vent of the Americans has introduced maladies only time can cure. One is inflat ion. The moral degeneration caused by the G. I. culture that has mushroomed in the cities and towns is another malady. Bars and bordellos, thous ands of young Vietnamese women degrading themselves as bar girls and prostitutes gangs of hoodlums and beg gars and children selling their older sisters and pick ing pockets have become ubiquitous features of urban life. I have received the impres sion, however, on visits to accessible hamlets, that many of the peasants are so weary of the fighting they would accept any settlement that brought them peace. Reliable statistics are very elusive in Vietnam, but I would estimate that at least 250,000 persons have been killed since the war began in 1957. American losses remained at a relatively low level until 1965, when the Johnson Ad ministration committed ground combat units and be gan to create an expedi tionary corps. This year, as American of- I fensive operations have || picked up stride with the (Jf strengthening of the logistical | apparatus, casualties have Jf soared to 3,524 killed and 21,107 wounded, through mid- m September. I| Sovereignty mocked | fetid slums on the city out skirts. Each afternoon, in the air- cOnditioned press - briefing room in Saigon, the United States military Command re leases a communique report ing that 300 or more "enemy structures" have been des troyed by American fighter- bombers or by the guns of Seventh Fleet warships that day. The statistics imply sound military progress until a visit to the countryside re veals that what, is meant by an "enemy structure" is usually a peasant hut in a hamlet the Communists con trol, or which the American and South Vietnamese author ities suspect the Communists control. Stating that the USA has lost all claim to "moral superiority" in the war, Sheehan says: . The United States can no longer make any pretense of fighting to safeguard South Vietnam's independence. The presence of 317,000 American troops in Ithe country has made a mockery of its sovereignty, and the military junta . in Saigon would not last a week with out American bayonets to protect it. Precisely because the Sai gon Government represents nothing beyond it adminis tration and army, the United States has had to fall back on its own military force to maintain its position to win the war. Washington can dispense the latest in weaponry, but the First Air Cavalry Division and the Third Marine Amphi bious Force cannot inspire the loyalty - of the Vietnamese peasantry, and General Mo- , tors cannot, manufacture de cent non-Communist Vietnam ese leadership, effective gov ernment and dedication. Only Vietnamese can supply these and the non-Commun ist Vietnamese have proved themselves incapable of pro viding them. Thus, in the final analysis, American strategy in Vietnam consists of creating a killing machine in the form of a highly equipped expeditionary corps and then turning this machine on the enemy in the hope that over the years enough killing will be done to force the. enemy's collapse through exhaustion and des pair. If the United States were to disengage from Vietnam under adverse conditions, I believe that the resulting political and psychological Shockwaves might undermine our entire position in South east Asia. But I simply cannot help worrying 'that, in the process of waging this war, we are corrupting ourselves. I wonder, when I look at the bombed-out peasant ham lets, the orphans begging and stealing on the streets of Saigon and the women and children with napalm burns lying on the hospital cots, .whether the United States or any nation has the right to inflict this suffering and degradation on another people for its own ends. And I hope we will not, in the name of some anti- Communist crusade, do this | again. | HO CHI MINH Nationalism deeply felt VIETNAM CHILD WOUNDED IN U.S. RAID ON VILLAGE A gift from LBJ PUPPET PREMIER KY A snrf nf Asian Oantnin Mamai 