 Proposal for tribunal On military exemption JYDNEY: A demand for a tribunal to hear applications for exemption from military service was among those raised at a big meeting in the Lyceum Theatre on Sunday. It was also proposed that objectors should have the right to object to serving in a particular war and should not he compelled to prove they objected to all wars. The meeting was called by the Central Methodist Mission and attended by about 1200 people. , Mr. William White, a school teacher who has refused to respond to a military call-up, was on the platform. A minister of the Mission, Rev. W. D. Adams, appealed to all present, and to those listen ing in on radio, to support the Bill White Defence Committee. One man bias Rev. Alan Walker, superin tendent of the Mission, said that under the present Act, all claims for exemption in NSW came up before the judgment or bias of one man. Those granted exemption totalled 22 out of 37 in Queens land, 11/17 in South Australia, 12/14 in Western Australia, 2/3 in Tasmania, 27/58 in Victoria — and 10/41 in New South Wales. Mr. Walker said that in one case the NSW magistrate had agreed as to the applicant's sin cerity (which the court was supposed to be testing) but had rejected the application because the youth's talents would be useful to the forces. Mr. Walker said he thought the number of conscientious ob jectors would increase because the "unjust and immoral war in Vietnam looks like continuing for some time". He said the act should be amended to have exemption claims heard by a tribunal. Rev. Dr. A. W. Loy, vice-prin cipal of Leigh (Methodist theo logical) College protested that the national service act did not allow a man to say he objected to a particular war, for ex ample the Vietnam war. Unwinnable Dr. Loy described this as an "unwinnable war that should never have been started." He said, that were he a- 20- year-old he would be a consci entious objector because of the past history, present state and future prospects of the war. — because of the "escalation of f rightfulness" (in Lippmann's phrase), and because of the US' and the Ky Government's re fusal to negotiate a peace with the National Liberation Front in south Vietnam. The US continued to give the impression that it will not in any circumstances permit the emergence of a Communist Government in south Vietnam even if supported by a major ity in an election. The aim apparently was to pulverise north Vietnam into total defeat and destruction, yet obviously the "spiralling savagery" of these attacks had done nothing. "Now we are told that it would take 750,000 and five years, not to bring down a Hitler but to prevent the people electing a Communist Govern ment. There was 28,000 tons of TNT in the world for every person. "If only we had the brains to produce 28,000 tons of food, clothing and books!". Dr. Loy said every Australian patriot would deplore the Gov ernment's "parrot-like reitera tion" of the objectives of the war. Retreat In Mr. Holt's statements after his two visits to Washington there was a- "retreat from res ponsibility" and lack of any evidence of a "positive and distinctive Australian initia tive". Dr. Loy's speech made a particularly profound impres sion on the gathering. Mr. Adams then made his ap peal for the Bill White Defence Committee and asked that don ations towards Mr. White's legal expenses for his appeal be sent to the Treasurer of the Committee, Mrs. C. A. Short, 2 Pennant Ave., Ryde, NSW. 