 [?] "jIFE had become so des perate, the oppression was so ferocious, with arrests, torture, executions a daily occurrence in our district, that people were ready to move." Talking to Australian journal ist Wilfred Burchett, a National Liberation Front ("Viet Cong") guerilla said this in explaining why the people had risen against Diem, from I960 onwards. The Holt Government's pam phlet Vietnam Questions and Answers blames the rising on the "terrorism" of the guerillas. Burchett in his book "Vietnam, inside story of a Guerilla War" helps to show whose "terrorism" made the revolt of 1960 against U(9 puppet ruler Ngo Dinh Diem inevitable. The patriot leader told Bur chett that the first group formed sent -warnings to the local despots the cruellest of the Diemist officials. "We ordered them to quit their jobs and warned that if they did not do s0 after repeated warnings they would be punished. "And in fact we did execute one of them, the chief of Cu Chi district He had been a terrible brute and, apart from all the other deaths he had caused, he had personally tortured to death or simply killed over 80 of our comrades who had taken part in the anti-French resistance war". The patriots executed this Diemist bully, and said, Burchett's informant, "it had a terrific effect on the smaller fry. They quit their jobs in all the surrounding villages and the worst of the terroristic activities ceased almost overnight." One agent of the Diem regime captured by the patriots was found to possess a large number of severed human ears. They were all neatly ticketed with the names of the slain patriots from whom they had been taken and the Diemist was preserving them as the basis of a claim for reward. In his book Vietnam, the Truth, Mr. William Warbey, Brit ish Labor MP, tells how Diem tried to collect taxes from the liberated peasants and added: "Diem also committed an act of incredible folly in trying tc use his officials to collect the rents and share-cropping dues oi the landlords who had fled to Saigon to escape from the Viet Minh" (the anti-French resistance organisation) . "This was the last straw, which provoked something like a spon taneous peasants' revolt". On April 26, 1960 a Manifesto of Eighteen was presented toi Diem. It said that: "The people do not know a better life or more free dom under the regime you have created .... Continuous arrests fill the jails and prisons to the rafters .... public opinion and the press are reduced to silence .... political parties and religious sects have been eliminated." Within a few days, as Dr. J. F. Cairns MHiR notes in his book 'Living with Asia', most of the Eighteen were in iail and stayed there till Diem was overthrown nearly three years later. Among thean were four former ministers, two professors, five doctors of medicine, three law yers, a provincial governor, an engineer, a former parish priest and a "Laureate of the Triannual Mandarin competition" of 1993. The South Vietnamese adminis tration represented in Canberra, admits that no other course ex cept revolt was open to the people. In its bulletin of November 1, 1963 the South Vietnamese Em bassy in Canberra said: "For nine years the Ngo Dinh Diem Government had pursued a dic tatorial and tyrannical policy . . . the natural and necessary out come had to be the overthrow of the Ngo regime." I PEASANT WOMAN FLEES VILLAGE BURNT BY U.S.-PUPPET TROOPS. Revolt the only answer . . . 