 HENRY LAWSQI — MAN ANN P0E1 By Harry Roberts "THE 17th of June 1966 marks the 99th anniversary of the birth of Henry Lawson, poet, short story writer and journalist. He was born in a tent on the Grenfell "diggin's". His father was a Norwegian seaman who had deserted his ship in Melbourne, changed the spelling of his name from Larson to Lawson, and tried his luck on the goldfields of Ballarat and Bendigo. He then followed the rush to N.S.W. where he met and marnea Bertha Bredt. Bertha, whose parents had come from England, was an intelligent woman who later became extremely active in the movement for the advancement of the rights of women. Much has been written about Lawson, and from every angle. He wrote a lot about himself as well and it is from these writings that we can best gauge his character and motives. IN analysing the life of Henry Lawson I am going to apply this formula. What was his aim in life? Did he achieve this aim, and, if so, was it beneficial to the Australian people. Firstly, what was his expressed aim in life? He wrote of himself: "I was about eleven or twelve when I first began to talh about being a writer someday but I might have cherished the idea earlier". And again of his youth: "/ always had the longing for something better — something higher, something different anyhow — but always felt the hollow hopelessness of attempting to rise higher, so I neglected no opportunity of learning my trade". (£. e. coach painter, H. R .) At the age of twenty four he wrote a poem called "Tell the Truth" in which he expressed this view: "Brave the anger of the wealthy; Scorn their bitter lying spite. Pen the truth in simple language when you know that you are right; And they'll read it by the slush lamps in the station liuts at night. Also: Frithelonely1digger S #th the frand /Id.buing And he H , Later still at the age, ot thirty wrote: But hes an old mate 0&lt; J| ufo working man), and besides 1 like to write ohjMemployed workman some times, because I have an born of experience, that such is human nature , sojBoor devil, reading, might take comfort and heart mWn the fact that someone with a chance to talh been through it alF. Lawson's pen was particularly act _ recording the hardships of the StTote workmen in the city |g country. At the age of forty six My haggard women; Jjy/l0Sf |L are one eternal round of washing and mending and « Ming. Of childbirth-trouble, sickness and death. Of stintin am scraping and calculating, penny by pennyof everlq W planning and studying, knitted-browed, when theirmfsework is done and they should be resting awhileML, fay aside the Rent that Must Be Paid; of groping i&joor, thin, fleshless hands on dusty ledges and undertmheivspaper on the shelves, for the sixpences, threcpelmhits or pennies to send Johnnie, or Lizy to the pitij Musty, little corner grocery for half-pounds of butter a/i miarter- pounds of tea. And all this in the voidest, mosti titleless and care-free, sport- loving, wealthiest and, mos mosperous country in the world; my haggard women, Ahose nature little is left save the harsh and fierce con |j| for husbands and children in THEIR troubles or sic/me iiihe hard, practical kindness and sympathy for neighbodijpf the kind — in THEIR trouble; and the unconqm' wit and humour when occasion calls for it — and even these qualities pathetic in their under-current of bitterness. Their very iears have long since ceased to "gush" and "scald" and relieve; they only fall helplessly — like brackish water » Haggard women : I have written long years for these and their husbands and children; and if I have done any good, and if I deserve it of my country, I would rather have carved oh my tombstone , not the figure of an angel — but one of these." pjENRY Lawson saw, in this country, a chance for a great new society that would give each of its citizens an equal opportunity in life and an equal share in wealth which he saw abounding, but he also saw the same old vices of greed and selfishness that had eroded the old country, starting to creep in and take root. This prompted him to take up his pen and express these views in verse: Our fathers toiled for bitter bread While loafers thrived beside 'em, But food to eat and clothes to wear, 1 Their native land denied 'em. An' so they left the native land In spite of their devotion, An' so they came, or if they stole, Were sent across the ocean. Our fathers grubbed to make a home. ' Hard grubbin ' 'twas and clearin ', They wasn't troubled much with lords When they was pioneerin'. But now that we have made the land A garden full of promise, Old Greed must crook 'is dirty hand An' come ter take it frotn us. ND so his aim in life was to become a writer, and he wanted to write, not for profit, but to express those things, good and bad, that his sensitive mind felt and saw about him. He wanted to get the views and experiences of the people around him into print. He loved the ordinary Australian people because he himself had sprung from them, and he under stood them, probably, more so than they understood themselves. Their problems were his problems. He knew what it was to walk the city streets in worn-out shoes and clothing. And he knew what it was like on- the track in drought-time. He knew from first hand experience. He also knew that he had a talent that few of his fellow-Australians had. That is he had the ability to express with his pen, in .a simple and orderly manner, all the hopes and fears, victories and defeats of the common man, and his one ambition was to do so. Nw what measures of success did Lawson achieve in this aim? He achieved a success that must have surpassed his wildest dreams, for not only did he become famous in his native land, his works sold well in England, where he lived for a short period, and were later translated into various languages, including Russian, because they were distinctly Australian. With his pen he captured the Australian character that had emerged since the First Fleet. His writings mirrored the Australian scene so successfully that they were eagerly read and reread by the ordinary people, and in fact, memorised and quoted by them. He eventually developed from a descriptive writer into a progressive thinker and wrote articles on topical issues of his day for the various progressive journals then published. T ascertain if this pursuit and achievement of Henry Lawson's was beneficial to Australia and Australians, one has only to browse through a collection of his works and observe how he was able to sift the conversations, praises and complaints that he had heard beside the campfire, on the bush track and in the city working-class suburbs, crystallize them and present them back, in black and white, to the ordinary people as a whole, along with his own interpretations and observations. In this way he was able to persuade them to take an objective view of their problems and show them where the root cause of these problems lay and thus helped the progressives of the day channel their efforts in the right direction and lay the foundations of the organised labour movement we have today. 