 HANDING N.G. RICHES TO THE BIG BOYS By a Special Correspondent ""HE Australian Administration in New Guinea has bludgeoned a Bill through the House of Assembly that opens the way for mining monopolies to reap huge fortunes from the territory's resources while paying a paltry minimum "rent" to the indigenous landowners. A subsidiary of the giant for eign-owned mining monopoly Conzinc-Riotinto Ltd-CRA Ex ploration Pty. Ltd— sought to obtain a lease of copper bear ing area on Bougainville Island, which would not involve the company in paying royalties, or at best would only involve them in nominal land rent. Judging by the intense lob bying by this company it is evident that they expect to reap great profits from their ope rations on this island. Resistance The islanders taking steps to protect their rights demanded royalties based on production. In the New Guinea House, a Government Bill to provide that indigenous landowners re ceive an annual fee of 5 per cent of the unimproved value of the land with a minimum of $1 per acre, was opposed by an amendment moved by the member for Bougainville, Mr. Paul Lapun, who sought mineral royalites. He said the royalties should be divided into three— one part to the Administration, one to Bougainville district for de- velopment projects, and the other to the landowners. in the debate the Govern ment made one concession by lifting the minimum payment to $2 per acre, but pushed the Bill through with its organised group of indigenous Under Sec retaries. In the legislation providing for the House of Assembly pro vision was made for a number of Under Secretaries. Ten were appointed, receiving an addi tional salary of more than $2000. The appointments were generally regarded as an ar rangement for guaranteeing the Administration majority in the House. The vote 32 .to 18 shows in this first really contested division in the House that the provision for Under Secre taries has paid off. Nauru case This has been a victory for the Administration, the Govern ment and the monopolies which seek to exploit the Territory. It also clearly defines those who are prepared to defend the rights of the New Guineans and those who are not. Government comes into the agreement nothing at all will be done in the foreseeable fut ure. Scheme in SA South Australia with its growing demand for water for expanding industries and dom estic consumption relies heav ily on the Murray-Darling sys tem. To meet the demand a huge dam with the capacity of 3,800,000 acre feet is being constructed at Chowilla, on the Murray.' This will be a com paratively shallow dam with an extensive water surface and hence will be subject to high evaporation losses. This drawback also applies to the Menindie Lakes scheme and to any other plan for util ising any lakes for water stor age. To make any water con servation scheme fully effect ive consideration will have to be given to the production of an effective anti-evaporation seal. Plans will need to be worked out as to what use the water will be put, to whom it will be available and who will pay for it. Responsibility The future of the Government plan will depend on how it can be financed and the position has been well summed up by Professor C. H. Munro, honor ary director of the Water Re search Foundation of Australia. In a letter to the Sydney Morning Herald he stated "it (the Government's plan) may well prove to be a historic docu ment in that it may trigger off a new development in Austra lian water resources policy- recognition by the Common wealth Government that it must assume a major respon sibility in national water de velopment . . . without this, Mr. Beale's 'vision splendid' shown in the maps attached to Annexure 20 of his report will remain a vision". The Sydney Morning Her ald (June 15) states: "In re fusing to pay royalties, the Government says that the normal legal practice is for royalties to be paid, to the Government and not to land owners." What is "normal?" Are the operations of the British Phos phate Commission on the Australian Trust Territory of Nauru normal? In Nauru royalties are paid on t£e quantity of phosphate extracted. The rate for 1965- 66 was $1.75 per ton. Part of this royalty is paid! directly to the Nauruan landowners, part into a trust fund to pro vide for current cammunity benefits, and part for distrib ution to landowners at a future period. This last pro vision is a reparation fund, as mining operations com pletely destroy the land. Proposals If it is possible to pay royalties direct to the people and to provide for develop ment in Nauru, why cannot this apply in New Guinea? In the interests of New Guinea a real, though limited, policy would be to negotiate a lease of the field which would, pay substantial royal ties to the people of Bougain ville, where permanent improve ments to the district in which mining operations are proceed ing will be required. The conditions of the lease should provide for the hand- ing over of the mining com plex as a going concern after a nominated period of years, Strict control should be established to guarantee against destruction of the national asset by incorrect mining methods. 