 There is a way to peace with honor yjE don't like the Vietnam war, the Americans should never have gone in . . . but now we're there,, we're stuck with it. There's no way out." This view is frequently heard today in Australia among Liberal Party mem bers and other supporters of the Federal Government. There is almost no section of the people not seriously dis turbed by this unjust Ameri can war, even though many do not yet speak up or act. I But there IS a "way out". It is expressed in different ways by different people, but it rests on the basic prin ciple — written in the United Nations Charter — of the right of nations to self-determina- . tion. This principle is the basis of the specific proposals for settlement of the war which have long been advanced by the Government . of the Democratic Republic of Viet nam. Briefly the points are: Cessation of bombing of North Vietnam. Withdraw al of all foreign forces from Vietnam. Return to the mil itary provisions of the 1954 Geneva Agreement. Settle ment of the internal affairs of South Vietnam by the South Vietnamese in accord ance with the provisions of the National Liberation Front. Peaceful reunification of Vietnam by the Vietnam ese people. To accept these points, says the Government pamph let Vietnam, Questions and Answers, means "submit ting" to "Hanoi's terms". Yet basically these terms were accepted by the Aus tralian Parliament on Sir R. Menzies' proposal in August, 1954. Today, of course, the for eign forces are American and Australian, not French. And the "Viet Minh" have been succeeded by the South Vietnam National Liberation Front. The N.L.F. program (simil ar to the former Vietminh program) was adopted on December 20, 1960. It is re printed in British Labor MP William Warbey's book "Vietnam, The Truth". It says that the NLF "undertakes to unite people of all walks of life, all social classes, nationalities, politic al parties, organisations, reli gious communities and pat riotic personalities in South ern Vietnam, without distinc tion of political tendencies, to struggle to overthrow the rule of the US imperialists and their henchmen and realise independence, demo cracy, social progress, peace and neutrality in South Viet nam and advance towards the peaceful reunification of the fatherland." Its postwar aims are the building of a "national demo cratic coalition" including all strata of the people, election of a National Assembly through universal suffrage, building of an independent economy with nationalisation of US-owned monopolies, to conduct rent reduction and land reform, adopt a foreign policy of peace and neutral ity, and advance towards peaceful reunification of the country. These terms do not sug gest anything that the Aus tralian people would oppose. Yet we are committed by the Holt Government to fight to the death to oppose them and destroy the organisation of the people that is put ting them forward. ? |N Australia a great political movement has developed in unity against the Holt Gov ernment's conscripting of youth into the war and, incre asingly, against the whole policy of Australian military involvement. Australians young and old are demonstrating and de manding "Bring the troops home". A public opinion poll showed 57 per cent against overseas conscription. Many peace organisations including special "Vietnam Action" bodies, women's and youth groups, are demand ing a settlement based on a return to Geneva principles — in fact the only realistic basis for just settlement. The trade union move ment is united against the sending of Australian troops to Vietnam. In all major church deno minations there are signs of a powerful and growing movement of opposition to aspects of the Government's Vietnam war policy. The Australian Labor Party on May 12 set down the main points of its Vietnam policy, including: End to US bombing of 1 north Vietnam; Australia to 1 take the initiative for a I cease-fire and peace negotia- 1 tions. The cease-fire to involve recognition of the National Liberation Front as a prin ciple party in the talks. Sup port of the Geneva Accords requirements that foreign troops leave Vietnam. The Government to strive for a position in which the Viet namese can choose their own government. The Communist Party's policy has consistently been to demand an end to US ag gressive raids against the North, withdrawal of all for- | eign troops, return to the I Geneva principles and sup port of the peace proposals of the DRV and the Libera tion Front. It has expressed full soli darity with the struggle of the Vietnamese people for independence and democracy and for the international socialist assistance to their I struggle. I It is clear that there are common threads running through these various view points. ? There is thus a clear I way forward for the Australian people — to unite in activity for these common de mands, and in particu lar to work for the de feat this year of the Holt Government and its war policy. This is the way to achieve peace with honor. 