 TU's brand Askin's court rort plans JYDNEY: The NSW Labor Council last week condemned the State Government's pro- posed amendments to the Industrial Arbitra tion Act which will in clude interference in trade union ballots. All affiliated unions were call ed on to protest to the Govern ment against the announced amendments. lixs ouuui vuaai; juauur ouuxi- cil had earlier called on the State Labor Council to lead a deputation to the Minister for Labor (Mr. Willis) demanding the withdrawal of the legisla tion. A resolution, unanimously car ried last week by the NSW Labor Council, was sponsored by the Building Workers' In dustrial Union. This said that the proposed amendments include many that fiTP shrnncrlv nrvnnsor? Vyw' Ane. tralian Council of Trade Unions' policy and are detrimental to the interests of trade unionists. The resolution continued: "The Government intends to introduce the same ballot inter ference which the Menzies Gov ernment brought in some years ago and which have been op posed by ACTU Congresses. Unwarranted "They constitute unwarranted interfernce in the internal af fairs of the Trade Union Move ment. "The Government also pro poses to reverse the changes made in 1959 by the Labor Gov ernment relating to the right of entry of Union Officials and the power of a single Judge to make awards free from appeal. "The proposed right of entry changes would seriously affect the ability of Trade Unions to organise. "It was because of the use by employers of the previous provisions affecting right of entry that the Labor Govern- ment agreed to Trade Union representations to introduce the present provisions. "Rather than any restriction of trade unionists right of entry we consider that they should be widened to give unrestricted rights to Trade Union Officials to organise and to protect the interests of their members, and include provision for the right of trade unionists to hold meet ings at their workplace. "Some employers, particular ly the BHP, deny even that elementary right to workers." 