 4000 Newcastle workers in prices, wage demonstration NEWCASTLE: Ignoring heavy rain, over 4,000 workers last Thursday held a demonstration march through Newcastle city streets protesting against soaring prices and demanding higher wages. The march through the city was part of the biggest strike demonstration seen in Newcastle for over 40 years. It is estimated that about 10,000 workers from over 50 trade unions took part in the stoppage. The stoppage left the whole port idle and also involved 1200 workers from the State Dockyard, 1400 BHP steel- workers, 1500 construction wor kers at Munmorah and almost every sheet metal wor ker from all factories in New castle. Other strikers came from over 100 mines, workshops and job sites throughout the dis trict and included such places as Lysaghts, Commonwealth Steel, Vales Point and Wangi Fower Stations and Stewart and Lloyds. Buses brought strikers from the coal fields and other areas to attend a 5,500 strong pro test rally in Newcastle's. Civic Park. The rally was organised by the Newcastle Trades Hall Council's Wages and Prices Campaign Co-ordinating Com mittee to' back the unions' claims at present being argued before the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission. Resolution The Australian Council of Trade Unions is seeking a $4.30 a week increase in the basic wage and $5.90 in tradesmen's margin's to restore living stan dards seriously eroded by soaring prices. A resolution unanimously carried by the rally demanded that the Commission reject the employers'' claim for a total wage and to grant the full ACTU claims. "We also demand that the court restores quarterly wage adjustments in accord ance with price increases," the rally declared. The NSW Government was called on' immediately imple ment existing price control legislation to safeguard present wages from further encroach ment. The Government was also asked to initiate a conference f State Premiers together with Commonwealth Govern ment representatives to reach agreement for implementing a national prices control and reduction policy. It was decided that on re- urning to work the wage claims were to be submitted , mdividual employers and mat if necessary, in order to gain wage justice, the claim . cked by various forms of activity in iine with the NSW s£dr CouncU decision, which a aU industry groups the Labor Council be re- quested to develop and in tensify the wages and prices campaign by means of direct approach to employers seek ing payment of the full trade union claims immediately. "Such approaches to be supported by activity in ac cordance with the circum stances and traditional forms of activity in each industry, as decided by the 1965 ACTU Congress which calls for such a campaign under the direct ion and control of the ACTU and State Labor Councils." The resolution was proposed by Mr. R. Adamson who is the coordinator of the unions' campaign committee. Other speakers were Messrs. G. Atkins (assistant federal secretary of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society), R. Miller (president) and A. Dow- ling (secretary) . of the New castle THC. Mr. Adamson praised the work of the union delegates and rank and file unionists for the success of the rally. He said if we continue to fight to back up Bob Hawke's (ACTU advocate) arguments we will get something. "But if we go home and wait and expect the court to give us something we will get nothing." Mr. Atkins said that history has proved that a logical argu ment alone is not sufficient to win wage demands. He showed that since 1953 every worker throughout Aus tralia has been robbed through the abandonment of cost of living adjustments. In Victoria each worker has lost $1276, South Australian workers $654 and NSW wor kers $374, he said. Despite heavy rain a dem onstration march was held following the conclusion of the rally. A slight misunderstanding occurred with the police, who had made traffic arrangements for the march to take place later in the afternoon. However these problems were sorted out as the march got under way. Among the oldest in the march were Messrs. L. Irelands (a 79 year-old AEU man) and R. Wharton (69 year-old and a Butcher's Union member since 1913). Coca Cola workers, when they demonstrated at last week's wages rally in Newcastle, suggested a more appropriate slogan their wealthy employers should adopt. 