 CAAT warns on H-test danger CYDNEY: The Committee Against Atomic Testing (CAAT) is gravely concerned over the forth coming nuclear tests in the Pacific next month, and at the lack of criticism from the Australian Govern ment. Following China's recent nuc lear tests, Mr. P. Hasluck, the Minister for External Affairs, was strongly critical of China's "contemptuous disregard for the loss of life that nuclear explosions could cause". "We are also greatly con cerned", says CAAT, "about the dangers of the Chinese tests. "Has Mr. Hasluck made an equally strong public criticism of the proposed French tests in the Pacific? "We 'would also like to be informed if adequate studies of the movement of fish which are likely to pass through or near the test .area have been riiade? "The Government-appointed National Radiation Advisory Committee and Atomic Wea pons Safety Committee led by Professor Titterton have made no mention of this in their re port released in November, 1965. Polynesia "What about the natives of Polynesia; are they to be supp lied with uncontaminated food and distilled water, or is this luxury only to be enjoyed by the French military and tech nicians? "Evidently Professor Titter- ton is not very worried about the Polynesians, or the future generations of deformed child ren all over the world. MUCH matured Austra lian Ballet have returned from their overseas ,tour armed with improved tech nique and a ton of confid ence. The opening presentation of the Sydney season at Her Majesty's Theatre in Ray- monda", a full length ballet in the classical tradition choreographed by Rudolf Nur- eyev (after Petopa), music by "Perhaps he is more con cerned about building up a favourable climate for Aus tralia to test her own nuclear weapons on her own soil or on the high seas? "Has Professor Ti.tterton's committee overlooked t the fact that following the United States' atomic tests in, the Marshall Islands many ship loads, of dangerously radio active fish had to be discarded? "Professor Titterton is also reported., to have said: "There . will be no danger to the health of the Australian population this year.". "This does not appear to be a very far-sighted view. What about next year and the year after, when France's . bombs are likely to be bigger and mhre deadly?" Women critical The recent national confer ence of the Union of Austral ian Women called on the Aus tralian Government to renew vigorous protests against the tests, and to participate in a meeting of Foreign Minister of Latin American countries Aus tralia and New Zealand. The conference drew atten tion to the continuing danger of nuclear fall-out and its effects on human life, partic ularly on children. 