 I Puppet troops' withdrawal admission of all -U.S. war 9 By the Foreign Editor I "THE United States an- 9 nouncement from I Saigon that the South 8 Vietnamese puppet army I is to be taken out of the I firing line and put to I police work in the rear areas 1 is >a final admission of the 1 total unreliability of that 1 army. 1 Prom now on offensive 1 operations will be carried I out entirely by the US, Aus- 1 tralian and South Korean I occupation troops— making it 1 more obviously than ever a I war of conquest by foreign I armies. 1 The foreigners' presence is 1 supposed to be justified by I appeals from the South Viet- 1 namese to come and help I them. I But the desertion rate has 1 now shown beyond that the I South Vietnamese themselves | don't want to fight. I "More than 11,500 deserters | and draft dodgers have been | arrested in South Vietnam in | the last three weeks", re ported The Australian's corres pondent in Saigon in October 10. "Desertions have always been a problem for the Viet namese and in recent years they have risen almost as fast as the US commitment. "There were 37,000 in 1963, 74,000 in 1964, 113,000 in 1965 I and 67,000 in the first half of 1966". Unreliable For some time the Ameri cans have not told the South Vietnamese puppet officers anything about their oper ations because their plans were so often betrayed to the opposition by sympath isers within the puppets' ranks. So unreliable are even the most "reliable" Vietnamese that when President Johnson visited South Vietnam after the Manila conference in October the Vietnamese staff at the Cam Banh bay base (though triple — checked for security risk) had to be cleared off the base to a man before Johnson could go there. The "most pewerful man Jn the world" had to sneak into South Vietnam unherald ed, even his personal staff not knowing where they were going until actually aboard the plane with him and bound for Cam Banh. The so-called Premier of South Vietnam, Marshal Ky, was neither consulted about the visit nor informed ' of it till afterwards. All this shows how unreal is the suggestion that the Saigon puppet forces will be any better at suppressing the democratic forces in the US- controlled areas than they have been in the past. Saigon poet-priest Thich Nhat Hanh, who was recently in Australia, repeatedly warn ed his audiences how unpop ular the Saigon troops were with the local people. Meanwhile, on the battle field, what was being billed in the Sydney press as poten tially the biggest-ever US "victory" in south Vietnam seemed to have fizzled out last week with unusually high US casualties. Once again the "Vietcong" fighting power was admittedly left unimpaired. The US commander General DePuy told the press he hoped "the enemy" would stay and fight but next day admitted: "I think our chances of a large engage ment are slim". The current issue of Time .magazine gloats over the slaughter of .Vietnamese ,-, in tha battle near the Cambod ian border. "So far, most of the blood was Red" boasted the writer, alongside a picture of young Vietnamese slain. "As the big. kill at Tay Ninh demonstrated, the arsenal of American weapons in Vietnam is the deadliest ever developed for man to man combat," he adds. "The US infantryman in . Vietnam today shoulders six times the firepower of liis Korean War counterpart be hind him stand rank upon rank at mobile mortars and howitzers .that can be called in as he needs them. "Overhead hover helicop ters bristling with machine guns, rockets and automatic grenade launchers; above the gunshipa circle jet fighter- bombers armed with searing napalm, white phosphorus and bomblets that can unleash deadly patterns of tiny steel pellets. In no other war has American weaponry matched the demands of a difficult tactical terrain ..." "Basic element" in the sys tem, boasts Time, is the M-i6 automatic rifle with a muzzle velocity so high that "an M-16 bullet generates supersonic __ shock., waves that can collapse internal organs into bloody mush, shatter bone or leave arms and legs dangling drunkenly." (The dum-dum bullet, which has the same effect, is outlawed by the laws of war). However the Vietnamese re fuse to be scared by this "awesome arsenal" and the Time sadist concludes with a dismal admission that "more men are wanted" because, according to military men "victories over the the enemy's main-force units are like push ing water up the, side of a . . bowl. "The moment the mailed fist of US power is withdrawn to search out the enemy else where the water, meaning Red control of the country side runs back.) G. I. HOUNDS PEASANT OUT OF PADDY FIELD The meaning of "search and destroy" 