 ( Adelaide Arts Festival Yevtushenko wins applause of youth ADELAIDE: A highly enthusiastic, mainly youthful, audience welcomed Yevgeny Yevtushenko at his opening recital during the Adelaide Festival of Arts. He will perform at Sydney's Trocadero next Monday night, March 28. His poems, read m Eng lish by Dame Judith Ander son and Peter O'Shaugh- nessy, expressed in satire criticism of the bureaucrat, recognised the Shortcomings of humanity, but always ex pressed great optimism for the future and a love for his country. With his hands and his re markably controlled voice Yet- tushenko was able to convey to the audience the spirit of his poems despite the language barrier. Author Geoffrey Dutton ex pressed appreciation to Yev tushenko that it should be a Russian who was responsible for the largest crowd in Aus_ tralia - ever to come together for a poetry reading. The Soviet poet made an his torical burial ground of 20,000 Jews live again. He became part of the Jewish people when he spoke as a small boy, unwanted and afraid, a young girl seek ing refuge in a new-found love and an old man reviewing the age-old struggles of his suffer ing people. When the poet said that those who hated the Jews hated him, the silence seemed to de note the deep thought which his words had evoked. New hope In another poem, by using a drunken old woman who falls into the mud, he is able to compare this with the difficult ies and mistakes of his coun try. The young man bidding the old woman to arise is syn_ onymous with the new hope which is Russia today. In "Hail", he is able to com pare the damage done by the hail with the constant struggle of humanity. These are but a few of his poems given at his first Aus tralian performance. The response of the audience showed their great apprecia tion. Earlier in the week, Yevtu- shenko had given an impromp tu performance when he met university students and staff.— B.M. Wealth of culture ADELAIDE: Looking at the Fourth Adelaide Festival of Arts, one cannot help taut agree with the general secretary of the London Symphony Orches tra (Mr. E. Fleischmann) who described it as "fantastic". From the spectacular opening (the spirit of which was some how disturbed by the partici pation of US sailors from a- visiting naval ship) to the now closing stages, the Festival has brought together such a varied wealth of artistic culture that it provides a challenge to any newspaper to do it justice. 