 am n — rfiTn — 'im am NH jh JBM&SBw MS wff MB 1 I The " Hungry Mile" is road to Olympics It's not Olympic "fever", but in keeping with their usual form, that the Sydney wharf ies are rallying to the financial support of j the Australian team for Mexico city. The wharfies, who know that Australian sport depends mainly on charity for its existence, are also probably aware that at meetings of the International Olympic Committee members that fin ally determined that Munich and Sapporo (Japan) would be the venues for the 1972 summer and winter Olympics respectively, certain reforms were proposed. One of these proposed by a games study group headed by Giulio Onesti, president of the Italian National Olym pics Committee, called for in creasing the staffs that can accompany athletes to Olym pic games. While athletes and sports- fans alike would readily ap preciate the wisdom of such a reform, Australian sporting officials in charge of finance, will see it simply as another headache in a problem that has always plagued Australian sport finance. This is the big problem at present confronting Australia's participation in the Common wealth Games at Jamaica in August. Reports of the N.S.W. Com monwealth Games Fund assur ing the public that donations v/ill not be wasted but utilised in the most efficient way, simply emphasise the weaken- ing effect that lack of finance has on this country showing of its sporting best. Last month the Fund chair man, Mr. W. J. Young, was reported as saying: "None- of this money will be wasted, as we have kept the -team for Jamaica down to 120." j Thus to mention but some j aspects, our sporting chances will be lessened by restricting j the track and field event j quota of athletes to 33; the ; swimming contingent will be y three less than its quota of | 28; wrestlers will only com- | pete in five of the eight divi- sions and weight-lifting and boxing will be represented in only five of the 10 divisions. For the Commonwealth Games, the quota of finance to be raised by N.S.W. is $40,000. Sums of $5,000 . from the State Government and $700 each from the N.S.W. Leagues' Club, the City Council and the Shell Oil Company,- still leave a large amount to be raised, and as usual this is falling to Mr. John Citizen — the aver age working man. ? The Sydney branch of the Waterside Workers' Federa- , tion Youth Committee are organising to raise 750 dollars (or more) for the financing of one athlete to the Common wealth Games. On Thursday, June 2, be tween noon and 1.15 p.m. they will hold a series of events named the "Hungry Mile Foot race" and athletic displays. The programme will con sist of three athletic events open to any Maritime trade =1 unionist and offering very at- « ractive prizes) and displays 1 in Sussex Street by various 1 members of the Common- | wealth Games team — weight | lifters, bicycle riders, fencers. I At the conclusion of the S events, a reception will take j place at the W.W.F. union | rooms Sussex Street. 1" Representatives of the many sporting bodies sending sports men to the games, sportsmen i in the maritime industry and | other interested citizens will J be invited. I ! Details of the events are: — T.A.A. Walking , Event For I Veterans. From Hickson Road Bridge to Sydney Branch Rooms, Sussex Street. Start- I ing at noon. Prize: Two return x interstate air tickets from S T.A.A. j 100 Yards Sprint, starting j from 7 and . 8 Gates Darling I Harbour at 12.1$ p.m. Win ner's prize: A gold watch. The Hungry Mile Race, start- | ing from the Maritime Ser- I vices Board headquarters, Cir cular Quay at 12.30 p.m., (index Harbour Bridge, past No. 1 I Walsh Bay, then into HicitfcOn mo «» MMI «aiwi Road and along Sussex Street! \ to the W.W.F. rooms. j | Winner's prize: Two return j t tickets to Tasmania in the j \ "Empress of Australia", do- \ I nated by the Australian J \ National Line. j( | Mr. Trevor 'Mott secretary | i of the Youth Committee, said | |T that- the funds will be raised ! | by charging a .50 cent entry fee J f to the various events; an ad- j ( mission fee of one dollar to | the reception and by voluntary | donations from the public and j , local business people in the j area'. g Mr. Mott said that the corn- 1 mittee was extremely grateful I to the prize donors, the pro- j minent T.V., radio, sport and g other personalities and the j police for their co-operation | j in helping so far to make the j event successful. | | Among those likely to he | present are: Mike Cleary (who J will be one of the judges), j George Moore, Neil Campton, j Bobby McCarthy, George g Piper, Dave Bolton, Dickie Quinn, Jack Hassan, Tony Barber, Ken Noble, Don Lane, 'Clarence the Clocker", and Ken Howard. Mr. Arthur Tunstall, assist ant secretary of the Austra lian Commonwealth Games Ap peal Committee and other Games officials will officiate in various ways. Trevor Mott commenting on the reason for the wharfies j End raising campaign said- ; 'We are very disappointed at I the response to the appeal | by big business and thought j that we could at least do as good as some of those who have so far donated." To those who have only ever heard of the slanderous attacks on the Sydney water side workers this public spirited support for the games athletes by them may seem 8 big strange. . But such activities are not unusual for them. They have in the past rang ed in their activities fr® protesting against the sale 0 pig iron in 1938, to the then , militaristic Japan to the rais ing of finance to help Nancy Prasad, the young Fijian gib' victimised by the Immigera- don Department, to cam paigns against price rises ana ittacks on iiv.'sfcondards ! Looking down the Hungry Mile from the top of j Sussex Street. i ! I 