 !$!#$$ Japan moving, south '"THERE has been a quite remarkable wooing in recent months of Japan by certain Australian financial, trading ana governmental interests. Japan is already committed to invest some $34 million here. The owners of this capital include the notorious Mitsu bishi and Mitsui multi-mil lionaire corporations who financed and armed the ag gressive war of 1941-45. Significant new points have included: — ! April 7: Japanese business delegation completes its 21 weeks' expert survey of Australian potential as long- term source of supply of raw materials. April 11: Japanese busi ness groups linked up in Port Moresby with an Aus tralian group for a four- day survey of N.G. "develop ment and investments pros pects". Japanese interests repre sented included the wartime fmulti-millipnairb arms con cern Mitsui; also Itoh, Sumi- toma, Toya Menka, Nichi- men and the Nissho trading company. (South Pacific Post 7/4/66). April 14: "The huge Japan ese trade group Mitsui and Co. Ltd. is considering branching out in the beef cattle industry in Queens- land . . . the cattle area which the company is considering is near the direct Gladstone- Moura rail link at present being constructed by Thiess Bros." (Financial Review, 14/4/66). April 17: Tne fourth joint meeting of the Australia- Japan Business Co-operation Committee opened in Can berra. As well as Australian and Japanese delegates, there were represented such giant overseas firms as Con Zinc Rio Tinto, ICI and Western Mining Corporation (S.M. Herald, 17/4/66). April 19: In Canberra Australian and Japanese com- Jpanies directly interested in he Australia — Japan bulk- . shiPPine trade meet behind closed doors" (financial Review, 19/4/66). April 27: "In joint ven tures, Japanese interest must have at least' 50 per cent of the equity, the pre sent must be a Japanese Sl'z®n and at least half «e directors and the audi- es?> miS. also be Japan- 27/4/66) ( lnancial Review, Jan?"1 -27: Forecast that apan will become a partner m the exploitation of the ZnTii rooket te"'ns range. (Financial Review). Fairhnii 2: ,Supply Minister Ja£ States that two havpneS6-f Space scientists will Vlsjted Woomera and (Finan ! a rocket launching, mancial Review). Gover 4: The Australian be mn is ported to sortST g, 10 torm a c»- Panies to ti"ltralian co®' £nese tnStso Tun MrrvinTTT, sWPP'"« line low f iron ore at r freight rates. 