 Plight of the pensioner By HARRY ROBERTS 0NE day while waiting in a sandwich shop for my not insubstantial lunch order to be made up, i noticed an elderly but well-preserved lady enter and patiently take her place among' the crowd of workers waiting to be served. You could almost imagine in her strong-looking face the family she had once cared for— the menfolk fed, the children nursed through the usual illnesses and the house kept spick and span. "And what would you like, Mrs. Turner?" , asked the shop keeper's wife, herself a hard working Scot who treated her worker customers as well as she would her own sons when they came home for lunch. "I'll have a piece of cheese," the old lady replied, adding as the shopkeeper's wife lifted her knife: "About a shilling's worth will do." The shopkeeper's wife cut the cheese, weighed it and wrapped it. "How much is it?" asked the old lady. "Ninepence," replied the shopkeeper's wife cheerfully. "And I'll have one egg," the old lady added quickly, as though she'd just thought of it. But it was clear that she had only the price of ten cent's worth of cheese and one egg, and that if the cheese had cost 11 or 12 cents, she would have gone without the egg. I suspected that this was not the first time that the warm-hearted Scotswoman be hind the counter had under charged this old lady, and I felt a strong urge to offer to buy her a dozen eggs and a pound of cheese. But I realised that i,i I did, it would strip the old lady of the one thing she still possess ed, and to which she so des- parately clung— her human dignity" and self-respect. Earlier this year a local council conducted an inquiry into the needs of pensioners in its area and was amazed to find that most of them were reluctant to answer questions on the amounts they spent on food, clothing, rent and other expenses. Some were frankly indig nant — as is only natural. Feople who during their wor king lives were at least able to keep themselves at aver age standards and then sud denly find themselves on a lower level are hardly likely to be willing to discuss their circumstances with younger prosperious-looking people. It is sometimes asked, by people in well-paid jobs or a long way off retirement, why elderly people are not looked after by their children, or, alternatively, why they did not "put something aside" for their old age. The truth is, I think, that firstly, those who have always managed to support them selves and their families are loath to accept charity, and, secondly, that they never had much money left over to put in the bank. Is it too much to ask of a country as rich as ours a recent standard of living for its senior citizens, particular- ly a generation which con tributed so much to the struggle for improved living and working conditions? Today's pensioners, for 'in stance, include many of those who gained for the working class paid annual leave, com pensation, sick pay, child en dowments and many other benefits that are. now estab lished rights— including the 40-hour week itself. Pensioners are trying to im prove their lot through their own organisations, in the face of a callous Government which turns a deaf ear to their claims until election time approaches. Pensioners' organisations need greater support — from the public generally and especially from the working- class, which is the section of the community most likely to swell the pensioner ranks when the employing class has no further use for them. They need our assistance to gain the reasonable pension to which they are entitled, so as to take their rightful place as respected citizens. 