 "MOST IN N.Z." OPPOSE WAR IN VIETNAM pERTH : He believed that people in all walks of life and most sections of the community in New Zealand opposed participation in the Vietnam war, the WA Trades and Labor Council Secretary (Mr. J. Coleman) said on his return rrom the W.Z. federa tion of Labor conference. He was the fraternal Austra lian delegate to the confer ence appointed by the ACTU. There was also great con cern in N.Z. about the pro posed French nuclear tests in the Pacific, Mr. Coleman "said. The strong trade winds would mean a very real danger from nuclear fallout to both N.Z. and Australia. Movement on French tests "The Nationalist Government of N.Z. has adopted a neutralist role and there is quite a bip, movement of all sections of ffie community in protest and to try to get the government to do something to stop the. tests," he added. He referred to the statement of the general council of the Federation of Labor and the N.Z. Labor Party on May 2 endorsing the principle of col lective security and the right of all peoples to work out their own order of society. The undertaking to hold elec tions in South Vietnam was welcomed and the principle of self-determination and national independence supported and all acts of aggression con demned. The recent unrest and dis satisfaction of the people of South Vietnam with their pre sent form of military govern ment was noted and opposi tion reaffirmed to the N.Z. government's policy of sending troops to Vietnam. The government was urged to initiate or support any movfes for a peaceful settle ment. "We reaffirm our belief that tension and strife in Asia has grown basically from poverty and hunger and the social and economic circumstances of these countries," the statement said. "The problems that arise from such injustices can never be resolved by military action. The Government of N.Z. should therefore withdraw all N.Z. combatant forces from Viet nam," it concluded. "Decline in NZ living" "My main impression of NZ— and it was openly recog nised by the labor movement —was that standards of living had deteriorated rapidly since i;he Nationalist government came into office in 1961," Mr. Coleman said. "Labor codes were enacted by legislation during the pre vious Labor government and the Nationalists have brought in nothing to maintain stan dards of living attained during the Labor government's term from 1936 onwards." The workers had come to place too much reliance on law. The N.Z. system of arbitra tion was a very involved one. There was no such thing as a test case or national wage in-, quiry. As a result of this each and every union had to take, its own cases forward and many months elasped before, say, a car penter in North island got any; thing out of a case in the South. The lower standard of living in N.Z. was very noticeable, Mr. Coleman said. This was seen in the number of old bombs on the road, the low ratio of TV sets, etc. The N.Z. workers realised this and were developing very good unity of purpose within the industrial movement and political wing to bring about improvement. 