 ON THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE7-" FREIGHT RISE KNOCKS FRUIT, CATTLE TRADE — But Vesteys will survive JYDNEY: The latest threat by overseas shipping monopolies to again raise freight rates, this time by 6.4 per cent brought immediate and strong protests from Australian fruit gowers. According to the Financial Review, freight charges on the Tasmanian apple industry is now taking up about 70 per cent of the net value of the crop. A further 10 per cent in crease would seriously intensify the serious problems confront ing this industry, the Review said. Australian exporters are ex pected to ask the Minister for Trade, Mr. McEwen, to take action to block the freight grab. It was reported that the move to call on Mr. McEwen came from the meat industry. Australian meat exporters, with the exception of the giant meat monopoly Vesteys, who own the Blue Star Line, will be hit heavily by the increase. The increase is expected to add about $4 ,5m to the annual cost of shipping Australian ex ports to Britain and Europe. Piracy The scandalous freight pir acy against Australia has long been strongly condemned by the trade union movement which has called for the estab lishment of a Government- owned overseas fleet. This demand is as much a vital question as the wide pub? lie attention being given to container cargo and ports. The Australian National Line in fact already carries contain erised cargo on the Australian coast. The demand should be for Australia to carry its own con tainerised imports and exports, stevedored through a national- 4cns4 in/liiefuM Such a move would be in the interests of both Australian exporters and workers. The giant British P. & O. Line, with even bigger profits in sight, wants to get in first with its own container port at Balmain (Sydney). They couldn't care less whe ther this is best-situated or will be adequate to cope with future needs. Refused This proposal, however, was given a jolt last week when Leichhardt Council unanimously refused permission for such a. scheme. Associated Steam Ships, a company with strong business links with P. & O., applied for permission to make the old Mort's Dock property into a container terminal. The council had earlier re ceived over 700 protests from 1 residents in the area opposing the scheme. The council opposed the ap plication because of these reas ons: — The closely settled nearby residential development. A council scheme to erect flats. The traffic hazard and congestion the increased heavy traffic would have on the ex isting narrow streets. Increased noise and vibra tion. Aid. I. Wyner told Tribune that the council will seek a joint deputation with the Wat erside Workers' Federation to the NSW Premier to prevent Balmain being developed as a container port. The WWF, along with other waterfront unions, have al ready submitted proposals for Botany Bay to be developed as such a port. An international engineering consultant company has also submitted plans to the Mari time Services Board with strong recommendations favoring Bot any Bay. General secretary of the WWF, Mr. C. Fitzgibbon, told Tribune that the Federation would be happy to join with Leichhardt Council in an ap proach to Mr. Askin. He said that Botany Bay would facilitate the construc tion of a huge centralised con tainer port which should be na tionalised in the public inter est. p. V. ELLIOTT (above left), Federal Secretary of the Australian Seamen's Union, and William Martin, General President of the New Zealand Seamen's Union, signing a joint statement after discussions held following the recent meeting of the Australian Seamen's Union Management Committee in Sydney recently, which Mr. Martin attended as a fraternal delegate. The two Trans-Tasman leaders stated that their organisations had similar aims and interests, in that they both had a policy of peace and socialism, and were both affected by "the growth of monopoly and the advance of automation". v They pledged their respective unions to continue to work for world peace and disarmament, declared their solidarity with the people of South Vietnam, calling for the withdrawal of all foreign troops and a settlement of the war on the basis of the 1954 Geneva Agreements, and reaffirmed their opposition to the holding of French Atomic tests in the Pacific. 