 POINTED QUESTIONS ON JAILED GUNNER NEW questions have filtered back from South Vietnam to throw light on the case of Gunner Peter O'Neill, last week serving solitary confinement on bread and water in the notorious Holsworthy Army correction camp. The gunner's name became prominent when it was revealed that he had been manacled to, a stake iii a South Vietnam weapons pit as a i'orm oi punishment. The responsible oflicer, Major p. Tedder, court-mar- lialled because - of' public: indignation, . and his superior officer got off scot-free. Australian democrats generally have been disturbed by the revelation that the Major who originally shackled O'Neill admitted he knew O'Neill had written home about the "sick war" in Vietnam in a letter which subsequently was published in the Melbourne Sun last December. Australian ex-seivictmen, well aware of the brutal treatment traditionally meted out by military police at Army jails, have objected to the case so strongly that even Sir William Yeo, New South Wales president of the Returned Servicemen's League, last week called for O'Neill's release. FULL STORY NOT TOLD But the full story ol this, unfortunate soldier has yet to be told. Frank answers by the Holt Government to the following questions would do much Co reveal real facts behind the trail of cover-ups:— Is it a fact that Gunner O'Neill (who wants to stay in th l- Regular Army and who volunteered for Vietnam because he believed the Government's anti- communist propaganda) was initially punished as an example, to intimidate the many dissatisfied 'soldiers in his unit? Did the extremely low morale in his unit stem originally from the issue of boots offering no protection against the local conditions? Was it aggravated by the fact that the unit slept in tents on the ground with primitive amenities while American troops over the road were above ground, and enjoyed TV, solt-drink dispensers and other comforts? Was the troops' morale seriously affected by the antipathy of the Jocal population, which the troops d, '.scribed in the phrase, "The Vietcong are everywhere"? Were many of the men in the unit so led up that they were going into Saigon without leave? Was Major Tedder one of the officers who de cided to , "cure" this situation by harsh discipline? When '' Gunner O'Neill was shackled to a picket did Tedder each day go and question him with: "Will you obey the order?" and did he reply: "No I'll stay here until I die?" Did the regimental medical officer finally object to the treatment of O'Neill? Was he not supposed to be a star witness for the prosecution against Major Tedder for violation of the regulations on punishment, but was he instead flown out of Saigon to Changi jail in Singapore? Answers to these questions might in Tribune's opin ion, uncover indications that Australian soldiers are being disillusioned by the unjust character of the war in Vietnam, and the need for a full Parliamentary in vestigation of harsh disciplinary measures by higher officers. 