 j But still the fight goes i on in South Africa Concluding an on-the-spot report from Roger Milliss in South Africa "j" HE intricacies of South Africa's racial laws makes life a nerve- J wracking hazard, es- " '' oeciallv for those whose natural instincts are stronger than their sense H| of racial purity. 1 The Immorality Act, zea- '1 1 lously enforced by a group " | of ever-vigilant snoopers, 1 pounces promptly on all who | violate the sacred ban on J inter_racial sex relations. | The papers are full of re- I sultant court cases, i An Anglican priest is found , in bed with a colored wo- man: three months' sus- pended sentence. The local ,c:,4 bishop testifies to the er- ffl rant pastor's previous good ||| character and pleads for lH leniency: the man will suf- |Sf fer through prolonged pen- |fl ance in a seminary and will 3 never be employed again by SI fae Church in South Africa. m + if III "|"HEN there's the en- ||J tirely different H| case of Papwa Sew ing golum. Wk Pa.pwa is a golfer who |h| attracted world-wide atten- |Sj tion late last year when he III won a major tournament 111 against some of the world's m best, including compatriot 111 Gary Player. |S| Papwa's unttsual, because ill —although a right-hander— ill k® uses a left-over-right til grip- But he's also peculiar III because he's an Indian, and in South Africa such un_ fortunate ancestry creates a lot of difficulties, even on the golf course. Papwa can't pse the club house — a spe cial cara-van has to be pro vided for him — and at a recent tournament officials had the devil's own job se gregating the crowds around the greens when Papwa was playing. The press reports that the Government intends to is sue an order banning golf clubs from inviting Pa-pwa to compete in tournaments — the only way South Africa's only non-white pro can play. Gentleman Gary Player, South Africa's Sportsman of the Year, when asked to comment, says its unfortun ate but "I don't meddle in politics". ? ? BUT, there's fight in this country. Despite Vterwoerd's police state oppression, there are many people— white, colored and African — prepared to speak out and defy the re gime, even in sedate Cape Town. Thousands of people throng the main thorough, fare, Adderley St., to watch the ceremonial circus of the State opening of Parlia ment. It is like a deliberate show of force to reassure the whites of their strength. Hundreds of troops, ypung conscripts, line either side of the street, armed awk- wardly with modern car bines. Republic President Swart, well-fed and complacent, doffs his topper to the sporadic applause from his open Rolls Royce, flanked and preceded by an escort of mounted and motor-cy clist policemen. Suddenly there's a dis turbance down a side street. A predominantly non-white crowd quickly gathers. An elderly white woman has been arrested for displaying a banner attacking Smith, Verwoerd and apartheid, wrapped carefully in her umbrella. There she stands, hemmed in by four burly policemen, defiant: Take me in, do your damnedest, her contemptuous look seems to say. A colored man, with a skinful of beer, starts to mock the police in . good, natured biting banter. The crowd is with him, laughing uproariously. He tells the police he wouldn't mind going with them— and the sergeant takes him at his word, threatening to lumber him unless he moves off. The man dodges his way through the crowd and stands watching from the other side of the road. Another colored man comes up and asks us what's going on. We tell him, and he nods sympathetically. Then a police car comes up to take the woman away and the crowd disperses. "Well, my friend, good bye," the man beside us says, and sticks out his hand. "Good luck," we say. It's a lame farewell, but he takes its,, meaning. "Thanks," he. says. ? ? yND finally, a taxi takes us down to the wharf to catch our ship. "How's business?" we ask the colored driver. He knows by the accent we're not South African, and opens out. "No good," he says, "and all because of apartheid; he can't take a non-white in his cab. "This Government's mad," he says. He tells us, of the 1960 strike, and of how dis unity has kept the colored and African apart. "There's only one way to change this country," he says. "Revolution. And if colored and African get together, we can do it." Yes, there's fight in this country, we think, as the boat pulls out from Cape Town, lying smugly below Table Mountain, shrouded, as it so often is, in clouds. When South Africa's long- exploited colored and Afri can people, joined by the many progressive whites who've thrown in their lot with them, win the strug gle against .tyranny, they'll blow the top off Table Mountain and clear the land once and for all of the filth and foulness of apartheid. 