 U.S. even napalm themselves THE statement of General William De Puy, of 1 the US First Infantry Division.' in Vietnam, I that he would "ask for the same strikes again in the same situation" was the most appalling feature of last week's napalming by the US of its own troops. Australian troops, oper ating under US command by agreement -of the Holt Government, will note what could be in store for them under this reckless general, who was not him self napalmed. More than 20 US troops were burnt to death and scores more badly scorch ed when US planes, in a battle 55 miles north of Saigon, hit their own side instead of the Vietnamese patriots. General Du Puy had no regrets in his comments. TTfi cold fbft tvilcfftlrA tun r« J.JLO oaiu wic w ao only a small one and "these things are going to. happen. I would ask for the same strikes again in the same situation." "Mistake" The general was not . present, but Canadian-born newsman Morley Safer was, when the US airmen made their "mistake". Safer told in Newsweek what happened to troops who, next time, could be . Australians: "We hit the dirt. I put my head up and the jungle in front of" us was on fire I and running out of it were dozens of men, their clothes on fire, some of ' them screaming, some of them rolling in the mud. "We reached them just as the. medics were cutting away bits of skin and blackened uniforms. One boy of 19 kept ask ing. 'Why are they doing it? Tell them to stop'. Blisters "Another trooper, his face a.-v mass of blisters, his hair burned away, said softly through blackened lips 'Don't they know we are down here?'. "They brought the first sergeant in — it was a sight that was at once - unbear able— yet held an awful fascination. His breath was a short rasp. The medic was attempting the 'kiss of life' through a rubber tube and then he died without a sound as we watched with helpless rage." The sergeant, of course, was not available for com ment on his general's cheerful acceptance of his agonised death: "This is a rough business . . . these things are going to hap pen ... I would ask for the same strikes again in the same situation." U.S. VICTIM OF U.S. NAPALM The General would do it again 