 j Campaign rises 1 in Queensland | gRISBANE: Last week's four-hour stoppage by | 150,000 workers in Brisbane and other I centres throughout Queensland was only a part of 1 the mounting State-wide campaign against high 1 prices and low wages. 1 The stoppage called by the Queensland Trades 1 and Labor Council took place on the eve of the P wage hearing by the State Industrial Commission. iS || The Queensland unions are Igdemanding an immediate in- Ifternn: increase of $2.50 in the vrhasic wage pending the hear ting of the $4.30 claim, p? Attendances of mass meetings held during last week's stop page included 10,000 at the Bris bane Cricket Ground, 1,000 at tylt. Isa, 1,500 at Ipswich, 500 4t Rockhampton and 300 at Mt. Morgan. :| Earlier four hour stoppages pf workers in the North were palled by the Townsville Trades tsSnd Labor Council and in other ntres including Gladstone. Addressing the meeting the fader of the State Opposition jtpTr. Duggan) declared that the Labor Party stands for price Control and "for a fair deal for i?ou and your families and the Other families like yours." ht r',. Mr- Eeerton said that 3KJ "r Party would guar- elected, equal pay for jjjH 'Equal pay— and not a I 9£ bogus equal pay— is the policy of the ALP," he said. Mr. Egerton said that the T&LC regretted having to call the stop, "but the blame rests with the Nicklin Government." Mr. Duggan said that the) Government has shown com plete unconcern at the unbridl ed rises in prices. The meeting gave an exuber ant welcome to Mr. G. M. Daw son (the T&LC's basic wage advocate) when he spoke. Mr. Dawson congratulated the workers on what they are doing in the campaign. "We win our struggles by the actions of peo ple," he said. "The Government," Mr. Daw son said, "is feeling the hot breath of angry electors on its neck." Statements by Mr. Dawson and . others condemning the Vietnam war, the sending of conscripts to Vietnam, and the Continued on P. 12. Conscription Continued from P. 1. from the GFO to the South Australian Hotel, where the Prime Minister (Mr. Holt) was staying. The previous evening the Eureka Youth League con ducted a snap survey in the city, asking the question: "Do you favor the Australian Gpvernment's conscription of 20-year-olds?" Results; Yes, 30 per cent; No, 68 per cent; Un aware, 2 per cent. "Do you feel conscripted youths should be sent over seas?" Results: Yes, 21 per cent; No, 79 per cent. PERTH: For the second week in succession, the cam paign against the Government's Vietnam policies was taken by demonstration to the city's Saturday morning crowds. About 100 people paraded Perth city blocks with placards and distributed a pamphlet is sued by the Labor Party exe cutive opposing conscription. Some marchers took up cor ner positions for friendly and earnest discussions with on lookers. All ages were repre sented but about half the marchers were young people. Afterwards, Forrest Place rang with cheers after the an nouncement that there would be a repeat demonstration for two weeks at the same time. The previous Saturday, 150 people circled the main city block carrying placards and distributing a leaflet on the theme of no conscription for Vietnam. Printed and published by D. B. Young, 168 Day St., Sydney, at 21 Ross St., Forest Lodge. 