 Wages, prices robbery rampant... B WMBBBBa— iw — NOW IS THE TIME FOR ACTU ACTION By the Industrial Roundsman JYDNEY : There will be widespread concern among unionists at the failure of last week s Australian Council of Trade Unions' executive meeting to give a positive lead to the trade union movement for action against price rises and inadequate wages. Even some wealthy news papers have Sn fact spelt out how workers are being robbed through price increases. What the workers wanted from the ACTU was how the industrial strength of the trade union movement should be used to change the situation. Many unions, including the 250, 000 -strong Metal Trades Federation, and the NSW Labor - Council had called on the ACTU to convene a Federal Unions Conference to plan action both around the wages decision and high prices. This proposal was evidently rejected by the executive. Fines, penalties The executive once again declared that sanctions (fines and penalties under the penal powers of the Arbitration Act) were preventing workers from getting wage justice. But again no positive lead was given by the executive on this pressing matter. The executive, which anet for a week in Sydney, confined it self to calling on wage and DaiRiA jf eaujuia t u uuiluuiU" VI their MPs that they initiate and support measures in Parliament to bring relief to low income earners. This call was contained in a lengthy resolution expressing concern "that efforts to raise wages and oomimmity living standards and achieve a more equitable distribution of in creased productivity are being frustrated by constant unwar ranted price increases. Monopoly ' "This community exploitation is aggravated by the fact that in many cases these price manipulators either occupy a monopoly position work ini association with others of their kind to ensure that competition is eliminated and the consumer bled to the limit," the executive said, "The unregulated opportun ity allowed to these exploiters is in sharp contrast to the posi tion of the wage and salary earner who is required to jus tify award wage increases be fore an arbitration tribunal." The executive also points out that there is available for use against the worker "severe forms of sanctions which pre vent him from demanding the full value of his labor on the market." Concern An earlier resolution ex-, pressed "grave concern at the inadequate amount of the in crease granted in the basic wage by the commonwealth Arbitration Commission. "The claim made by the ACTU was completely justified and should have been granted", the executive said. TVlIC nloim wtac> A nn vr»o J.UJL a «pt.OU basic wage increase and $5.90 a week increase in tradesmen's margins. The Commission only granted a $2 basic wage increase and has delayed a decision on mar gins pending a lengthy inves tigation. On the question of margins, the executive expressed con cern that no interim increase was granted and called for strong resistance to any at tempt to abolish the basic wage. "We call on all sections of the trade union movement to continue to support the ACTU's opposition to the employer- Inspired concept of the total wage", the executive said. A resolution also condemned the Federal Government for its complacency towards the slump in the motor industry. The lay-offs and stand- downs were pinpointed: GMH sacked 2000 in 1965 and have now sacked a further 700. Volkswagen recently sack ed 450. BMC have 2000 at present on forced annual leave and have sacked 270 this week. Fords in NSW sacked 75 from the truck section. These sacked workers no doubt would have expected the ACTU to pinpoint, the huge profits these foreign companies have reaped from this coun try. Particularly in the case of GMH, some of its profits — at least 150 times the original investment— should have been usd to increase wages and keep workers on during a slack period. No mention was made by the executive of its policy cal ling for nationalisation of this industry. J 