 Govt, should give "real assistance" to young marrieds £YDNEY: If the Government is seriously concerned about the falling birthrate, it should see that real assistance is given to young people who want a home and a family, says the Union of Australian Women. A draft program for young marrieds of government action required to meet the most urgent needs of young married women will be discussed and completed by the national congress of the Union of Australian Women, which meets in Sydney over next weekend, from May 27 to 31. v A draft of the program has already been circulated to interested organisations, including trade unions, and it has been under discussion in UAW branches and with young people. "We welcome ideas so that the program will reflect the real needs of young people to day", the UAW has stated. Program Points of the draft program are:— 1.To provide homes for all who need them . . . a) The commonw e a 1 1 h Government to supply the necessary 'finance at low interest rates to the State Housing Auth orities so that home building can be speed ed. This means providing ample rental accommo dation at no more than 20 per cent of the bread winners' ordinary wage. (At the moment Hous ing Commission homes are built on the basis of i . rental, and I for sale.) b) The Commonw e a 1 1 h Government to arrange through Banks and Housing Co-operatives for more long term fin ance at interest rates of not more than 3 per cent so that people can purchase their own homes on a low deposit. 2. That ante and post-natal treatment, including period spent in hospital for con finement, should be free. 3. That maternity allowances should be paid at the rate of $94, $100 and $110, de pending upon the number of children in the family/' 4. Tat child endowment V, Should be paid at the rate bf $2.50 a week per child/' 5. That on the birth of the third child and each sub sequent birth thereafter, a special home allowance of $1000 should be granted to help pay off the home, make extensions or altera tions to the home. 6. In respect to multiple births, maternity allow ances and the special home allowance should be paid in the same way as child en- dowment where each child is considered a separate person. (At present with a multiple birth, only $10 extra maternity allowance is paid, whereas child en dowment is paid separately for each child.) 7. For mothers who need child care facilities so they can go out to work, the Federal Government and employers to accept the responsibility for estab lishing and maintaining nurseries and kindergartens so that young children are properly cared for; and further, that suitable pro vision be made for after- school care for older child ren. These amounts are worked out on the basis of the basic wage payable in 1943 and the basic wage today. » This point is worked out on the assumption that every child should receive the same amount of endowment. In 1948 child endowment was 10/- a week for the second and sub sequent children. Again, tak ing the basic wage as the measure, today this would be $2.50. However, one suggestion has been made that child endowment payment could fol low the ACTU program for graduated increases, depending upon the number of children in the family. I rTHE national conference j ! of the Union of Aus- j I tralian Women will open ! j next Friday, May 27, 7.30 | j pm, at Druitt Hall; 64a j ! Druitt Street, Sydney. j j Valentina Titova, an in- I I ternational visitor from S ! the Soviet Union, will ar- | I rive for the opening night 1 j of conference. She will re- I | present, the Soviet Worn- | I en's Committee. I Valentina, a teacher, Is extremely interested in young people and has a j daughter 12 years of age. !A special "Questions and Answers" evening will be held on Friday, j June 3, 8 pm, where she j will tell something of life j in the Soviet Union. This ! will be at the Nurses' As- I sociation Hall, 8 Reiby I Place, Circular Quay. (Reiby Place is just be- j hind the Ship Inn Hotel.) j Miss Betty Harrison, I from England, will repre- I | sent the Women's Inter- j ! national Democratic Fed- j I eration. She will be guest I i of honor at a trade union I reception on Thursday, j ! May 26, at Vine House, j j George Street, Sydney. J mnnnnHanBHBBBaaansni 