 Author replies to Tribune review | WAS pleased with Mr. Bill Gollan's review of my "Czechoslovakia : From the New World" published in Tribune, March 30. Few of us are as widely- travelled and sophisticated as Mr. Gollan (or John Mor rison, whose excellent review appeared in The Guardian, January 20) and not everyone has shown such sympathy and understanding. "He shouldn't have written such things down! Perhaps he met too many pessimists Tn Czechoslovakia," etc., etc. I spent five arduous years seeking the typical views in typical situations of typical Czechoslovak people. A sensationalised "The Im pressions of a Disillusioned Young Intellectual" might well have brought fame and for tune overnight. But of course instead my book attempts to objectively sum up Czechoslovakia 1959- 63. Late in this period the coun try experienced a grave crisis, rarely appreciated by Western communists. The annual economic growth rate fell from a healthy 8 per cent in 1960 to 0.3 per cent in 1962. Then came that ter rible winter! In 1963, the Prime Minister and seven other ministers were dismissed. Reforms followed, although a very stubborn impasse had been created by the mistakes of the '50's. This further complicated a country which largely through its central European position must be one of the world's most complicated at normal times. My fellow-worker in the Prague boilerworks could well say of my projected book: "All you have to do is to show the situation as it is," but what a tall order! I believe' I have highlighted every significant problem in today's Czechoslovakia. The reactions of Prague people to my book have con firmed that my basic concep tions are correct. However, as, yet, I can only be judged on part of my achievement. "A major problem, which also worried the great Marxist playwright Bertolt Brecbt throughout his life, was the antipathy between entertain ment and didacticism in art. Too much "teaching" bored his audience; too much "fun" and they retained nothing. If I had proclaimed SOCIAL ISM IS BETTER! too baldly, even convinced Leftists would have ignored my book. So I used plenty of. fun-for- fun's-sake sketches, building on a base of socialist attitu des. Anyway, the so-called "socialist realism", which was abstract, Utopian Marxism and not realism at all, has done enough to harm socialist aft. - And I think we will only be mature socialists when we can examine with ruthless frankness, and satirise, the very ideas which are closest to us. This I've tried to do. The truth about socialism as she is lived is painful to many of us who seek an al ternative to a life we. hate. Yet if the - whole truth is not spoken, then what is there to build on? We tore not repeat the mis take which ruined most of the literature of the Stalin era; by demanding that literature re veal what should be, not what is. Bill Gollan writes: "... I feel that one thing missing is the presentation of the col lective work of the Com munist Party, which provides the dynamic for the construc tion of the new sbciety . . . Perhaps this (gap) will be fil led in a later work . . ." But what is meant by the "collective work of the Party" if it is not covered by the sketches dealing with the working-bee sent from the boilerworks tor help the state farm at harvest, or with the production plan meeting with in the works itself? Here we see the Party at work, and of course wherever there is authority that almost invariably means the Party. What else then had Mr. Gollan expected? Squads of workers marching into the factory joyfully singing The Red Flag. Czecho slovakia not at all like that. I seem to detect a trace of that old wishful thinking here. Is not Bill Gollan over rating the relations between the Party and ordinary people? For as he knows Stalinism meant that artificial barriers were set up. Monolithic rule lessened democracy: Marxism was vulgarised. The best communists, if they were lucky, were at least demoted. The many necessary reforms were too often carried out too rapidly and harshly. Of course, these things happened when a young regime was struggling for stability while ringed by hostile nations. But the single fact that after the 1948 revolution there were two million Party member from a population of fourteen millions speaks volumes. A large proportion of the , "communists" were careerists. We cannot ignore these things and understand Czechoslova kia 1966! Yet I must state that on returning to the country late in 1964 I was happy with many of the changes that had' already taken place. Very critical books were be ing published, foreign travel had increased enormously and the theatrical and general . intellectual activity in Prague \ was exciting to experience. There were still many ; tough economic problems to : solve but the overall atmos- v phere had been transformed since I left late in 1963. : I must concede that Mr. Gollan is partly right, in that the still unpublished second half of my work does deal j more fully with the activities ; of both town and country i communists. - ; I wished to take the reader ; through something of the un- folding process which a/ foreigner experiences in a. j strange country, in which he \ understands life more ana more deeply as time goes on- ; And I feel that understanding ; Czechoslovakia is all-import \ ant. It is the only socialist coun try which previously had a well-developed capitalist sys tem, so it is the only socialis country, which will have a great deal to compare wit the socialist Australia of Kevin Hartshoriie Burnley (Vic.). 