 Air pollution a health hazard for Perth residents By our W.A. Correspondent PERTH: Only strong action, taken quick ly can prevent present air pollution from the Kwinana industrial area, affecting not only nearby residential areas but the whole of Perth. Overseas experience has shown that only punitive measures against industrialists brought results. If industries refuse to insfal the expensive controls needed, they should be sited elsewhere. Petitioned for the saving of some of the beaches south of Fremantle from factory encroachment, Premier Brand said bluntly that factories were more important than beaches. Factory development neces sarily involves employment of considerable numbers of wor kers. They need recreation facilities and housing for their families reasonably near their place of work. . Preservation of . more of the beautiful beaches between Fremantle and Rockingham is essential Already fine alumina dust from Alcoa penetrates the ciosied windows of houses in nearby areas. It drives house wives to distraction, but its, effect on health is not even known publicly. Latest report of the W.A. Mines Department drew atten tion to the danger of a belt of polluted air spreading from Kwinana to Fremantle and the Western suburbs of Perth, The Government Chemical Laboratory, which isi ljinked to the Department, noted the increasing emission of sulphur olxides into the atmosphere at Kiwinana. 100 tons a aay Each new major industry might usie about 100 tons of fuel oil a day with an accom panying sulphur oxide emiss ion of five to seven tons, for every 100 tons of fuel oil. "Little thought appears to have been given to the dis sipation of these amounts of sulphur oxide pollution," the report say s. The State Government appointed a 14,-member Ajir Pollution Control Council last year, concentrating control previously spread over five government departments. But vigilance and action by the working people, their unions and organisations will play a decisive role in forc ing implementation of recom mendation? and protection of natural am en ties from big business! greed and spoliation The original 1955 plan for the metropolitan area left a wide "purity belt" between Cockburn Sound and Perth but later re-zonings have con siderably reduced this. Fremanitle and (districts Labour. Members have had manyl protests from local res idents!. Mr. H. Curran MLA (Cock- burn) took a petition to a joint meeting of three shire councils concerned1, at which Premier Brand was present. Agreement was obtained to the gazetting of two A-class reserves — one south of Alcoa and an extension of Coogee Reserve as a picnic ground. Printed and published by D. B. Young, 168 Day Street, Sydney, at 21 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. 