 Immense aid from socialist lands VIETNAM DOES NOT STAND ALONE By W. E. Gollan It is a remarkable feature of the struggle of the Vietnamese people for their independence and sovereignty that they have not asked any fraternal socialist country for armed forces to assist them. Although they are being at tacked by the military power of the most powerful capital ist country, the USA, together with its satellites the govern ments of South Korea, Aus tralia, New Zealand and now Thailand and the Philippines, they have neither asked for nor received any military per sonnel from the USSR, China or any of the other socialist governments. Hundreds of thousands of Soviet civilians and members of the Soviet armed forces have volunteered to go to the aid of their Vietnamese bro thers. Whilst in the USSR in March of this year, I was invited to visit a Soviet air force unit near Moscow. Here I talked to many of the per sonnel and all, without ex ception, stated their willing ness to go to fight against United States aggression in Vietnam. I was also informed by the authorities in Moscow that tens of thousands of civil ians had registered for ser vice if the Vietnam Govern ment asked for military per sonnel. At the World Peace Council meeting in Geneva last month I asked a leader of the dele- — gation from the Democratic Republic of Vietnam what the position was in regard to volunteers from abroad. He replied that the need was not for men but for equipment, and that the Soviet Union and the other socialist countries had supplied them with every thing they had requested. Bristling This was borne out by my own observations both in and around Hanoi, and elsewhere. Every bridge was bristling with anti-aircraft guns and ground-to-air missile sites could be seen dotted around Hanoi and other strategic areas. Last year the value of the equipment supplied by the USSR alone exceeded 500 million roubles. The other socialist countries have also made major contributions. The Soviet equipment sup plied included the most mod ern fighter planes which, however, could, not yet be used ' in strength, because of the shortage of pilots trained in the advanced technology needed to fly such craft, and also because of the difficulty of maintaining supplies of air craft from the distant Soviet factories. Owing to the geo graphy of Vietnam they could not be flown in, as no country adjoining Vietnam would grant, the Soviet Union air space for the purpose. Con sequently they had to be transported by sea or rail. Further problems are the scarcity of airfields in Viet nam suitable for supersonic aircraft and the difficulties of safeguarding aircraft on the ground in such a small coun try. Furthermore, once a full- scale air conflict developed, heavy losses of pilots was cer tain so that a large reserve of trained pilots was an es sential pre-condition of under taking major air activities. Meanwhile the ground de fences, including ground-to-air missiles had proved to be very destructive to the United States raiders. The Vietnam ese claim to have shot down over 1000 planes— and their system of verification is very thorough. If a plane appears to fall in the sea or in terri tory beyond the reach of veri fication, it is not included in the number of claims. Accurate So accurate is the ground fire that the US has for the most part abandoned mass raids, sending over small detachments only and, in recent months, usually at night. Contrary to US claims the ground-to-air missiles have brought down a large number of planes. As to the use of skilled mil- mnmnHHnHBBnDnnnannR itary specialists from abroad the Vietnamese maintained firmly that they would not be a party to escalating the conflict from a local into a general war; and that the in volvement of armed forces from the Soviet and the other socialist countries would be likely to have this result. This situation has now been probably changed by the unrestricted terror bombing by the US air force. The Soviet Union and the other European socialist countries, whilst also attempting to avoid permitting the US to force a general war on the worid, have now undertaken to provide further assistance. What form this will take is still not known and the phy sical difficulties of supply will continue. However, it seems likely that the Soviet Union will in crease the range and quantity of the most modern means of defence, including the supply of technicians. Certainly the growing scope of US aggres sion has led to a further "escalation" and has sharpen ed the danger of a wider war. This is made all the more likely by the growing resist ance to the US-supported regime in neighboring Laos, where the Pathet Lao led by Prince Souvanna Phong rule a great part of the country; and in Thailand the supposed hard-core of SEATO. In fact, here as elsewhere a large part of the population is in open or covert rebellion against the US-backed Government. Resistance The Buddhist resistance in Vietnam taken together with the mass opposition to US domination of these states and in Cambodia, leaves the USA in a position where it must either withdraw or ex tend its military operations against all of the peoples of South East Asia, including its "trusted . ally" Thailand. A grim prospect is thus opened up for the youth of Australia, for whom the Holt policy of "All the way with LB J" promises massive Aus tralian losses in the next few years. If the "blank cheque" given by Mr. Holt to Presi dent Johnson, is cashed the payment will be in the blood not in tens but in hundreds and thousands of Australian youth. On the debit side of the ac count will also be bitterness and hostility . towards our | country of hundreds of mil- J lions of Asians. A heavy price jgfj to be paid for the forfeiture 1| of our national independence, t| in support of.. US aggression. 1 r. 