 ' ' ! -J ; '' ' . ' i: f Wharfies to the | rescue! YDNEY : The traditional helping hand of wharfies to those in need of assist ance has been extended to Mr. Reg PnwHh.rh in his fierht to adont and brine- back to Australia the deported six-year- old Fijian girl, Nancy Prasad. Following Nancy's visit to Australia in 1961, the Powditch family have sought to adopt the child with the full consent of her parents. This has meant a bitter fight against the Min ister lor Immigration, Mr. Opperman. Mr. Powditch, a young Englishman, who mig rated to Australia four and a half years ago, has even been refused Australian citizenship. The only way to cut through the legal trap pings is for the Powditch family to adopt Nancy in Britain and return to Australia. To do this Reg Powditch is prepared to sell his car and other possessions to take his family and Nancy to England. Here too the Australian authorities would not even allow Nancy to come from Suva to board a ship in Australia — thus adding further expense for this young couple. / To adopt Nancy in Britain, the family must live there for at least six months. And now the Sydney wharfies have decided to financially assist this family in their venture. Last week a committee of 11 wharfies met at the Waterside Workers' Federation rooms to work out finance raising plans, which will include the holding of a cabaret. Joe Gurmi, the committee's secretary, said he was sure members of the Maltese Club would also weigh in their support. At the meeting Mr. Powditch told the wharfies: "my wife and I want to adopt Nancy because we love her and desire to give her a good educa tion and a better life." Mrs. Powditch accused the Minister, Mr. Op perman, of lacking humanity and decency in not using sound discretion to allow Nancy to remain in Australia. In an open letter to delegates of the Australian Citizenship Convention held on January 18 she said: "1 accuse the Minister of being a regimenter of people whose skin pigmentation does not match his own. This is one of the worst aspects of racialism. "I accuse the Prime Minister (then Sir Robert Menzies) of supporting the platform of the White Australia Policy, extraordinary conduct for a man . who is represented as an international figure." Some of the waterside workers' committee members pic tured with Mr. Powditch (second from left). 