 Exciting, exhilarating The opening night of Les Ballets Africains' Sydney season at the Tivoli last Tuesday provided an en thusiastic audience with a feast of exhilarating and exciting theatre. Naturalness, spontaneity and above all a complete absence of inhibition are the keynote of the approach to their art taken by these talented dancers, sing ers and musicians from Guinea. Their, grace, their innate sense of rhythm and in particular their immense vitality and at tack on stage make the average Western twister or frugger look like a paraplegic in agony. The intensity and abandon ment of their dancing—together with the bare tops sported by the girls in several, though by no means all, numbers — have given headline-writers a field day. There has been a lot of extra vagant and rather condescend ing talk — from people with a greater flair for sensation than geography— about the "primi tive world of the jungle" the dancers supposedly portray. In fact, of course, they do nothing of the sort. But they do reflect an attitude whereby emotion is to be unrestrainedly expressed in movement, and the body a thing to be proud of and not ashamed. Artifice and conceit are almost entirely lack ing in their work. Where the dancing— aided by the compulsive pounding of the drums— does approach frenzy, it seems to be part of a process of catharsis or purging of the emotions — basically a form of immense social release. The songs and dances, drawn from the vast store of West African folk-lore, recall the great days of the medieval kingdom of Mali, invoke the tribal spirits, warn moral wrongdoers of the retribution awaiting them at the hands of the gods, or simply celebrate festive days. For sheer spectacle, Les Bal lets Africains cannot be beaten. Masked stilt-dancers tower above the stage, costuming is vivid, and the vigour of the dancing incredible. If any section of this fine company is to be singled out, in my book it' would be the drummers, who seem wedded to their instruments as they pound their way through an amazing complexity of rhythms, both following and determining the mood of the dancers. And if any number is to be criticised, it is "Tiranke", where an attempt to introduce comic relief in a modern setting drag ged on far too long.— R.M. 