 Guilty men "QUILTY MEN" is a historic phrase originally applied to Neville Chamberlain and his sup- porters in the British Tory Government which, at - Munich- in 1938, signed a shameful agreement with Hitler. Just one year later Hitler used the added strength he gained by the Munich deal to overrun Poland and France, Britain's allies, and threaten Britain her self. ' ; The insensate anti-Communism of the Munich- earing guilty men thus brought Britain and the whole democratic world into the grave perils of World War II. In office in Australia today are men following in Asia the same disastrous course that Chamberlain and his associates followed in pre-war Europe. Are they not, also in the name of .anti-Commun ism, bolstering the most extreme reactionary forces in Asia? N Aren't they striving to destroy those, very forces who were our urgently-needed allies in the last war? Aren't they welcoming the massacre ,of democracy in Indonesia? Dr. Malcolm MacKay, MHR (Liberal) is very vocal about the '-treason" of Australians who see their patriotic duty tp warn the nation of the perils of the course the Government is taking, with Dr. MacKay's support. How does this Christian minister square the bombing, burning and gassing of Vietnamese pat riots with his devotion to the Prince of Peace who said "Blessed are the peacemakers?" How do the members of this Government stand in relation to the definition of genocide as adopted by the Nuremburg War Crimes Tribunal? bf ; l . i ; i Prominent British philosopher Bertram! Russell 5 - has already- said; "The USA has perpetrated every atrocity which will come under the purview of a war crimes tribunal." , A more eminent Christian than Dr. Mackay, Rev. Alan Walker, of the Central Methodist Mission, in Sydney has called the Vietnam war a dirty, immoral and unjustified war. "Young conscripts will be morally justified in re fusing to fight," he said. Like the Australian majority who crushed con scription in World War I, the genuine patriots today are those opposing conscription and the Vietnam war itself. Those responsible for Australian inter vention will ultimately have t.o pay for being the Guilty Men. , 