 [?] You have to hand it to him JHE sheer guts of Francis Chichester due in Syd ney this week after his epic lone-handed sail from Eng- land, is lifting every lid in Australia. This former farm worker and miner in New Zealand is 65 and has a lifetime of superhuman ad ventures behind him. Among many other achievements, he was one of the legendary men and women — beginning with Queensland's Bert Hinkler — who flew alone from England to Aus tralia in the early days. Chichester's name was not writ ten so large in those days because he missed breaking a record. Yet he did make it to Sydney, after . many mishaps, in a Gypsy Moth in which he had gained only a minimum of flying experience be fore setting out. That was Decem ber, 1929. In his book "Solo to Sydney" he explsiaed whs; made him tick: "That feeding of cutting out big distances in an apparatus control led and directed by yourself alone ... a solitary soul from among two thousand millions ..." And for the record, he refused a Sydney "Sun" offer of £15/15 - for the story. The flight -cost £3000. "I did not feel inclined to com mercialise it even for such a fine journalistic reward," he wrote acidly. . Cruel penalty for illness LAS.T week a loco driver, Mr. Conways, was evic ted from his Housing Com mission home at Green Valley in Sydney. As we go to press, he is still sleeping in a car alongside his furniture which was dumped out into the street. He is a sober, hard working un ionist and the father of six chil dren, the eldest 11 years. His "crime" is that he is mar ried to a women who needs medical attention. Arrangements have been made for her to receive this attention at Frata House, Lid- combe, but it didn't stop the evic tion. By what standards of "morality" can this man and his kids be penal ised for his wife's illness? The only people trying to help this man are his union secretary, Mr. B. Winningale (of the AFULE), and the local Catholic priest, Father Gallagher. , Hasn't the Government any social workers to look into this matter? — or does the Government and the Housing Commission think -social problems- can be--solve&bs-_.. evicting the innocent! Holt bottom of UN class J NTENSE pressure by the United States and Chiang Kai-shek managed to in crease the United Nations vote this year against the admission of China. Tne rote was 57 to 4-5 &lt;. including Australia) against, compared with 47-all last year. The Holt Government showed the same inveterate hostility to China as before, taking the most extreme position possible. , /. It went further than the US in even refusing to support a motion \ to examine the future representa tion of China. I Delegate Flimsoll's horror-stories | about the menace of China failed | to carry conviction when read I alongside news that Australia had I just concluded another big wheat I deal with this same menace and 1 hopes for another such deal next year. | The Canadian Government, just j as conservative as Holt's, has said it is "not prepared to see the situa- f tion as it stands perpetuated". | A humane Act | BILL unique in Aus tralian history, that I prohibits discrimination on I the grounds of race, color or country, now law in South Australia is a credit to the | Labor Government in that J>tate. It has particular significance be- | cause of the shabby treatment of Aborigines by wealthy pasboraiists in South Australia, who have tie backing of the Federal Govern ment. An important section of the Act prohibits discrimination against persons seeking employment Refusal o; admission to goalie places, like hotels, places :: cn- ; tertainment and to provide ser- I . vices, food, drink, accommodation ana letting of premises are breaches of the Act. NnSSSf Chichester ... in 29 