 How Holt's Vietnam "case" reaches army CONSCRIPTS BRAINWASHED BY USA AUSTRALIAN soldiers, including con scripts, are being brainwashed about the Vietnam war with an official American propaganda booklet printed in Manila (Philippines). Its importation and circulation through army chan nels to support the Holt Government's policy line on the war amounts to gross interference in Australian internal affairs in the pre-election period. It is the work of the US Information Service. It is not even specially written for Australia but is pre sumably used for brainwashing also South Koreans, Filipinos and New Zealanders. It does not give any of the evidence being put forward by Australian opposition parties to refute the Holt Government's case. "MINDS POISONED" . Disclosing these . facts in - Federal -Parliament, Mr. A. W. James MHR (Lab., NSW) said the pamphlet "Conversation on Vietnam" constituted "the standard brainwashing formula for the conscripts serving at the Singleton Army camp" (NSW). He demanded immediate withdrawal of the pamphlet' adding: "Our boys are capable of thinking for themselves and making up their own minds without having their minds poisoned and without being taught to kill and hate. Such things are abhorrent to every decent Aus tralian". j Mr. James ridiculed the claim in the pamphlet (re plying to the question "Why is the US waging war on North Vietnam?") that "the US is not doing that at all". (This answer is given despite the sustained bombard ment of North Vietnam for nearly two years with a weight of high explosives heavier than was used on Germany in the second world war). Mr. James also ridiculed the pamphlet's claim that more than 30 nations are helping South Vietnam. He reminded parliament that there were not 30, but only four nations fighting for the Saigon regime. LIES ABOUT KY This American pamphlet tells Australian soldiers m effect that they should support their Government and ignore the Opposition, which condemns the Viet nam commitment. As Mr. James pointed, out, the pamphlet tells Aus tralian troops they will be ' 'helping the free govern ment and people ofl the Republic of Vietnam". Not a word about the Ky dictatorship and its iron-fisted suppression of all opposition, including the banning of all opposing candidates from the recent elections. Or Ky s admiration of Hitler expressed only last year. Continued on Page 12. BRAINWASHED Continued from Page 1 . The American pamphlet tells Australian conscripts they are fighting for a government that is ready to negotiate and "is opposed to no discussions of peace". The Australian troops are pot to know, that the day after the Manila conference, October 27 last, Marshal Ky reaffirmed that his government would "never negotiate with the Communists" or the National Lib eration Front. The pamphlet claims the US use of poison gas and crop-destroying chemicals does not breach the 1925 Geneva protocol prohibiting these because the gases are not "toxic" and the chemicals are merely "herbicides". "The use of herbicides is not chemical warfare whether in the jungles of South Vietnam or on the wheatfields of the Ukraine" says the pamphlet. (It had admitted earlier that the poisons are used precisely to destroy the food supplies of the "Viet cong", an obvious form of chemical warfare.) The Australian serviceman reading this would not be likely to know that the Geneva protocol of 1925 bans "the use in war of asphyxiating, poisonous or other gases and of all analogous liquids, materials or devices". Australia acceded to this in 1930. America has never acceded to it but signed a similar undertaking in the German-American peace treaty of 1 92 1 . 