 hi | « HlllHlflfft "?pi vm Hp 1 'j Twisting and the facts IAST week at Holt's Rand- wick meeting a burly adult male supporter seized a teenage girl, twisted her arm and struggled in an effort to tear up her poster. Its message — "Release Bill White." A Sydney Morning Herald press photographer caught the whole sequence— seizure of the girl, the arm-twisting, the girl bent over double. The Herald selected for pub lication the second photo showing the girl, face distorted with pain, ran a false caption: "Mini skirted teenager wrestles with police and officials as she goes to the aid of a demonstrator." In fact the man was not an official, she did not wrestle with police, nobody was arrested at the Randwick meeting therefore she could not have been "going to his aid'-'. The Sydney "Sun" (associate of the "Herald") selected the final photo of the sequence— the face of the girl . after being seized by the Liberal supporter. Her hair now dishevelled,, face . distorted in . pain. They ran it with the claim that she was representative of the "grimaces on the faces among angry scenes" at Holt's Rockdale meeting. But in fact this photograph was not taken at Rockdale "grimacing" at Mr. Holt. It was taken at Rand wick "grimacing" from having her arm twisted by Mr. Holt's sup porter. The Melbourne Sun News Pic torial (further from the scene) Went one better. It ran a caption to the same picture claiming that the "mini-skirted girl grappled with police as anti-conscription demonstrators clashed with Liber al Party women". In fact, the girl did not grapple with police, and there was no clash with Liberal women. All in all it was a classic of daily press distortion for electora-l purposes. A teenage girl still at High School suffered, but Mr. Holt's propaganda machine had scored. On November 25, faced with eye witness and photographic re buttal, the Sydney Morning Herald and the Sydney Sun had to make unconditional apologies. . — ..A-4ett-sihas._b£e.a sent, with the fr,ots to Melbourne papers with copies of the two Sydney press apologies. Watch for it down Melbourne way. Writers' Castle KA ANY Australian journ alists look upon their club as their castle. Yet a journalist who recently visited Tribune office belongs to a union of journalists who actually have their own castle. Premysl Tvaroh a Czech journal ist in Australia covering the elec- tions told us their castle was about 30 miles from Prague and is used as a holiday home for journ alists and their families. Tvaroh, a journalist since 1945, is a foreign affairs columnist ori Rude Pravo, a paper with a daily circulation of 1,200,000. He has visited many countries for his newspaper, including a five year assignment in New York cov ering the United Nations. Tvaroh looks back at his report ing of the 1955 Summit Conference at Geneva as a highlight in his career, because in spite of all that has happened since, this confer ence began a breaking down of tension among the nations. He likes the friendliness and frankness of the Australians he has met and the warm welcome he received from Australian journal ists.' . Only Aussie lamp posts left! qoes your cat or dog go ; I for the lavishly adver- \ tised pet foods?. If so, what's ; his preference? If he goes for K9 he will be i assisting to build the profits of Carnation Co. Pty. Ltd., owned 100 per cent by General Milk Co. ;j of California, USA. \ Should he prefer Pal, his ap- petite will be reflected in the bank balance of Uncle Ben Inc. (USA); a member of the world's largest pet food manufacturing . group. There is a rumour that Tongala Milk Products Ltd. is going to | enter the pet food market. This | company is owned by the Swiss- M Oursina SA which is big in pet1 ( ' foods in Europe. At least the lamp j posts are so far as we know still j Australian. \ t TVAROH 