 3000 in Sydney demo against conscription jJYDNEY: What the daily press admits was the biggest demonstration yet in Australia against the Vietnam war was held last Wednesday, March 16, in Martin Place, Hyde Park and the Town Hall. Most press estimates favoured the figure of 3,000 participants. In Martin Place, poster- carrying demonstrators pack ed the footpath from Pitt St. to Castlereagh Street on each side of the Place for more than an hour from 5 p.m. At about 6.15 they marched along the pavements to Hyde Park, where, amidst loud cheers, 10 young men burned their military call-up cards. Then they marched to meet ings in the Town Hall, the Lower Town Hall and the Trocadero. "You cannot kill ideas!" Speaking in a Town Hall that was nearly full to capacity, Bishop J. Moyes, the former Bishop of Armidale, said: "You won't kill ideas by killing people." People had the right to be Communists if they wanted, he added. Calling for further action, he said: "History happens not to us but through us. Let's tell the Government we don't want this war that isn't a war." Dr. J. P. Cairns, MHR, said the ALP was united in opposing the war and conscription for it. "The largest single political party in Australia has accepted your objectives," he declared amidst warm applause. Conscription, he said, meant that some 1400 boys were asked to carry a responsibility that nobody else did. Dr. Cairns said that allega tions that "aggression from the North" had caused the iVetnam war had been disproved. Senator Mansfield, in his report at the end of last year, had disclosed that the South Vietnam National Liberation Front were holding the same territory that they did at the beginning of the war. Mr. Francis James, editor of The Anglican newspaper, said the Government leader in the state Legislative Council, Mr. A. D. Bridges, who had, denounced Project Vietnam as anti-Aus tralian was director of eight public companies of which three had lucrative war con tracts. Should refuse to 'be in it" Mr. James said that while he himself had served for the whole of the last war, Mr. Bridges, though of military age, had not served. Mr. James added that he hoped Australian 20-year-olds would assert their rights as Australians and refuse to "be in" the Vietnam war. ft was announced that next Sunday at '3 p.m. in the State Theatre the Central Methodist Mission would hold a meeting against con scription for the Vietnam war. Other States In Melbourne last Sunday about 80 boys held an anti- conscription demonstration outside the Toorak home of Prime Minister Holt. In Canberra on Wednesday, 100 students took part in a sit down demonstration in the roadway outside Parliament House. In Queensland a Vietnam Action Week is being held, which is to culminate in a city march from Roma Street to Centenary Park next Sunday afternoon starting at 2.30. While supporting the Vietnam war, the Catholic Weekly, Sid ney admits that many Catholics are "puzzled and unhappy" about developments in Viet nam. "The unease remains. There is so much that i,s un fortunate about this war," says the Weekly. For the first time dem onstrators in last week's Sydney Vietnam protest spilled over to crowd both sides of Martin Place. 