 USA wants i more Aussie i i soldiers i in Vietnam I ! By a Political Correspondent 0 ANBERRA: Multiplying press reports S indicate that the top-ranking US j mission headed by Vice - president j Humphrey will this week demand more 0 Australian troops in South Vietnam — I probably another battalion. j Rupert Lockwood, in a cable from Moscow, j quotes TASS newsagency as saying that, according j to American correspondents, Humphrey "will try ! to talk the Australian Government into sending a ! new battalion and the South Korean Government j into sending another full division". | TASS' Washington corre- - spondent believes that addi tional contributions will be sought from Thailand as well, as the Saigon leaders admitted at Honolulu that they could not increase their army. The Holt Government, in the wake of the Honolulu con- I ference, emerged as a mere appendage of the United States I in policy concerning the Viet- I nam war. | Here was a top-level confer - | ence to plan future policy in a- I war in which Australia has been frequently boosted as the main — and almost the only — fighting ally of the USA. Yet although the comic opera Prime Minister of South Viet nam could he invited, the Prime Minister of Australia could not. Contradictory The US Government, trying to explain away the non-in vitation of Australia, made two contradictory statements (thai there wasn't time, and that there were no basic policy ? questions to be discussed). The next step, which seemed to confirm that something was amiss, was the announcement of the biggest top-level US mission to be sent to Australia —Vice-President H. Humphrey, and special advisers A. Harri- man, McGeorge Bundy and J. Valenti— due here around next weekend. ; The Holt Government's posi- tion is aiso snown by its- iso- | lation among the governments i of the British Commonwealth | concerning Vietnam. The question being asked is what's preventing the Holt j Government from making at' i least some statement of reser- I vation about the dangers of I any extension of the US war? | Canada, UK I The Canadian Government, after reoently stressing that it had no intention of becoming involved in. the Vietnamese war, nas now told the US that it regretted the resumption of the bombing of north Vietnam. It is reported to be actively moving to get the International Control Com- i mission to seek a peaceful | solution. i The British Government, I while earning criticism by en dorsement of the. renewed bombing, has at least .publicly warned the US that it will not support any extension of the war or attacks on north Vietnamese cities. Leading American political and military figures, at the recent US Senate sub-com mittee hearing on foreign pol icy, sharply attacked the John son line of involvement in a land war in Asia and the dan ger of head-on collision with China. 