 CALL TO INVESTIGATE CIA: LABOR MP BLASTS SECURITY BUDGET — Picking up pillow secrets? By our Parliamentary Roundsman £ANBERRA: Mr. A. W. James, the Fed eral Labor member for Hunter, NSW, in Parliament last week, called for the appointment of a select committee to in- vestigate the activities of the American Central Intelligence! Agency or any like organisation in Australia. The CIA which is believed to have about 2,200 overseas agents was in all probability active in this country, Mr. James said. "There is a strong in ference that the CIA play ed an important part in the recent uprising in Indonesia, in the Garry Powers incident, and other U2 flights over the USSR, China ; . and Cuba, in the affairs of South Africa, British Guina and Iran," Mr. James said, adding that he had obtained a lot of his information on the CIA from the New York Times of April 26. "In that paper it is stated that the CIA has agents in all allied countries and that these agents identify themselves to the host governments and actu ally work in close co-operation with cabinet officials. "Their numbers in foreign embassies usually exceed those of political and economic offi cers, and in a few instances have comprised 75 per cent of diplomatic missions," he said. Mr. James also attacked the Australian Security organisa tion for its smearing activities. "Most of their information comes from pimps, liars and bigots who can see Communists under every bed. "Security officers have told me that Security work is easy. They have no need to enter the witness box, no court work. "All they have to do is to submit a report irrespective of whether it is accurate, and they have no fear of embarrassment or cross-examination. Mr. James in attacking the thirty per cent increase in the Budget appropriation for the security service, asked what the additional money would be spent on. "Will it spend it on bul ging devices additional to _ those it already has — devices that can hear what is going on in a locked room, or can listen to the pillow secrets of newly weds, or of persons who may have been wed for some time?" he asked. MHR JAMES Security for whom? 