 Coast rally puts teeth in wages drive OLLONGONG : A rally of about 500 trade unionists last Sunday at the Wollongong Showground decided to step up the wages campaign by urging workers on all jobs to approach employers to pay the unions' full claim. The resolution said the Australian Council of Trade Unions1 claim for a $4.30 increase in the basic wage and a $5.90 a week increase in margins can only be regarded as the minimum required to re store the workers' purchasing power. "The shameful decision of the Arbitration Court in the basic wage hearing in 1965 has robbed the Australian workers of millions of dol lars," the unionists said. Economic problems The rally, which was or ganised by the South Coast Labor Council, said the discus sions on "economic difficulties of the nation and the state ment by the BHP on the cut back in production have been timed to influence the decisions of the Court." Any "economic difficulties" are the entire responsibility of the Liberal Government, the meeting said. As part of a national cam paign, full support and action was declared for control and pegging of prices by Common wealth and State Governments. It was decided to intensify the drive to gain signatures to the NSW Labor Council's peti tion on prices. To offend court hearing The resolution moved by Labor Council secretary Mr. E. Harvey called on the NSW Labor Council to organise mass job delegates' meetings and demonstrations at the time of the Court hearing in Sydney. Jobs in the area are called on to send delegates to the Court hearing. It was also decided to launch a Fighting Fund to continue the campaign and to call a union delegates' meeting in four weeks' time to decide further action. Other speakers were Messrs. D. McBride (Electrical Trades Union research officer), J. Be van (federal secretary, Boiler- ma k e r s and Blacksmiths' Society) and W. Parkinson (general president, Miners' Federation). Mr. McBride warned workers not to be misled by the "ridiculous argument" that wage rises cause price in creases. If this was so, all unions would need to do is argue for lower wages and then workers would be better off. He said wages were pegged in 1953, but it did not stop price rises. Family needs $58 a week Mr. Bevan said the unions' advocates in the Court get little result if their arguments are hot backed by action by workers. "We must make our voices heard!" He gave figures showing how workers "have been robbed millions of dollars" since cost of living adjustments of the basic wage was abolished. A union survey, he said, showed that a family of man and wife and three children required not less than $58 a week to live. The trade union movement must begin to determine its wages policy on the needs of a family, he said. Mr. Parkinson said Austra lian workers are producing all- time records in production, but are becoming worse off. "Now we are also being racketed, rorted and robbed by decimal currency." He said campaigns like this should not only discuss wages but have a look how Australia is being sold lock, stock and barrel to monopoly capital. "It's you and I who have to pay for the war in Vietnam," he said. WOLLONGONG workers leaving the stand at the end of the meeting. MR. W. PARKINSON, general president of the Miners' Federation. MR. J. BEVAN, federal secretary of the Boiler makers' and Blacksmiths Society. 