 THE ROSENBERGS: Invitation to the truth INVITATION TO AN INQUEST, by I Walter and Miriam Schneir (W. H. Allen , London.) Pp. 467. $6.15. Reviewed by JUDAH WATEN """HIS new book on the Rosenberg case com- J pletes the exposure of a particularly monstrous r frame-up. The authors prove with an im pressive array of facts that Jul ius and Ethel Rosenberg, who were executed 13 years ago in Sing Sing prison, New York State, after being found guilty of conspiring to commit espion age by transmitting atomic sec rets to the Soviet Union, were in fact judicially murdered by a combination of unscrupulous at torneys (like the notorious Roy Cohn, of McCarthyite ill-fame), false evidence manufactured by the FBI, per jured ' witnesses and a. prejudiced and vindictive judge; the motive being to bolster Mc- Carthyism and the repression of the Communist and progressive movements and to intensify the cold war. Throughout history, false evi dence and forgeries have played a part in many so-called spy trials and some have been de tected, as happened in the Drey fus case. But it is only since the Russian Revolution that for gery has really become a. big in dustry turning out its products in the service of anti-Commun ism. In pre-war years the nazis ran the business. After the de feat of the nazis the American cold-war experts took it over. One recent example was the manufacture at an American University of "proof" that the German High Command financed the Bolsheviks in 1917, and this was dutifully repeated in the Mel bourne Herald on Saturday, July 9, last. Unfortunately for the forgers they have been caught out and by none other than the conser vative London "Times Literary Supplement" on June 30. "But not a single piece of evi dence has been found in German archives to show that Lenin and his party ever entered into any secret contact with the Kaiser's Government or accepted money from it. There is enough . evi dence to show that they never did anything of the sort." Walter and Miriam Schneir have caught out the forgers in the, Rosenberg case. They show that all the evidence which was supposed to prove that the Rosen bergs had put into the hands of the Soviet Union the A-bomb was just sheer piffle. Soviet scientists had long before known the "sec rets" of nuclear fission and this is no longer questioned even in official American circles. Everything about the case was fraudulent. The Rosenbergs were supposedly tried under an Act which provided for the death penalty only for espionage in time of war and on behalf of . an enemy, but the Soviet Union was a.n ally when the Rosenbergs were allegedly committing their of fences. Nevertheless the law was twisted to make a judicial mur der. QN' such frame-ups as the Rosenberg case and the Hiss case, so admirably ex posed by the late Lord Jowitt, has been based the subsequent and frequently made charge that Com munism not a genuine movement and ideal, but a conspiracy manipulated by a foreign power. Some of the implications of the Rosenberg case were brought out in an earlier book, "The Judge ment of Julius and Ethel Rosen berg", by John Wexley. He had also charged the prosecution with faking the evidence, and Judge Irving Kaufman with complicity (surely he is one of the most odious judges in modern times), abusing normal court procedure to support the allegations against the Communist movement for which the prosecutors could fur nish no genuine proof. If John Wexley had lied, one would think he would have been cast into prison for contempt of court or at the very least been prosecuted for libel. Nothing like that happened. The prosecuting attorneys in particular did not want to have their activities scru tinised in another court. Neither they nor the Govern ment really believed in the guilt of the Rosenbergs. Until the last hour before the execution the Rosenbergs could have saved themselves by making a faked confession of guilt. All over the world great efforts were made to save them. Those who asked for clemency includ ed Pope Pius XII, the Chief Rab bi of the British Commonwealth (Dr. Israel Brodie)), President Auriol of France, and hundreds of organisations representing millions of people in many coun tries. ""HE Schneir book brilliant ly vindicates all those people who fought for the Rosenbergs. Above all it shows how the Rosenbergs behaved with great dignity and courage to the end. The last word has not yet been said on this case. Morton Sobell, the surviving defendant who has been imprisoned for 16 years and has always maintained his inno cence, has now filed suit in the Federal Court of the USA, re questing a legal hearing on the charges in the Schneir book.. We should not only buy "In vitation to an Inquest"; we should also urge the authorities to hear Sobell's suit. 