 ASKIN UP TO HIS EARS IN MILK "RACK a bottle of milk", the jingle of the Milk Board, is not -being whistled in the Askin cabinet room any more. Since they agreed to up tnilk prices they've been floundering up to their ears in milk. - The Youth Council of the NSW Liberal party in a mot ion of urgency on May 26, called on State cabinet to rev erse its decision to jack up the milk price. They added that if this is- not satisfactory to all parties concerned then the North Coast dairy farmers should be allowed to supply milk to Sydney consumers at 10 cents a pint. Dairy Farmers' organisations on the North Coast outside of the milk zone are now giving serious consideration to putt ing up rival candidates against the five sitting Country Party M.L.As. in their area. Meetings of Dairy farmers now being held in key centres on the North Coast are putt- ing straight questions to their M.L.As. and to Mr. Chaffey the Minister for Agriculture. They want to know why the government ignored their offer to supply milk to Sydney at 10 cents a pint, and why they have not implemented the 10 point plan for the North Coast Dairy Industry as promised in the last elections. These five MLAs are on the hot seat so much that they might even be forced before the. elections to vote against the government on an issue concerning the dairy industry. This would mean a defeat in the Legislative Assembly for the government who have only a majority of two. The policy of the Askin Gov-' ernment on the Dairy industry has been guided by vote catch ing, not by what is in the best interests of dairy farmers and consumers. They gave a written pledge in the shape of a 10-point plan to ensure the votes of the North Coast dairy farmers in the last State elections. Only one of the points— to subsidise T.B. testing in herds — has been implemented. Last May they agreed to an inquiry into the price of milk which everybody knew would increase the price in the milk zone to ensure that the dairy farmers in the Oxley by-elect ion would vote for the govern ment candidate. 