 -j y irfTTT | r i h iiny— : HELLO Tribune Juniors, i This week our competition is one that will really stretch your imagination. On February 8th the "Luna-9 rocket made a soft landing on the moon after a safe journey of a quarter of a mil lion miles from Earth. So far we have seen only one or two photographs of what this planet looks like and all sci entists are eagerly awaiting the results to be announced. When Mother and Father were young boys and girls travel by jet and journeys to the moon was just a dream of scientists and stories in science fiction. Now it is more science than fiction and soon rockets will be leaving earth for Mars and be yond. THIS WEEK'S COMPETITION 1. Do a drawing no larger than 10"x8i" of what you think a rocket landing on Mars would look like. 2. You may use black ink, poster colours or water col ours. 3. Attach this form to your drawing. Name,„. „Age..„. Address ! 4. There will be a 50 cent prize for the Juniors (up to 10 years) and 50 cents for Sen iors (up to 14 years). SPECIAL BOOK OFFER For all Junior Tribune read ers who are interested in space travel here is a very good book. It is called "Travel to Distant Worlds" by Karl Gilzin. Suit able for boys and girls from 13 years it explains the develop ment of rockets, how they are built, the problems of space travel, the conquest of the Uni verse, man in space and a little story called "A look into the future". You may obtain a copy by sending in 25 cents plus 22 cents for postage. It is illustrated, has 265 pages and a good hard cover. LETTERS TO DINEWAN JEAR DINEWAN, I enjoy being a Tribune Jun ior. I live near the sea and I go swimming to Conwong Bay which is near Bare Island. Sometimes I go gemstone hunt ing with my parents. My hobby is learning acrobatics. I would like a penfriend if you know of someone in the country I could write to. Thank you and best wishes. Maxine. (10) NSW. Dear Dinewan, Thank you for the stamps, I have just started my stamp col lection and did not have any of the stamps you sent me. Yours friend, Rick. NSW. Here are some scrambled messages that Rick and other Tribune Juniors have sent in— can you decode them enarL ot wims het flie ouy asve yam eb rouy now. (Rick.) eaceP no hreat dooglilw ot lal enm. (Linda.) owt, ruof, xis, thgie, nab eht mobb ngetoaite. (Keith.) ANSWERS Answers to the scrambled messages: 1. Learn to swim the life you save may be your oiwn. 2. Peace on earth goodwill to all men. 3. Two, four, six, eight, ban the bomb, negotiate. # HAPPY BIRTHDAY JJTAPPY BIRTHDAY to Kar en of Edithvale, Vic. who will be 11 on the 12th March and to all Tribune Junior Readers who are having a birthday in March. Many hap py returns from all of us. OUR CIRCLE OF FRIENDS QUR circle of readers to Junior Tribune is growing each week. Last week I published ad1- dresses from Ghana, West Af rica and from the Soviet Union. This week we have addresses from Bulgaria, more from Ghana, Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union. All the children who write to Junior Tribune are very ahxi- ous to learn all they can about Australia. Even though the Jetliners can quickly carry us from one coun try to the other, the cost of travel prevents many of us from visiting other lands. Australia, as we all know, is many thousands of miles from other lands and though Jet travel, radio and television have brought us closer to our neigh bours, not a great deal is known overseas about our exciting, colourful and expanding land. Many of the children are amazed by what we think are just ordinary things. Our koala, for example. Many children , think this lovely animal is just a made-up toy, nothing as cute as that could be real. Then there is the kangaroo and his large family, our wide range of lizards, our variety of birds. And so we can think of many more things our flowers and trees, rock formations (remem ber Australia is the oldest con tinent). Also many children have the wrong idea about Australia and her products. They think that Australia is just one big sheep station and not a highly devel oped industrial country. I feel that we can help the children of other countries to learn more about us, not only by writing to a pen friend, but by all working together to make a number of albums so that we can send them to Hie boys / and girls overseas. So here are a few suggestions for the albums and I am sure you will have many more: Australian stamps which feature our animals and birds, events of history, famous peo ple mounted on a sheet of thin white cardboard and covered with cellophane. Drawings of the flowers, birds and animals found in your state; the emblem of your state; col- oured pictures of scenery; in- f 'in dustries in your states; mater- ial on certain industries, for ex- 1'; ample, wool, wheat, steel, sugar; - our famous explorers; informs- pj| tion about our writers like Hen: 'i| ry Lawson and Banjo Patterson; our aboriginal people and draw- J ings. 1 ;| We should have all our mater rJ ial into Junior Tribune by May, „ :j so there will be plenty of time ...$ to obtain and prepare your con tribution. , 'Jv You may copy your drawings, as many of your contributions will come from books which 'i; must not be damaged in any yf way. With the cooler months ap- -1 proaching here is a way to fill in those few hours when there p\ is nothing much to do and also xi| help other children. II DINEWAN. jg 