 Hundreds of young men leave wharves UNEMPLOYMENT HITS WATERFRONT "I've got to get money" yNEMPLOYMENT has become so serious i on the waterfront in most Australian j ports that hundreds of men — mostly young ! men — are leaving the stevedoring industry. In the Sydney port at least 200 young men left the industry during the period from last September to December. Federal officials of the Waterside Workers' Federation | say the total figure throughout Australia was almost I 900 during the same period. 1 This estimate is based on the Stevedoring Authority's own reports and does not include men who have been steadily leaving the industry since the New Year. - Last week, Tribune talked' on the job to Ray Trew, a 25-yearolcI Sydney wharfie — but not for much longer; he is getting out of the industry! "I'm getting married in October and I need some money," he explained. | "There is not enough work around. All I'm getting I is about three days' work a week. $ "Last Week I got $34 and over the past weeks it has | usually been about $30 a week." | Before becoming a wharfie two years ago Ray made | felt hats. | Misled by "big money" talk Like so many other young men he was led to believe i that he could get "good money" on the wharves. I During last year's waterfront struggles for higher I wages, pensions, increased attendance money payments | and improved conditions, both Federal Government '1 spokesmen and the press told of "high wages" oh the H waterfront. jl They did not play up the fact that a wharfie is on call seven days a week 24 hours a day. j Or that a $60 a week pay could include a Sunday | and night jobs. 1 Aggravating the present unemployment situation on I the waterfront are the attendance money penalties I imposed on the men by the Stevedoring Authority || during the disputes last year. |t This means the $2.82 a day paid when no work is ;Jj available is not being received until the penalties are f| cancelled. |J Ray, like other members of his gang, has cancelled || out about 20 days in fines and still "owes" 10 more I aa?s: His mate, Ray McCormack, a 28-year-old married man j| with two young sons, said: jf "If things get any worse I'll have to go, too; I cannot || hold on much longerl" jg Both men fully support the demands of the Federa- i tion and think wharfies are a "good lot of blokes to | work with." 1 Meetings this week I Ray McCormack is paying off a home at Wentworth- 1 yille and was a crane-driver before becoming a wharfie | just over two years ago. "Workers in no. other industry have to cope with H suc Penahies and attacks on their conditions as do II wharfies." 11 He said that his two pay days before Christmas were M 12 a week due to the "hostage", penalty. !dt is anticipated that the chronic unemployment on the waterfront will be a big issue at the stopwork meetings being held this week throughout Australia. Already strong calls have been made to have the (Continued on Page 12) JOBS SHORT ON WHARF (Continued from Page 1) present fines abolished and for a six-hour minimum payment per day when no work is available. This week's meetings will hear reports on the water front conferences which Federation officials have been attending together with the shipowners, the Government, the ACTU and the Stevedoring Authority under the chairmanship of Mr. A. E. Woodward. Mr. G. Fitzgibbon (WWF general secretary) has pointed out that the conferences arose from the call of the trade union movement for all-in talks to vent the claims of all parties. These have been held "against the background of the recent infamous amendments to the Stevedoring Industry Act," he said. "The stopwork meetings will not be called upon at this stage to make major decisions on the reports, but will be required to give careful consideration to the trends already established in the negotiations. "Federal officers will welcome forthright views from the rank and file on the progress of the negotiations and the issues before the conferences which are of vital importance to the Federation and have industry-chang ing implications," he said. TWO WHARFIES feeling the pinch of waterfront j unemployment: Roy McCormac'k (left) and Ray Trew, seen on the "Stratus" at No. 20, Pyrmont, | Sydney. Story page 1 . f 