 STRIKE BENDS STEEL MONOPOLY : Big drive against non-unionism /OLLONGONG: In the first general strike at Australian Iron and Steel (a subsidiary of Broken Hill Pty. Ltd.) for 14 years, 13,000 workers have won the first round with tihe giant steel monopoly, in a drive for 100 per cent unionism. The 24-hour strike began last Monday after five mem bers of the / Electrical Trades Union were suspended for 24 hours for refusing to work with a non-unionist. The man con cerned has since joined a union. A feature ' of the 24-hour strike was the spirit of unity between leaders of the 11 unions and the rank and file. About 200 workers with the union officials picketed the AI&S plant" last Monday to encourage all the workers to join the strike. This' helped to frustrate at tempts by the management to break the strike. The South coast Labor Coun cil had earlier launched the campaign to make the steel works a full union shop. It has been estimated that over 40 per cent of the AI&S workers are unfinancial or non-union members. A meeting of officials from 11 unions with members in the steelworks decided to go ahead with the strike despite a ruling last Saturday from Justice Kelleher that it would be "il legal". Most strikers know that few strikes today are "legal" par ticularly against the BHP or its subsidiaries. "Illegal" strikes Miners on the South Coast have been staging a series of "illegal" strikes at Bulli, Kemira and Corrimal pits be cause they refuse to be "burnt, crushed or dusted to death" by the AI&S. The wages of steelworkers are amongst the lowest in Austra lia. This is the reason why the unions have beep campaigning for a $10 a week industry al lowance. This is also the reason why the BHP is not keen on union ism, particularly the militant brand. A mass meeting of 4000 strikers at the Wollongong t Showground (pictured above) last Monday, condemned the company for suspending work ers who observed union policy. Campaign Endorsing the campaign for 100 per cent unionism, the meeting declared that a united campaign in the industry was the only way to lift wages and conditions for steelworkers. The company was warned that any further attempt to interfere with the campaign for 100 per cent unionism "will be met with similar industrial action". The South Coast Labor Council and combined unions were authorised to determine any further action required to achieve this aim. Mr. L. Short (national secre tary, Federated Ironworkers' Association) told the strikers: "I would like to warn the BHP that they would be well advised not to try and stop our campaign." He said that 100 per cent unionism existed in most big industries today, "so why should the BHP be an excep tion?" Labor Council secretary, Mr. T. Harvey, told of the struggles over the years to bring union ism into the AI&S. mmtf4 \K , reply to KyPage 12 liprt The peacer;piai|| j -Wetails this pa«e) ! 