 A special science correspondent looks at an important new theory How did Earth evolve? 0F all the planets of the Solar System Earth is, as far as we know, the only one whose atmosphere con- tains large quantities of free oxygen. It is the only planet which contains advanced forms of life of the type we know. Was this development of higher forms of life an inevitable process, or did it occur by chance? The theory of evolution, that is that plants . and animals dev eloped from previously existing species instead of being created separately is not doubted by scientists nowadays. The fact that the theory still cannot be taught, legally, in Arkansas and a few other American states doesn't alter its truth for those parts of the world, of course. But there are many unsolved problems in evolutionary theory. For example, how did the first animal or plant originate? Leaving that much discussed question for another article there is another problem; why has evolution occurred in surges, sometimes after long periods of little change. Why, for instance did the dinosaurs develop rapidly, and then after many millions of years disappear rapidly? One way of accounting for the disappearance of the dinosaurs is to suppose that the Earth became cooler perhaps because the solar system passed through a cloud of dust. As less heat reached the Earth the cold blooded dinosaurs died" out. Other catastrophes are called upon to account for other changes. Now a new theory has been put forward by two biologists from Dallas, Texas. Their ideas do not depend on chance factors, but on changes brought about by interactions between living things and the atmosphere. The primitive Earth, formed three thousand million years ago, probably had no atmosphere. This would have been produced by volcanic processes, releasing gases formed by internal develop ments inside the Earth. But volcanoes do not release free oxygen. They give out a tremendous volume of gas, mainly steam, but also nitrogen, carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide, methane and others. The water vapour would soon cool and form the oceans. The first atmosphere on the Earth would be a poisonous mixture to us. Not only would the atmosphere be poisonous, but ultra violet light from the Sun would destroy life. Ultra violet light does not reach us in great quantity be cause of an absorbing layer of ozone in the upper atmosphere. Ozone is a form of oxygen and therefore was not present origin ally. Pools gUT life could exist in pools of water, thirty feet or more deep. Probably the first green single - celled plants formed in these pools. Being green they could carry on photosynthesis and produce a certain amount of oxygen from water and carbon dioxide. Gradually due to the action of plants oxygen must have built up in the atmosphere. When the level reached about one per cent, two vital changes would occur. There would be enough oxygen for larger animals, and a partial protective layer of ozone would be developed. Life would become possible to within one foot of the surface of the water. The fossil record in the rocks fits the theory. For about two thousand years only single-celled plant fossils are known. Then, about 600 million years ago life rapidly branched out into a myriad of forms. Plants yiTH larger plants now in existence the oxygen production speeded up. When the level reached 1 0 per cent no shield of water was need ed for protection from the ultra violet rays. Life now became possible on the land. Four hundred million years ago the first plants crept ashore. Twenty million years later, fossils show great forests existed, well populated with animals. Now photosynthesis could pro ceed at an enormous rate. The great coal beds were laid down and the oxygen level may have risen to well above the present level. But this would check the growth of plants and animals, beoause carbon dioxide would be removed from the atmosphere in produc ing oxygen. Carbon dioxide in the air acts as a blanket to the Earth, pre venting heat escaping. The burst of photosynthesis led to great ice ages 200 million years ago and the extinction of many forms. As plants were destroyed the oxygen level dropped. After the ice age the oxygen level built up again slowly allowing the development of the largo' reptiles. Again this was followed by over production of oxygen and later the cool low oxygen period which helped destroy the dinosaurs. Changes CCORDING to this theory the whole nature of the atmosphere has been changed through the action of living things. These changes have reacted back, allowing changes to occur within the plantn and aniniaisr — It also means that if life exists on planets of other solar systems somewhere else it is likely to have followed a similar path. Although there is still plenty of room for chance factors. It's not likely that the authors of this theory are marxists, yet this is a marxist way of looking at things — to look for changes brought about by interactions be tween factors and the slow build up leading to rapid change. But like any other theory it does not depend on how nice it sounds. It must also fit the facts and there, will be plenty of argu ment yet before this theory be comes widely accepted. 