 1000 SAY END VIET WAR NOW! Big rally in Adelaide ADELAIDE: At the biggest peace rally in SA since the second world war, 1,000 | Adelaide citizens packed the Olympic Hall, Franklin Street, and demanded an end to the Vietnam war. AMID scenes of great I enthusiasm and deter mination, a resolution was carried : Condemning the Federal Government's participation in the war. Calling for a return to the 1954 Geneva Agreement providing for the future of Vietnam to be settled by the Vietnamese themselves with out outside interference. Insisting that the Viet Cong be recognised as a negotiating party. The meeting was called by the Committee for Vietnam protest, set up by a group of University students. Withdraw troops Mr. C Cameron, MHR for Hindmarsh, called for the with drawal of US and Australian troops and the holding of free elections for a re-united Viet- nam. He said that the Vietnamese had a "proud record" of struggle against foreign domi nation and oppression. The National Liberation Movement was such that "Com munists and Catholics fought side by side." Mr. Cameron vigorously con demned napalm bombing, use of gas and the burning of villages. "It, sickens me to hear people say Australians must be lackeys of the US " said Mr. Cameron. "It is not un-American to op pose US -policy just as it is not un-Australian to oppose the policy of the Federal Liberal Government." He said military means could not defeat a philosophy. Com munism was offering a better life in Asia and those who opposed Communism must, have something better. Mr. N. Blewett. of the Uni versity Politics Department, strongly condemned anti-Com munism. "When you just call a man a Red, you don't have to argue wi;th him," he said. "This in intellectually lazy." To say that the issue in Vietnam was Communist ex pansion was just to be "simple- minded." "The fact, is it was a national war of liberation by the Viet namese against foreign aggres sion," he said. National struggle Mr. Blewett said in the con ditions . of Vietnam, the Com munists played a leading role in the national liberation struggle. Ho Chi Minh, for example, was a national hero. The Vietnamese national movement was Vietnamese and such a movement did not want any Chinese take-over. As for China, it had shown restraint, yet the "Chinese bogey" was being used by those who were conducting the war against the Vietnamese. However, the stepping up of the war could, understandably, involve China. Dr. J. Tregenza, of the University History Department, said that i.f conscripts are sent to fight in the "unjust war in Vietnam" against "Labor Party opposition and that of the majority of the people," it would be "one of the most shameful episodes of Australian history." The Federal Government had no mandate from the people to bring about its conscription legislation. Better to build The Reverend P. Potter, of the Pirie Street Methodist Church, warned of the danger of total modern war with its nuclear weapons. He said it would be better to help the Vietnamese build a better life than to bomb it to pieces. 