 [?] with NOEL COUNIHAN The banniiw>f the nude THE nude human body, in- exhau stable theme of art from the most primitive ages to modern times, has again roused the ire of prurient phillistines who as our &lt; censorship authorities continue to make Australia the, laughing stock of the world. All cultural organisations at least should protest to the Federal Government against the recent banning of the book, "The Artist and the Nude", edited by English painter and art writer Mervyn Levy and published by Barrie and Rockliff. It is a blatant attack on our civil liberties that artists, stu dents and the general public should not be allowed to observe serious studies of the human body by a stream of the world's outstanding masters while at the same time the most tendencious eroticism is permitted in adver tising and in cheap pulp porno graphy. MELBOURNE: Art art critic Bernard Smith does not like paint thinly applied. Criticising the "thin, crisp and dry" appll«Sraint 111 the atfubltion 'g| | British panting". &lt;g» «» com- men Ei, women's f the Vic torian MM?,1' and Cul tural CenfcSWplayed at George's i. » claimed eMeptioasggf0 he dying Of "good ReviewinEWof Czec hoslovak jM Argu s Gallery objecting to the fc«aint in the exhibits tke inability g|rtlsts af" ford inoregl Thus bx the capitalist expression hi the Socialist "®the artists' poverty' ill Really- pI|a| ||B A from AustraliafriK Painter f££ HH ?tained a -Soot?® &lt; new £?£, boule- port. Ilif a strHbEB of their rfpqiffn Is M\ of larse, SSaedB toP floors, ments designed by the Leningrad City Coimcil especially for artists. The Zaborowsky family has just moved into one. The spacious studio with a wonderful view of the city en virons has an entrance separate from the living quarters consist ing of lounge room, two bed rooms, kitchen, bathroom and two toilets. Australian city councils and town planners please take note! # "FROM Russia with Love for art" is the title of a recent article by Alexander Watt, Paris corres pondent for Studio International. He writes: "During the many years I have lived in France I have rarely seen such, a sensational exhibition as that at the Louvre of French mas terpieces of French painting from the museums of Leningrad and Moscow. "Despite certain adverse criti cisms, I can only describe this as an astonishing and triumphal collection of major works of French art that were saved during the Russian Revolution." Which expresses my own feelings after spending days with these pictures in Leningrad and Mos cow. 