 Red Guard rort harms SEVERAL Communist Parties have dissociated themselves from the activities of the Chinese CP leadership and the "Red Guards" in public statements issued last week. > Chinese leaders are "step- ping up activities which dis rupt the international Com munist movement and weak en the anti-imperialist strug gle" says the British Com munist paper, Morning Star. It says that Chinese allega tions about the USSR colla borating with the USA are "wild" and "fly in the face of the facts". They imply that the Soviet missiles, planes and other weapons supplied to Vietnam do not exist. "They contradict the state ments by Vietnamese leaders thanking the USSR, for its aid." Red Guard activities, says the Star, have discredited China in the eyes of progres sive people and played into the hands of reaction. A statement by the Com munist Party of the Soviet Union notes that it was after a meeting of the central com mittee of the Chinese Com munist Party that the Chinese anti-Soviet campaign flared up with full force. The Chinese leadership was again provoking a sharp deterioration of relations with the USSR and had organised mass outrages near the Soviet embassy in Peking. At a time when imperial- ism was increasing its anti- liberation campaign and exd- panding its dirty war in Viet nam such a step was particul arly helpful to it, the CFSU statement said. Responsibility, for renounc ing . a joint, co-ordinated struggle against imperialism would rest with the Chinese leadership. Despite this the CPSU would continue its efforts to promote friendship with the Chinese Communists. The Chairman of the Fin nish Communist Party, Aarne Saarinen, commented that the Chinese CP leadership's methods and public pro nouncements "arm anti-Com munists everywhere." Open letter In an open letter to Mao Tse-tung, the Canadian Com munist Party said the Chinese "cultural revolution" gave a wrong idea of socialism. Anti- Soviet demonstrations could cnly help imperialism. The Hungarian Socialist and Workers' Party said that the CFC leadership was damaging the international communist movement and the interests of embattled Vietnam. . "We will never identify the Chinese people, which has a glorious past and wonderful victories, with those who want to separate China from the socialist countries and the rest of the international com munist movement" says the Party statement. Newsweek magazine states that "Within the Communist movement itself, Peking's fanaticism has been respon sible for the recent eclipse of Chinese influence in the North Korean and Japanese parties". Recently the Japanese Communist Party newspaper Akahata, in an editorial con demning "flunkyism than denies self-reliance and in dependence" said it was "com pletely wrong" to regard the Chinese Communist Party as a centre to which "anti-revi sionists" must rally uncondi tionally. 