 No opposition— candidates yes-men SOUTH VIETNAM ELECTION FARCE: THE BIG FIX! DESPITE the utmost use of terror the Ky puppet dictatorship could not force more than a claimed 83 per cent of south Vietnamese registered voters to the polls for its farcical "elections". Hitler used to think it a poor "election" day when he could not get,' at least 97 per cent to| booths to put "Ja" (Yes) on their ballot papers. Ky, a self-admitted admirer of Hitler, followed Hitler in banning all opponents from the poll. The Australian daily press admits that a man who put up an anti-Government poster was shot dead. An anti- Government demonstration by Buddists was dispersed with gunfire. Dream election The result was the dream election of all reactionary Governments — nobpdy opposed them and all" candi dates were Yes-man vying with one another to back the Government. "All the candidates for the Saigon area stood on the same platform,; shook hands, pledged their loyalty to South Vietnam and asked the people to vote for them" Garry Barker wrote for the Melbourne Herald. There \as little or no political argument and no attacks on rival parties for incompetence or anything else." Contradicting reports of "Vietcong" terror, Barker says the Vietcong "has not done rnuch to hinder the campaign." The real terrorists were on the Government side. Barker wrote: Word has gone out to every provincial chief that 80 per cent (voting) will earn them con gratulations. Anything less than 60 per cent will mean questions." According to Newsweek magazine "All across the country villagers were given strong hints that if they failed to vote they might well be in for considerable 'administrative trouble'." The Ky puppet regime obviously did not care how the people voted. It said the voting totals would not be announced for several days — giving time to pre pare the "results" needed. A cruel hoax The cynical expectation is that when a new gov ernment emerges, most of the same men will be in the seats of power" says a Newsweek correspondent. "The great danger inherent in the election is that in the end the whole performance will turn out to be just another cruel hoax on the people, giving them only a veneer of democracy on the top but changing nothing". ' Even the veneer is giving the Ky Government trouble, it seems. If it thinks this Vote", by people who could not vote against the Government, voting under the guns of a foreign occupation force, will be taken by the world as a democratic verdict for itself, it is mistaken. The very fact that, on its own record no'more than 4 millions could be dragooned to the polls out of a population of 1 6 millions (Australia, with a population of 1 1 million, had some 6 millions on the roll in 1964) shows the opposite of what Ky wanted the election to show. It proves that he and his US masters control only a small part of south Vietnam and they control that only by means of terror and coercion. 