 Calwell returns to speak again C YDNEY: Mr. A. A. Calwell, Federal Opposition leader, will speak at a Vietnam anti-conscription rally in the Sydney Town Hall next Sunday, July 3, at 8.30 n.m. (following church services). This will be Mr. Calwell's first return-visit to the city where his assassination was attempted. The meeting has been organ ised by the Australian Labor Party, NSW branch, with State president C. T. Oliver in the chair. Leading State ALP figures will speak. Mr. Calwell will go on to speak in Brisbane the follow ing Friday. Earlier next Sunday after noon, at 3.30 p.m., Mr. E. G. Whitlam, ALP deputy leader, is scheduled to speak with Rev. Alan Walker and others in a public meeting in the Lyceum Theatre, 210 Pitt St., Sydney, at a public meeting on the theme "Halt Atomic Tests in the Pacific." At last week's meeting at Mosman before he was shot, Mr. Calwell told the 900 people who packed the Town Hall that "this is an unjust war and we are in it only because America is." While he supported the American alliance, which Labor had "created", he thought American actions in Vietnam were completely wrong. Mr. Calwell said he favored recognition of the Chinese People's Republic (with rights of self-determination for For mosa) and its admission into the UN. He also favored trade with China and the develop ment of this into diplomatic relations. He said that the people of Vietnam had the right to elect a Communist Government if they wanted one. He followed Senator Robert Kennedy in calling for a free election over the whole of Vietnam as soon as possible. In a vigorous reply to ques tions, Mr. Calwell said the "Viet Cong" (National Liber- ation Front) must be recog nised. According to the Gov ernment's own admission, they controlled some 97 per cent of the country. They could not do that without substantial sup port from the people. About half an hour before being shot Mr. Calwell said "You can't kill an ideal with a bullet" — as the Government seemed to think. About 40 women demonstrated outside the US Consulate, Sydney, last Monday, protesting against the war in Vietnam. The women were from the Women's Internation al League for Peace and Freedom Organ isation, the Save Our Sons organisation and the Union of Aus tralian Women. MR. CALWELL 