 Order means Australians should come home VIETNAM : HOLT'S BIG HEADACHE He's stuck with Ky THE Holt Government, together with the United States Administration, has moved into an extremely difficult political position on Vietnam. The order -'issued by the Government to Australian lorces in Vietnam "not to get drawn into suppression ol the country's civil unrest is, in effect, an admission that they should not be there at all. Jn fact, the whole context of the American war of intervention has been the suppression of the Vietnamese people's "civil unrest". The report that a new Australian order had been issued was given by "The Australian" last Friday. Its exact terms should be made known to the public. The very 'presence' of 'Australians in South' ' Vietnusp now to support the pro-American regime iii Saigon in fact constitutes intervention; This point is supported in an article by .New York Times editor James Reston (quoted in last' Saturday's Canberra Times), who says that the conflict in the US-controlled part of South Vietnam is not a quarrel between feuding generals. The Buddhist majority are demanding an elected assembly which would have the right to decide whether or not the US should be invited to stay in South Vietnam. This is opposed by Ky, the US puppet dictator. Reston said: "In these circumstances President John son cannot both support the Government and keep hands olf the controversy, as his spokesman suggests." Neither can Australian troops back the Ky regime (oflicially the forthcoming draft of 4,500 Australians is being sent because Ky asked for them) and be neutral towards those opposing it in the latest upsurge. "Drive over tkem" Last week's reports showed Lhat the US military forces were in I act taking part in the struggle against the Buddhist opponents of Ky. US planes flew Ky's troops to attack the Darning "rebels". An order to US military police in Saigon, quoted by the daily press, said: "If demonstrators approach you, lall back. If you are over-run, turn on red light and drive over demonstrators." Mr. L- Aarons, general secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, said this week in Sydney: "If the Australian troops have been ordered not to attack 'civil ians' then they should logically be withdrawn imme diately. The National. Liberation Front, whom they have already been fighting, are mostly civilians who are part-time guerillas. "Withdrawal of all foreign troops from Vietnam is a keystone of the 1954 Geneva Agreement, the essential basis for a just settlement of the conflict." Opposition leader Calwell pointed out . that, the anti-Ky revolt strengthened the case against conscrip tion. The Government . could not claim the allied troops were fighting for democracy. The Anglican Bishop of Ballarat (Dr. Harclie) , the Archbishop of Perth (Dr. Appleton) and Dean W. BacT- delev of Brisbane all criticised the Government's policy. Three Sydney coadjutor Bishops, who issued a joint letter to their subordinate clergy on Wednesday in effect demanding jthat they vs/upport conscription, -.were- re- '5Ued the next day by four rank-and-file clergy and a Lniversity chaplain, who said they disagreed with the statement. The first national convention of the Australian UlUnit; Societies opposed the war by resolution 