 "Victory" rings hollow to the bereaved SENSELESS KILLINGS IN VIETNAM: BRING LADS HOME NOW National Service conscript boys of 20 and 21 were the main Australian victims of the tragedy at Baria, south Vietnam, last Thursday. Seventeen Australians, including 1 1 conscripts, and it is claimed, over 200 Vietnamese lost their lives in battle. Despite .talks of a "spectacular victory", the main feeling among Australians is that no more young men must be sacrificed in what Opposition Leader Calwell has truly called an "unjust and immoral' 'and also an "unwinnable" war. As Labor Opposition spokesman Allan Fraser MHR said in Parliament last week, it is becoming "a war of endlessl killing and pointless extermination." The people will call the Holt Government to account for the loss already, of, ,7.0 young Australians in that war and will demand that the rest be brought home at once, before death or other tragedy overtakes them. Daily press and Government "victory" boasts and calls for "vengeance" ring hollow in the homes where bereaved parents, wives and sweethearts mourn their dead. Will such talk comfort Mrs. Salveron, of Cooparoo, Queensland, mother of conscript Douglas Salveron. who died in the battle? "Douglas hated the army and didn't want to go over seas" she said. "He was a good boy who loved life and sport and wanted to live a little longer". Will it cheer the 20-year-old widow of the late Lance- Corporal Jack Jewry, of St. Mary's, Sydney, to know, through Army minister Fraser's statement, that "the Viet Cong might have suffered 500 to 600 casualties?" "He was upset as anyone at being called up" his brother-in-law said. And Lieutenant. Gordon Sharp, of Tamworth, NSW who also died in. the battle, was also a conscript who believed he should not have been sent to Vietnam" and in press interview publicly opposed conscription his brother said. After this statement, by an Australian who later give his life in battle, nobody will be able to say that to oppose conscription is un-Australian or unpatriotic in any way. ' 1 It will further stimulate the efforts of those who are determined that no more. Australian youngsters shall follow these to a jungle grave. ' With a complacency that can only be called appal ling Army minister Fraser said he "could not rule out the possibility of "other similar large-scale battles be tween the Viet Cong and Australian forces." The Sydney Morning Herald also warns that the Bana battle was probably only the beginning of a new nd tougher period for Australian troops. It may be .,only the prelude to large-scale battles" which in turn could easily lead to a demand for more Australian troops". This could only mean more and bigger casualty lists, »ore widows, more tragedy and sorrow in Australian homes ' — for what? Neither the minister nor the pro-Government press can say that an inch of territory was won by this battle, r will be won by those likely to follow. The supposed "gain" seems to lie in the deaths of letnamese who, on any sane view, should (like other sians) be our friends, customers and partners in (Continued on Page 12) Some of the people who took part in&lt; a protest demonstration against the killings in Vietnam outside the Liberal Party headquarters in Ash Street, Sydney, last Tuesday night. Bring our boys home (Cont. from Page 1 ) scientific and cultural advance. It is stated that among the "Viet Cong" opponents of the Australians were boys of 17 and 18. One of them pictured in the daily press after cap ture, looked rather like a boy scout in sandals. Will the Army minister tell us precisely what threat to Australian security is posed by such youths as these, living and working their own land, 5000 miles away? Have they ever said, or ghown that they want to come to Australia to kill Australians —any more than our own de ceased conscripts wanted to kill Vietnamese in Vietnam? Might they, too, not be just "good boys who love life and sport and want to live a little longer?" As Mr. Alan Fraser said in Parliament last week, Austral ian families were "being con ditioned to read casualty lists as a newspaper feature." If the Government and the daily papers really think that the people can be persuaded in this way to accept the deaths of unlimited numbers of Aus tralians jn this unjust war, they must be taught differently. One way of doing this will be to intensify preparations for the overwhelming defeat of the Holt Government and its war policy at the next elections. 