 PRICES INTO ORBIT, WAGES EARTHBOUND Can we prevent it ? By Bernie Taft JHERE is widespread opposition among working people to the wide range of price increases which are taking place. But there is also a lot of confusion as to their causes, and frustration about being able to do anything about it. This is deliberately fostered by the mass media — the daily press, TV, etc. — to create a feeling among the work ers that it is useless to fight for higher wages, as it will only lead to price increases. Some workers feel that pro tests against price rises serve little purpose, as the govern ment and the big firms take no notice of them. No wonder there is frustration and con fusion. Perhaps, some won der, it might be better not to struggle for wage increases, and hope that prices will stay stable. ' Unhappily such "hopes" are based on illusions lavishly fed by the big companies who benefit from these illusions and who also control the mass media. What are the facts? In Australia as. in all Western capitalist countries there have been constant and steady price rises in the whole post-war period, IRRESPEC TIVE of wage levels. In Australia some of the steepest price rises occurred when wages were firmly held down. The two oustanding (but not the only) examples are:— In 1953 automatic quar terly adjustments of wages to prices were stopped. Be tween 1953 and 1961 award, wages went up by less than half of one per cent per an num—yet prices increased by 22i per cent. Did wage rises cause these price rises? Obviously not. It simply meant that all added wealth produced due to grow ing productivity did not go to the producers. Between mid-1964 and mid-1966 wages were virtually frozen (except for the li per cent increase in 1965). Yet in these two years prices rose by li per cent, one of the steepest increases in the post war years. Clearly wage rises could not have caused it — there were none. The most striking evidence that wage levels are NOT' the decisive factor for price levels comes from a comparison of wage and price movements m different countries. Between 1960 and 1965 wages rose in West Germany by 51 : per cent yet . prices rose by only 16 per cent during the same period. In Prance in the same -per iod wages rose by 43 per cent, but prices rose by 21 per cent. In Italy the workers managed to increase wage levels be tween 1960 and 1965 by 63 per cent while prices rose only 29 per cent. In these three cases' it is clear that the workers did manage to rescue something for themselves of the fruits of improved technology. Prices rose, but to a lesser extent, than wages. The plain truth is that prices rise consistently be cause of the Keynesian fiscal and monetary policies pur sued in all Western countries. They rise particularly be cause of the growing slice of the national wealth spent on war production (17 per cent of our Australian budget). If workers accept this pas sively they would fall further and further behind, as has already happened in Australia. If they struggle vigorously they can lift their share, as they have done in some Euro pean countries. Does all this mean that price rises can't be prevented at all? No. Some price rises can be prevented— most can be slow ed down. Enforce Similarly, public campaign ing forces the big employers to consider the effects of un justifiable price increases. It can even enforce the introduc tion of some measures of price control. What really happens is that the employers take advantage of a wage increase to increase prices. They use it as an ex cuse — if they can get away with it. They raise them any way, if they can get away with it. We can expect the pressure on the living standards of the working people to grow. As an increasing part of our wealth goes on war expendi ture, demands that the people must reduce consumption will grow. 