 Report all price I rises under cloak of decimal change! SYDNEY: The NSW Labor Council last week called on the Askin Liberal Government to revoke the increases in bus fares. It des cribed the increases "as a blatant repudiation of an election promise. I ABOR COUNCIL also asked all unions to report every case of increase of prices by private or public enterprise in the period of the decimal currency changeover. A strong protest has heen sent to the Premier against the Government's use of the decimal changeover (Feb ruary 14) as an excuse for increasing fares. I The Government was called on to j give the public the benefit of any ! change in fares required by the I change in currency, to exercise price j control and to compel all manufac- j turers and traders to do likewise. I Dealing with price increases ! All unions are asked to report all j price increases to Labor Council to j enable further representations being made to the Government. ( The Federated Engine Drivers and I Firemen's Association had urged | Council to establish a sub-committee j to deal with profiteering when deci- I mal currency came into operation and I to organise boycotts against manufac- | turers and retailers guilty of such pro- | fiteering. | The Building Workers' Industrial ( Union called on the Council to make | the strongest possible protest against I the fares increases and called for ! a representative deputation to be I elected to meet with the Govern- ? ment. j Petition s on prices | A prices petition, distributed by | the Labor Council's Campaign Com- ! mittee, is being distributed through | out N.S.W. j The petition calls on the N.S.W. s Government to use the price fixing 1 machinery already available to peg I prices at present levels and insti- I tute public inquiries into food prices | with the aim of bringing about price reductions. The State Government is also asked I to initiate a conference of Premiers | of each State with Federal Govern- | ment representatives for the purpose | of reaching agreement for a national j prices control and reduction policy. j A letter from the State Minister j for Labor (Mr. Willis) in answer to ! the unions' demands for price con- I trol received a hostile reception from j Council delegates. j Mr. Willis said that apart from fruit and vegetables, whether fresh, J canned or otherwise processed and j other items directly or indirectly j affected by the drought, food prices 1 generally are stable. ! Mr. Willis said that Labor Govern- j ments in N.S.W. had in the past re- | jected requests from Labor Council j to implement price control. j Mr. K. Miller (N.S.W. secretary J Plasterers' Union and A.L.P. State | executive member) said the A.L.P. I should wage a strong campaign in S the electorates of the Ministers res- J ponsible for increases in fares and ( prices. ! "If we are to break such arrogance ( as expressed by Mr. Willis a vigorous | campaign of meetings and leaflets | should be conducted in his elec- ! torates. I It has been reported that the Labor | Party Opposition is planning an at- | tack on the Government over price I increases. | The Opposition is expected to move I a censure motion when Parliament j resumes next month. 