 Lost; Australia s pioneering spirit |N the 19th Century Australia pioneered many social services, but today we seem to have lost our pioneering spirit, claimed University of NSW lecturer Dr. G. W. Ford. Dr. Ford was addressing the Social Services section of last Saturday's big Living Stand ards Conference. People living in Canberra, where everybody has social se curity, Dr. Ford alleged, failed to understand the problems of those who did not. Today technological change is faster than ever before, Dr. Ford pointed out, but no thor ough survey of social services had been made for 20 years. Technological change meant constant displacement of peo ple, and consequently attention should be given to retraining and rehousing. Managers and university lec turers were assisted in trans port and accommodation when they were moved to a new job, but no such consideration was shown for miners when a pit closed down. If Australia wanted to at tract migrants, Dr. Ford said, social services would have to be improved. Many migrants found that our social services were behind those in the so-called "backward" countries in Eur ope from which they came. Topsy-turvy "We live in an affluent so ciety," he said, "but the dis tribution of wealth is topsy- turvy. Teenagers have never had it so good. "They deserve this, but I suggest that the people who built this prosperity are not sharing in it. "Many of them are pension ers on the poverty line." . The cost of one war-plane, said Dr. Ford, could have in creased all 1964-65 maternity allowances by 75 per cent, or provided for a 65 per cent in- crease in the grant for homes for the aged. The new warship "Perth" cost $40 million, which could have raised all child endowment in 1964-65 by 20 per cent— or lifted widows' pensions by 85 per cent. Dr. Ford also criticised the practice of lumping together all old age and invalid pensioners, and all sick and unemployed. He stressed the need for greater aid to the physically and ment ally handicapped, who could greatly increase society's pro ductivity. ECONOMIST FORD Behind the so-called backward 