 ' Controls' on shipping ignore main need By Our Parliamentary Roundsman QANBERRA: The Federal Government last week introduced legislation "to control restrictive trade practices" by overseas shipping lines. The move is seen as reflect ing the growing public oppo- sition to the huge annual freight bill charged by the London-based shipping con ference monopoly. In 1962-63, freight and charges by these shipowners on the Australian run. totalled $860 million. The legislation introduced by the Attorney-General (Mr. B. Sneddon) contains some clauses that could be used to curb the power of the conference lines. But it completely ignores the complementary step de manded for many years by the trade union and labor move ment, as well as some busin ess and farming interests. That is, the establishment of an Australian national line of overseas ships. % Without such a 'line, the private exploitation of Aus- tralia's overseas trade cannot be broken. With a timely reminder of the trade unions' long battle on this issue, last week's con ference of the Job Delegates' Association of the Sydney branch of the Waterside Wor kers' Federation elected a delegation to wait on the Fed eral Treasurer (Mr. W. Me- Mahon). They will ask that funds be made available for the build ing of an Australian shipping line to protect the Australian economy from the plunder of the overseas shipping monopol ists. The Australian Financial Review makes a significant summing up of the new legis lation when it says: "It is obviously designed to provide ai working basis for rationalisation of the shipping conference on a basis which would be mutually profitable to efficient companies and Australian trading interests." , In other words, the Govern ment is concerned mainly that some of the present takings of overseas millionaires should be retained by Australian million aires. Provisions Under the provisions of the legislation, shipowners with ships carrying goods to and from Australia will now have to appoint a local agent to undertake on their behalf negotiations with Australian shippers. The Government can reject the results of such negotiat ions if it wishes. Particulars of restrictive agreements between the con ference shipping lines would have to be filled with a "clerk of shipping" and could be out lawed by the Government 