 Call for stoppage over wage delays UNIONS WON'T TAKE PRICE RISES I Plight of the 1 pensioner j I -now would you I like to live on I $8 a week after pay- I ing $6 rent?" I This is how Mrs. A. E. Reilly, an 80-year-old widow, last week summed up the case for higher pensions for the 1 aged. Mrs. Reilly was asked | by a Tribune reporter I to tell of her experience in trying to make ends meet. > Her answers should stir the conscience of every member of the Gov ernment. I I | Little meat At the age of 80 she h is still an active member >, of the Original Old Age | and Invalid Pensioners' 5 Association of NSW . Together with other pensioners, Mrs. Reilly was interviewed last | week during the 33rd annual conference of the association. 1 "No, I don't eat much meat — I cannot afford it. 4 "Every single penny of | my pension is budget s' ec-" I She can only afford to 5 travel once a week by \ bus to Bankstown, 1 Mrs. Reilly lives on 2 her own at Bankstown J and of late has not been in good health. ' j Just three months ago ,t she was five days ill in u her chair before some- | one found her . > While Mrs. Reilly's pension could only be regarded as a pittance, I ber main concern was | 1 h e "victimisation of I married pensioners." i Married pensioners re- 1 ceive $11 each and a sin- | gle pensioner $12 a week. & A supplementary al- lowance of $2 is also paid when a single pensioner is paying rent. | Mr. A. E. Caldwell, at | 81 years, was the oldest conference delegate and | is still the president of J the association's Gosford Pictured , from fop: Mrs . A. Reilly, Mr. A. Caldwell and Mrs . N. Ingram . branch. He indicated that people should battle for justice as long as they are physically able. "I'm glad to still have a kick in me to expose how politicians are treat ing pensioners. "When it comes to their own salaries, poli ticians vote for increases according to . their con science— not on party rulings. "This should also ap ply when voting for in creased aged pensions," he said. Menzies' plums Mr. Caldwell, who was a carpenter and bush worker, recalled that "Menzies thought child ren should assist their pensioner parents. "Why then does he ac cept $9600 a year pen sion plus a free govern ment car, private secre tary, use of a government office and a yearly free trip around the world for him and his wife?" he asked. Mr. Caldwell and his wife get $21 a week be tween them. They have their own home "heeding a new roof we cannot afford", and for which they pay $56 a year Shire rates. Mrs. N. Ingram, a 74- year-old widow, has for many years been the as sistant secretary of Mar- rickville Branch. She gets $12 a week pension but assists , "less fortunate" pensioners in the area through 'meals on wheels' and is active in the local amenities centre. Continued, Page 12 PENSIONERS' PLIGHT Continued) from Page 1 This year again, as in L lie. past, conference de- ma ntled that the Federal Government give all Soc ial Service pensioners a pension equal to 50 per cent of the male basic wage, with cost of living adjustments. It was also, demanded that the $2 a week sup plementary allowa nee, now only given to single pensioners paying rent, hi1 extended toyall whe ther married or Single. Conference said this would assist home own- ing pensioners to . cope with increased water and land rates and mainten ance costs. Other demands in cluded improved health, hospital and recreational care for pensioners. On March 2 and 3 executive members of the national pensioners' organisation will go to Canberra to press the de mands for increased pen sions with , the Govern- ment. All- decent Australians will be interested in the Government's answer! 