 SA Government secretly sells its copper deposits ADELAIDE: The decision of the State Government to hand the development of the Burra copper deposits over to a private group of companies by secret agreement will cause con cern to the people of South Australia. Questions that require an answer are: Why the Government does not carry out its own development works? How much has already been spent in preliminary work by the Depart ment of Mines? What control will the Government have over future developments? And most importantly of all — what are the terms of the agreement already made ? Answers to these ques tions may reassure those who remember only too vividly the activities of the Playford LCL ad ministration in selling out the State's natural re sources to monopoly enter prises. A Company, known as Mines Exploration Pty. Ltd., has been given the right to carry out testing and developmental work in Burra. This Company is formed from Broken Hill South Ltd., North Broken HUl Ltd., who are both multi-million-pound concerns with links with other huge monopolies. Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australia Ltd. and McPhar Geophysics Ltd.. make up the remainder of Mines Explora tion Pty. Ltd., and both might be worthy of investigation for their overseas connections. The statements by Mr. Bevan, Minister for Mines (one announcing the project and the other in reply to an LCL question in the Legisla tive Council) give grounds for a great deal of concern. Mr. Bevan has said that extensive work has already been carried out by the Depart ment of Mines. The work of the Department, which has been going on for several years at Burra, has been paid for by the people of this State who are entitled to demand that a wealthy minority should not reap the benefits. Transfer of rights The statement of the Mini ster that the Government pro poses to transfer its rights in the area to a private company is likewise questionable. It is understood that after a period of 12 months the Company will decide on the economics of establishing a mining and treatment project of oxidised ore. Surely this is a case of a sure-fire investment which can hardly fail to go right. However, despite the merits or otherwise of such an ar rangement, there is no reason why the public should not be informed of the agreement. Mr. Bevan's statement that it would "not be proper" to release details of the accepted offer must be challenged. Any secrecy in arrangements between a Government and a private company creates a n atmosphere of distrust. If the arrangement is, as Mr. Bevan says, a satisfactory one there is surely no reason why it should not be made public. Under the Playford adminis tration the Western Mining Corporation, in partnership with Broken Hill South Ltd. and North Broken Hill Ltd., was given the right to a special mining lease to prospect in the Moonta-Wallaroo area. The same Mines Exploration Pty. Ltd. to which the Labor Government have granted the Burra lease were also granted a special mining lease by the LCL Government. This is on the SA and NSW State borders near Broken Hill. The development of the State's natural resources is to be encouraged. What is to .be safeguarded are the people's interests. Already our State, along with others in the Common wealth, has the experience of natural resources being placed in the hands of people whose only interest is that of per sonal profit. The people, who have re cently rejected a Government that was only too ready to serve monopoly concerns, ex pect something different from a Labor administration. 