 ROSS: emphasis must be " service " ""fHERE is little doubt that the only way in which the traffic difficulties of NSW can be solved is by the establishment of a Co-ordinating Council, to bring together those who are interested in the problems of transport," Dr. Lloyd Ross, NSW Secretary of the ARU told Tribune. 'The guiding principle for such a council would be the recognition that an approach to the problems of transport service can be made only if an emphasis is placed on "ser7 vice". "Sydney's transport is in a chaotic position mainly because there are too many agencies concerned with transport and very little co-ordination be tween them. "The Australian Railways Union believes in importance first of all of co-ordination, and secondly of service. "A simple illustration of co ordination is the policy of making available at railway stations parking facilities so that passengers may drive their cars to the railway station and take a train. The extension of this policy requires an increas ing number of parking facilities at the station and constant im provement of passenger ser vices. "In order to avoid the pre sent chaos and saturation of our streets in motor transport, . it is essential that passenger services in the metropolitan area be extended. There is some opposition to such a pro posal in department quarters because this solution involves an extension of passenger traf fic, which is regarded as a loss by the Department. Underground "Transport must go more arid more underground. It is signi ficant that in Europe there is an awareness of this, as illus trated by the extension of rail way service. "The danger that faces the railway department is that in searching for a. balanced bud- get for the railways they are in danger of accepting the view that in order to make the rail ways pay passenger services must be restricted and there must be no attempt made to extend services in the metro- politan area. "The experience of the rail ways at the moment is that they are facing two almost contradictory policies. On the one hand there is a shortage of staff, due to the existing con ditions of wages and ameni ties. "On the other hand, some of the men are still working ex cessive hours because of the failure of recruiting suitable staff, and this condition is used by the railway department as a reason : for rejecting demands for improved conditions and .ideas for the extension of the railway service. Important "It is important to note that during the period of economic recession the railways were able to recruit labor, but at the same time as soon as the economic conditions improved most of the new recruits left the service. "The railway department often places itself in the diffi cult position that it tries to solve its problems by restricting conditions instead of improv ing those conditions which would make for a more stable staff. "It is ironical at the present moment that we are facing a drought, but at the same time if the economic conditions in the country improved and the railways restored their ser vices they will have difficulty in manning the railways, which will be necessary because of the fact that they are unable to hold staff. "This was recently admitted by the Commissioner, who in stead of preparing a plan to improve conditions and hold its employees, gave a senti mental talk to his officers, in which he appealed to them to be more considerate to the staff, and at the same time the cur rent policy of the department is to reject the demands of the union which is the only way that this problem can be solved." Dr. Ross 