 Moree suffering in drought By D. Olive mEWCASTLE: Wheat farmers, graziers, workers, town business men and others are all being critically affected by the drought in north-western New South Wales, I found during a recent visit to Moree. Wheat farmers and graziers are heavily in debt and want real guarantees that they will not be forced off their land. They want action to enable them to weather the crisis and make provisions for restocking 'andi Replanting of the land when the drought has broken. One wheat farmer told me how he cleared 2,0001 acres of land' at, a cost of $86,000 and planted 1,800 acres with wheat seed at the cost of $1,400. An average crop would have returned $30, C00 — he never got one shoot nor one dollar. This farmer will have to boirow again to replant and this will only be possible if there is good' rain before the end of June. This case is typical of the area, where the situation of wool growers is no less serious. One big grower in the area normally has about 20,000 breeders. The drought? has re duced his flock to 7,000. A reasonably good season would have resulted in approx imately 10,000 lambs. This year the figure was down to 500. The result is the breeder ewes are getting too old' and there are insufficient young ones for future breeding. Large areas are so dry and bare of edible vegetation that I saw sheep eating dirt in order to extract the dry grass roots. The position of cattle graziers is also desperate. Some time ago the Moree abattoir almost closed down but recently re-employed 170 men. This was because graz iers are forced to slaughter their cattle before they die or become too poor for killing. A stock and station agent told me that the prob lem of re-stocking "becomes an acute national one, requir ing urgent and effective action." Business people are also feeling the pinch. Three shops in Moree have closed, Coles' staff has been reduced by one- third. Hotels are drastically cutting staff. With less sheep to shear and no wheat to harvest, shearers earnings are declining and employment more difficult to find. Over 70 men are already on relief work in. Moree alone. One business man whose views I sought summed up the situation on the north west in these words: "Our wool growers, graz iers and wheat farmers, even some big ones, are accumu lating huge overdrafts. "We face a national calam ity demanding action at nat ional level. The drought crisis is very real while the attitude of both State and Federal Governments is both unreal and entirely inadequate." All discussions highlighted the need for more positive thought and effective action by both state and federal gov ernments for immediate relief and future recovery. 