 Burdekin Dam, nationalisation, fishing plan I DEVELOP THE $ i NORTH-biit 5 without monoplies Nationalisation of certain vital industries and big-scale gov ernment works, especially in water conservation, were demanded during the first people's conference on northern development held in Townsville (North Queensland). One hundred and thirty nine delegates from organisations representing thousands of North Queensland people attended the North Queensland Conference on Wages, Prices and Northern Development in Townsville on March 26 and 27. The delegates came from trade unions, youth and women's organisations, poli tical parties, peace com mittees, shire councils, and the Queensland Parliament. Papers delivered at the s. .Conference included Northern ; Development and Prices, Housing, North Queensland I Fishing Industry, Pensioners | and their problems, and; Ship- ping Freights. (; Mr. T. Aikens, Independent £ MLA for Townsville South, speaking at the Conference, I said that its aims and objects | were those of every working I man in the State. | A "must" s; Mr. P. Tucker, the MLA for 7oTq\yn,sville North, told . the - Conference he was strongly in favor of price, control and that northern development was a "must." J' "This development is re s' quired to assist both primary - and secondary industries to attract people here and to allow them to live here on decent standards," lie said. Mr. A. Dean, speaking on behalf of the Communist ? Party, said that water con- r servation on a large scale was the keynote to real northern development. Much had been said in the past on this subject, but little had been done, he said. Mr. Dean proposed that the Burdekin Dam project become a major issue of development. "This is an issue around which people of all organisa tions, irrespective of politi cal parties, should campaign together as one," he said. "Salad bowl" Completion of the dam would provide tremendous scope and vast potential, and it had been said with some justification that the area could be turned into a "great salad bowl," , Mr. Dean said.'. Industries like canneries, dehydration plants and freez ers for fruit and vegetables could be built side .by side with the agriculture develop ment. "Local and foreign mono polies are well aware of this potential. Unilever, Heinz and Campbells are a few that come to mind. They must not , be allowed to exploit this area" as they have in New Guinea and the Islands," he said. He added that the Burdekin Dam would have a storage capacity six times greater than all the dams on the Snowy, or 16 times the volume of Sydney Harbor. It would irrigate an addi tional 800,000 acres of land from the Don River in the Bowen district to the Black River north of Townsville. There was the possibility of . diverting the waters of the Herbert River to the Burdekin, for at one point the rivers are only nine miles apart. The Snowy Mountain Authority should keep intact i.ts men and equipment after . the Snowy River project has been completed for the con- . struction of this and other irrigation projects, Mr. Dean : said. ' v Process the fish Mr. Keith Bryson, secretary of the Townsville branch of the Fishermen's League, said the the industry was. in a critical position, and unless action was taken quickly the industry would come to a halt. With larger craft fishing new grounds production capa bilities of the fleets were being ' doubled. ' It will not be possible for the people of the North to consume the fish that will be caught. He said that exports to southern markets came into direct competition with im ported frozen fish which has captured 60 per cent, of the Australian fish market. Because of lack of storage facilities, costly transport and other factors importers were able to sell fish at 50 per cent, below the price North Queensland fishermen could land it in the south. Mr. Bryson put forward a four-point program as an immediate measure to save the fishing industry in North Queensland: s>; ©Immediate doubling of 'storage capacity of Fishi-Board depots. ©Adequate processing facilities at the four main ' ports in the North, An immediate tariff on all imported fish of at least 10 cents a pound. A floating fish meal plant to follow the trawlers operating on the trash fish. Mr. M. Gifford, of the Waterside Workers' Federa tion, said the "right of the shipowners to increase freight at will, after a more or less desultory debate in Parlia ment or a. few letters in the papers, must be contested in the national interest." Nationalisation of the stevedoring industry and establishment of a Govern ment overseas shipping line were matters of urgency, he said. Mr. J. Fitzgerald, Queens land secretary of the Seamen's Union of. Australia, said that the potential of the Gove, Weipa, the Mc Arthur River areas and Mt. Isa were being exploited: mainly by foreign capital. ( Absentee profiteers This backed the case . for nationalisation, he said. He: added that apy development! of the North must include employment for Aborigines on equal terms with other Aus tralian workers. Mr. E. Stannet, Townsville sub-branch secretary of the Building Workers' Industrial Union, said there was an urgent need to double the finance allocation under the Commonwealth State Hous ing Agreement and the release of $200 million from reserve funds of the banks at low interest rates for private home building. The Commonwealth Govern ment should release a further $200 million for school build ings, he said. Mr. F. Bishop, speaking for the Communist Party of Australia, 'said- that Northern Australia had been a source of great; profit for absentee owners. This had resulted' in out moded methods of cattle rais ing and vast undeveloped areas. Vesteys, the British meat monopoly, had a stranglehold on our northern pastures, he said. "What has Vestey's meat combine done for Australia in return?'.' Mr. Bishop asked. "Built big meatworks in all . .yjS.1jates.-j at,-: ppiaatSi- whqretiiey ' have nqt had to provide svmJcv things as water, power or housing for the workers. At their Darwin abattoirs, which kills for export as well as locally, the killing charges are the highest in Australia. "In the Kimberleys Vesteys have not spent' one penny on development, water storage is natural and fencing nil. This is one of the reasons why the northern part of Australia is not developed," Mr. Bishop said. With acknowledgment to J. H. Kelly, author . of the forthcoming book, ''Struggle for the North." 