 j "Mother Courage" at New Theatre ONE of the great plays of this century opens at New Theatre on Saturday 28th May. This is "Mother Courage and Her Children" by German playwright Ber- tolt Brecht. This epic drama, heightened by songs with music by Paul Dessau, is set in the period of the Thirty Years War (1618-48) that rav ished Europe, and wiped out half of Germany's population. Brecht wrote it as a warning to Germany and" the world of the possible consequences of the policy of Hitler and his Nazi party. The play was written during Brecht's exile from his Father land which he had fled when the Nazi terror threatened a writer whose plays and poems reflected a political attitude antagonistic to fascism. In the early twenties, Brecht worked in the Munich theatre, and later for Max Reinhardt at the Deutsches Theatre in Berlin. "The Threepenny Opera", prod uced in 1928 at the Theatre am Schiffbauerdamm, Berlin, became a world-wide success. The first production of "Mother Courage" took place in Zurich in 1941. After his return to Germany, Brecht put the play on at the Deutsches Theatre, Berlin. In this famous 1949 production Helene Weigel, Brecht's wife, played "Mother Courage". When the Berliner Ensemble was formed in , 1949, the year of the foundation of the German Democratic Republic Brecht had his friend Picasso's Dove of Peace put on the front curtain of the Berliner Ensemble so affirming that the whole work of this theatre was devoted to the service of peace. In 1955, when he received the Lenin Peace Prize in Moscow; Brecht declared: "Peace is the alpha and omega of all action for human brother- hood, of all creation and all art, including the art of living". New Theatre's production is in the hands of Edmund Allison who directed "Operation Olive Branch" and "Othello". He has assembled a strong cast with Patti Asange as Mother Courage, and Marie Armstrong, Norm Slater, Eileen Allison, Lionel Haft and Eric Long in other roles. The set and costumes have been designed by Yvonne Francart. New Theatre has been fortunate in receiving direct from East Germany the Model Book, a photographic record of the orig inal production by the Berliner Ensemble, which is loaned to theatres as a guide to staging the play. "Mother Courage" opens at New Theatre on Saturday, May 28, 8.15 p.m. It will show also on Sunday May 29, and after that, every Friday, Saturday and Sun day. Bookings and theatre parties 31-3237; Bookings also from David Jones and Horderns' Mid City Store. The Berliner Ensemble rehearses "Mother Courage" . f 