 Indispensable for I I study of Australia I jl INGLAND was the birthplace of the industrial revolution which tie here d in modern civilisation. England was first to witness the triumph of the bourgeoisie over feudal ism, The English people committed the unthinkable act of chopping off the head of their divine-right king, gave Shakespeare and Darwin to the world, contributed, enormously to social theory (political economy, education, juris prudence, etc.). Trade unionism had its origins in England, and there too occurred the first independent mass working class action (Chartism). But England, cradle of modern dem ocracy, was also the "most brilliant organiser" of mass starvation around the world. England, "mother of parlia ments," was a chief architect of the two world wars which drenched hum anity in saturnalias of blood. Orthodox historians cannot account for the shattering contradictions be cause the events they select and in terpret must preserve the status quo. One example, the Irish famine. Invari ably the potato blight is given as the cause. Morton, a Marxist, presents a radically different picture. Five-sixths of Ireland's agricultural produce went to pay rents, taxes and tithes and "in 1847 when hundreds of thousands died of starvation and hunger typhus, food to the value of £17 million was actually exported under the protection of England's troops." Morton refutes a hundred other "classical" distortions. The sections on the "glorious revol ution" (1688) — actually a wedding of the now-ascendant capitalists and the landowning aristocracy— are significantly relevant to some odd social theories HB HB current in Australia and throughout H - JH the "affluent" west. HB These are denoted by such terms and HB H concepts as technocracy, managerialism, HB H pressure groups, pluralistic society. , |H |H The last-named two especially — social H I H equilibrium is maintained and progress ;j H advanced by the pressures of various HB f competing groups or strata. There are EH | no classes, no class struggle. HjS Thus in Australia, we have "co-equals" Ha ! 1 B such as academic bodies, political par- HE ; IB ties, industrial planners, business, trade HL ' Hj unions, and so on. BBj BB No such thing! "Where O'Flanagan Hi ! BB sits is the head of the table." In 19th HL fl century England the landed gentry BB could display the semblance of power Bri , BB and control. They certainly ruled the BE : roosj in. diplomacy, the armed services, H| B in church, parliament and the judiciary. BH:. | BB Their ideas and mores made a heavy BH j B| impress on the national character. BB > BH . But it was the capitalist- turning-mon- B ' H|| opolist who of course dominated. And SB : BH as he graduated from "Manchester pol- BB Bf itics" (textiles, free trade, the "Little HB BBj Englanders") to "Birmingham politics" BB BH (steel, protection, jingoism, accelerated |H:: H imperialist expansion) he changed the H jBB people's ideas and mores accordingly. BBj (iflfl Similarly with the Australian monop- H olist. H H The history, designed both for the H , Jfifl general reader and student, offers an |B |fifl authentic background for Socialist HI |H| writings from Marx to the present. It HS fflH is equally indispensable for the study BB &lt;«g of Australia with its thousand links HB iHB with English history. — L. Harry Gould. BS j Hgi Available from New World Booksellers Hi iBBI and other bookshops at $1.25. BB- 'ABB 