 Brezhnev: excommunicate I talk nothing but nonsense From Rupert Lockwood OSCOW: Claims by the western press that the aim of the proposed international communist congress is to "excom municate" someone from the communist movement are de scribed by Pravda as "provocative concoctions". The Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party Congress said in a resolution that bilateral and multilateral meetings played an important part in strengthening international communist co-operation "but they cannot replace a big in ternational conference of communist and workers' part ies which the Hungarian So cialist Workers' Party is ready to do anything to bring about." I Much of Soviet communist 8 leader Leonid Brezhnev's 1 speech as a fraternal dele gate to the Hungarian Con gress was devoted to the pro blem of unity of the world communist movement. "It can be said with con fidence that an overwhelming majority of the Communist Parties, aware of their great historical responsibility, are in favor of pooling the efforts of all detachments of the world communist movement in the | struggle against imperialism, for peace, people's freedom, democracy and socialism," Mr. Brezhnev said. insistent "This is expressed in in creasingly insistent demands for co-ordination of actions to rebuff imperialist aggres sors, the strangulators of people's freedom and also the statements of many fraternal parties to the effect that con ditions more and more are ripening for another collect ive discussion by communists of the existing situation and tasks of the international communist movement. Noting that the Western press had been alleging that the task of a conference of the marxist-leninist parties is to "excommunicate" someone from our movement, he said: "All this, naturally, is abso lute nonsense spread by im perialists for provocative pur poses." "When the convocation of a. conference of the Commun ist Parties is considered, it as always means a comradely discussion of the vital pro blems of international devel opments so as to analyse jointly the great changes that have taken place in the world in recent years, to map out collectively our general line for the future and thereby to consolidate still further the unity of our ranks. Unity "The task of the unity of actions of the countries of socialism, of the international workers and communist move ment, of all progressive forces of our time, is particularly urgent now that the forces of imperialist reaction, the forces of aggression have increased their activity in different parts of the world. "The avid manoeuvres of West German, revenge-seek ers, threatening the security of the European peoples, the attempts of the imperialists to interfere with the efforts of the heroic Cuban people to build up socialism in their land, encroachments upon the freedom and independence of several countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America, and particularly the piratic war waged by United States imperialism against the Viet namese people, can and must be opposed by the united forces of the anti-imperialist front. "The core of these forces is the community of socialist states and the international army of communists. "By refusing to take joint w actions in defence of the SjB Vietnamese people, the lead- H ers of the Communist Party 9 of China, willingly or unwil- 9 lingly, are objectively helping 3g the imperialists and compli- 9 eating the struggle in Viet- 9 nam. S3 "At the same time we remain 9 confident that the time will 9 come when the Chinese Com- 9 munist Party will again take 9 its place in the united ranks 9 of the world communist 9 movement under the banner M of marxism - leninism," he ffl said. 9 