 After the beer and duck... THERE'S the Christmas beer and the New Year duck — and then what? Ah yes, New Year resolutions . . . stop smoking, drive safely, moderation in all things and, er . . . We have a suggestion. At the risk of being too oCiiwUo 1 Ul LUC 1 Cwll V v qCmSSUH) W C I A C A L UCwflUBC it affects all your New Years. Read the 20-cent booklet of the draft documents for the coming national congress of the Commun ist Party of Australia — then sit down and write your views, your ideas, your criticisms. This 30-page booklet, easily read, is something very different from the run of statements by political parties in Australia. It sets out to take apart the main things that are happening' in a fast-changing Australia: in its econ omy, technology, social and political life, culture and ideas. All this make interesting reading. It is a sweep ing and penetrating picture of the whole of Aus tralia that you will not find elsewhere. But it is more: it points the way forward. ? "Australia urgently needs a new social order. Only a united people, cooperating in all spheres of production, distribution and social life, can fully utilise new ideas and technology to create in our country abundance and security for all. ,i "Already the trend of economic arid social de- ' — velopment is creating new possibilities for co operation of the forces of the left in developing broad public action in this directiori." Already in the past fortnight these' ideas have sparked off much discussion not only in communist organisations but among ALP members, non party intellectuals and in the pages of some of the daily press. It should be pointed out in passing that already some of the ideas in the documents have become slightly distorted. The "Australian" series of two articles on the subject, for example, suggested that the Communist Party was proposing a "formal coalition with the left-wing of the Labor Party" following a predicted split in the ALP. It also referred to a "left-wing coalition against the Liberal-Countryi Party and the DLP" and said that "communists would want to be the nucleus of any nw coalition or workers' party." _ These statements represent a misunderstanding of the documents. ? As CPA general secretary L. Aarons explained at a press conference, "the concept of the 'coalition of the left' i NOT an immediate proposal for some new political and organisational form embracing different political left forces . . . "It is a concept of a coalescence of different forces in a loose way, into lines of parallel action . . . we are seeking the development of general labor-socialist ideas." Discussion of ideas, hammering out of agreed policies, parallel action, united action — these are part of the concept. Above all, the immediate path forward to social change should be centred around widening agree ment on proposals for radical social reforms and for an independent Australian foreign policy. Six months are available before the CPA national congress meets to put the documents into final form, but the process outlined above will go on, for it is in Australia's interests that it must do so. In those six months, the discussion is open to all who have something to say. All contributions to positive discussion will be published in further booklets, the first of which will be printed on January 31. That is where our suggestion comes in for your New Year resolution. Become a joint author of the first discussion journal on Australia's future! 