 RON../. THE INDUSTRIAL ' SCENE >' : Cleaners' strike rebuffs Govt, on wages, conditions JYDNEY : The Abkin Government's attack on the wages and conditions of 5000 State school cleaners was answered last Wednesday by a 24-hour stoppage and a Town Hall rally attended by 2000. Cleaners came to the Town Hall from all parts of Sydney and the South Coast to pledge support for the struggle to defend hard-won conditions. Speakers recalled that in his election campaign a year ago Askin had promised there would be no lowering of wages and conditions, but he was doing this by sacking schtiol cleaners and giving the work to a contractor. Miscellaneous Workers' Union secretary R. Gietzelt said that the contractor was sub-letting the work to sub-contractors who, being technically self- employed, worked any hours they chose. Books faked Provisions ol the award re lating to hours of work, annual leave and compensation were being broken with the con nivance of the Public Service Board. Time books he had inspected had been admittedly faked. The work was being done under conditions which no industrial tribunal in the country would tolerate. The union had been ready to settle the dispute on the basis of a letter written by Mr. Askin in which he said the contract system was being used only Where difficulty was being found in getting cleaners other wise. But, said Mr. Gietzelt, when the union wanted to accept that proposition, Askin claimed he had been misunderstood. There was no difficulty in getting cleaners, Mr. Gietzelt declared. Award breach .The South Coast sub-branch secretary (Mr. M. Nixon) said that local Liberal MLA Hough had told them he fully sup ported the contract system. The whole trade union move ment was being attacked by the Government, said Mr. Nixon. Typical was the refusal to raise nurses' wages by more than 1/- a week. The MWU assistant secretary (Mr. Forde) said that the con tractor was breaching every clause in the award "in every way he knows how." An MWU organiser (Mr. Rigby) said: "The union won't stand by and let the Government turn back the clock industrially by 50 years." Hardships Citing an example of indivi dual hardships, another MWU organiser (Mr. Dwyer) said a war widow whose husband had fought in two world wars and who had been a cleaner for years at the old Randwick Girls' High School had been told to report next Monday at Vaucluse High School. This, for her, in effect meant the sack, said Mr. Dwyer. "We will win this fight even if we have to put the Govern ment out," added Mr. Dwyer. Without a dissentient voice the meeting resolved to reaffirm its decision not to allow con tract cleaners to be employed in State schools and authorised the union officers to take any steps necessary to bring this dispute to a successful con clusion. Came in bus The resolution demanded that the Premier meet the union representative, which he has refused to do till now; it said that the Labor Council disputes committee should be notified of the dispute and further support be thus obtain ed from the trades union movement. The union was authorised to call further stoppages if neces sary. South Coast cleaners came to the meeting in a bus decorated with slogans. They were warmly applauded when they rose to' display banners and placards as Mr. Nixon started to speak. Greetings and pledges of support came from union mem bers in many parts of the State. The Teachers' Federation in structed its members not to do any work normally done by cleaners, and their representa tive, Mr. McGowan, attended the Town Hall meeting. Also present was Mr. A. Sloss, MLA. Kb?.::" ' STATE public school cleaners leaving the mass meeting at Sydney Town Hall last week. 