 KOREANS APPEAL FOR END TO RIFT AN appeal to end divisions in the international communist and workers' movement and to give all possible combined assistance to Vietnam has been issued by Rodong Sinmun, organ of the Korean Workers' Party. The appeal closely follows the terms of a similar appeal issued by the Communist Pkrty ' 'of the1' Soviet Union and later by other Warsaw Treaty governments. It is in contrast to the line taken by the Communist Party of China. The article says that the struggle of the people against US imperialist aggression is now "on a high tide" in all parts of the world. But it adds: "This is good, but alone it is not sufficient. "The anti-imperialist forces should counter US imperial ism with their united strength. Our strength in fact, lies in unity. 1 ' "If all anti-imperialist forces unite closely they can nortomlTf mramnitror fhn uror l/UJUUJ U11U . IT MA forces and defeat US imperial ism. "Therefore a powerful in ternational anti - imperialist joint action and a united front must be brought into being, centred around the socialist camp, the international com munist movement, the work ing class movement and the national liberation move ment." Rodong Sinmun says that there are serious differences in the international commun ist movement which is the vanguard of the struggle. "These differences are a big obstacle in the way of a un ited front for joint action. They must be' seriously ex plored and means found for overcoming them." This, adds the article, is the most pressing revolution ary task of the day. Elementary All socialist countries and parties already oppose the US aggression in Vietnam. They supported the Vietnamese with material aid and this was "an elementary basis for joint action." Practice would show who was and who wasn't a sincere Marxist-Leninist. "Our Party will exert all possible efforts to defend the unity of the socialist camp and the solidarity of the in ternational Communist move ment, based on the principles of Marxist-Leninism and pro letarian internationalism." The article also condemns dogmatists and worshippers of great powers who wormed their way into the Party. Among other faults the dog matists "criticised our Party's policy on intellectuals. They criticised our policy of edu cating- and remoulding old- line intellectuals as leading the party towards the Right." In fact these dogmatists fail ed to see the intellectuals' positive side, says the article. NORTH KOREAN PREMIER KIM IL SUNG (2nd from rt.) RECEIVES NLF DELEGATION 