 Big shake-up in Belgrade From Mavis Robertson in Belgrade AJMONGST the wide range of newspapers and magazines sold on Yugoslav bookstalls, in recent weeks Yugoslavs could have read versions of the changes in their government in Time Magazine or the New York Times. \ ... But no one needed to spec ulate on vice-president Ranko- yich's resignation or security chief Stepanovich's removal. Their speeches and those of other Central Committee members at the now famous Fourth plenum of the League of Communists were all on sale in booklet form within days of the meeting. The former vice-president has long been regarded as Tito's successor. Highly re garded as partisan leader "Marco", he had been Min ister of the Interior and till his resignation had responsi bilities for the placement of cadres. A major accusation was lack of democratic atmosphere in cadre selection. It seems that the security apparatus reported on politic al, social and economic ques tions and was used to hamper economic reform. Tito, reporting on the re sults of a commission of in quiry established in June to investigate state security agen cies, indicated that listening devices had even been found in his office. At the beginning both Ran- kovich and Stepanovich den ied knowledge of this, but in Rankovich's second speech he admited "political and moral responsibility". Yugoslavia recently intro duced a far-reaching economic reform which is now widely perating after much debate and discussion. Democracy The reform has provided the basis for wider democracy at the social and political level. Because of the extensive autonomy given to industrial enterprises and local govern ment it represented a "threat" 10 centralised power. __3e Plenum indicated that reservations about the E?) 1 aPParatus had been voiced since 1962, but the w.nce to economic reform iea to the final break. Tito suggested that a form of power struggle was also in volved. A widespread opinion here is that Tito as head of State is at tne same time xugosia- via's most important historic al figure, but that future heads of State will be just that and no more. No one else may devise a historical mantle for himself. The Federal Assembly on July 14 elected Koca Popovic as the new vice-president of Yugoslavia in place of Ranko- vich. Popovic, a veteran of Spain and the Yugoslav partisans, is the former foreign secretary. Stepanovich was removed and his position was taken by Rista Atrunovic who heads the commission on internal policy. \ This clearly is a move to establish political control over all police activity and is in line with the widespread demand to extend democratic reform into all spheres of Yugoslav life. — — — 1 