 ASKIN, BOLTE PUT A SMOKESCREEN UP By a Special Correspondent "PPROACHES made by State Premiers of Victoria and NSW to Prime Minister Holt to review the amount of finance allocated to their re spective states is purely a smokescreen. Together with the Holt Government the policy of the . Liberal Governments in these States is one of complete sub servience and complicity in US military intervention in South East Asia. With an election coming up in three months time it was considered not wise to in crease taxation in the Federal sphere. This task was handed to the States whose elections are 18 months away. The rapid increase in war expenditure, together with the effects of the drought, has left the economy in a poor shape reflected in lower con sumer spending which in turn has caused a decline in capital investment in consumer pro duction. The miserly increase given pensioners will be absorbed by the proposed steep in creases in State taxes, charges and fares. Despite the fact that the rate of taxation has not been increased it is estimated that Federal taxation will exceed that of 1965-66 by $273,553,000. Customs, excise and sales tax will increase by $119,211,000 and personal tax (pay as you go) by $164,281,000. With the increase in the basic wage large groups of workers move up into higher taxation brackets which accounts for a large part of this increase. Company tax and tax on self-employed is down by $31 m. but payroll tax which is associated with workers' earn ings rises by $17m. Avenues The avenues of taxation open to the States are Land iax, jjeam ana oiamp nuues, Lotteries, Racing, Entertain ment, Liquor Licensing, Poker Machines, Motor vehicles and drivers' licences. From these avenues, in creased fares and other charges the NSW and Victor ian Governments are propos ing to raise an extra $25 to $30 m. nearly all of which will come out of the workers' pockets. Hospital charges in Victoria have already been greatly in creased. The Budget speech indicates a lean time for Local Govern ment. Loan borrowings will be down by approximately 40 per cent possibly resulting in cancellation of planned coun cil works, retrenchment of staff and higher rates. The gap between revenue and expenditure in the Fed eral Budget is $533 m. and the target for loan monies is expected to fall short ty $270m. Credit expansion cannot fail to increase inflation, so that a steep rise in prices can be anticipated as this takes ef fect. The States .also are expected to budget for deficits which in view of the forecast short age of loan monies they will fall back on credit expansion. Australia's involvement in the Vietnam war has already cost the people dear, now they are being forced, not asked, to shoulder further burdens. 