 Antipoles airift...? ''THE Antipodes were adrift" Geoffrey Brain- ey writes as the final words of his new book, "The Tyranny o f Distance", though where they were drifting to no one knows". After a long struggle, he sug gests,, the tyrant "Distance" has won its victory. It has broken the exclusive 150-year-old link between Australia and the mother country. Hence Australia is "drifting" in search of a new mothership or a new anchorage. Being apparently no politician Mr. Brainey does not concern him self with the skipper of the mo ment who has cast a hawser aboard a foreign war-galleon steering near a particularly rocky shore. Nor does he observe the crew members wrestling with might and main to turn the rud der towards the Friendly Islands. But his theme— that distance "shaped Australia's history"— is an interesting one that he maintains with spirit and color. He certainly shows that quite a lot of Australia's thinking has been powerfully affected by the distances ' within Australia, along with the distance separating her from Europe. The fight to overcome both dis advantages gave rise to all the stories associated with road and rail-construction in Australia and the sailing ships that maintained communications with the home land. But in this very struggle Aus tralians learned— right from the start— that they were up against a tougher tyrant than "distance"; the power of monopoly that still pips them. In Western Australia, says Mr. I Brainey in 1842 or 1843 the people of Perth were short of rice, then a staple part of diet. An American ship loaded with rice was not al lowed to land its cargo because this would have breached the English Navigation Act which guaranteed a monopoly of such trade to British shipowners. XAIGRANTS who had sought to put 11,000 miles between themselves and the "dark Satanic mills" of Britain found that Syd ney's capitalist bosses were not much better. Fleeing from European feudal ists, the migrants found Austra lian squatters waiting for them. Seeking above all peace in a place far from the European cock-., pit, Australians were dragged just the same into Britain's Sudan War (1885) and later, simultan eously, into the Boer War (1899- 1902) and the war against the Chinese "Boxer" patriots (1900). . Then followed the two world wars, Korea, Malaya and Viet nam—till now the migrants are fleeing in droves back to quiet old Europe, where socialism's de termined pursuit of co-existence has produced a little peace and quiet— for a time, at least. However, noble ideas as well as vile ones can defeat distance and this is the real reason why Australia is now "adrift" (in a measure) from British imperial ism. Mr. Brainey does not seem to understand this fully and suggests that the crash of Singapore in 1942 made Australia understand the futility of relying on a distant "protector". THE TYRANNY OF DIST ANCE: How Distance Shaped Australia's History , by Geof frey Brainey ( Sun Books, Mel bourne) . $1.95. Reviewed by W. A. WOOD. But it took more than that to build up the spirit of independ ence now becoming more domin ant in Australia. Ruling-class reaction was mere ly to turn from one distant im perialism to another, almost as "distant" and just as capable as London or Paris of incurring a Singapore or Dien Bien Phu dis aster (followed by retreat) in Asia. gUT with workers and pro gressive Australians it was different. For over a century they had' had differ ent ideas. The French Revolution arrived in Australia with the First Fleet, the convicts coming, with their bodies shackled but not their minds. English revolutionary Jo seph Gerrald left his bones by the Harbor shores at Farm Cove but not before his ideas spread round in the slave camp. Irish ideas of liberty lost none of their force in transit from home to Castle Hill and Chartism, in 1854, showed how short, after all, is the "distance" between Bir mingham and Ballarat. One of those old "clippers" pic tured by Brainey must have brought the works of Marx and the Soviet revolution was hailed ! I i I >' H here with remarkable little time- fl lag. fl Building railroads the workers fl stretched out iron hands to one fl another to help make a nation of H a continent. Airlines today can H bring Northern Territory Abori- H gine leaders to speak in person H to Sydney workers. fl And the traffic isn't one-way. fl Mr. Brainey's book has' a picture fl —the 'first many will have seen — - I of the Royal Tar which carried fl Australian Utopian Socialism back B to the old world, which was later fl to know about Port Kembla and B Pig Iron. And (still later) what fl happened to President Johnson in fl Sydney was flashed on TV-screens B from end to end of the USA. B To the worker's and the progres- B sive movement as a whole, dist- fl ance is not the "tyrant" of Mr. fl Brainey's book. It is a bit of a H nuisance perhaps but no real ob- fl stacle to the forward march B throughout the world of the great fl ideas of today. B 