 BEHIND THE METAL MARGINS MYSTERY — " Work value 99 inquiry? By a Special Correspondent The $4.30 increase in margins recently awarded to metal tradesmen in the aircraft industry (non-licensed ground engineers and others) is exactly the same amount awarded to tradesmen, in a variety of other awards during the past two years. i But the decisions accompany ing these awards contain a variety of stated reasons for arriving at this identical sum of money. In February, 1965, the Queensland Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in creased tht State Mechanical Engineering Award by $4.25 for tradesmen and $2.75 and $2.12 for other classifications. The application for in creased rates of $6.00, $4.00 and $3.00 was made in the previous December — two months before the decision. Sole reason for increasing the award rate was to extend to all workers covered by the' award increases already won in a large number of shops by a co-ordinated campaign of direct action. The Commission's decision records "that the Metal Trades Employers' Association had been agreeable to certain in creased margins provided tsat stoppages ceased and bans and restrictions were removed". Similar actions resulted in these increases being extended to building workers in Queens land and subsequently inoreas- es of $2.60, $1.95 and $1.50 were obtained for railway worktrs in that State. In May, 1966, the Western Australian State Industrial Commission a-warded $4.30 to metal tradesmen covered by the State metal awards on ap plications made approximately 12 months previously. This was a "work-value" case and involved witnesses, inspec tions and lengthy argument. Main reason given for the increase was "the existing mar gin of $11.20 falls far short of the true value - of the metal trades tradesman in the com munity when regard is paid to rates determined for other classes of work." Shipwrights This increase was accompan- ied by an invitation to em ployers to absorb the increase in existing over-award pay ments and to use the Commis sion's powers to enforce ac ceptance of that absorption. This same increase — $4.30 — was subsequently extended to build ing workers. In June, 1966, Mr. J. Horan, a Commonwealth Commission er, increased the margin for shipwrights by $4.30 per week. Main grounds advanced by the union were the Queensland and other decisions in which a sim- ilar increase had been award ed. Resistance proved not strong enough to prevent the ship wrights' increase being absorb ed in over-award payments. Now, in November 1966, the same sum of ;money $4.30 is awarded to tradesmen in the aircraft industry, but once more in seemingly different circumstances and for appar ently another set of reasons. The hearing which brought these aircraft workers $4.30 in crease was spread out over a period of almost 20 months. The Commissioner's reasons refer to these workers as "very Continued on Page 11 Mystery of the metal maryins Continued from Page 10 highly skilled tradesmen" who require "some special types of training and experience" and of how his investigations "in the aircraft industry revealed a significant degree of differ ences in the training for skills and their application as against those in the Metal Trades". He speaks of "a modern as sessment of margins and work ing conditions in the aircraft industry" and of the need "to make a proper evaluation of work values in that industry". But when he comes to decide how much he should award he refers to the Queensland, West ern Australian, Shipwrights and a couple of other decisions, and despite his emphasis on the greater skill of the metal tradesman in the aircraft in dustry he awards exactly the same amount as was awarded to tradesmen in the metal in dustry in Western Australia. These decisions and the amounts awarded have great' significance for 'the work-' value investigations being conducted by Commissioner Winter in the metal industry and for the application made by the metal unions for in terim margin increases. Non-tradesmen A further feature of these decisions which could have some significance for the un ions and workers in general is their treatment of non-trades men. Although the $4.25 increase won for tradesmen in the Queensland metal award al most two years ago has now run through several other awards this does not apply to the $2.75 and $2.12 increases won for non-tradesmen clas sifications in Queensland. In the Western Australian metal ' award non- tradesmen were virtually ignored and re ceived no increases. In the recent aircraft deci sion they received increases well below the $4.30 for trades men. The following examples show the position: acid washer $1.10 increase; final assembler $1.90; machinists 2nd class $1.50, 3rd class $1.10; tradesman's assist ants and process workers 75c. Paltry Two points of significance flowing from these paltry in creases are that, in the metal industry and in general, non- tradesmen outnumber trades men and the' margins now awarded in the aircraft industry leave non-tradesmen further behind the 1947 relationship to the tradesmen than ever- At $15.50 the tradesmen's new margin in the aircraft award equals 47.25% of the current 6 Capital Cities basic wage. This margin equalled 48.5% of that basic wage in 1947. But the new margin for tradesmen's assistants equal only 13.72% of the basic wage against 21:5% in 1947. In 1947 the tradesmen's as sistants' margin equalled 44.2% of the tradesmen's margin. In tradesmen's assistants equals only 28.7%. The ACTU claim is for re storation of the 1947 relativity between margins. 