 Drafting Italians "absurd" Communist Senator says:— |T would be absurd to accept that the Australian Government could call up Italian youth and send them to the war in Vietnam, Italian Senator G. Pajetta said last week in a written answer to 1 questions put by Tribune. I As reported last week by Tribune, Senator Pajetta and two other Italian communigt senators have demanded a statement by the Italian foreign minister (Mr. A. Fanfani) of attitude to the Holt Government's "inten tion to induct into military service Italian citizens who emigrated to Australia in search of jobs." Senator Pajetta, who re cently visited Australia as a member of the Italian dele gation to the Inter Parlia mentary conference, told Tri bune:— "It is evident that if such a measure, which we con sider illegitimate and unjust, should be decided on, not only would many emigrants not wish to leave Italy, but many who are already there would be induced to leave 1 Australia in order tio return to Italy or to go to some other country. Question: What is the atti tude of Italian people to the war in Vietnam? Answer: The overwhelming majority of our people are for the cessation of the war in Vietnam and for the with drawal of foreign troops from that country. On this point, the Mbro Government, notwithstand- ing all the U.S.A. pressures, has been able to do no more than express "comprehen sion" for what the United States is doing in Vietnam. A Government which reflects the sentiments of the Italians must express not "compre hension" hut disapproval for American aggression and work actively for peace. We cannot arrive at the absurd position of believing that another government, the Australian government, can call up our Italian youth and send them to the war in Vietnam. Question: What is the char acter of the Moro Govern ment? Answer: The Moro Govern ment was formed after a long crisis which saw the ex plosion of. differences be tween the parties of the Government coalition. The Government's foreign policy follows that of the U.S.A. and of the Bonn revanchists, always in con trast with the increasing popular wish for peace and understanding. The development of the united people's struggle is for peace, for work, for the solution of great national problems, such as education, full employment, agrarian reform, health, problems of women. Question: What is the atti tude of the Italian Com- B munist Party to parliamen- tary questions? | Answer: We attribute great | importance to Parliament I and its functions. B We fight against its powers | being limited to general dis- 1 cussions, to the elaboration I of laws and to general con trol of government activity, all important things cer tainly, but its powers should be extended to concrete con trol of the activity of all the State and semi-State organs. Our 250 deputies and senators (more than a quar- | ter of the total) not only | actively pontribute to the B work of Parliament but maintain close ties with the | people, and they participate B directly in their struggles. | SEN. PAJETTA 