 Govt, puts "economy" before bus safety By the Industrial Roundsman gYDNEY : The New South Wales Govern ment's request to teachers to act as fare collectors on one-man "school special" buses has uncovered the fact that the Askin Gov- ernment puts "economy" before public safety. This is one of the aspects of the move that is being widely discussed among bus transport workers. Already the Teachers' Federation has advised teach ers not to accede to the Government "request". Bus conductors carry a spe cial police-investigated licence to operate a public vehicle and only a person holding such a licence can be a con- i ductor. For the first few months only | a temporary licence is issued, after that the licence is renew- , ed annually. With this licence go serious responsibilities. In the event of , an accident to a passenger J boarding or alighting from the vehicle the conductor could i face a serious police charge of negligent Conducting. 1 Responsibility The ; regulations state that when a bus is being backed, the conductor is responsible for the safety of the vehicle. This is why the backing of one-man buses is prohibited and they are routed so that no backing is necessary at the end of the route. These are only two of many aspects of conductor responsib ility for safety. Since the recent Government decision involves the rostering of double-decker, conductor-less buses as "school specials", the question arises: are teachers expected to become responsible 'for the safety of the bus in situations where the driver is not normally held responsible? | If so, what is the Police \ Department's view of the fact j; that the government is pro- WBaMBmB na— MH— a — — — — a— posing placing other than a licenced conductor in charge of a bus? All bus crews and teachers know well that a busload of children is the most difficult of all loads, from the point of view of supervsiion and control —especially when the bus is a double decker. The seriousness of the posi tion can be judged by the fact that the Transport Department claims it carried H million school pupil passengers in 1955. TU concern Bus workers also see the Government's move as a lever for its other plan to introduce 16-year-olds to the responsible work of conductor, in . the Transport Department, despite the public warnings and trade union opposition based on the fact that 16-year-olds are not yet mature enough for such a burden, involving public safety. The State Liberals, before election promised free travel for children to and from schools beyond reasonable walking dis tance and no increase in fares to the public. The new Govern ment soon forgot its promises, and in fact, has done the direct opposite. It appears, too, that despite the Askin Government's talk about really tackling road safe ty, this burning public issue is even being' aggravated by the Government's move, with school children likely to be the first victims. 