 Parramatta land "grab" angers local residents By a Tribune Staff Writer SYDNEY : Many people in Parramatta are up in arms over a new move by the Parramatta Golf Club to "grab" another section of the historic Parramatta National Park. Last Thursday 500 people at a public protest meet ing called by the Mayor (Alderman Van Nooten) strongly condemned the Park Trust for allowing private companies to take over this park land. A deputation will ask the NSW Premier, Mr. Askin, to cancel the lease reported to have been recently granted to FRK Pty. Ltd. by the Min ister for Lands, Mr. Lewis. It has not been ns. Ue clear what role this company is playing. Already the golf club has a nine-hole course on the park. A public outcry in 1962 de feated an earlier attempt by this golf club to get more land. At , that time assurances were given by the Minister that no further encroach ments would be made on this land. Also at that time the Par- lamatta Council demanded the taking over of this his toric park from an appointed Trust so that . real trust, could be placed In the hands of people elected by and answerable to the people. Speakers at last week's meeting condemned the ."sec retive and conspiratorial" way ' the company, representing jhe golf club, whs granted auuiuunai iana. The new area acquired for extensions to the golf course adjoins Parramatta High School and takes in grass land which has been used by the school for the past 50 years. The reported handing over of this land to a private company means that future use of this area by children rests on the "generosity" of the. company. About 1000 citizens attended an earlier protest meeting called by the school's head master, Mr. Hensley, and the local Parents and Citizen's | Association held on March 4. This meeting called on the Minister for Lands to stop all work on the golf course and to return the pajrk to the public status of December 1965. Following this meeting certain "compromise" plans have been discussed by the golf club and the Education and Lands Departments. Mr. Hensley told last week's protest meeting that a con ference was held- in his office ' — but that he wa- not even invited! He said the teachers at his school were adamant , that no compromise should be ac cepted; "The whole park must be handed back to the people, he said. Spokesmen ior the golf iclub say the club has improved the park which was! previously "neglected wasteland". A builder -at last week's meeting vigorously opposed this argument as justification for taking over the park. "If it's run down it is the fault of the Trust — who are the people responsible," he said. The earlier public meeting carried a no-confidence mot ion in the Trust for "not maintaining the ethical stan dards of public administration which should be expected of a public body." Residents in the area also want to know who gave per mission for tons of soil to be gouged from another part of the park to he used on the new golf course. (See picture). Of all national parks in Australia, there is none "as rich in historic tradition as the Parramatta National Park." These words are contained in an attractive booklet telling of its history. This is the area where the second white settlement was established in Australia on November 2, 1783. It is the place where man?/ aspects of Australia's early history, including build' ngs, are being preserved. Already too much of this historic ground 'has been whittled away for such things; as an RSL club, Leagues club and golf club. Unless, We wish 'to destroy cur hi:tory, th's desecration must be stopped! N.ot only has public land from the Parramatta J' tional Park been lost to the Parramatta Golf Club to extend their present ;le course, but valuable top soil has been removed from other sections of inc Park (top) for use on the new golf course. BELOW : Photo shows piles of soil on the site of the golf course. This section of the site has been used as a playground for the adjoin ing Parramatta High School over the last 50 years. 