 — . : . w VJO |.|x,.:. fiie redd! to peace in Vietnam : two vital questions IWhat is the at titude of the Viet namese people to a 9 negotiated peace? 2 Why doesn't the Soviet Union agree to reconvene the Geneva ® Conference? U.S. WITHDRAWAL THE ONLY ANSWER By W. E. Gollan THE people of Vietnam, both north and south, long for a peace they have not known for decades. The nation is bleeding from a thousand wounds; and still more terrible tortures lie ahead. The desire for peace is a burning question not only in „ the Government of North Vifet_ nam ' and the "N ational Libera tion Front. The Buddhists un der the dictatorship of Mar shal Ky, and even some of the generals in Saigon, have urgently demanded peace and the ending of the 20 years' agony of the Viet namese people. The spokesmen of the USA assert that, if US forces withdraw and allow the peo ple of Vietnam to negotiate a settlement, the North (the Democratic Republic of Viet nam) will forcibly seize power and suppress the political liberty of the people of the South. In fact, both the Govern ment in Hanoi and the Na tional Liberation Front have made the position quite clear, and I have had the oppor tunity of discussing this ques tion with representatives of both, as well as with President Ho Chi Minh. Re-unite It is agreed that the coming of peace to Vietnam would not automatically re-unite the two parts of the country. For 12 years the social systems of North and South have been different. In the North the country has been organised on socialist principles. In the South a broad popular coali tion, the National Liberation Front, has instituted reforms wherever it had the power, especially land reform, but has left the question of socialism to be determined when a gov ernment representative of the wnoie oi xne soutn as set up. The property of landlords who co-operate with the Ame- rican invaders is requisitioned and given to landless peas ants; but landlords who co operate in the NLF are not disturbed in their ownership. Because of the different his tory and experience of both North and South, it is agreed that a period of time will need to elapse after foreign control is removed, before na tional reunification will be possible. In other words, reunifica tion can only come through negotiation — negotiation be tween equals to achieve a settlement, satisfactory to the whole nation. Negotiate Nor does the National Lib eration Front claim that it has . a monopoly right to the government of South Viet nam. It has made clear that it wishes to negotiate with any other forces who will co-op erate in forming a genuinely national government. The only condition is that it must be a Vietnamese government, not one dominated by foreign powers. There can be no shadow of doubt that if the foreign in terventionists were not pre sent, the people of Vietnam would speedily work out by negotiation a temporary set tlement as a basis for a long- range program of reunifica tion. However, most people of goodwill who raise the ques tion of negotiation are think ing of a negotiated peace that will in a sense be a compro mise — something that will stop the fighting and provide an opportunity for a peaceful settlement between the USA and its supporters on one side and the Vietnamese on the other. However, to the Vietnamese such a proposal can only help the United States in- vaders to acmeve tneir od- ject. It would enable them to achieve at the conference table what they have been unable to achieve on the battlefield — that is recogni tion of a US-sponsored gov ernment. Such "negotiations" are clearly the intention of Pre sident Johnson, who has re fused to give any recognition to the NLF, which commands the support of the overwhelm ing majority of the people. The only negotiating party acceptable to the USA is its own puppet administration — the Ky regime, which would obviously not last a day with out US backing. In other words, the only basis on which President Johnson is prepared to ne gotiate is on the basis of maintaining a regime ap proved by the USA, even though it may have no sup port amongst the people of Vietnam. To this, the people of both North and South reply that the independence and sov ereignty of their country for which millions have already died are not negotiable. Principles But,, it may still be argued, the Geneva Conference laid down the principles on which the future of Vietnam was to be determined. Why not then reassemble the 14 nations who signed the agreements and through them make an effort to end the war? The fact is that one of the chairmen, the British Gov ernment, has already pre judged the issue and stated that it supports the United States action in intervening in Vietnam, with , men and weapons, despite a clear and implicit statement in the Geneva Agreement that this was forbidden. Furthermore, the Geneva. Agreements are quite plain ana ciear. as tne soviet un ion says, it is not necessary to discuss, but to apply them. Clearly the Americans have broken them, but they assert they have done so because the North did so first and to protect the South against ag gression. Why, however, should the DRV (the North) break the Geneva Agreements? The Agreements gave them every thing they wished — a tempor ary division, but a firm agree ment that elections to decide the future of Vietnam would be held within two years. President Eisenhower esti mated that in such an election Ho Chi Minh would gain 80 per cent of the votes. Why should they break an agree ment that so obviously met their needs and the needs of the Vietnamese nation? Intrigue As everyone knows, it was the USA which installed Diem in power and repudiated the election which was to have been, held under international supervision. British support for this in trigue and treachery clearly makes mockery of any sug gestion to reconvene the Gen eva conference whilst mas- sive forces of American in vaders are still in Vietnam in open and flagrant abuse of the Agreement. As the US systematically step:by-step extends its ag gression, the responsibility grows heavier on friends of peace to mobilise all political forces to restrain them. Only the political isolation of the Johnson Government and its grovelling satellites can create the conditions for bringing their aggression to an end and for genuine ne gotiation based on the funda mental rights of the Vietna mese people to take place. juR. W. E. Gollan talking with Ho Chi Minh in Hanoi last year. He describes this legendary leader of the Viet namese people as (&lt;very friendly, with a warm, outgoing per sonality. He has the cultured manner one would expect from a man who is a great poet, teacher and writer as well $5 national leader. It's easy to see from his gentle, tranquil, but firm character why he is called 'Uncle Ho' 