 Tribute to Norman Jefferv " TRUE son of the working ckr-s and a proud Australian was Norman Jeffery, Com munist Party foundation member and former Cen- tral committee member. The tribute was paid by the Party's President, Mr. R. Dixon, at the funeral of Norman Jeffery in Sydney last week. "All his life he was devoted to the labor movement," said Mr. Dixon. ."And he fought passionately and militantly for the great causes of, the labor movement —for peace, democratic rights, for progress, for socialism.' A great number of comrades and 'friends of Norman Jeffrey, and trades union and peace movement supporters, attended the funeral at the Northern Suburbs Crematorium. As a trade union executive member from the age of 16, Norman Jerfrey had learned that unity strengthened a union while disunity weakened it and brought defeat. From those early years he was an ardent supporter of unions and the unity of the Working class. "His studies led him to the view that the evils of capital ism could only be overcome by socialism; and this should be the final aim of the labor movement's struggle." In consequence, said . Mr. Dixon, Norman Jeffery became one of the small band of men and women who took the his toric decision to form the Communist Party of Australia. Conscription struggle A correspondent to Tribune has supplied some biographical facts additional to those pub lished last week about Norman Jeffery: Norman Jeffery was arrested five times in 1931 in Sydney after leading big. processions of the unemployed. At 16 he became an executive member of the Western Aus tralian branch of the Furnish ing Trades Union. His part in the anti-conscrip tion struggles of the First World War is recorded in Leslie Jauncey's well-known History of Conscription in Australia. For his part in organising a big Brisbane demonstration against Hughes' War Precau tions Act, Norman served six months in jail. For many years a delegate and executive member on the NSW Labor Council, he was sent as its representative to the 1928 Moscow International Trade Union Congress. 