 Money for war, but not for the Ord PERTH: Behind the Federal Government's strangulation of Australia's mightiest national construction since the Snowy — the Ord River project — looms the Vietnam war burden on our economy. Though the Prime Minister covered the question of finance with waffle — "inappropriate time" and "escalation of costs" — it has been raised sharply by TV commentators and others. Talk about "inappropriate times" is highly inappropriate after the Federal Govern ment's forecast that 1966 "de fence" expenditure of $850 million would be exceeded. "Escalation of costs" in Viet nam is apparently no worry. Who can doubt that the $70 million needed for the Ord is being siphoned with so much of Australia's national income, into the bottomless whirlpool of this war? Even Holt's "shortage of lab our" excuse has been blasted by the State Liberal Govern ment, which maintains that, be cause the construction phases1 of iron-ore export projects are beginning to taper off, the Ord scheme is needed to keep work ers in the North. Stabbed in the back The State Liberal Government itself is appalled at being stab bed in the back federally by its own party. It is well aware of the deep feeling here, among widely dif fering sections of political opin ion, in support of northern development. This feeling ex tends, of course, to all states. Even the conservative "West Australian" said editorially: "What is at stake on the Ord is northern development in the broadest national sense. If Mr. Holt was sincere about the North he could be expected not to scrape the barrel for excuses for inaction but to grasp the only opportunity at present of fering for closer settlement north of the 26th parallel." W.A, Department of Agricul ture economists who have done a full analysis of the last Ord cotton crop and its implications say cottongrowing there can pay its way, even without sub sidy. He was confident that the Ord would prove the best cot ton area of Australia, said econ omist G. D. Oliver. Pressure on the Federal Gov ernment from the Namoi cot ton growers' lobby in Canberra is a disquieting factor in the decision not to proceed with finance for stage two of the Ord. U.S. finance has its finger in Namoi. 