 Two women at the Townsville INQI conference on prices , wages and northern development tell of . . . INQ hardship from high prices, low wages I AT a recent Townsville conference on prices, wages and I Northern development, two women, Mrs. M. Taylor and i I Mrs. T. Bland, told of the hardship that unchecked, soaring ijj Drices are imnosins on the average family, Mrs Taylor represented the Union of Australian Women at the Conference, : which was held in Townsville on March 26 and 27. In her speech to the Con- : : ference, Mrs. Taylor, said— The contents of the pay :: packet, like a piece of :: elastic, will stretch just : so far, and many families have since reached this : point. Housewives are now- ::: looking for the second grade commodity. They : can't afford the first grade lines. Many families can't afford : : : to use butter — they buy ::: margarine at an average : price of 3/4 lb., and it is not : many years ago that we ::: bought butter at this price, ::: now it is 5/lh. Fruit and vegetables (essen- : ; tials i,n the every toy diet) : | are costly items. The lowly potato (even : ; with specials) is 8d. to 9d. per lb. We paid up to 1/6 ; per lb. during the shortage ; I a few months ago. There is no fluctuation : in our husbands' wages : to cover circumstances ::: such as shortages which ::: automatically mean higher I prices. The Union of Australian : : Women is deeply concerned : too at the price rises due to :::the changeover to decimal : i currency. : We are angered that j:; some chain stores and no doubt some greedy local :: shopkeepers have used the :: confusion in the change- : : over as a cover for delibera- tely dishonest practice. We are not anti decimal ; Ytmtmttmmmtmmimmmtmfr currency ... . . we are not confused about the change over . . . we know we are being "robbed" and we want to do something about it. There are many, many examples of price rises — bread, milk, breakfast foods as much as 5d., and 6d. per packet. These are all essential items. Bus fares too. Then there are the more subtle price rises such as less weight in packets, smaller cakes of soap, etc. Selling at the same old price and business denies this constitutes a price rise. There are other equally important matters which concern us. "Free" education has been priced out of the reach of the average wage earner. Text books which are not provided are an outrageous price so too, are uniforms and other incidentals. Concluding her speech Mrs. Taylor said: "The UAW pledges full support for the Queensland Trades and Labor Council's campaign for price control and wage increases." ? yRS. BLAND, who represented the Communist Party of Australia said: Most people feel that that something must be done in relation to the spiralling of prices. We are for price control. The way things have de veloped over the past twelve months, and not ::: only with the introduc- tion of decimal currency, is tantamount to a thief j putting his hand into your pocket or purse and snatch- ing a large portion of it. A family of average size i; with say three children have been hit hard, bigger families are being hit harder : many times. For instance there has been a rent increase in Housing Commission homes 2 of 3/6 per week. Private racketeers have hit more viciously with rent increases. But do you know that 33 basic items of living in every worker's home have increased by £1/15/0 ($3.50) ; per week over the past twelve months in Towns ville — an increase of 22 per cent. If ever there was a case for price control it is now. Of course we have to watch that under the name of price control, Govern ments do not peg wages based on frozen prices of bread and margarine which was a style evident not so tT ' ' long ago. There is no doubt surely I ' by any working person of j the meed for price control ; ; and for the re-convening of the Queensland Parliament for the declaration of a state of emergency on prices. 