 |||||| ||| III! Things are not always what they seem to be! I Things aren't always as they seem to be. This fact was joyously acknow ledged by thousands of Australian Rugby League fans last Saturday, when the Kangaroos out-generalled the) British1 Thirteen to win the Third Test 19- 14 and with it the series. The Australian Thirteen had taken the field with an unenviable record in the previous two Tests and in atmosphere of pessimistic support. In the First Test in Syd ney, many had been deluded by the type of scoring, into under-rating the abilities of the Australians. Many had come to the pos sibly very incorrect conclu sions, that the Aussies were not a team but a group of individuals just fortunate at the time to possess the "golden boots" of Keith Barnes to get them as far as they did— a 17-13 defeat. The Englishmen on that occasion had scored three tries to Australia's one — and a lucky one at that — con verted all three of their tries and scored a clever field goal, whereas Australia had scored the remainder of her points from penalties cap italised on by Keith Barnes, for two points a shot at the H-bar, ? , rpHE Second Test in Bris bane left Australia's backers in the series in a very anxious state as the Aussies just managed to scramble home to a 6-4 win within four minutes of the final gong. Again it was the "golden boot" of Keith Barnes that did Australia's scoring. Also, although the Englishmen only scored by goals, they played impressively with one man short for almost all of the second half of the match. After the Second Test, it was reported that captain Ian Walsh had said of the game: "Our forwards played well, but were too individ ual. You can't strike team work in just one week. I was very pleased with half back Billy Smith, but we had backline faults. They will have to be ironed out." Indeed they were, and it is to the credit of Austra lian captain-coach Ian Walsh that the team that took to I the field for the Third and! decisive Test had undergone a functional transformation This time the Australian team worked like a preci sion machine, each an im portant cog to do the job required. This time it was the Englishmen, who were the victims of overlapping in the runs, as Johns the Australian full-back repeat edly joined in to make an extra man. The do-or-die effort called for by the players in this Third and decisive match gave rise to tactics and refereeing decisions that will be the subject for con troversy among league fans for years to come. Australia's win was a fit ting finale to the 15-year career of the Australian cap- 1 tain-coach Ian "Walsh, who is i to retire from big time j league. 1 Ironically, it was Walsbt whom the selectors had ie-1 cently considered sacking from the Test team. Yet a study of Walsh's record it i would seem, would reveal 1 qualities that should have i made him the last man to consider dropping from a team. TTNDER his leadership, the Australians had succeed ed in winning the Ashes dur- ing their 1963 tour of Brit- g ain. Also under his captain- J cy and coaching, Australia I won seven out of its eight g matches during its New Zea- g land tour last year and was g just unlucky not to win all | the eight games. His very rugged and some- g what pug-like appearance | belied his nature on the playing field. In an era when "dirty play" is considered good, Walsh was considered one of the cleanest players to take to a football, field. His retirement will make league the poorer for it. . v Apprentice Turner Phil Bristow-Stagg is shown speaking to a i nass meeting of radwaj men at the Midland Workshops Perth after receiving a fare we presentation before left for the Common wealth Games m Jam aica. Phil is one of tU best amateur cychste produced in Wert tralia. He will nde ir the ten mile race I toeMMmeteJ Ian Walsh. 