 Demand for repeal of loitering law ADELAIDE: Following the conviction of two more of the Parliament House steps hunger strikers and the remand of four others the Lib'eral President of the Legislative Council, Mr. Densley, made a statement of his part in the arrest of those concerned. Daniel Shaw, an American honors post-graduate student at Adelaide University and Dimitris Tsoutsikos, a young Greek laborer, were arrested with six other demonstrators during the Australian visit of President Johnson. The anti-conscription and Vietnam war demonstrators in tended to maintain a hunger strike during Johnson's visit. The questionable ethics of Mr. Densley's statement, under Parliamentary privilege, while cases against the demonstrators are still proceeding, is typical of the actions already taken. By smear and innuendo the impression has been, given of a lack of cleanliness and abuse of Parliament House by the young people concerned. The facts that emerge how ever are that despite a refusal by the Speaker of the Assembly, Mr. Riches, to take action, the Liberals in the Upper House-, through Densley, invoked the use of the Lottery and Gaming Act to prevent the protest over Johnson's visit continuing. This has led to a wide-spread series of demands for the re peal of the Loitering section of the Act. Several unions have pointed out the danger of the Act being used against the trade unions and, as is already the case, its use for purposes other than its original intention. It is already a decision of a Labor Party Convention that the Act be repealed. Last week the officers of the South Australian Council of Churches, in a letter to the press signed by six members of the Executive committee, ex pressed their concern at the ar rest and charging of the de monstrators. Demonstrators on the steps of Adelaide's Parliament House in protest at the imprisonment of jailed hunger strikers. Those jailed had been arrested for "loitering" while demon strating on the steps against the visit of President Johnson. 