 ' I'fe The Berioska mncers -|HE Berioska Dance Com pany of Moscow and Russian National Orchestra opened in. Melbourne on March 25. In folklore the Russian maidens are likened to the birch tree- gentle, beautiful, majestic and graceful— and it is from this image ' that the Berioska Dance Company takes its name. Folk dances jind national dances provide the source, the inspiration for the dances of this company. But it is no mere company of folk dancers. Trained in classical ballet, and directed by Madam Nadezhda Nadezhdina, herself formerly a prominent member of the Bolshoi School of Choreography, the Berioska Dance Company has achieved such perfection that to say that, they hold their audience spellbound is not a cliche, but a simple truth. The National Russian Orchestra accompanies the dancers. Conducted by Alexei Uyin, the orchestra camprises 16 pieces . — traditional Russian instruments — ' balalaikas, domras, and bayans, as well as percussion instruments, and whistles of birch tree bark. The orchestra is complementary to the dance, and helps to create the vivid and lasting feeling of joy which is experienced after seeing this company perform. In this connection, the effect of the graceful and colourful cos tumes of the girls must be men tioned too. Melbourne audiences went wild Witn the company'' "I seeinlii - urst time the extraonnilled' almost of the d£Their' Sleeping the stage the 8 Iff.2 with such effortless 'he glid- fn« sta)f®"Bun Nadezh- throughout" ||fm The younf,IKrm with ocp and o)#rnt leaps, nirrouettes'jfijl bewildering disappoint gg Each experience adds to our sum of enjoyment, but this re viewer at least was unprepared for this most exciting and enthral ling group. A performance of the Berioska Dance Company gives to its audi ence something enriching, just as a great painting or piece of music does. . We need this sort of experience in these grim days. —JOAN THORNTON The Company's Melbourne sea son will finish on Tuesday, April 19. After Melbourne they play in: Adelaide (Her Majesty's), April 21-April 30; Canberra (Civic Cen tre), May 2-May 4; Sydney (Tivoli), May 6- June 11; Brisbane (City Hall), June 13-June 18; Perth (Hei Majesty's), June 20-June 28. 