 What they're really up to i jEPUTY Prime Minister McEwen last Sunday significantly revealed the relation between the Federal election and next week's visit by Johnson's Political Circus Inc. The vital issue to be decided, McEwen said, "will be the continuation of the alliance with the United States". He considered that, apparently because of this issue, it would be the most important election of his 32 years in politics. "I hope for a massive victory for the Govern ment to demonstrate once and for all to the United States that Australia is a staunch and enduring friend," McEwen declared. This means that despite the evidence of grow ing opposition on all sides to the Government's Vietnam entanglement it seeks electoral endorse ment of its "All the Way with LB J" policy and, indeed, of aj blank cheque for much deeper future involvement. This, from the Holt Government's point of view, is the , main purpose of the Johnson visit with its enormously elaborate publicity preparations. . Together with the conference of US satellite and allied Governments in Manila, to which Johnson and Holt are going, it is intended to dominate the headlines until the American elections on November 4 and the Australian elections on November 26. . If that conference had anything to do with a just settlement in Vietnam there would be little objec tion to this. But the governments summoned to attend are only those which are already supporting the US military action in Vietnam, with neutrals like Cam bodia carefully excluded. . "T"HE main item is to be a review of the military situation, with a "discussion of peace possibili ties" relegated to a lowly position on the list. If a "peace plan" does emerge it is likely to take the shape of those already put forward by US spokesman Goldberg at the United Nations and British Foreign secretary Brown at the British Labor Party conference (which rebuffed Broyn by carry ing an anti-Executive resolution nailing the US as the aggressor — see story page 9). Neither plan would stand a chance of acceptance by the Vietnamese or other supporters of national independence as they both imply, or actually state, that some Vietnamese, are aggressors on their own soil and must make a phased "mutual" withdrawal with the American invaders. Conspicuously absent is what President de Gaulle, among others, has named as the first essential for peaceful negotiations — an under taking by the Americans that they will get out. In any case, the current visit of US Defence Secretary McNamara to Saigon, openly preparing for a massive escalation of the war is evidence enough that the Manila Conference is merely to provide the propaganda basis for the escalation. For Australia (and the other "allies") the real problem will be new US pressure for more re inforcements of troops. This is the program for which the Holt-McEwen Government is seeking a mandate. Mr. McEwen's statement therefore essentially 1 constitutes a challenge to which Australians must respond. Next week's visit — and above all the elections — provide the opportunity. — - — 1 