 The case of the two Soviet authors Guilty of | anti-Soviet propaganda I OSCOW : After a four-day open trial by | the Supreme Court of the Russian J Federation Andrei Sinyavsky and Yuli I Daniel toere found guilty of anti-Soviet j , propaganda and agitation, an offence under part 1 of article 70 of the Federation penal code. They were sentenced to seven and five years' jail respectively. They were proved to have smuggled anti-Soviet writings abroad to have them publish ed under the names of Abram Tertz and Nikolai Arzhak res pectively. The writers ' claimed that they had not intended their books to be used for foreign imperialist attacks on the USSR. The prosecution charged that their anti-Soviet slanders, showing hostility to the Sov iet state and people, had been deliberately supplied to anti- Soviet centres abroad. Full documentation on the two writers' books and meth ods of smuggling through a former French naval attache's wife were presented to court. Sinyavsky was questioned about writings which includ- ',ed allegations that the Rus sian people were a nation of thieves and drunkards incap able of creating culture, and which smeared Maxim Gorky and Lenin. The prosecutor, Oleg Tim- yushkin, said that the Arzhak book "Moscow Calling" was a direct call for action against the Soviet system. The prosecutor submitted that their activities had "par ticular social danger precise ly now that imperialism, after the failure of its attempts to crush socialism by force, is even more intensively using its propaganda machine to struggle against the USSR". Sinyavsky's and Daniel's de fence counsel were chosen by their own families. The wives of both sat in court and talk ed with defence counsel. These counsel submitted that the actions of the two writers were not so much pol itical as caused by varipus subjective factors. , Sinyavsky said: "I am not a politician". He claimed his | works were "far removed I from politics in general". g Daniel regretted his works a had been used for anti-Soviet I propaganda abroad. ) Both pleaded not guilty. g The prosecutor asked for | the maximum sentence— seven a years' prison followed by five = years exile for Sinyavsky and j five years prison and three J years' exile for Daniel. | Passing sentence, which did I not include any period of J exile, the judge said that Sin- I yavsky continued to send anti- j Soviet writings abroad after I he knew the purpose for I . which they were being used. j Daniel's malicious intent was proved by the contents of the I work he sent abroad. 