 - » jl-ft ft fl-W g g g I |»JELLO, Tribune Juniors, In Sydney there are not many places for children to go to in their spare time, to engage in hobbies or theatre and sport. Some places do have youth centres, and I guess this applies to most cities in Australia. Brien Rix, of the Junior Eureka League, tells me that in Moscow there are 26 Pio neer Palaces. And from the photos I've seen they are really palaces. He was saying that in the suburb of Lenin Hills there is the central Pioneer Palace, built by the. young people liv ing in Moscow, in their spare time, for the children. On International Children's' Day special functions take place in all the Palaces with artists from theatres, special acts from the circus and films, all of which takes place in their own theatre. Every hobby you can think of is there, and one of the most popular, Brian said, is electronics. Robots a.nd all that. The one in Lenin Hills has a tropical garden in its foyer. Plenty of club-rooms and plenty of instructors to help you over the sticky problems that crop up in all hobbies. Nice to be able to have some where like this to go after doing your homework. OLD IRON Nt only is the National 1 Trust restoring many of the lovely- old homes of Aus tralia, but many people are giving the old places a real face-Iify. I feel that one of the things that really makes the old places is all the . wrought iron work (when it is painted white I think it looks really good). I've often wondered why there was so much of it about and recently I found out it is because the ships coming out from England were loaded with it as ballast. Off-loaded it for their cargo, leaving us with decorative houses. MAGIC TRIANGLE | Do you reimember the magic j! triangle we had some weeks || ago and I made a mistake if about the number — well I n have just been told by the I author tnat there are lu tn-- angles bu to find 80-99 was to f be very good! \ Do you remember how many &lt; ycu found? I # . PRIZE WINNERS The Junior winner was Greg ory M. of Castle Hill and the Senior winner was Ann L. of Moruya in the Spaceman Com petition. Congratulations. # UTTLE LAUGHS 1st person: My wife gave me a leather-bound book for Father's Day. 2nd p.: The hide. s)e ¥ . | 1st p.: What's the best way to make a ln£ story short? 2nd p.: Stop listening. \ A.L. (NSW) j 