 On the waterfront, a programme is needed By EDDIE MAHER, Secretary of Maritime Branch of the , Communist Party, Sydney. T meet the challenge of containerisation on the wharves, a programme must be develoned that is in the best interests of the Australian nation, first and foremost that will in clude job security for all those who are made redundant by the revolutionary changes. The first stage of the container revolution, according to shipown ers' representatives, will mean a reduction of the present work force by more than one half— i.e. from the present figure of 20,000 waterside workers to 8,000 in all ports in Australia. The final stage means the use of computers plus full container methods, as well as a work force of not more than 15 men of all classifications per berth and ship. Waterside workers— with ACTU support — have made redundancy a main issue for over 12 months now. They have demanded severance pay, a pension scheme and a guaranteed weekly wage, as well as permanency instead of the present casual hiring system. The Government must make plans now with Australian ship yards to build eight government- owned container ships of 12,000 to 30,000 tons for overseas trade within the next ten years. It must build government-owned contain ers for hire to private enterprise. It must encourage and subsidise Australian-owned shipping com panies to also build container ships for overseas trade, charter ships from small nations, and enter into new agreements with the socialist countries. It should build government con tainer terminals, owned and ad ministered by a local government authority, and refuse to lease wharves or berths to private ship ping countries. The trade union movement must take the initiative in developing this programme. The best positive step would be by a pooling of resources through the amalgama tion of unions into one big organ isation to cover the new container industry. Australia has a chance to get in on the ground floor of container isation. Providing a bold approach is taken, this is the chance to break the grip of foreign mono- poly on our export and import trade and turn technological change to Australia's advantage. Failure to do this will give mon opoly another takeover. Container isation must work for those in the industry now, and for the nat ion, instead of the wealthy few. Looked at from this angle, the problem of containerisation— like that of automation— is not a trade union matter alone, but a political matter for a mass movement of all those mostly affected. At the moment, the political solution lies in legislation to nationalise the stevedoring indus try and the establishment of a national overseas shipping line. 