 % J -'" vi " - fWhile' young men Speak up for our democracy 1 UERE are the stories of three young men — - two of them in uni form — whose typically Australian democratic views pn the Vietnam war have run counter to the Holt Govern ment's policies and statements. 1. Card burner THE first is a 19-year-old engineering student who last week became a symbol of growing public defiance against the Government's de cision to send conscripts into the war of intervention in Vietnam. Jon Hornibrook (just visible at the extreme right of pic ture) was the spokesman for 10 students who last Wednes day night burnt their draft cards in front of thousands of people in Sydney's Hyde Park. Visibly excited as he clutched the microphone, Jon managed to convey how much he was opposed to fighting people who them selves were fighting in Viet nam for something he be lieved in — the right to self- government. Later he told a Tribune reporter that he had never been a member of any politi cal party and would probably never join one. He is a member of the I Sydney University Vietnam I Action Committee. I "I feel very deeply," said I Jon, "that the ideals that I I hold have been transgressed | in Vietnam by the Australian, | government. I "We are attempting by war | in Vietnam, to force our I way of government on people I who don't want it. | "Before making the de- I cision to burn my draft card | I though very deeply about s its likely effect, both on me | Personally and on others. I "I finally decided that it was the only immediate way r to express my horror at the i Government conscripting lads of my age to fight in this dirty war. "I am fully prepared for &ny retaliation by the gov ernment; even if it means imprisonment it will have been worthwhile. I "I hope," said Jon, "that I ur example will encourage 1 many other young draftees to I make their own protests in I all sorts of ways." i Jon said that he had been I very much influenced, by the a verdict at the Nuremberg | War trials, that "obeying I orders" was no excuse for I committing war crimes, f He and the others who had I ournt their draft cards were a refusing to obey orders, to 1 make a strong protest and I to stop more war crimes' be- I mg committed. I kw his family felt I out nis action, Jon replied: "They are backing me up and say they are proud of what I have done." Jon, like most other young Australians, wants to build and create. When only 18, Jon was the stage director of a successful play at the Sydney University Union. 2. Soldier (Contributed) oN Wednesday night, dur ing the big anti-Vietnam war demonstration, I fell into conversation with a young soldier pn leave who was due to return to Viet nam shortly. He had seen our banners ' and was greatly disturbed; he was impressed by the great crowd of demonstra tors. He was also worried be cause his wife was six months' pregnant; he feared he might be killed and said he had begun to have doubts as to whether the sacrifice fitted the cause. He" said: "The 'whole of the people' in Vietnam seem to be against the foreign troops, even the little children. "I don't even know what a Vietcong looks like; they at tack during the night, but during the day — how do you tell a Vietcong from any other peasant? "The South Vietnam army will riot fight unelss there ' are American officers stand ing over them — and even then, at the first opportunity, they desert, taking . their arms with them." He said that he estimated that of the original Austra- I lian 1st Battalion, only 200 I were left, the remainder hav- I ing been killed or wounded I or incapacitated by tropical diseases such as malaria. 3. Victim MELBOURNE: The soldier in the picture (below) is Gunner Peter O'Neill, late of Terang, Victoria, more re cently of Bien Hoa, South Vietnam, and, more recently still, of Changi Jail, Singa- . pore. He's the same Gunner O'Neill who in January was chained for 20 days in a Weapon pit at Bien Hoa and whose brtual treatment has led to a national scandal and the reported disciplining of an army officer. But here-4s one fact about which the daily press has been strangely silent. On December 28, the Mel bourne "Sun" published a full-page article made up of extracts from a letter written by Gnr. O'Neill to his father. Under the headline, "The Sick War", was the young soldier's description in stark detail of , the way the Viet namese people have turned their land into a hell on earth for the invader, and made it clear (as. he said,) that they have been fighting this type of war "for cen turies." His account of the war had a ring of truth that is not to be found anywhere in Government statements on the Vietnam issue. Is THIS why brutal punish ment was visited on Gunner O'Neill — because his let ters home had told some thing of the truth about the monstrous Vietnam war? ABOVE: Young Australians burning military draft cards during last Wednes day's biggest-ever demonstration in Sydney against the Vietnam war. (See below and page 3.) Gunner Peter O'Neill (see story). 