 [?] "I don't want to go to Vietnam" Q. How do you feel about being conscripted? a. It was the biggest blow that has happened to me. Two years of my life wasted. Q. When did you find out you were going to Vietnam? | a. I found out the same day that one million others did when they read it in the papers. As far as we knew we were I going to Borneo. We do not I know from one day to another I where we are to be sent. I Q. How does your family f feel about you being con- I scripted and sent to Viet nam? A. They are very broken hearted. Q. How is feeling among 1 other conscripts about going 1 to Vietnam?. '3 I A. It is a mixed feeling with I some for and some a'gainst. I Q. Of the conscripts you 3 have met how many come I from working class homes? I A. All the ones I have met. I Q. How do you feel about I being sent to Vietnam? 1 A. Definitely against it be- f cause: Australia ns not at war and f should.- not. be there.; .. I didn't ask to go. ; Con- \ scripts should be the last re- | sort of a government and then only if war is declared and our H country is in danger. m ® Because the war is an. |? exact opposite of the demo- H cracy we are supposed to be ll lieve in and which we are try- I mg to force on the people of I Vietnam. I We cannot win this war in 1 the way we want' it, they can I drop their napalm bombs, they I can destroy their rice paddys, I they can kill their peasants but I they can never kill their I struggle for national libera- | tion. You can't force demo- I cracy down people's throats I unless they want it and the I type of democracy we present I to them is not real. Democracy I is not what they want. 1 Q- Have you had any poli- |! ticai training in the army? M A. Not actual political train- H ing in theory but hate for Asia H and the people we are to be I! sent out to fight against is some- 1 thing that in an indirect way 1 is built into you. For instance i during bayonet training we were J told: "Imagine the hill side is I swarming with V.C. — Charge!" 1 Q. Do Vflll hava Qnv nrm AH V M1IJ OJIH" a Pathy towards the Com- j munist Party? \ am no a member of any | f y and have no particular I sympathies. Q. How long have you been . » conscriptee in the army? 4 A- Ten months. I Q" During that time how had? training have you ;nA', Tan weeks basic, which is ch,i ? a change of We from enm an+ -e and mne weeks tho aining and that is all brUraminB we he had to tionf US up to war Prepara tions m ten months. Are yu then, in your eo tivi a,dequately trained to go to Vietnam? jutgieNfii WG have ted ho I training whatsoever. «— aQ. aBatast- never a war which can the tj q n or settled while o-fc-A. persists with its war of escalation and condition upon condition for peace talks. Q. What role do you think the U.S.A. is playing in Viet nam? A. There are no Chinese troops in South Vietnam. It is highly, debatable if, there are any North Vietnamese in South Vietnam. The only foreign troops in South Viet nam are , U.S., South Korean, New Zealand and Australian. The U.S. is undoubtedly play ing the role of the aggressor. Throwing one puppet govern ment after another on to the people. The U.S. is supposed to stop aggression but they are the aggressors. Q. What do you think of Air Marshal Ky? A. Ky is the puppet of. the U.S.A. We are there at re quest of U.S.A., but we must admire the courageous way that Ky flies dangerous missions with his squadron over Saigon, which is under his control, and bombing villages whose popu lation has no defence. Q. Do you think Australia is in danger of attack? A. Definitely no, at least not from Asian countries. Q. How do you feel about conscription in general. A. Conscription would be justifiable only in the event of Australia being in immediate danger of attack and then only as a last resort. 111 . ' I Some 57 per cent of I Australians, according to opinion surveys, op pose the conscription of 8 Australian youth into the Vietnam war . . .but what do the conscripts themselves think — those that have actually been drafted, put through the Army's training and are now posted to Vietnam? Here is an exclusive Tribune interview with one of the first batch of 20-year-olds who went into camp in July of last year and who did train ing near Wagga (New South Wales). By the time this is printed, this soldier may be on the way to or actu ally in Vietnam. For obvious reasons, his iden tity cannot be revealed. | Australian soldiers marched through Sydney streets last month before leaving for Vietnam. 