 NG youth add their voice to criticism of Canberra By Jim Cooper "pHE recent courage ous action of the Papua - New Guinea Territory Students Federation in reject ing an Australian scheme for a five-day seminar in Port Mores by has given support to the demand by New Guinea indigen ous leaders that the Australian Govern ment make its real aims clear. These actions signify resistance by well-inform ed New , Guineans against the very powerful propa ganda campaign that is being conducted by inter ested parties to discount the drive towards inde pendence. This campaign runs parallel to Territories Minister Barnes' statements, if not directly in spired by them. The campaign seeks to or ganise, or by duress to get as aiany New Guineans as possible to make public statements in which they reject independence as "too early" or suggest some other association with Austra lia. In the case of the proposed student seminar, the suggested theme was . "The Future of Papua-New Guinea" arid no doubt students and other lead ing New Guineans would have been expected to take the floor, beat their breasts, and declare themselves against immediate independence. The indigenous student lead ers, evidently recognising the danger, opened a new chapter in the development of political action by youth in their coun try. One of the strong points of anti-independence propaganda has been the implied assertion that Australian aid would be withdrawn if and when New Guinea gained its independence. To New Guineans who so far only visualise a capitalist future this may appear to he catastrophic. Mr. Barnes is reported to have implied that Australian aid would continue if the Ter ritory became independent. He promised to arrange dis cussions between Federal Cabi net and the N.G. House of Assembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development. But despite the Minister's previous volubility on what he termed an infinite variety of hssodations. with Australia which are open to New Guin eans, he- refused to indicate the | associations which he had in mind. i Perhaps the plan is to grarit i the' representation the Northern Territory has in Federal Par liament. The Territory, four times the size of New Guinea, has one representative who has a voice but no vote. Even if world opinion deters the Federal Government from such drastic decision, there is no question of New Guinea be ing admitted to the Common wealth on terpis equal to the States. The Federal Government oyer the last 16 years has been elected with a minority of votes and' governed with a slender majority. They are unlikely to intro duce some 20 or 30 New Guin eans who would be able to hold the balance of power in the House and therefore force a greater measure Of attention to problems of New Guinea. To keep Australia as pre serve of the white race is basic in the thinking of the Austra lian capitalist class. There are many alternatives the Government could be con sidering, but all these would provide for a second-class asso ciation — one which later would be a source of tension if not actual conflict. The French Empire boasted that its colonies were repre sented in the French Parlia ment, with a voice in the legis lature. But in fact, the major invest ments in all the colonies were French and poverty, pestilence ; and disease were the lot of the people, who finally were forced to take up arms to win their liberty. 