 A PLAY FOR CHILDREN " Smugglers Beware " wins the kids The wonder and magic of the theatre is something that should be part of the lives of all children. A child should know and accept the theatre as easily and avidly as he now accepts films and television. QMl'LJ-FKfcJN b theatre, m Aus tralia has had to struggle hard , kept alive by a few dedicated people in the capital cities who believe it to be an essential part of a child's life. One of the best known of these is Eleanor Witcombe, author of "Smugglers Beware", which opened at New Theatre last Saturday after noon. This play was a good choice for New Theatre's first venture into children's theatre. Set in Sydney in the area knows as The Bocks, in the year 1818, i,t tells vividly and theatrically, 6f a time in our history when rum was almost more valuable than money. Last Saturday children and adults alike were caught up with the / wicked smugglers who went through a series or runny antics m oraer to escape detection; with the Colonel and the Colonel's second cousins — two idiotic maiden ladies determined to capture the wicked smugglers; with the beautiful young seamstress so falsely accused, and the young soldier who loved her; with Minnie, wife of smuggler Herbert Huggle, so suspicious and such a good shot with a boot in the early hours of the morning; with the funny little man with his little barrel and wheel barrow who began to believe he was invisible; and, last but not least, with the small boy who, with his quick intelligence managed to foil the smugglers in such a way that they must have been relieved to be carted off to gaol. New Theatre has assembled a most competent group of actors who enter into the spirit of the play with zest and vigour. "Smugglers Beware, is filled with action and the actors rarelv fail to hold your interest. The director Alan Herbert, for whom the part of Herbert Huggle was specially written, played in the first production with the Mosman Children's Theatre in 1951. His pro duction for New Theatre is exciting, colorful and entertaining. Settings and costumes by Christine Shaw are excellent. They stimulate the children's imagination and visu ally complement the action and story. New Theatre is aware of the necessity to provide children's en tertainment within the budget of working families and has sensibly made the one admission charge of 5/- for adults and children alike. Do not miss this wonderful show. It is the best five bob's worth in this city. It is showing every Satur day afternoon at 2.15 p.m. —EILEEN ALLISON. A scene from "Smugglers Beware". 