 A two - day debate on Northern development THINKING BIG WITH WATER i ...the challenge o-f the years ahead. By W. MOUNTJOY SHOULD the whole north of Australia, that portion lying north of the Tropic of Capricorn, be handed over completely to local and overseas capital interests, including absentee cattle station owners to develop? Should the Federal Government provide funds for research, con struct roads, railways . and ports so that wealthy interests' can extract minerals found so far and yet to be found, plunder our cattle re sources alerady developed and yet to be developed, decimate our soft and coachwood forests and gener ally ruin the north for all time? To find the answers and to sug gest acceptable solutions over 300 men and women met together at the North Australian Development Symposium, on Feb. 14 and 15 at the University of New South Wales. That no acceptable conclusions were reached was understandable. The Symposium was a mixture in its composition. But all in all the gathering was more than useful and the material presented ex tremely valuable. A serious weakness was the al most complete absence of trade union representation. The trade union approach was alby presented by Mr. A. Macdon- ald, secretary of the Queensland Labor Council, but it was impos sible for him to perform the labors of Hercules. Another weakness was neglect of the problems of Aborigines. ONE THING: all were agreed on northern development, including the redoubtable Dr. B. R. David son, of WA University, with all his reservations expressed so clearly and impishly. The best papers presented, not necessarily in order of merit but somewhere near the mark, were those of Drs. Davidson and Patter son, Mr. J. H. Kelly, Mr. C. S. Christian, Professors Greenwood, Munro iand Francis and Aid. H. H. Hopkins. The keynote speech for the wealthy and for the Federal Gov ernment interests was given by Mr. D. E. Fairbairn, Minister for National Development. His weak apologia for the Menzies Government's masterly inaction was answered by Mr. E. G. Whit- lam, Deputy Leader of the Opposi tion, who presented the Labor Party's approach, based heavily on the work of Dr. Rex Patterson and expert associates. The Labor proposals advocated an integrated and balanced devel opment of the mineral, pastoral, agricultural and timber industries. Certainly many of the ALP pro positions were positive and people genuinely concerned with northern development could do worse than give them general support. But the question arises what kind of organisation should be set up to plan projects, carry them out and arrange the finance? There were some who believed that the Northern sections of t Queensland and West Australia to gether with the Northern. Territory should be another state; others believed that State rights as ex isting should be preserved and others again that an authority or commission should do the job. Aid. H. H. Hopkins, chairman of the People The North Commit tee, expressed this view as fol lows: "We begin with a Federal body which we might call a commission in the first place. Such a commis sion should be set up not only to undertake an exploratory survey, but also to produce a definite long term program for the development of Northern Australia. "This commission would itself become the Authority to implement the program." Reverting to the papers present ed, Dr. Davidson defended his main thesis as elaborated in the "North ern ' Myth". This included reservations about the possibilities of economic crop yields and transport costs, and re jection of the idea that the North is attractive to Asian nations. Admitting that today his figures on crop yields in the North are out of date by three years he never- the-less claimed that basically they were correct. Dr. Davidson supported the brig- alow scheme in Queensland, the 1 development of the cattle industry generally and any scheme which might be economically viable. On his own field Dr. Davidson was unconquerable and compared . more than favorably with his fel low agricultural scientist, Dr. Pat terson. Dr. Davidson's weakness was his unwillingness to face up to the need for an all-round devel opment of the North. Dr. Patterson, whose best mater ial had gone into the Whitlam speech, did not show up as well as was anticipated. An able paper was presented by Professor J. Francis of the Univer sity of Queensland entitled Animal Industries and Exotic Diseases. Prof. Francis enumerated the exotic diseases, gave details of how they acted and said that Australian animal industries were as yet free from contagion. But he warned that air travel meant that Northern Australia "is only a few hours away from foot and mouth diseases, rabies and other major epizootics in South Asia." Prof. Francis pointed out that Australia has more wild (that is, uncontrolled) animals than almost any other country. If exotic dis eases took hold in Australia among our uncontrolled animals eradication might be virtually im possible. Yet to guard our Northern shores with the exception of Darwin, there is no resident veterinarian between Thursday Island and Ger- aldton in West Australia. A well-authenticated and practi cal scheme for the development of the cattle industry generally was presented by Mr. J. H. Kelly. To Mr. Kelly the great evil was absentee cattle holdings. This was particularly true of cattle compa nies based outside of Australia, such as Vesteys, of England. Mr. Kelly proved that economic ally-sized holdings controlled by resident owners would result in a great expansion of the beef in dustry. Mr. Kelly's paper was not popul ar with the representatives of large absentee cattle holdings. Other valuable papers were those read on behalf of Mr. C. S. Chris tian who was unavoidably absent, and Professor R. H. Greenwood, Professor of Geography, University of Queensland. Mr. Christian's paper dealt with, among other interesting matters, the great successes achieved by growing Townsville lucerne at Katherine in the Northern Terri tory. This fabulous plant regenerates easily and grows readily in the wet with the aid of superphosphate and once matured does not have to be harvested but can be held; where grown and fed as required. Space makes it impossible to deal with Professor Greenwood's excellent paper and that presented' by Professor C. H. Munro whose main ideas have been presented more than once in Tribune. A great division of opinion on Northern Development is that over freehold versus leasehold. It is impossible not to sym pathise with some of the smaller cattle interests in their demand for more security of land tenure, but the insistent demand for the large interests to appropriate all crown lands must be resisted. The women's interests in the Far North were well represented and, while they may not be able to have TV, certainly something should be done to make purchase of refrigerators and washing machines much easier. One thing that clearly emerged was that there was no hysteria about the alleged invasion of Asian hordes. Dr. Courtney, who presented Professor Greenwood's paper ridiculed claims that the Chinese had any designs against Australia. This was substantiated by Dr. Davidson who said that the only Asian country short on resources was India. This was supported by Dr. Patterson. Even Mr. P. Fitzgerald, the American economist, in answer to a question refused to take serious ly the claim that Australia was threatened by China. MR. G. WHITLAM, Deputy Leader of the Parliamentary Labor Party addressing the seminar. 