 Putting the BonnamBnmBBttnBi record straight The article "Tas. right wing blocks campaign", (Tribune, June 8) with one exception carried well the material sub mitted on the Tasmanian ALP Conference. In the section on prices, the article submitted stated— "At- torney General Mr. Fagan warned Conference that State control alone would not work and that it was impossible for a state to go it alone". The underlined portion here was not published. Further the article submit ted said — "Mr. Fagan spoke for Commonwealth controls and in this he had delegates' support ... experience of Tasmanian prices being above interstate prices in many in stances, influenced the dele gates to reject Mr. Fagan's ad vice and urge action now by the State Government. Omission of. all the points in bold type results in a one sid ed if not false, picture of Mr. Fagan and the Government's attitude. , He supported, in his speech to conference, Commonwealth, . control. This was positive. He opposed action by the State Government, and it was on this point that the delegates v rejected his advice. Inaction by the Government since conference, the .peddling of the negative and incorrect view oy a small minority that the State can do nothing, is meeting strong opposition. There is a growing trade un- ' ion-mass demand for action to control prices by the State Labor Government as being of definite value in itself and an important form of .pressure on the Federal Government for Federal controls. The tax payers in Tasmania paid for a Royal Commission on prices. The facts it un earthed leave no doubt that State control as well as Fed eral control are necessary now. This was the attitude of the overwhelming majority of state conference delegates and is the attitude of people in Tasmania today. The article as published in Tribune could give the impression that Mr. Fagan was 100 per cent cor rect. Tasmanian correspondent. (Hobart) NOTE: We are grateful for the above letter, to correct the wrong impression caus ed when the original article was cut for space reasons. — Ed., Tribune. 