 2. Spoke out in S. Africa A NUMBER of Australian trade unions have protested vigorously against the life sentence imnosed bv South African courts on outstanding apartheid opponent Abram Fischer, QC. Fischer, a prominent mem ber of the' Johannesburg Bar, famous for his. brilliant defence in 1964 of Nelson Mandela and other leaders of the South African National Congress, was jailed on charges of "sabotage" and belonging to the banned Communist Party. Among the Unions which have already protested against Fischer's jailing are the NSW branches of the BW1U and Liquor Trades Employees, the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths, and the Queensland State Con vention of the BWIU, as well as the Queensland Trades and Labor Council. A member of an old Afri- kaaner — or Boer — family whose grandfather was Prime Minis ter of the Orange River Colony and whose father was Judge- President of the Orange Free State, Fischer deliberately turned his back upon the chance of a room at the top of apartheid society. .After completing a Rhodes Scholarship at Oxford; he became well known as a lawyer in Johannesburg and, with his wife Molly, became embroiled in the anti-fascist struggle of the thirties. It was at this time that he joined the Com munist Party, later being elected to its Central Com mittee. By 1964 he was one of -the Johannesburg Communist lead ers arrested and charged under the Riotous Assemblies Act with causing, the strike of 80,000 African miners on the Wit- water sr and gold mines. His greatest triumph came in 1964 with his defence of Mandela and others at the "Rivonia Trial." But tragedy followed soon after — his wife was killed in a motor accident as they were driving down to Cape Town for a well-earned rest after the exhausting trial A few months later Fischer ' was arrested, but in January of last year he jumped his bail of $5000 and .went underground, touching off a gigantic nation wide manhunt. For the next ten month - Fischer lived a fantastic fug tive life that earned for him the nickname of the "Scarlet Pimpernel," eluding arrest time and again by a hair's breadth and giving constant leadership to to the nation's freedom movement. When he was finally betrayed and arrested last November, Fischer was disguised, beyond recognition, with his hair dyed and his face remodelled through plastic surgery. Further protests are needed in the campaign to win the release of this heroic South African freedom leader. They should be sent to the South African Ambassador, Embassy Building, Jardine Street, King ston, A.C.T. 