 A fair go ! & cut taxes PERTH: A call for reduced taxes and a fairer go for the family man and old people were highlights of the annual Conference of the Federated Taxpayers Associations of Australia held here last week. President K, Barry criti cised the use of taxation as an economic control. Taxa tion is for the needs of Government. We are told spending power must be drawn off when a boom is coming. When things taper off we must again pay more to help stabilise the economy. When is it right for income tax cuts? Barry said "NOW." Navy Minister Chaney, who opened the Conference, dealt mainly with the expansion of military expenditure. World wide, it is $14 million per hour. He said Australian manufac turers got military contracts worth $111 million in 1964-65. A substantial proportion of Aus tralia's supplies were imported. Disappointed If Chaney hoped to set a tone to the Conference, he must have been disapponited, his only comfort being the one-out views of New South Wales delegate Langsworth — "People who have an adequate income should not get another shilling" — who could not block the Conference will for concessions. (To be adopted, motions must be unanimous.) Key resolution: Provision for reduced ; taxation should be made in the next budget. On the insistance of Langsworth, a rider was added: The Govern ment should promote greater efficiency and economic effort by capital and labor. For the family man, delegates called for roughly a doubling of dependents' allowances which have shrunk away with rises ( in the cost of living. The allow ance for second and subsequent children should be the same as for the first. This means a worker with dependent wife and three chil dren could earn about $1,700 before being taxable. Conference asked for allow able education expenses to be doubled, and to apply to student dependents up to 24 years of age. A proposal to include part-time students was not formally adopted. Pensioners For aged pensioners: Persons over 65 to be allowed $2,000 tax free, above which tax would be gradually "shaded in." For businesses which incur unexpected losses, the Confer ence wants the Income Tax Assessment Act changed to allow losses to be offset against profits of the preceding three years. Blocked by one vote from Tasmania, the following pro posals for 20 years of tax free dom for North Australia were not adopted: No income tax for wage and salary earners. For all business enterprises, 60 per cent, of nett income tax free, the remainder free if re invested in the area. However, the Conference adopted another important proposal on which the Trades and Labor Council had also decided to approach the Govern ment. This was to remove an anomaly which prevents some people in tax zones A and B from getting relief because their six months' minimum residence in the zones had extended over two tax years. The TLC went further, asking that the six months' qualifying period should not . apply to workers on construction jobs, which have a very high labor turnover. (Zone A is everything above the Tropic of Capricorn, and Zone B includes areas down to the 28th Parallel.) 