 TRESSELL'S SOCIALIST CLASSIC ' GREAT number of people are opposed to Socialism, but a very brief conversation with an average anti-socialist is sufficient to show that he does not know what socialism means. "The same is true of all the anti- socialist writers and the 'great statesmen', who make anti-socialist speeches: unless we believe that they are all deliberate liars and impostors, who, to serve their own interests, labour to mislead other people, we must conclude that they do not understand socialism. "There is no other possible ex planation of the extraordinary things they write and say. The thing they cry out against is not socialism but a phantom of their own imagining." These words of Robert Tressell were written as an introduction to his novel "The Ragged Trousered Philanthropist" — one of the great classics of socialist literature. A man of unusual depths and a great humanitarian, he, went to great lengths to put his ideas, knowledge and ' experiences in simple clearcut terms. His characters are a group of painters and decorators, many of whose idiosyncrasies may be seen in our industries today. There is Hunter the foreman, crafty and underhand, always pressing the men to use the cheap est of materials in their work and expecting the result to be nothing but the best. There is the young apprentice who is exploited by Hunter; the trade unionist who spends his lunch hours trying to convince his fellow workers to join the union. There is the pessimist always fearing the worst arid the drunkard whose workmates try to protect him from the foreman. The book tells of their respeec- tive struggles both at home and at work and the social ' conditions 'under which they live. The humor ous and the tragic are in this mov ing and realistic novel. Tressell wrote: "If a man is only able to provide himself and his family with the necessities of existence, that- man's family is living in poverty . . . "What we call civilisation— the accumulation of knowledge which has come down to us from our forefathers — is the fruit of thous ands of years of human thought and toil. v "It is not the result of the labour of the ancestors of any separate class of people who exist today and it is by right the common heritage of all .... "Money in itself is not wealth. What I call poverty is when people are not able to secure for them selves all the benefits of civilisa tion, the necessities, comforts, ; pleasures, and refinements of life, leisure, books, theatres, pictures, music, holiday, travel, good and beautiful homes, good clothes, good and pleasant food." Tressell wrote these things many years ago, however much of what he says can be applied to today's conditions. The book is lengthy and perhaps the author is at times over-descrip tive, but this is justified because of his unswerving efforts to get his message across in plain and simple terms and this he does most suc cessfully. — D.M. ("THE RAGGED TROUSERED PHIL ANTHROPIST" by Robert Tressell, $1.15 from New World Booksellers, 425 Pitt St., ' Sydney.) 