 [?] Yours for the taking yHb Commonwealth Government s tax holiday policy for companies I investing in New Guinea is attracting a ready response from financial l interests eager to take advantage of the lucrative profits offering. It may take time, but the potential return is there, as can be seen m the case of ANG Holdings Ltd. This company was formed last year to acquire Pacific Island Timbers Ltd. and the coffee and tea operations of Australia-New Guinea Cor poration Ltd. This year a further 300,000 ordinary shares were offered to shareholders at par of $1; increasing paid-up capital to $914,000. The Australia-New Guinea Corporation itself will take up 110,000 shares. Last week ANG announced a profit of $26,000, but no dividend was struck , "in view of the early stage of opera tions". Lest anyone be concerned about the company's future, the directors in a master piece of understatement an nounced that they believed the coming year should see "a substantial increase in the company's profitability." As well, the company this year will qualify for complete immunity from taxation un-. der the Pioneer Industries Ordinance. The Australia-New Guinea Corporation was formed in 1964 as a consortium of banks, . insurance companies, pastoral and industrial under takings, with the Chairman of Directors, Mr. Steven Rich, stating that the Corporation had committed a total of $3 million to New Guinea in vestment. This is only one of the many companies rushing into New Guinea to avail themselves of the Government's open sea son attitude. Whitlam calls for mineral control |ONG range regional planning with centres for processing of raw materials was needed to provide a good life for people in the country, I Deputy Opposition Lead- ./# er Gough Whitlam said » at Merredin in Western l| Australia. \ 1 "We are concerned that WA is likely to become a gigantic quarry", Mr. Whitlam said. "These minerals must be pro cessed here. "As finance has virtually passed from the banks' hands to other finance institutions, | such as insurance companies, | these should be encouraged or 1 required to invest in ap- I proved national government I proiects, using as a model 8 the Bell Bay aluminium works I in Tasmania." B Merredin farmers, who have 1 been refused by the Brand | Government freight conces- . 1 sions similar to those granted | to BHE for its iron ore from nearby Koolyanobbing, will be in a mood to give Mr. Whit- lam's ideas very careful con sideration. 