 Migrants state stand against conscription THEY'LL DEFEND AUSTRALIA - WHY CO TO VIETNAM ? CYDNEY: The decision of the Holt Government to conscript young foreign nationals to fight in Vietnam has sparked active opposition among mi grants against what is rapidly becoming branded as a "de-migration policy. It is reported to be worrying immigration Department officials, who are already investigating reasons for the big increase in the number of migrants returning home. (See Page 2.) Greek Committees Against Conscription are now operating in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and other cities. They will present a petition protesting against the call-up to the Holt Government at the end of this month. The secretary of the committee in Sydney, Mr. Steve Savides, said that not one;. single: ..memher .rof , the .Greek community approached had refused to sign the petition. The Committee is receiving requests from all over Sydney to address meetings of Greeks. From the meetings — in clubs, homes and milk bars — petitions are being taken to canvass signatures. The general feeling among the Greeks and other migrants involved is that they are not opposed to defend ing Australia, but are opposed to fighting in a war like Vietnam, which they say does not concern Australia. Typical of this attitude were the remarks ,of some young Greeks interviewed by a Tribune reporter this week. - AN UNJUST WAR JOHN BOUNTROS, 18, said: "I would gladly defend Australia but conscription for the war in Vietnam is against the interests of Australia." Peter Samariz, 19, said: "The war in Vietnam is an unjust war, which means killing women and children." Lambros Kladis, 20, said: "Lots of . families in Greece have already written asking their hoys to come home." "My father hais written to me asking me to come home," said Nick Georgakopoulous, 20. He wrote: "This war has nothing to do with you or Australia so you had better return.", - - John Bountros said his sister had intended coming here but his family has cancelled her departure. H$ felt that many young Greeks would return but that many others would st,op to fight against the call-up. He added: "If reports are true that the Government had decided to call up migrants- in order to prevent unfavorable criticism during the elections, then it was immoral." Mr. Savides said that the proposed call-up had hard ened the attitude in the Greek, community to the Viet nam war. The protest to the Australian Government by the Greek and Italian Governments against the conscription f their un-naturalised nationals dramatically illustrates how the blackening of Australia's good name by the Holt Government's policy in Vietnam is spreading from Asia to Europe. The Dutch and the West German Governments have aho made clear their misgivings. Young Greeks in Sydney discuss plans to canvass for signatures to their Anti-conscription petition. 