 U.S. PEACE BID' COVERS MOVES FOR BIO WAR till# III! ly ffffll : World-wide scepticism of Wash" ington's so-called 'peace offensive' has turned info condemnation as it 1 becomes clear that it is a smoke- screen to continue the war and to j escalate it into Laos, Cambodia j and even further. "JHE condemnation comes from even well known | American newsmen as Joseph Alsop and Walter Lippman. j Alsop dismissed me President's j oeace offensive as a "vast inter- L-ational vaudeville act." I He commented that if the President I really wanted peace in Vietnam fi would have omitted the fanfare I ;d tackled the problem in a quietly professional manner. Lippman warned of the crucial stage now reached. He said: "Mr. Johnson ... is on the verge of 'making the kind of ruinous historical mistake which the Athenians made when they attacked Syracuse, which Napoleon made when he attacked Russia: he is on the verge of engag ing America in a war which can grow into a great war lasting many years and promising no rational solution." | This is the disastrous situation into .which Australia is being dragged deeper and deeper by the Menzies Government. Aussie troops A build-up of Australian troops will follow the demands of President Johnson's Ambassador-at-large, Mr. Averell Harriman, who arrived in Canberra last Sunday. This confirms the statement by Mr. L. Aarons, the General Secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, last December that "the United States Administration has already decided that more Australians must go, because they are needed to cover up American isolation in this unjustifi able war of aggression." A.L.P. criticism In line with Labor Party policy, which is sharply opposed to Aus tralian participation in Vietnam, the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Cal well) flew to Canberra yesterday (Tuesday) to seek assurance from Mr. Harriman that America will not step up the war if its present "peace offensive" fails. The open admission by the US to take complete control of the war will only create further serious political problems for the Americans in Viet nam and the world. This is unlikely to be offset by any US military gains. In fact the ballyhooed US offensive in the Iron Triangle, already costing four Aus tralian dead and 18 wounded, is headed for fiasco. It is reported that American officers were "disappointed with the opera tion following the usual pattern of optimistic predictions, which turn out to be serious defeats or humiliat ing failures to catch the big guerrilla forces trapped. The extremely grave situation now confronting the people of the world urgently requires stepping up action against the US threat to Vietnam and world peace. 