 Mr. Holt tries rough stuff N abrupt warning by a Labor Party leader to Prime Minister Holt last weekend to keep his D political ("security") police away from a Melbourne rally had double significance. The warning — by Victorian ALP secretary W. H. Hartley — followed statements by Mr. Holt at a Queensland election campaign meeting at Ipswich. Mr. Holt, amidst a barrage of hostile heckling, announced that security police were keeping a "close eye on agitators" at public meetings, and also that "Federal Government action to expose communism was being considered, including the publication of a White Paper on Communism. This statement — made as a prepared reply to a "Dorothy Dixer" question from the audience — was clearly a Cabinet policy announcement. Coming after months of Government silence about the "White Paper" scheme so beloved of Liberal Party, ; RSL and' "ultra circles", why the timing? New factors that help answer this question are the rapid deterioration of public support for the Vietnam war and conscription; and the increasing unity of the labor movement to contest the Federal elections on these issues. In accordance with the Menzies formula, it is time for a "rabbit out of the . hat" another red scare. : - ,1'li.e secoud leature is the immediate find accurate 1 i recognition in the ALP that' such "anti-corhmunist" intimidation tactics are in reality aimed at ALL (whether communist, ALP or non-party) wiio oppose Government, policy. Jt is because of desperate inability to win public support for its war policy that the Holt Government is turning to intimidation and smear to frighten people away from the multiplying meetings. Mr./ H. V. Mclvor (Lab., Vic.) complained in the last session of Federal Parliament that secret police are not only attending such meetings, but are taking down speeches of Labor MPs like himself. Senator J. M. Wheeldon (WA) has twice in two months asked questions on whether MPs' telephones aie being tapped by security, and is still waiting lor an answer. But Mr. Holt's turn to intimidation is doomed to failure. Australians against the war are in a majority. By fighting back against the Government's plan they can further ensure its complete failure at the coming elections. 