 The day feey shot Charlie Smith. A short story By HENRY McCarthy THE day they shot Charlie Smith it was raining. He got wet and had felt cold all the way into town that morning. Now he felt nothing, sprawled on the edge of the wet road, one leg half-submerged in the swirl ing gutter. The water was stained red. A stunned and silent knot of those ever curious people huddled on the footpath and watched as two ambulance men and two policemen lifted him on to a stretcher and covered him with a grey blanket. They were white-faced, but quick and efficient as though ac customed to this work. They slid the stretcher into the back of the ambulance and snapped the doors shut. The two policemen stood back as the en gine revved and the ambulance turned slowly and then sped down the hill with its siren wailing. The small crowd had gone. The rain had washed the red ste/.n from the glistening black road and tomorrow's papers would an nounce that Charlie Smith, lab orer, had been shot dead. And on this wet, cold night a woman and three children would weep alone. ? Two men and a woman sat at the table in the kitchenette of a flat. They talked in low tones and chain-smoked. A clock on the wall showed 2 pm. The woman kept pouring cof fee. One of the men rose, walked to the window and said: "It seems all right to me, but I don't like this bloody rain. It fouls the traffic up." "It's not much, of a .risk and one we have to take. We can't wait for another week," the other replied. The woman said nothing. There was silence for a while and then the man at the window said — "MJaisie, go down 'and get a bottle. I'll choke if I drink any more of that bloody coffee." "No booze, d'yer hear," the one at the table said, and while his voice was soft, it had a hard undertone of authority. He lit a cigarette, and said: "Now come over here and we'll go over it again." It was exactly 4.30 pm when the car with the two men in the front seat eased through the traf fic and approached the bank in the middle of the block. Another car was directly out side the bank. Parked vehicles stretched out the full length of the block in front and behind. A man sat at the wheel. He watched the other car creeping up through the rear vision mir ror. "Right on time," he said aloud, as though in relief. He jumped out and placed a coin in the parking meter as the car he had watched stopped within a few feet of his car. He quickly climbed back in and drove into the stream of traffic. The second car was guided smoothly and expertly into the space and stopped, but the motor was left running. They sat for a while, coat col lars turned up, hats pulled down. "Better get goin'," said the one at the wheel. The other reached down and came up with a sawn-off rifle in a canvas cover. A brass zipper ran down the full length of the cover. He stepped out of the car and the street and he quickened his walked briskly into the bank, and pace. within a yard of the lone teller Before he knew it the car was he pulled back the zipper a.nd hurtling towards him. He jumped poked the snout of the rifle for his life, but the car grazed through the grill. him and he fell sprawling on the Then a woman who had been wet road, busily writing at the counter op- The car was unable to uun in posite the teller's cage turned the traffic, so it reversed, and and quickly stepped up to hirm ,sped backwards as -though i»- She carried a canvas bag. It tent on crushing him as he lay was Maisie, who obviously had - prone. other talents than making cof- He leaped to his feet and _ ran fee. in a frenzy. She handed the gunman the He jumped in front of a car bag and he tossed it over the and made the opposite footpath, top of the cage to the shaking still clutching his long canvas bag. teller — he cooked the rifle with He turned into a side street,, his an ominous click. breath rasping, but he felt re- "Fill this up, you," he said, "and lief that he was alive, fast, or I'll cut you in two." Then the car was speeding He still spoke in a low voice, after him again. He stopped and but there was still that cold stood with his back against the authority. wall of a shop. The teller was a frightened, but There were two men in the still a sensible man. He did as car. They both got out and he was told and he did it fast. walked quickly towards the fright- He passed the bag over the grille ened Charlie, to Maisie. The gunman zipped the The one in front drew his pistol canvas cover over the rifle and and said: "So you thought you walked briskly from the bank be- could get away with it.- You're hind her. coming with us." It took a little time for the The one behind said to the knot teller to get his legs working and of people already gawking from to regain the power of speech. the other footpath, "Clear away By the time he had and the from here." alarm had been given it was too That was when Charlie Smith late and the bank balance was turned and ran. down $40,000. The one with the gun, almost ? calmly, shot him three times in the back. Charlie Smith felt pretty satis- He fell and rolled over once fied with himself at this moment and they were upon him. He still as he strode along through the clutched the canvas package, crowd a good block away from One of them knelt on his out- the bank. stretched arm, prised it loose from This would be some week-end his clenched fingers and ripped with the boys, if only the weather back the zip. would fine up; he had been look- a flash the doubt he had ing forward to it for weeks. felt a split second before became He swung the canvas covered certainty, package he\ carried and gave it He stood up and turned round an affectionate pat with his free very slowly — he was holding the , hand. empty cover in one hand— and a He heard the screech of the new collapsible fishing rod in the siren just as he began to cross other. mmMmk Ml 