 TREND TO THE RIGHT UK seamen last on Wilson's list IONDON : The Labor Government has given doctor s, judges — and itself — pay increases higher than those it has re fused to the seamen. Tills remarkable fact Is brought out in a hard-hit- ting editorial by the London New Statesman, a left Labor paper and firm supporter, usually, of the Wilson Gov ernment. There is widespread criticism of the Government among progressive people, including Communists, for its repressive role in the seamen's strike. When this is linked with Mr. Callaghan's "tough" budget, including his unpopular em ployment tax, and the Govern ment's agreement to negotiate with Smith's racialists and Franco's fascist regime, the rightward trend is obvious. Continued backing for the US in Vietnam and for West German nuclear claims em phasise this. The New Statesman asks; "Is it true, as many trade union ists believe, that the Govern ment has been looking around for a sacrificial victim to im pale on the altar of its in comes policy and has it se lected the seamen? The paper points out that the Government is actually asking the seamen to take less than the owners are prepared to offer. 3% offer The Government, it notes, has promised the seamen an inquiry, but only if they will accept, not the owners' final offer of April 6, but their earlier offer of March 9, which offered a mere 3 per cent in crease, with no change in hours. While talking about the sea men "breaching the dyke", Wilson ignores the fact that it has been "long since swept aside by the flood of Mr. Wil son's political necessities. "He celebrated Labor's re turn to power by awarding MPs and Ministers (including himself) pay increases which might well make the humble seamen goggle. "It then turned out that, as a result of a backstage deal by the Whips before the 1964 election, the judges, too, had to be given an even greater in crease. "Only last week the doctors, who also had not scrupled to use the strike threat, were given another £1000 a year — a sum for which a seaman must work a 76-80 hour week. Selected victims "On what grounds, then, are the seamen selected as vic tims? With only 65,000 men involved, their demand cannot of itself be a major inflation ary factor. . . "Equally, a pay increase for the seamen can, by no stretch of the imagination, be regard ed as an - incitement to other groups of workers to press their claims. "The NUS is not a 'trend setter' . . . the seamen, by their very isolation, have fallen well behind in the industrial rat- race". Working 56 hours to earn £15 a week,- says the paper, the seamen "must surely qualify t£r specific provision in the incomes policy which ex cepts notoriously underpaid groups of workers from the 31 per cent norm." German seamen get £64 a month for a 40-hour week (£4 a month more than the maxi mum demand of the British seamen) and Danish seamen get £74 a month for a 45-hour week. The seamen, says the New Statesman, will not be im pressed (nor, we suspect, will | the rest of the nation) by Mr. Wilson's sub-Churchillian pos turing." I The London Morning Star | notes that Wilson's stand is heartily echoed by the Tories. "Mr. Wilson was prepared to let the doctors have £20 a week increase in pay — more than 10 times the size of his incomes policy ceiling," says the Star. "Why should he not agree that the seamen are entitled to have the much more mod est improvements they de mand?" 