 Aborigines' strike spreads in NT THEY WON'T WAIT THREE YEARS FOR WAGE JUSTICE |%ARWIN : The biggest strike of Aborigines in Australia's history began last week at Vesty's huge Wave Hill station in the Northern Territory when 200 of them went on strike for equal pay with white workers. Within hours of news of the strike reaching Darwin a truck load of supplies was speeding towards Wave Hill. The Wave Hill strikers, employees of the giant foreign meat monopoly, Vesteys, now join the Aborigine strikers from Newcastle Waters station who have been on strike for the same demands since the middle of last May. There are growing indications that Aborigines fed up with meagre wages and deplorable conditions on other stations, are preparing to joinvThe , fight against the Arbitration Court's decision last March riot to grant equal pay to Aborigines on stations for three years. A joint Disputes Committee has been formed with the North Australian Workers' Uriion and the Northern Territory Aborigine Rights Council. The most striking feature of the current wages battle of the Aborigines is that they themselves are leading it. In recent months Aborigines who had played a part in earlier activity around the NT Council for Aboriginal Rights — Phillip Roberts and Davis and Dexter Daniels- have moved into action in a more concerted and con scious way and new leaders have joined them, including Robert Tudawaali (known in Darwin as Bobby Wilson) famous star of Jedda, Clancy Roberts, Doris Daniels, Walter Rogers and others too numerous to name. This marks a new and decisive stage in the long striving of the native people for wage justice, equality and dignity. Aborigines' initiative Previous campaigns throughout Australia have, with perhaps one or two notable exceptions, seen white Aus tralians playing the main organising and political role. This was a necessary stage, but now the Aborigines are beginning to show the self-reliance essential to victory. Of course, white men have played some part in sup porting the NT Aborigines in the upsurge of recent months, but the main initiative has been taken by the Aborigines. Indeed, the whole wages encounter was originated by a remarkable character called Captain Major, a native employed until the strike at the Newcastle Waters cattle station. He approached Dexter Daniels at the Brunette Downs picnic races and discussed the decision of the Arbitration Court. Captain Major said the Newcastle Waters natives were ready to strike. The story has it that before Dexter got back to Darwin a telegram waited at the union office announcing that the strike had started. Recently the Newcastle Waters natives moved back on to the property to their Tribal area but announced that they will not return to work until they get equal pay. The Wave Hill strike has thrown up a new leader in Vincent Lingiari; an Aboriginal stockman. There are many more Captain Majors and Vincent Cmgiaris on the pastoral properties, mission! stations and welfare settlements throughout the Territory waiting to add their names to the honor role with a fighting spirit that assures victory. Daily press reports of the Wave Hill strike are in part misleading. The morale of the strikers is extremely lxgh and they have ample food, with continuous supplies assured. Continued on Page 1% Strike lender Captain Major with some of the women and children who walked off Newcastle Waters Station last May with their men folk. Aborigines' wages Continued from Page 1 The two Aborigines who have gone to Wave Hill, Dexter Dan iels and Robert Tudawaali, are more than capable of handling any problems, including the in evitable intimidation by the Vestey bosses, who are notor ious throughout the Territory. The reports that Vincent Lin- giari is demanding a wage of $50 a week for the strikers have been denied in Darwin. The central issue of the strike is equal award wages with white workers, who receive no more than a miserable $24 a week and keep. If the figure of $50 a week has been mentioned, it would be without keep. And would that be over-pay ment for skilled and often dan gerous work, mustering, brand ing and injecting? In fact, the whole question of paternalism and handouts in stead of independence and the right to handle their own money lies at the very heart of the turbulent unrest among Aborigines in the. Territory. Under the NT Wage Ordin ances, an Aboriginal stockman received $4.82 per week and keep. Keep consists of handouts of working clothes, the worst cuts of meat, treacle, flour, tea, sugar. No fruit, no butter, no green | vegetables, just enough to keep | body and soul together. And I the living conditions in native I camps on the stations are us- I ually tin humpies lacking sani tation, so squalid that they have to be seen to be believed. Children are born and reared under these conditions and re- ueivc iiuuxc ur iiu euuuauuxi. Equal pay for Aborigines on stations would cost $2 million a year, but the pastoralists can well afford it; they pay rent as low as. 10 cents a square mile per year. The leases are worth fortunes and some return a profit of $1 million in a good year. All this land is actually the tribal grounds of the Abori gines; it is their property, not the white man's. Conditions on missions and welfare stations are a little better, but no adequate training for life and work is given. The labor of the natives is exploited often only for keep. Nice profits Indeed, many mission and welfare settlements make nice profits from the labor of the Aborigines, including the sale of bark paintings, which are sold at high prices while the natives themselves receive little or no payment and remain nameless. And, incredible as it may seem, the general rule is for social service payments such as child endowment and pensions to be paid to the pastoralists, missions and welfare stations. The Aborigines never see a penny of it. The money is sup posed to go towards their up keep. Managers of the great cattle stations and some individual pastoralists boast that they show a profit on the Aborigines due to the fact that the Social Service Department in Adelaide posts lump-sum cheques fof social service payments direct to the boss. The relatives of stockmen and domestics employed on pas toral properties, the children pnd old people, live on the sta tions. Money received by the pastoralists in the form of soc ial service payments often ex ceeds money spent on upkeep. 