 WHY DID MY COUSIN DIE IN VIETNAM? t&e Sditax " "jARING Copter Res cue in Vain. Private Dies." So read the headlines in the Melbourne Sun, June 10, page 2. Private John Sweetnam hiad in truth died in vain. He had been 1 7 days in battle. How did 19-year-old John Sweetnam become a regular soldier? Did the problems of an in valid mother, existing on a ' social ' service allowance, de termine his decision? He had been giving what limited financial assistance a lad could provide. Is it surprising the advert isements to "join the army and earn a man's pay" proved attractive? - How many more lads are lurerd by these advertisements to death in the jungles of Vietnam? I know that this lad's know ledge of - the purpose or rea son behind Australian troops fighting i,n Vietnam would be almost non-existent. His interest in joining the army was an economic one — a means of alleviating an in tolerable home situation. Our present social services only skim the surface of the problems facing such as Pte. John Sweetnam's mother — a pittance to live on, high ren tal for a roof, none of the comforts and security which an invalid requires. So John is brought home from Vietnam to be buried in Australian soil, dying for a cause which has its origins in the U.S.A. and our Liberal government. I look at my 18-year-old son with apprehension, is he too and thousands like him, to die as his cousin has, before his life has really begun? When the telegram arrived notifying me of the death of my cousin John, pictures of the boy as an infant, as a small boy and then, the last time I saw him, as a gangling, shy 16-year-old crowded my mind. How pleased I was that a few days before, I had marched through the city streets with my family along with 2000 others protesting against the war in Vietnam. I could not save John Sweetnam, hut perhaps if we have bigger and better dem onstrations it will ultimately force the government to real ise the murderous character of its policy both for Australian lads and the Vietnamese people. — Pauline A." (Vic). (The dead soldier's cousin). 