 THE ASIAN HORDES MYTH WHO COULD ATTACK AUSTRALIA ? One of the hoariest of all myths in Australian his tory has been that of the threat of allegedly imminent invasion by the "teeming hordes" of Asia. In this contributed article, EDDIE GABRIEL examines a few facts of elementary logistics to show that, even if it were so inclined, no Asian country, with the pos sible exception of Japan, has the technical capacity to1 mount an invasion of Australia. -THE Federal Govern ment and the Lib eral Party have financed expensive publications claiming that we are in volved in Vietnam be cause our own national security is involved. The alternative, they claim, could be that a more costly battle may have to be "fought on our own soil". Anyone attempting to in vade Australia would have to have a large army, navy and merchant fleet, with the nec essary heavy industrial set up, including steel, ship building, aircraft, petrol etc plus the raw material, the food resources and the many other industries to back up the armed services. What Asian countries pos sess all these requirements? Japan is the only Asian country with a sizeable merch ant fleet. Not having the necessary merchant and naval fleet, China has been unable to re gain even Quemoy and Matsu islands, a few miles off their own coast. How then could China be any threat to Aus tralia? Shipping Few people realise the am ount of shipping needed to move and maintain an invad ing army. For the initial landing, over any long dist ance, it is estimated that it requires 10 tons of shipping per man. A 10,000 ton ship can carry only 1000 troops. As passenger ships, the Canberra, Orsova, Arcadia, & Himalaya with a total tonn age of 160,000 tons, carry a total of 8000 passengers, or 20 tons of shipping per pas senger. Recently the movement of 4500 Australian troops to Vietnam required 3b Qantas flights while 900 of this num ber travelled on the aircraft carrier Sydney (450 on each of the two trips). It is a conservative milit ary estimate that a success ful attack requires at least twice the number of troops the defenders have. (In Viet nam, American commanders have asked for a 5 to 1 ratio.) Supplies During the second World War Australia raised about 1,000,000 troops. Faced with an invasion, and now having a greatly increased population, the number of troops the country would be able to put under arms would be consid erable higher. Supplying an invading army is a much more difficult job. A comparison may be made from the few figures available from South Vietnam. Thirty jet aircraft burn up more than 1,000,000 gallons of fuel a month. According to the New York Times during August last year, US military dry cargoes discharged totalled 63,190 tons and aid-commercial cargoes totalled 146,306 and 668,776 tons. For that month alone it can clearly be seen what a vast amount of shipping is re quired. With the build-up to 158,000 men in November, military cargoes had increased from 75,000 tons last February to 708,000 tons in November. During that month 122 Pen tagon - sponsored freighters were waiting at the mouth of the Mekong River to discharge. Saigon, the main port in South Vietnam, has 10 deep- draft and two shallow-draft berths, while another seven deep-draft freighters can tie up in the river between buoys and unload onto lighters. Build-up Many ships wait over a month for a berth to dis charge. Early this month it took four months to complete the movement of an extra 100,000 US troops to Vietnam. At the height of the build-up, 158 military and commercial ships were involved, totalling more than 2,000,000 tons of shipping. This huge build-up caused the US deep concern as es sential supplies fell to a low ebb. With the exception of New castle and Brisbane, few Aus tralian ports north of Syd ney have more than a few wharves. Most have limited road and rail links. Only one road leads south out of Darwin. How would any, or a combination, of these ports be able to handle the necessary supplies brought to Australia over long supply routes by an invader? Australia has reason to fear only the invasion of foreign capital, possibly followed by the "friendly" troops to "pro tect" us. MILNE BAY, 1943: An Australian officer relaxes on a knocked- I out Japanese tank. Even with a huge merchant and naval fleet, and a military machine geared to aggression, the Japanese were unable to keep their troops in the Pacific adequately supplied. How then, asks Eddie Gabriel, could any underdeveloped nation, such as China— with her armed forces planned on defensive lines— undertake an invasion of Australia? 