 Savage world reaction to Hanoi bombings Only Holt crawls all Se nator calls USA ' the the way to LBJ on igest threat to peace ' Yank aggression From Rupert Lockwood From Rupert Lockwood OSCOW i Australia has received international publicity as one of the few remaining governments to back every new and menacing American escalation in Vietnam. So fierce are world protests against the bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong that some of the most conservative American, West German and British news papers have been forced to ap peal to Washington to show more sense. Even British Premier Harold Wilson was not able to stay with Washington this, time, and the French Government issued a strong protest. Before the American Embassy at Bonn, and in city marches of West Germans, were telling posters saying "Vietnam is an American Auschwitz" and "Where is your conscience, Yankees?" Izvestia commentator A. Ter- Grigoryants, noting that the Hanoi and Haiphong raids, be gan on the day the Canberra SEATO session ended, said that Dean Rusk "counted this coincidence as an indicator of SEATO Council approval of this new American crime". Thfi T7.VARHO. fnmm onfo f AV added: "However, Australia ap pears to be the only enthus iastic admirer of the monstrous action of Washington. "Numerous compliments paid by the White House during the stay of the Australian Prime Minister in Washington were not wasted." Graver Warnings in graver tones are being issued by the USSR to the chief aggressor and its satellites. The Soviet Government's special statement branded this dangerous new gamble as a threat to universal peace "hold ing out nothing but dishonor and disgrace to the USA". The statement stressed that the USSR would render aid "on a scale necessary to help the Vietnamese people .to up hold their just cause". CPSU general secretary Bre zhnev, in addressing Soviet military graduates, warned that in view of this further exten sion of the war "Soviet aid to Vietnam will keep growing". Brezhnev added: "We are drawing proper conclusions from the latest crimes of Ame rican imperialism. "The USSR will never leave the fraternal Vietnamese in trouble. "Even the closest US allies are now dissociating themselves from American military crimes. Never before has the prestige of the US been so low as to day". Brezhnev forecast that the outcome of American Vietnam policy "may be quite unlike that wanted by the USA". Red Star commentator Col onel A. Leontyev said Wash ington intends to demand from its allies great numbers of new troops and also new bases. "The road of complicity in America's dirty war is an ex tremely dangerous one for any country", said Col. Leontyev. These allies should know that "the mad actions of the Penta gon, the crimes committed on Vietnamese soil, will have to nn.iri fnv nnt. nnW Vw t.Vip aggressors themselves but also by their accomplices." While their language was not as forthright, many thought on the same lines as American Communist leader Gus Hall, who said of Amelia's bomb- ing of Hanoi and Haiphong that "Our foreign policy is now in the hands of maniacs who endanger the safety of mankind". Senator Wayne Morse said that in extending the area of the bombings the United States posed as "the biggest threat to world peace." He advocated that Amer ican flags should be lowered half-mast all over the world to deplore this step by the Johnson Administration which violated all generally accept ed laws. The destruction wrought by American planes in the area of Hanoi and Haiphong "dis credits the United States for many generations to come," said Senator Morse. Anger Many British Labor parlia mentarians have demanded that the Wilson Government drop its support of America's Vietnam war. One American flier cap- tured was driven through the streets of Hanoi in an open car under klieg lights as the populace demonstrated their anger. The Air Force captain apologised for his killings. "I regret very much that I un dertook this criminal action against the Vietnamese people," he said. Heavy American bombings of Hanoi and Haiphong sub urbs not only signal violent new escalation, but growing Government desperation and public revulsion over the Vietnam war in America. Leading American .news papers note growing senti ment in Congress for settle ment of the Vietnam war and that this movement, plus pub- lic anger and failure i,n Viet nam have threatened the jobs of Defence Secretary McNamara, Under-Secretary of State George Ball and even State Secretary Dean Rusk. Humiliated The London Daily Express reports that McNamara is humiliated and. upset by not being able to solve the Vie tnam problem. He has been promising early victory since 1962. McGeorge Bundy, Jack Valenti and Thomas Mann, all tough-line advisers to the President and State Depart ment, have already resigned. The New York Times pub lished a list of future victims headed by Ball. The paper forecasts that Ball's job will be given to a man who will eventually replace Dean Rusk. Evidence of rising public revulsion is Des Moines Register editorial attacking Vietnam atrocities. 