 # ON 'THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE r Unions' answer fo port congestion .MI— IU—1— —— — BLUEPRINT FOR BOTANY BAY — if the wool boys will be in it SYDNEY: Waterfront unions have proposed a plan to develop Botany Bay as a modern port, which they claim, would overcome the present process of traffic strangulation now choking the city. The plan is aimed at central ising stevedoring operations to the benefit of workers, ex porters and importers. With containerisation of cargo, now being pushed ahead by the overseas ship ping giants in their fight for the lucrative Australian trade, the unions' plan should be given immediate attention by both the NSW. and Federal Governments. The method of handling car go in steel containers" arid car" ried by specially constructed ships will greatly reduce the time and manpower needed to handle it. Profits And for the companies that capture this trade it will mean greatly increased pro fits. The NSW Maritime Services Board's president (Mr., Bro- therson) has been defending proposals to make White Bay, Balmain, Sydney's container port. Leaders of the Waterside Workers' Federation have .ridiculed this proposal as "short-sighted." - Mr. Sid. Barrett (assistant secretary, Sydney Branch of the WWF) said the waterway at Balmain is too narrow for big ships. "They now have to be brought out to let others in. What would be the situation with five times the shipping and bigger ships?" he asked. Mr. Tom Nelson (Sydney Branch secretary) points out that Balmain is near the pre sent wool stores and these in- terests together with the P and O line have no doubt lob bied for this site. Two big consortiums have already been established in Europe to develop container trade. These are the Overseas Container Ltd. (dominated by the British giant, P and O) . and Associated ' Container Transportation Ltd. (domin ated by the Cunard group). third group, mainly into the picture and three big US groups are now well ad vanced in container shipping. Mr. Nelson said the situa tion in Sydney would be cha otic in a few years if those companies are allowed to push their own interests. "Just imagine the traffic congestion in the city with giant trucks carrying huge 40 ft. containers to and from five or more depots," he told Tribune. "Botany Bay offers the solu tion and at the same time would allow the city to be turned into a residential shop ping centre, while Sydney Harbour could retain its natural beauty," he said. Standing on the shores of Botany Bay last Wednesday, union leaders explained the feasibility of their plan to press representatives and members of the Federal Ex porters' Overseas Transport Committee. The unions represented were the WWF, Foremen Stevedores, Federated Clerks and Miscellaneous Workers. Mr. Charlie Fitzgibbon UU7WG1 j. \ WTVVA' gciicxcii acuxetdrry, holding a map of the bay, pointed to the fact that the depth of water at the bar was 45 feet which is about the same as Sydney Heads. "Already the Bay has been dredged for tankers and the cost of additional dredging this site as a container port would be small compared with the cost of an access road to Balmain," he said. The other advantages the unions pointed out included: Large areas of land avail able for the container depot. Good roads to the Bay. A rail head already exist ing to Bunnerong. The heavy concentration of large industry in the area, including oil, chemical, paper, motor works etc. — -"The— unions — know — that powerful business groups will be pushing in different direc tions about where the port should be and who should control it. This is why the WWF has firmly proposed that stevedor ing and port development should be taken out of the hands of the wealthy overseas shipowners. MR. C. FITZGIBBON (CENTRE) AND OTHER UNION LEADERS AT BOTANY BAY. 