 Row on school for tail poppies: Council cr acks down on Woolworths for "flouting authority" By a Local Correspondent JYDNEY'S Woollahra Council has ordered Woolworths Ltd. to demolish unauthorised additions to their executive train ing school, "The Hermitage", at Vaucluse. The order followed an inspection report by the Council's building sur- veyor after neighbours complained of a noisy air conditioning plant. About two years ago Wool- worths paid $19,000 for "The Hermitage" and later applied to the Council to carry out extensions costing $24,000. The Council finally approved of the' plans after a limit was put on the height of the new additions to preserve the neigh bours views. In addition to the approv ed work, Woolworths built a theatrette and projection room lined with timber panels and carpeted floor, where only a carport, turning circle and parking area was authorised. Woolworths also installed a mechanical ventilation plant and carried out other work. The total unauthorised work was described as a whole major development. Alderman T. White, Wool- lahra's only Labor alderman said: ". . . it is not a case where ignorance could be claimed . but a deliberate flouting of Council's authority." A company as big as Wool- worths has top architects and builders and could not claim ignorance. Aid. W. Latimer said Wool- worths had "blatantly defied" Woollaha Council. "The Hermitage" is adjacent to a small sandy beach at Her mit Bay, one of the several small beaches on the eastern foreshores of Rose Bay. No public access In 1912 the State Government resumed a large area of land along the eastern foreshores of Rose Bay for a scenic drive and recreation centre. Known as the Hermitage Foreshores Reserve this area extends for about three-quarters of a mile from the foot of Bay View Hill Road near the Rose Bay Convent to Steele Point at Neilsens Park. After nearly half a century of public ownership there is still no access road for the f public to this area. Many adjoining property owners have obtained permis sive occupancy of this choice waterfront land at small rent als and with rate concessions. Previous owners of "The Her mitage" held a permissive oc cupancy. The Department of Lands, on September 2, 1959, sought Wool lahra Council's concurrence on a proposed permissive occup- ancy by V. J. Boyce owner of a residence "The Hermitage" 22 Vaucluse Road, "for the pur pose of gardens, tennis court, pools, boatman's quarters on boatshed situated on an area which was resumed by the Crown in 1912, for the purpose of a scenic drive and recreation centre." "No objection to occupancy" Woollahra » Council accepted their engineer's report which could "see no objection to the granting of the permissive oc cupancy as all the improve ments exist and were used under a permissive, occupancy by the previous owner Mrs. . McCathie." Woolworths have now taken ever this permissive occupancy. In August last the NSW Min ister of Land, Mr. T. Lewis, said: "Waterfront reserves are in tended for the public and must be kept freely available for gen eral public use.- "It would be a mistake to restrict this use by granting further applications that would result in individual rights or privileges." Mr. Lewis should be chal lenged to set a date for the return of the whole of the Her mitage Foreshores Reserve for its intended purpose, in line with his own statement. 