 GUNNING FOR CHINK KAILITARY intervention in Vietnam, and all steps taken to expand it, are seen bv imDortant circles in Wash- ington as preparatory to spreading the war to involve the 700-million-strong Chin ese People's Republic and its socialist allies. The kind of thinking involved was expressed by the former US Strategic Air Command chief, General Thomas Power who said (Australian, 25/5/66): "The only way to win the war is to take North Vietnam off the map . . . we can end it in a day." Mr. J. Fraser, Australian Army Minister, was accused in Federal Parliament in May of having advo- cated in Washington the bombing of Hanoi. (Recently China stated that bombing of Hanoi would bring Chinese intervention.) The U.S.A. had troops in China after World War II, considered invading China in the Korean War in 1950, has sent many U2 air in telligence missions over China and . has patrolled the China coast with the 7th Fleet ever since 1950. The US leaders have twice in the past few weeks precipitated a brink-of-war situation with China On April 24 it was stated in Wash ington that US planes had just fought a battle over north Vietnam ' with "MIG" planes that could have been Chinese. US spokesmen then issued pro vocative remarks about a so-called 'right of hot pursuit" which they implied could justify the launching of an aerial invasion of China. This led to an outcry in which American leaders, such as Sena tor Robert Kennedy, took part, warning that China had the power to hit back in any such war. On May 13 the Chinese Govern ment announced Chinese planes on a training mission within their borders were attacked by invading US planes and one of the Chinese planes shot down. Australian brinkmen ought to note the warning of the New York Times editor, James Reston, that China can today hit back if at tacked. The result of any attack on China, he said, might be bombs or rockets on Saigon, on Thailand, where US bombers are based or on US carriers off the coast. And this might not exhaust the possible targets. There are no Chinese involved in Vietnam, north or south. Not even the US or Australian Government,' which still talk about "aggression from Peking" can claim that there are. The original 1965 American White Paper called Aggression from the North based its charges oi Chinese involvement on the alleged capture of "six" Chinese-made weapons from the Vietnamese The lat|talian Govern ment paihPjl:11 Questions Tnd m?0t.cite even this duhJtf evidence for its unsUPP?fea that China wants W 'If ""Mnation" over Asia ||| At not el"»r occupy ' || tori. tory that has not been Chinese for centuries, while western powers occupy Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao. Expansion of the present Aus tralian sales of wheat and wool to China shows the same path for ward; US pressure for war with China spells out the danger of world atomic war, an insane course. THE 0LD,ht'i!:nk&lt;!eJ troops Rationed at Shanghai before 1949 pa' car ;jnd. on the then European racecourse. The |s hankering to go back twenty years later. i 