 A plague of phoney histories JUDAH WATEN'S LITERARY COMMENT ( -|-HE expatriate best- selling Melbourne- born writer Alan Moor- " head, now on a visit to his native land, is better known for his Nile and hooper Greek books than his history of the ,, Russian Revolution which Appeared in 1958. But it- was this history that brought him in the most > cash: it was a . great best seller in the USA. It was commissioned by "Life" mag- , azine and. it was among the first of a flood of histories on the Revolution, the Soviet Union, Lenin, the Soviet Union wai'> etc., sponsored by big American publishing con- ?e>uS' en in co-operation tvm « the state Department, rin gress for cultural free dom, Ford and Rockefeller Foundations and the CIA, as recently revealed in the Amer ican "Nation" and. the "New York Times." The most recent of these is Cornelius Ryan's story of the fall of Berlin, "The Last Battle", commissioned, by the "Readers Digest". Almost without exception ,all. these histories were consid ered. valueless by scholarly , re viewers on the daily press, little more than pretentious . inflated. anti-Soviet journal ism. Moorhead/s history, which revived, the Kerensky tale that the October Revolution was the work of German agents, was torn to shreds in the "New York Times" on August 24, 1958, by none -other than, the anti-Soviet correspondent Harrison Sali- bury who jUst couldn't swallow Moorhead's sludge. Of Cornelius Ryan's "The Last Battle" the "Sydney Morning Herald" reviewer, Allen Glover wrote on July 30: , . "Here is neither enlighten ment nor entertainment, two . important ingredients of pop ular history.'.' Predictably Ryan presents the Soviet soldiers in Berlin as the "baddies" and the defeated, nazi warriors as the "goodies", as is now. fre- . quently the case in such com missioned. histories of the war. - Hardly surprising that Marshal Vasili Chuikbv, one of the Soviet Commanders in the Berlin battle should have returned an autographed copy of Ryan's book because it was "a wretched piece of slander." WONDER upon wond er, Alexander Ker ensky, the Minister of War and Prime Minister of the Provisional Gov ernment before the October Revolution, has just publish e d his Memoirs. I dare . say few people, in Australia anyway, would have thought he was alive let alone getting out a book. He is now in his middle eighties. Still determined to justify and vindicate himself, despite the fact that since the revolution he has been considered the very epitome . of utter failure. As I read through the book which runs to 558 pages I could not help thinking of that immortal phrase, "we was robbed." Kerensky can not face up to the simple fact that he had completely forfeited the confidence of the workers, peasants, sol- 1 diers and intellectuals; his government had. continued the Czar's war policy and had been responsible for appalling disasters at the front. Although this is a more interesting book than the ersatz histories mentioned, and . indeed adds something to the historical documenta tion of the Russian revolution, it is not likely to restore Kerensky's reputation. Only Lenin and the Communists gain from the Memoirs. Quite unintentionally on Kerensky's part, though. 