 [?] Higher Hospital Fees Over-worked doctors Under-paid nurses Shortage of beds Ancient buildings Rackets in drugs . . . are YOU satisfied with Health under Askin ? By a Special Medical Correspondent RECENT newspaper comment on the proposed rise in hospital fees suggests that NSW is more fortunate than Vic- toria, where the rise will be even greater. A more significant com parison would be with Queens land, which has maintained under both Labor and Liberal governments a free hospital service in public wards. Queensland hospitals, while beset with the same problems as those in other States, are in no way inferior in equip ment, staffing or treatment. Why then must the sick in southern States pay through the nose for the same services that Queenslanders receive free? The Communist Party's draft health programme says "Above all, health should no longer be subject to buying and selling", and points out that existing government med ical, hospital and pharmaceu tical benefits schemes do not adequately relieve working people of the cost of personal medical service, nor do they significantly improve the ser vices that are provided, and this will be true of the pro posed increases also. Neither will they go towards improving conditions of hos pital workers. Rates of pay for profes sional- and non-professional staff are the subject of in tense dissatisfaction. Resident medical officers generally work fantastically long hours, being on call all night after a full day's work, only to come back on duty at 9 a.m. next morning. Little wonder that patients complain of casual and cur sory treatment at out-pat ients' departments. A resident half -dead from lack of sleep ca-n't work up much enthusiasm for anything but the most obvious injuries and illnesses. He is paid for this at a flat rate (no over time) about equal to a first year graduate of three years' training. The NSW Public Service Association is at pre sent negotiating considerable pay rises for RMO's, and it is indicative of their dissat isfaction that many have joined the union. Pay-lag gCIENCE graduates in hos pitals have fared better, having earlier sought union assistance and action, but their rates of pay still lag behind those of equivalent categories in the government departments (health, agricul ture) and in the CSIRO. Better known to the public are the nurses' struggles for substantial pay rises, and the insulting increase they were actually given. The true Flor ence Nightingale spirit has emerged among nurses. Miss Nightingale was a militant, determined and tenacious fighter, and nurses will need to follow her tradition to win their demands. Paramount among demands of the Health and Research Employees' Union is that of equal pay for female nurses, cooks, wardsmaids, etc. Also of importance in mental hos pitals and State institutions is the question of an ade quate loading for eight hour shifts on a seven-day roster, as obtains in the heavy indus tries. Loadings at present are so inadequate that the majority of mental nurses, prefer the existing 12-hour shift spread, which while physically ex hausting, is financially better. Staffing CTAFFING problems exist at all levels, due both to an actual lack of available people (at professional level) and to departmental policy of un- derstaffing. Patients, particularly in mental hospitals, are used for many jobs, and while this is often very good occupational ' therapy for the patient and beneficial in his treatment, it is not an adequate basis on which to provide staff. Fur ther, such patients do not receive adequate pay for work done. Much waste of money due to short-sighted stop-gap poli cies could, be avoided. The cost of out-patient treatment is so small in re lation to that of in-patient care that provision of ade- quate out-patient services seem an obvious need. Yet most hospital clinics are so inadequately housed and staf fed that out-patient follow- up care, such as in psychia tric cases, is impossible. Hence patients relapse and return time and again for costly in patient treatment. Maintenance and construc tion staffs are usually inade quate, the workshops having such a backlog of work that repairs can not be done in time, and equipment comes to need major repair or even replacement. The honorary system of pro viding specialists is costly' for hospital and patient. Ade quate establishment of salar ied staff specialists, with sal aries commensurate with pri vate specialist incomes, can reduce costs which ensue from widely varying ideas of treat ment among honoraries, such as wasteful distribution of beds, indiscriminate ordering of costly antibiotics which often are obtained and not used.. The honorary system, based on private profit, can be ruinous to the patient, sad dling him with bills for un necessary tests and consulta tion. Cut-throat TYRUG houses are super sal esmen, and the business is cut-throat. They constantly purvey the newest, the vepr best ever drug or antibiotic, the latest pathology test. Busy doctors are sitting shots for these con-men, con- sequently hospitals are pressed to keep on providing expen sive tests, some of which are of questionable value. Care of the chronically ill- and aged is inadequate to the point of non-existence. Pro per geriatric, care in specially equipped units, plus provision of such home care as nursing visits, structural alteration to , homes to cope with wheel chairs and handicapped peo ple, provision of meals and housekeeper service, is avail able in only a few places. So hospitals which admit these patients have costly beds immobilised, and ; the only' other alternative isto mental institution or expen- a sive (and sometimes undesir- 1 able) convalescent home. Yet 1 the correct geriatric care- is far less expensive. Since the earliest witch doctors and medicine men, the physically and mentally ill have been sitting shots for extortion. One tries not to count the cost when the health of one's family is at stake. So governments can still get away with spending $1000 m. on war, and making the peo ple pay for good health. The idea that hospitals should be an economic proposition is nonsense. They are an essential ser vice and should be provided free. A rise in fees will solve nothing. You'll find yourself paying more and getting even less for your money. A change in government policy, to spend its budget on essential services, is required. Demand it now!' SYDNEY NURSES AT PAY PROTEST MEETING The Florence Nightingale touch 