 SENATOR URGES GREATER MILITANCY JYDNEY: South Aus tralian Labor Sen ator Jim Cavanagh last Monday called for a more militant stand by the trade unions if Labor is to be returned to office. Senator Cavanagh was open ing the annual conference of the NSW Branch of the Build ing Workers' Industrial Union. He pointed out that Labor Governments have been elected only when they advocated a progressive policy and where their leaders were connected with trade unions; Those attending the opening session of the BWIU confer ence included officials from the building unions, Labor Council and Federal and State mem bers of Parliament. Amalgamation Mr. F. Clancy, NSW secretary of the BWIU, stressed the im portance of the present moves towards amalgamation, "which if achieved will embrace half the building workers through out Australia."- The employers are . taking steps to form a national coun cil to attack wages and work ing conditions, he said. "We need to meet this threat by strengthening our trade un ion organisation." Mr. Clancy posed the need for unions to regard union ism as a matter of urgency. "In Australia today 1,480,000 workers are not members of unions. "The trade union movement needs to look to its work and attitudes because over six mil lion of our population are young people ' under the age of 30 who have spent all their working years under Liberal Governments. "Unions need to pay much more attention to young peo ple," he said. He said that the living . stand ards of the people are falling. "To go into a public hospital lira tv? fnrloti nnefe ftnino fba huiu vuuaj uuoio uvviuc tiic basic wage and hospital con tributions will cost another. 30 cents a week. "The" Federal and State Gov ernments have taken most of the $2 basic wage increase . through taxes, increased fares and price increases. . "Steel prices have gone up over $3 a ton while wage in creases only added $1 a ton. Profit "Mt. Isa has earned a rate of profit as high as 67 per cent on capital . invested and the overseas shipping . monopolies have taken $800 million a year from the Australian economy," said. - Speaking of the decline of the building industry, i Mr. . Clancy said that this year in NSW the figures for buildings approved are down by $59. mil lion. "There is a decline of $30 million in the amount of houses and flats approved while education construction approvals are down by $95 mil lion. "This is happening during a period when over 100 brick layers are applying for one job in Sydney," Mr. Clancy said. Newcastle Fair A TRIBUNE Fair will be held at the Masonic Hall, Beaumont St., Hamilton (New castle) on Saturday, December fl. commencing at 9 a.m. Donations of clothes, jams and plants, etc. would be appreciated. They may be sent to the organisers at 368 Hunter St.. Newcastle. 