 Mmm jJli WOT NO POLICE? TOP-LINE tankmen these days look upon NSW as wealthy Europeans gaze on the Riviera. At the heisrht of the recent wave of safe cracking a car load of wallopers spent a whole evening spying on a Eureka Youth League lecture at Day Street, Sydney. Mr. Bank Manager, if your bank is being robbed and as usual there are no police around, slip down to an EYL lecture, there is sure to be a carload of them out side. Wall Street Curtain VET another case of the United States closed- door policy towards political critics has appeared in the refusal of a visitor's visa to former president of the Sydney University Students' Representative Council Mr. Richard Walsh. As the September 21 issue of the SRC journal Honi Soit re ported: "Richard .Walsh had been refused permission to tour the United States because he disagrees with US policy on Vietnam. This is the only interpretation that can be placed on the US Government's rejection of an , application by Walsh to tour America as part of the Far East Asian Students Youth Leadership team". " /. Walsh, who was recommended first choice in a list of candidates submitted by the National Union of Australian University Students, was interviewed in Sydney by the US Consul and two attaches. They questioned him about Oz magazine and about his attitude toward Vietnam. Walsh told them that he disa- greed with current US policy on the war in Vietnam. He was asked to reassure them that he was not a Communist. Later Walsh received a letter saying that he was unacceptable to the US Government. Representations to the American Embassy in Canberra met with a blank wall. The Embassy has now selected the second choice of NUAUS, current president of the ANU SRC. Mr. Keith Baker, of whom Honi Soit had said: "If Baker is accepted by the Americans, the implication of political motives behind the Walsh rejection will be confirmed." It's an ill wind ... -pHERE'S quite a story behind a donation of $250 which the Australian Freedom from Hunger Cam paign received this week . . . It all began on October 8 last year, when the Canberra branch of the Campaign organised a teach- in. Among the invited speakers was Mr. L. Aarons, General Sec retary of the Communist Party of . Australia. The next fnorning, the Canberra Times carried a report of the teach-in, including extracts from Mr. Aarons' speech. Further on in the newspaper, on a page devoted to book reviews, there appeared a photograph bearing a remark able likeness to Mr. Aarons, but captioned: "T. J. Ley, a former Australian Minister for Justice, committeed two possibly three, murders". , The following Saturday, October 16, the Canberra Times printed an item headed "Apology", in which it was stated that the photo graph in question "was not of Lev but of a gentleman in no wav connected with the review of the two books. It was published in error. We regret the error and we apologise to the gentleman whoce photograph was used". e Lawyers for Mr. Aarons did not consider this oblique apology ade quate, and libeT action was thrpat ened. After eleven months of negotiations (such are the toils of the law) the matter was finallv settled this week. Mr. Aarons has , received a personal apology an(? his legal costs, and the Freedom from Hunger Campaign a dona tion of $250 in Mr. Aarons' name As . they say, it's an ill wind . . ! Blood money AN in the September 2 1 issue of the well-in formed news sheet "Inside Canberra" could have been headed "Blood Money". The item is published without comment : — "The Treasurer will impress on the, US Government that Australia is eager to contribute a maximum effort to Vietnam but considers it is entitled to more reciprocity at the trade level. i "The Australian Government has been under increasing pressure to send a third battalion to Vietnam soon, but is deferring a decision. I "Part of the reason for this is the hope that Mr. McMahon may have some success with his mis- ! sion to the US; part is attributed I to disinclination to commit more I troops before the Federal elec- 1 tions." I 