 Socialist Poland s s alute to 1,000 years of history By ALF WATT THE 1,000th anniversary of the first Polish state and its adoption of Christianity is being celebrated this month. So is the 21st anniversary of the modern Socialist Polish state— its "coming of age," if that, phrase can be applied t.o a state where the youth get the vote at 18 years. Australians, conscious of the 'distinct national characteristics developed in only 178 years of history, will easily understand the deep-seated patriotism of a people whose nation is 1000 years old, and whose history is diamond- studded with armed rebellions against foreign overlords. Our own highest peak, Mount Kosciusko, was in fact named after the leader of the unsuccess ful 1794 revolt by its discoverer, the Polish - Australian explorer, .Strczlecki. ? IN preparation for the millenium the Polish people have been donating the cost of building 1,000 new schools. What better way of celebrating the past than educating for the future, Poles said to us on our visit — last year. We saw many of these fine millenium schools. : Poland, a country of some 31 million people, before the war had nearly six million illiterates over the age of 10 years. One in ten of the children did not go to school, and three-quarters of vil lage children went for only four years. _ Now every child goes to school; 2 645,000 have acquired a secondary education and 327,ooo a mgner education. For us, this great revolution in educational and cultural standards was given a very human point by the small son of a Gdansk (for merly Danzig) shipyard worker. "I want to be a doctor," he said slowly and shyly in English. ; We saw, tbo, why Max Frankei wrote in the New York Times that "A number of American officials- now doubt that Poland pan be encouraged to become an jeven more open society and they wonder whether their money 'would not be better spent else where . . ." | And the US did impose severe predit restrictions on Polish trade. I ! "PLUNDER POLAND" Seems always to have been jlhe watchword of European Reaction. \ The. country was first dismem bered by the Order of Teutonic Knights only 160 years after its. ippearance as a state. About 300 ineasy yer.rs later it was parti- ioned by Prussia, Austria and pzarist Russia, and for the next 120 years was not even a name apon the map, until it was re-estab- ished by the Versailles Treaty. But the feudal capitalist dictator ship that ensued was unable to lift Poland out of its dire poverty, anable to build a strong viable state, and, politically aligned with ;he West, unable fo give a heroic people any leadership in the war against the Nazi hordes which overran the country 21 years after Versailles. | The Nazi armies killed 22 per cent. of the entire population and destroyed 38 per cent, of the national wealth. | Hitler's order to destroy Warsaw was carried out methodically, so that the city was turned into a vast cemetery. Most of the Nazi's concentration and death camps were on Polish soil, including Ocweicism, where four million were slaughtered, Poland was chosen as the site for the "final solution of the .Jewish question" by the physical annihila tion of European Jewry. A new Poland, strong, free, prosperous arid Socialist, has risen from this agony and this heroism, but the desire to plunder Poland still lingers in reactionary breasts. The West German Government claims restoration of the Northern and Western lands seized by Prussia in t.he 18th century parti tions, and before that by the Teutonic Knights. Powerfully . supported revanchist organisations like Akon campaign incessantly. A line in one Akon leaflet says the old order will be restored, That means that big state farms will revert to Junker ownership. Socialist industries will become part of the Krupp empire, and the huge castle of the Dukes of Pomerania, in Stettin, where one night we listened to a concert of chamber music while in a huge dining hall on a lower floor hun dreds of young people jazzed and drank coffee, will again be the playhouse of parasitic aristocrats. But the revanchists reckon without their hosts. "What you see in Stettin has been built by us, and we will never give it up," one citizen said to us. It was not surprising to us that the recent letter of Polish to West German bishops asking forgive ness for the past and opening the door to a discussion on the Oder Neisse frontier was indignantly repudiated by the people. It contained "certain formula- tions which are bitterly resented by our people," said deputy Jerzy Zawieyski, a member of the Znak (a lay Catholic organisation) Par liamentary Group. Deputy 7/gmunt Filipowicz, of the (lay Catholic) Christian Social Association,- declared that a re quest for forgiveness should come first from the German bishops. On the frontier question he said that "in matters of foreign policy, conducted by our government, there are no differences between us. Neither is there a division in these matters into believers and non-believers." Now, for the first timie in their troubled history, Poles feel their country is secure. Their neighbors are the Socialist Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia and the German Democratic Republic, to which they . are joined in the Warsaw Treaty Alliance. More than one Pole told us that their opposition to West German plans and to Bonn getting nuclear weapons was not out of fear for themselves, but because revanchist plans would precipitate a world nuclear war. Very few signs of the terrible ravages of the war are to be seen as one travels through Poland today. Some shell-pocked walls, a few ruins, are still there. No capitalist government, no class- divided exploiting society, could have accomplished this Polish miracle. Historic buildings, city halls, churches, monuments and market places have been restored by patient labor, so that only a close examination reveals their newness. This is true everywhere, but especially of Warsaw. Alongside the rebuilt old, new suburbs and new industries nave made their appearance. On the site of the unforgettable Warsaw ghetto there is a new housing estate, with a monument to commemorate the historic up rising of the Jews. In the wake of the Soviet Army there came Soviet economic aid, and this, Poles say, was their main support, though they give recog nition to the help of UNRRA. And now, in this country which, relatively, suffered more than any other from Nazi savagery gross industrial output is 10 times greater than pre-war. The output of the electrical engineering indus try is 30 times greater, and of the chemical industry 20 times greater, than in capitalist Poland, while the average annual value of agricul tural output has increased by one- third. Leaving aside the big State farms, most agriculture is carried on by peasant households, one million of whom got their land in the post-war land reform. But the youtn of the countryside, educated and looking to the future, are beginning to challenge the age-long ties to the peasant plot. At the same time the Govern ment, giving material help and encouragement to agricultural circles and various forms of co operative endeavor, is seeking a Polish path to a socialist agricul ture. Living standards have been increased considerably. And the Polish Workers' Party, which the ill-informed Dr. Emery Bares says would lose i,ts hold if the frontier question was settled, now has 1,600,000 members. Two out of every five have joined in the last five years. Dr. Bares and many others not withstanding, no power on earth can stop the onward march of the Polish people under the leader ship of the PUWP. ABOVE: The old Market Square in Warsaw, 1945. BELOW: The same Market Square rebuilt after the war. 