 IjLJLJLL mm 8iSibJ in fc, In French safety is second jjAST week the combined European test rocket roared off from the Woomera 1 ange and then, shown to be veering off course, had to be exploded by ground control before it landed A French general present ,as an observer said that the mis sile should not have been des troyed in this way. It would never happen in a French range, he said, that such a demolition could occur follow ing such a small margin of error v in the rocket's performance. It would appear that the nuclear weapon tests at Mururoa Atoll, due next month, have already cast a pall over western South America (where four governments have been combining i,n protest). Australian and New Zealand unions have declared a common stand against the French tests. Now that the obliging general has revealed that safety does NOT come first in French scientific tests, there is every reason for protests to be doubled. The wind? Which one? JN Sydney a world-acclaimed Australian nuclear scient ist Professor J. H. Green, has predicted that dangerous radio-active fallout could reach Australia from the French tests. Professor Green, head of the De partment of Nuclear and Radiation Chemistry at the University of N.S.W., will shortly take a high post at the New England Institute of Medical Research (USA). Professor Green's statement (re ported last week in the Daily Mirror (Sydney), confirms in substance what was said in a special article in the Tribune on May 11. It refutes assurances provided by the Australian Government's Committee on radiation that the fall-out will have little effect on Australia. The French recently told Aus tralian pressmen they would ex plode their bomb into a wind that was certain to take it eastwards over an ininhabited part of the Pacific. By contrast Professor Green said that, if the mushroom cloud gets to 60,000 feet, east winds could bring it to Australia. He said that a 10-megaton bomb would probably increase the falU but over Australia by 5 per cent and saddle Australia with probably 10 times as much fall-out as from all previous explosions. Declaring that he does not trust assurances based on wind studied ("you can't forecast Sydney's weather accurately from day to day") Professor Green said the path of the fall-out from th ...British test at Marallnga in 1957 contradicted the expert assurances that it would go westwards over the Indian ocean. Instead it went north and east, over Darwin and the Queensland coast. Chiang's man in Australia NJOW that the Holt Gov ernment has decided to station a diplomatic staff in Taiwan, the Chinese island still occupied by the American puppet Chiang Kai-shek, the question is: Who will catch the plum job? Tribune strongly tips Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes, in the first place because this aging and way-out Liberal politician has tried harder than any other 10 men to curry favor with Chiang. Hughes visited Taiwan in 1955, when he was still a Minister ft Menzies' Cabinet; he called there again in 1958; and in 1964 he dropped in . after attending the Tokyo Games. He's been there again- in the last few weeks, helping his per- sorial friend Chiang celebrate his fourth self-appointment as "Pre. sident of the Republic of China" and also, presumably, the 16th year of the aggressive patrolling by the U.S. 7th Fleet along the China coast. There's another reason why Hughes is eminently qualified to sit at the feet of Chiang Kai- shek. In 1934, when Hitler was mas sacring and torturing Jews and trades unionists by the million Kent Hughes wrote his series of articles in the Melbourne press on "Why I Am A Fascist." , In the Argus on March 24, 1950, Kent Hughes, then a Menzies' minister, said that Australia should become the 49th state of the U.S.A. These things, and his association with the "Australian News Re- view" and other groups presently supporting the Smith racist regime in Rhodesia, should make Hughes a big hit at the court of Chiang, even if most Australians find him a pain in the neck. 