 Contributing to tralian literature S' ARY AUSTRALIA" Edit- ement Semmler and Derek ck. F. W. Cheshire. $3, ed by JUDAH' WATEN , THERE are 1 2 main essays in this volume based on papers giy£ n by different authors and critics at the January 1 965 Seminar , on "Literature in Australia". The seminar was' arranged by the University of New England's Department of University Exten sion. Included as an appendix are the findings of three discussion groups on "Practical Aspects of Making a Living from Writing i,n Aus tralia," "Australian Literature — the Influence of Its Environment" and "Australian Literature . and the Schools." The editors rightly believed that these reports were valuable "in that they represented the con sidered opinions of a fair cross ' section of people interested in Australian literature." As often, with such collections there is an essay justifying the existence of Australian poetry. This is the first in the book, by Judith Wright. The second paper by Max Harris deals with the conflicts in Aus tralian intellectual life, 1940-1964, and summarises some of the main trends in Australian - literature and art in that period. The third contribution is from David Forrest, while the fourth, by Clement Semmler, the co- editor of this book and Deputy General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, inquires into aspects of Australian literary criticism. This is an interesting paper which exposes the preten tiousness and owlish solemnity of a certain type of academic critic and lauds the work of A. G. Ste phens and Vance Palmer, who con tributed to the building of Aus tralian literature. The fifth paper, by Frank Hardy, discusses "Environment and Ideo logy in Australian Literature' \ and provides new material for thought on the problems confronting the realist writers, including the social realists. The remainder of the volume includes John Thompson on Broadcasting and Australian Litera ture and Andrew Fabinyi's "The Australian Book," which examines the economics of Australian book publishing as well as its economic and social background. What conclusions can be drawn from this book which has a rather inconclusive conclusion by the other co-editor, Derek Whitelock? First cf all, one cannot get rid of the feeling that the notorious "cultural cringe" still persists, that even distinguished writers and critics seem overawed by English and American literature and cannot stop apologising for Australian writings and for the Australian people. For instance, in reference tc Australian poetry Judith Wright says (page 1), "we have to recog nise that a great deal of what has been written here has in fact been limited by special conditions.' That's tn Riftry-— indeed, literature® Without those spec Witions all literatures ' ifW ,t0 be the same and »if be nothi"g specific or &lt; 1 Derek W 165) says : w " lfcttag pves along wjves m the invariably » fe£jllan litera ture section |#rary, may nerhaps be Eg he agrees with the i Pkdanns who Sefer feDkens to CUieRudd." But wh#lr?d substitut- to! English cl i®, eiy both should ta®n- fact this fs precisely ®Ppening in Australian although as Donald Mints out in ' his paper'it«ean Cntent ; is still It is iust S t0 say that Australian 1K ?1?eaSre. At | the cornnifefblbi'tion of boots » Ji Ober Australia bfs$f®st exhibit; 1 a far greamrkiwere ' written any other Comslfountry, and ; more ofil5lVe achieved world fa1"6® Australian literature is securely established and does not require any special pleading or apologias. This does not mean that every thing written in Australia is good or even remotely good. But then neither in Britain nor the USA are all books of a uniformly high level; most of the recent novels from both countries are appallingly bad. Like any small literature which has to compete with older and larger literatures in the same language Australian literature has to put up a great struggle to main tain its own identity. It is precisely because they have retained their own identity that writers like Alan Marshall, Frank Hardy and Patrick White are read abroad. But for all that, is Mr. Semmler right when he says in his intro duction that "perhaps in retro spect the 1960's will be remem bered as a period of full tide in Australian literature"? I doubt it. This volume gives many reasons for a feeling of disquietude about the state of our literature — a feel ing not lessened by Mr. Whitelock's belief that Thomas Keneally's novel "Fear" is superb. This piece of eld - fashioned anti - Communism with bombs and all is far from superb, but it i,s an example of a trend which has made itself pronounced in the literature of the 60's, a backward-looking trend perhaps even more conspicuous in our poetry. The domination of a group of critics like James McAuley, with their iron-bound archaic literary dogmatism and their anti-Com munism has encouraged the de velopment of an arrogant, arid anti-poetry which has further alienated poetry from the people. What then of the democratic writing in the 60's to which the social-realists have made a con siderable contribution? There is little said of their actual work in this volume, not even by .Frank Hardy. Indeed, Frank Hardy asserts (page 78) that it, seems to him "that the social realists are facing a crisis today." I am not convinced of this. It is true enough that neither the realists nor the social realists have produced any masterpieces, and in some cases they have an emo tional awareness only of the 30's and not the 60's. Even so, this school of writing is very much alive in Australia today, as is shown by the stories in "Tracks We Travel" and "Sum mer's Tales No. 2," and the new novel by Betty Collins, 