 Young unionists call for needs campaign YDNEY : Over 400 young trade unionists at a Youth Forum last Thurs day decided to elect a committee to campaign for higher wages and allowances and improved conditions for young workers and students. . This committee, comprising young members of industrial and white collar unions will work with the N.S.W. Labor Council to campaign for . the Australian Council of Trade Un ions' Youth Program. This program includes: Full pay at 18 for unap- prenticed juniors. That apprentices' wages.be based on tradesmen's rates and not on the basic wage as at present. Equal pay for girls. Improved training facili ties and opportunities for ap prentices and to ensure that employers provide all-round training. Full daylight technical training. Greater apprenticeship op portunities for youth in . the countryside. Provision of finance and facilities by Federal and State Governments for higher educa tion through more scholarships, increased student allowances and free extra-curricular train- ing. The Forum was organised by the Labor Council as part of this year's Trade Union Youth Week activities. Young delegates at four . sep arate commissions, discussed , such topics as working and social conditions, peace and conscription, education, trade courses and career opportuni ties, and automation. Deputation A resolution carried at the general session asks the ACTU to organise a deputation to the Federal Government, including young workers, raising these demands for young workers and students. The NSW Labor Council was also asked to organise a simil ar deputation to the State Gov ernment. The delegates said that young people have to pay exorbitant prices for lahd, high rents for housing and are fleeced in many other ways in the course of trying to obtain their own homes. "Price increases hit young people harder than any other sections of the community, with the possible exception of pen sioners,. "This is because apprentices, unapprenticed youth and stud ents and other young people only receiye a junior wag3 but are required to pay the full price increases." The Federal and State Gov ernments were urged to put an end to policies which protected the interests of the wealthy minority of the people. The Forum . supported the ACTU policy which declares that all nations and people have the right to self determination without threat of military in tervention or oppression. "We support the ACTU and ALP opposition to the Federal Government's decision to send active troops to South Viet nam. "We also support their call for a cessation of hostilities and the establishment of a democratic government as pro vided for in the 1954 Geneva Agreements." Delegates said that the aims expressed in the resolution will only be achieved "if all of us are prepared to assist the trade unions in their campaigning for these objectives." 