 European intellectuals and the Vietnam war Last week JUD AH WATEN returned to Australia after being abroad for 13 months. He visited the Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic, Paris, England, Yugoslavia, Holland, Belgium, West Germany, Czecho slovakia and India. ONE of my strongest im pressions of the European literary scene today is the high degree of unity among writers of all trends for an end to the war in Vietnam. The responsibility of the writer on the issue of Vietnam is deeply scored through their actions every where. I emphasise all trends from the conventional to the most ex treme avant-garde. I doubt whether writers, or for that matter com posers, playwrights and actors, have in the last 20 years been as united as they are today on this great issue involving the whole of humanity. Characteristic of this unity was the half page advertisement in the . New York Times in December signed by 45 of the most famous names in West European literature and culture. The West Germans were very much to the fore. There was Gunter Grass, considered the best known author in West Germany where close to 700,000 people have bought "The Tin Drum". Peter Weiss whose new play on Auschwitz recently created a sen sation in many European cities, and Karl-Heinz Stockhausen per haps the most outstanding of the avant-garde composers. The West German reactionaries do not approve of their writers and composers. The front door of Gunter Grass's house in West Berlin was burnt down and he was told that next time bombs would be used. Pour other writers in West Germany have received the same treatment." Similar to the NY Times advert- .. isement was the full-page advert isement in the London "Times" also in December, which included the signatures of Graham Greene, Benjamin Britten, Sir Michael Red grave and Peter Hall the co-direc tor of the Royal Shakespeare Theatre, the top-rankers in liter ature, music and the stage. "Now that I've mentioned some of the leaders of the English theatre I would like to say I think the English stage is very much alive though not all the plays are first rate. But the black humour, the cynicism and the bawdiness are justified as they are indispensable features of a sweeping criticism of English social and public life." Judah Waten said that the move ment against the war in Vietnam was not confined tp prominent and famous people only. Apart from the progressive sections of the Labour movement young peo ple in great numbers everywhere are actively involved. "In Brussels I watched a mar vellous students' demonstration which was irreverent and boozy but it packed a terrific punch. In Munich I saw posters in the town square put up by students and young workers circles. In England I heard Iris Murdoch address a large meeting mainly of young people, probably the' majority be ing students at the London Univer sity." The students at most English universities, as indeed many pro fessors, teachers, artists and actors have more than once expressed themselves in opposition to the pol- fc icies of the Wilson Government on Vietnam and other important issues, Mr. Waten said. He continued, "I suppose many of them had come to ex- r pect miracles from Wilson, Gross- V land, Healey, Jenkins and Go |1 who had all been built up as in- fjp tellectual giants, modernisers, jur with-it politicians, not fuddy- duddies like the militant trade L union leaders and left wing pol- f8 iticians who believe in the class m struggle. The reality has been m very harsh. The Government sup- '1 ports the Americans in Vietnam; h it has introduced a camouflaged 1 colour bar in immigration and it is flat out trying to impose a H new wage freeze on the workers. H "A cynical Conservative MP nam- if ed Charles Curran made these ob- H . servations after the Blackpool Lab- H our party conference in September: | "Mr. Wilson made "Tory policy 8 palatable by drenching it with anti- B Tory vinegar. The more he mimics 8 the Tories the more he taunts 8 them. He mocks them, jeers at 9 them, then copies them." fl Of Michael Stewart, Curran MP I said: B "Mr. Stewart is the best Foreign I Secretary that the Tories never 1 had. His Vietnam speech was a 1 splendid Tory teach-in." JUDAH WATEN ... in East Germany. 