 :\ SA umR\ I HOUSE j i MUST GO I yDELAIDE.: The Legis lative Council — the Upper House of privilege and obstruction — must go. This.- is more than ever clear from recent SA political devel opments in which the Upper House has thrown out: the Electoral Reform Bill IP the Succession Duties Bill the Excessive Rents Bill , ® the Inheritance Bili the Roads and Railways Bill. The Labor Party was elected to govern by popular vote (55% of the people voted Labor, be lieved to be the largest propor tion of votes recorded by a major party in State elections in Australia in the last 50 years). The Upper House, with the right to "kill" Government legis lation; is elected on a restrict ed property vote. Less than half of the House of Assembly voters are entitled to vote for the Legislative Council. Thus there are i 16 Liberals in a 20 member Upper House. = Why should a handful of min- . ority supported Liberals sitting in an obviously undemocratic House b.e allowed to obstruct a majority Government's pro gram? ., Leader of the Liberal Party Opposition in the Upper House (Sir Lyell McEwin) said the House had "looked after the in terests of all sections of the community, giving public inter est priority over sectional pres sure groups". But his fellow Liberal, Mr. H. K. Kemp, was nearer the truth when, in a moment of frankness, he told the House that it had "the duty of look ing after minorities". Tiny minority The Upper House, indeed, represents a tiny minority. The Bank of Adelaide, SA Brewing Company, Advertiser and the chemical combine (recently in dispute on wages ) have their direct, political representative in Sir Arthur Rymill who declar ed when Labor: was elected that he would oppose the Govern ment's program. Amongst the Bills "throttled off" by the Upper House, is the Electoral Reform Bill which sought to give a greater 'measure of democracy in the Lower House as well as introducing a lull franchise tor the Legisla tive Council as a step towards its abolition. As the details of the Bill were made known to voters before' the elections, the ALP received a clear mandate to go ahead. Other Legislation blocked is: . The Succession Duties Bill which seeks . to raise money from large estates. The Excessive Rents Bill which seeks to prevent owners of substandard houses from passing . responsibility for im provements to tenants by forc ing them to sign sale and pur chase agreements. The Inheritance (Family Provision) Bill which proposed that more dependent members of a family be adequately pro vided . for from a deceased estate (with or without a will). The Roads and Railways Bill which sought to raise more railway revenue by protecting the railways from unfair com petition by road transport. An - interesting sidelight to Upper House activities is pro vided by figures calculated by Labor woman MP. (Mrs. Molly Byrne) showing that in the last six years, the House had met only 237 days and spent an average of 56 minutes on each Bill. 