 Govts, on the spot Widespread prices, wage campaign mounts gTRONG attacks on Federal and State Liberal and Country Party Governments are mounting throughout Australia for their failure to halt serious inroads into living standards. IVfrr. Rex Connor (ALP, N.S.W.) last week in Federal Parliament said that the average worker had lost $7.50 a week in the past twelve months because of the Gov ernment's failure to maintain the value of pay packets. The Leader of the Opposi tion (Mr. A. A. Calwell) said that instead of a steady growth and adequate purchas ing power in the hands of the people, there was inflation and rising costs, an increase of from 50 cents to a dollar a week in the cost of living be cause of wrongs done during the currency conversion. Dr&uaht He said overseas balances were dwindling and to this could be added the effects of the drought about which little or nothing had been done or was being done. Fifty-eight meetings demand ing the introduction of price control were held throughout Queensland last Saturday. They were addressed by Federal and State Labor par liamentarians and housewives. Price control The meetings demanded from the Premier of Queensland an immediate hearing on the wages issue reintroduction of quarterly pay adjustments and price control. As Tribune went to press the NSW Labor opposition were to move the first no- confidence motion against the Askin Government. . It was expected that Oppo sition Leader Mr. Renshaw would condemn the govern ment for aiding and abetting the profiteers by itself in creasing bus fares on' the weak excuse of decimal currency conversion. He would also accuse the government of refusing to control or supervise essential prices. He will attack the govern ment for doing nothing to pre vent some of the highest rates ever to be recorded to be im posed on many local rate payers. He will demand .that rate in comes from local Councils be pegged pending the findings of the > Royal Commission into local government. The Secretary of the NSW Labor Council (Mr. J. Kenny) this week predicted 5000 sig natures to the Council's prices petition in Bankstown (Sydney) next week-end. This would bring the number to 45,000. He urged other areas to follow the example of Banks- town, where 200 doorknockers have been organised for next week-end. Mr. Kenny said that after the prices petition had been presented before Easter, a living standards conference would be held at the end of June. 