 MAN WITHOUT A NAME Visiting Australia now at the invitation of the Australian Committee of the South African Defence and Aid Fund to appeal for support for his people in their struggle against apartheid is Mr. ROBERT RESHA, Director of International Affairs of the African National Congress of South Africa , inter viewed for Tribune by Roger Milliss. POBERT _ Resha does not look his forty-six years. On the short and stocky side, smooth-featured, a fine thin moustache and beard etching the contours of his mouth and chin, and deep, dark eyes, he could easily pass for thirty-five or so. Smartly, almost elegantly dressed, he sits at ease and relaxed while he speaks sim ply but eloquently of the plight of the non-white people of his homeland. The case he puts for inter national assistance to the South African people— the non-white majority— in their struggle against the fascist regime's apartheid policy is so clear and unanswerable that it would be a hard man ' indeed who would refuse his appeal. All that Mr. Resha asks is for what he calls "disengage ment" by Australia from the situation in South Africa — for the Australian Government to come out openly and forth- rightly against South Africa in the United Nations and other world tribunals, where over the years Australia has become identified with almost automatic support for the racist regime. First-hand He asks too for the Austra lian Government to cease giv ing indirect support -to apar theid by trade and investment — in other words to put into effect the U.N. resolutions calling for a complete econo mic boycott of South Africa, which, he says, is directly buttressed economically and militarily by the western world. And thirdly, he asks for the maximum amount of moral and material aid from the Australian people and govern ment for those who have suf fered through their opposi tion to apartheid. When Mr. Resha talks of apartheid, he speaks from . first-hand experience as both an African and one of the system's leading opponents— and victims. His has been no easy life. Born in the barren Transkei —since transformed by late Prime Minister Verwoerd into the first of South Africa's "Bantustans" or so-called "black homelands" — he went to work from 1937 to 1939 in the Rand gold mines. His "contract" entitled him to the princely wages of 20c per nine-hour day — in addition to walking some 2£ miles each way from the compound to the mine face underground. Drama His first political awareness, says Mr. Resha, came from his uncle, who used to take him as ;a boy to tribal meet ings in the Transkei, where he can remember being impress ed by the words of Clemence Kadalie, one of the leading African trade unionists of the time. His joining the African National Congress — South Af rica's biggest and only multi racial nationalist organisation — in 1939, following his three years' work in the gold-mines, was a "natural" step. Becoming a lawyer's clerk for a while and later a journalist on various African newspapers in Johannesburg, he was in the 1940's one of the founders of the ANC Youth League. From 1946 to 1961, he was involved— as he puts it — "in a number of trials because of my political beliefs". But this self-effacing state ment hides the fact that he was a protagonist in one of the major political dramas— or farces — of modern times. This was the ' ludicrous "Treason Trial" of 1956-60, in which some 156 people — Afri can, white, Coloured and In dian, were arraigned for over four years in a mockery of justice that made South Africa the laughing stock of the world. So absurd were the charges of treason that even Ver- woerd's kangaroo courts could not make them stick, and finally all the accused were acquitted— with as little fuss as was possible. "At first we were detained," Mr. Resha recalls, "but later on were released on bail. We couldn't get jobs, though, or address meetings, and were restricted to our homes. "When the court was actu ally sitting," he adds with an amused smile, "it was just like working in a factory. A bus used to call for each of us at five-thirty each morning, and then take ifs home again in the afternoon." Shortly after his discharge, the African National Congress -decided that Mr. Resha could best serve the freedom cause abroad, and in 1961 he left the country illegally, via the "underground railway" to Bechuanaland. He is now the Director of the ANC's International Af- fairs Department, headquart ered in Algiers, and has travelled widely rallying in ternational support for the anti-apartheid campaign. Prototype Mr. Resha sometimes refers to himself—as a prototype of his people — as a "man with out a name". Africans, he says, simply do not exist in the human sense as far as the South African Government is concerned— "they are non-people". He quotes as an example this year's "elections", when an exclusively white electorate returned the Verwoerd Gov ernment—with an increased majority. The chief factors in strip ping the African of his human identity, he says, are the Pass . Laws, which require each non- white to carry a docu ment bearing his "registration number and place of work. Without his pass, the Afri- can can do nothing. Every African is regarded as a poten tial criminal. When a police man stops him in the street, says Mr. Resha, "the first thing he says to me is: 'Where is your pass?' " Future And what of South , Africa's future? The end of apartheid, says Mr. Resha, is inevitable, but the terror exercised by the Government and its com plete suppression of African rights mean that such a change cannot occur without violent conflict, which the Government could easily spark off "at any moment'?. The ANC has not deliberate ly sought such a conflict, he emphasises. But having ex hausted every possibility of peaceful action, it has become convinced that the South Afri can regime itself has ensured that only a violence can eradi cate apartheid. In this respect, he says, the ANC's policy is to "meet force with force". But its goal re mains unchanged— to estab lish a genuine non-racial soci ety in South Africa, where all races can live side by side in harmony. As for new Prime Minister Balthazar Vorster, only a con tinuation and a worsening of Verwoerd's policies can be expected from him, says Mr. Resha adamantly. He is con vinced that Vorster, who was jailed for his pro-Nazi activ ities during the war, is still an out-and-out fascist today, Mr. Resha has been refer red to as the. ANC's "roving , ambassador" — a title he per sonally dislikes. "I am not a diplomat," he says with a shrug of his shoulders. "I am simply fight ing against apartheid." And what about himself? Looking into the future — per haps not too distant — when his country is finally free, he would like to return to journalism, his chief love, "I do not like this business of government," he says — and there is a slight sadness in his smile. "All I want is free dom — for myself and my peo ple." Robert Resha 