 lid LJJl JJ jiiiiiai iJIL J Over to you Mr Bury ! "THE letter was addressed — Mr. Bill White, the conscript who wouldn't go there, Gladesville." It was delivered unerringly to hjs home. As was the other addressed — "Mr. Bill White, school teacher from Denistone, Gladesville." These are just two of the pile oi letters received by the 21-year- old Sydney school teacher who has refused to be conscripted into the army. All except two of the letters support his stand against war, while one from Victoria included an invitation for a holiday in the Victorian mountains for some peace and quiet. But Bill White is far too busy for any holiday. At the moment he has an appeal pending in the High Court which will not come up for three months. He is unemployed and can't take a job, for nobody under the National Service Act is allowed to employ a person who fails to answer the call-up. Bill has now registered for . unemployment relief. He said this week "As the Government re fuses to allow me to earn a living they have an obligation to keep me alive — that is unless they want to starve me into submission. Over to you, Mr. Bury. Let there always be "Gabriel" were nearly without one of our staff the other day as a result of a bath room accident. He reckons he nearly inflicted a serious wound on himself with a safety razor when he heard a . catchy arrangement of one of his favourite songs described by . the A.B.C. as "Gabriel". The last time he heard it, he says, it was called "Let There Always Be Sunshine", and all Moscow were tapping their feet to it. What's more, it was written — and sung— by a ten-year-old kid, and. caught on like wildfire throughout the Soviet Union three or four years ago as an admittedly sentimental but very effective plea: "Let there always be sunshine; Let there always be blue skies; Let there always be Mummy; Let there always be me." Since then, one of our spies has discovered that west of the Curtain it has been written by two characters named Rozner and Thomas, who are now pres umably raking in the shekels from their brilliant piece of genius. A.t least when Shirley Abicair pinched "Moscow Nights" (in Russian. "Evenings Around Mos cow"), she gave it a title pretty close to the original, and. always gave the Russkis the credit for dreaming it up. Not a bread and butter question I IBERAL and Country Party members in the NSW Government are at loggerheads over the marg arine quota question. The Labor opposition have gone on record as strongly opposed to any quota restrictions on the production of margarine. Country Party members are demanding that penalties under the Dairy Industries Act be in creased. At the moment margarine pro- ducers may be fined up to $800 mitially, plus a penalty of $80 I day for each day of production beyond quota limits. What has impressed senior Liberal Cabinet ministers is thP vast amount of evidence that the public want an opportunity to decide whether to buy butter or margarine. 1 Of course the big question for consumers is that some brands of margarine are cheaper. Vietnam and the migrants ABINET'S decision to call up migrants has sharply divided their home govern ments. The Italian and Greek govern ments. are strongly opposed to the oall-up with Holland and West Germany in agreement. As for the migrants, it is enough to say that 50 young migrants of call-up age left for Greece on the last trip of the S.S. "Patrice". Although they may be liable for service in the Greek Army they prefer this than to face the prospect of being sent to Vietnam. Australian immigration officers in Europe are also finding the Vietnam war as a stumbling block to prospective migrants. One of the main reasons in the past why migrants came to Australia was to get away from war-torn Europe. Ironically today many European countries are now a much more peaceful place to live in than Australia with its Vietnam vj&t commitments. 