 I— WIN r I ;t Hi 0 B I An Mstralian veteran remembers I I t July 18 marks the 30th anni ersary of " B the outbreak of the fascist rebel on — led t B by Franco — against the eiect&lt; bgovern- e | naent of the young Spanishi!Re uBlic and 11 the commencement of the tragic Jiyi! War . H which was used by the Fascist jowers of e jg Europe as a dress rehearsal >r World J B War 51. I S ti H A number of Australians fougl t with the Lr H famous International Brigade/in' lefence of H Spanish democracy. Here, /shy t ie "first of Q 11 two 8 P e c a .artS :les, JIM e H McNEILL, a veteran of that -epi struggle, y S recalls the execution of another ustralian, t H Ted Dickinson, by Moorish;/ rdops at H Jarama Valley in February, ''! 37.,; Next H week another International . Bri| ider, Sam S Aarons, will also write on this a uiversary. i H yHEN the Spanish fascist ; mm generals rose in re- mi volt on July 18th, 1936 |||j against the Popular Front e H government, it looked as if 99 the armed struggle would 99 not last long, e HH l' 19 The workers in the big towns d B hurled themselves on the bar- il rag racks and took them by storm, y 99 After a very short time the Gov- Ig| ernment held Madrid, Barcelona., HI Bilboa and Valencia and nearly e BH all of the coastline; the major- it pa ity of the small Navy and Air ,t Force remained true to the Re- e 191 public. B But the fascists were not to e B rely on internal forces only. For r « years the traitorous generals had g |H plotted in Berlin, Rome and c Ira Lisbon and soon Moors, Italians g Ira and Germans were fighting for e 91 the fascists with German and B Italian planes, tanks, guns to 99 saturation point. n n 91 It was then that the idea of B an International Brigade began 9| to form; especially so as the 91 League of Nations declared for 91 non - intervention, strangling 9H arms and aid to the legally 91 elected Government. Some ' lortsmen and tourists to /ftve; pj jle'sdOlympiad in Bar celona, jJedathemselves to the miltojfltf jfahh'ght at the ba-r- ricaifflmallfi groups fought attaMTOOiSpanish a.t various poibcMd -J Australians Dick Wh&\lkndi Bluey Barry were menftaipEocthem. i| Buti jfcs Jnot yet an Inter national |rigade. It was not until® |iber that large num- bersld- ?tish began to arrive and fan ('the British battalion whichi i |t into training. Eacty i 1 November the fas cists;'. /advancing on Madrid. General; Mola; had a white chafget- lecially groomed, and announce > that he would dine in Madrl the next day. Franco ildi the Press that with foury/# icing; columns and a fifthnColi rolivMadrid, he would makffiai; leeh from the steps of the Mini ryiiof the Interior the next day /fib Hehadv abed' to the outer sub urbs# :;ifche workers stopped hinbanl 1 ; tracks after fighting heroiffiUl flSiey fought with pasiohari s slogan on their lips: »Na-Ba£ ah?— .'/They shall not pass." "THE first known Aus tralian, Bluey BaTry of Glebe, Sydney, was killed in Franco's onslaught at the approaches of Madrid. "With a British, comrade he had fought a delaying action enab ling his group to retreat. When the position was retaken he still clasped a rifle in death. One of the most epic struggles in which the Australians engaged took place in the Jarama Val ley. Franco halted at Madrid, where he was to be held for the next 21 years licking his wounds, devised at the German H.Q. a scheme of using a pincers move ment to encircle Madrid and starve it of supplies, military and civil. To do this he would have to cut the main Madrid-Valencia road, the lifeline of Madrid. The fascist offensive started on February 6, 1937, and the position was desperate when the British Battalion was called on on February 12. Six hundred ill-armed volun teers with little training, the majority facing their baptism of. fire, they disembarked from trucks at 5.30 am on a raw win- ter's morning on a road between San Martin and Morata, among low hills, ravines covered by gorse, wild thyme and sage, carefully tilled vineyards and olive groves on the slopes. The order was hold them at all costs. All day long they fought desperately, searching for cover in furrows and streams, behind olive trees, shrubs and vines, with few entrenching tools to dig in with, facing an avalanche' of steel. Answering back with old guns and rifles, they were forced to retreat some hundreds of yards, retaking their old positions at nightfall. A rough roll-call at night re vealed 225 remaining of the 600 who had entered the battle that morning. , The majority of the losses had been wounded. An attack by the Moors had been routed; they had come so close that it was possible to see the red caps, black coats and bearded faces. When our machine guns open ed up on them, second in com- (Top right) The agony of Spain: a Spanish peasant defends his farm against fascist troops while a comrade lies dead behind him, and (left) Franco enters the town of Burgos, where he set up headquarters, to launch his fascist revolt. mand of a machine gun com pany was Ted Dickinson, well known speaker in the Sydney Domain, Yarra Bank and Bot anic Park (Adelaide), capable organiser and writer in the 20's. On February 13, the Moors again came over, but this time they held their hands up in the clenched fist salute of the anti fascists and the strain of the International was heard in a strange tongue. Bill Meridlth, a runner, had just started from H.Q. with a message, and what he wrote has become official history. "At the time of leaving H.Q. there was no sign of any disturbance at the outpost. It was not until I had started out that I heard the strains of the International. As I got nearer, I was surprised to see large numbers of fascists coming over singing the In ternational and their hands raised in the anti-fascist sal ute. Our boys were holding up their fists in welcome to them. I had not the least doubt that here was a mass desertion from the fascist lines. Yank Levy seemed to be the first to realise that a trick had been played. By this time there were swarms of fascists in every trench. "For Christ's sake, get back!" yelled Yank. The singing was still going on, fascists were swarm ing in to the position. Fry and Dickinson, his sec ond-in-command, stood to gether and although I hardly noticed Fry, I well remember Dickinson, his attitude and dress. Overcoat, top boots and smartly clipped moustache, H legs apart and back as straight 99 as a. poker, he still looked 9 every inch a soldier, despite 99 being surrounded by fascists. |H He looked at them with con- 9 tempt written all over his B face and it was obvious that 99 his capture would never shake 99 his calm courage. These two, Fry and Dickin- 99 son, were two of the finest H leaders under whom men could H| wish to go into battle." H "J"HE next instant Fry fell B wounded, Dickinson 99 partially screened by a 99 Scotsman, Tommy Bloom- H5 field, stopped to undo Fry's 9 Sam Browne officer's belt 9 and threw it into some 9 undergrowth. 99 He knew the fate of officers H| who fell into fascist hands. |H They were being marched with 99 hands above their heads when 99 young Elias asked in broken H| Spanish permission to smoke. H| Permission granted, he reached, B into a pocket when a sub-mach- B ine gun sputtered and he fell B dead. The same burst of fire B killed Stevens. B Dickinson then said : "If ' we H| had had a . bunch of Australian B bushmen here we'd have pushed B you b into the sea long B ago." 9| His words were not under- B stood but his tone was. He was B stood aside, three Moors ad- 99 vanced, his back to an olive B tree. Just as the order was given B to fire he said to the men, "Keep 99 your chins up, boys. Salud!" fl Three shots rang out and Ted B Dickinson fell. All the others B were lined up to be shot when 99 a German officer appeared and B countermanded the order, real- B ising they could be exchanged for 99 important prisoners we had. B After months had passed, this B actually happened. Fry, Bloom- 99 field and Rutherford re-enlisted B and came to Spain again. Bloom- 99 field was the only one to survive 99 the war. He was Dickinson's B greatest mate. B The battle reached a stale- |H mate after four days a&lt;nd died B| down by the end of February. H| Franco's forces never gained 99 another foot until the final col- B lapse 26 months later. 99 Australia can be proud on B this 30th anniversary of the first B nation to fight with arms against 9| fascism and Australian's prema- B ture anti-fascists. Bluey Barry, B Ted Dickinson, Bill Young, Bill B Morcom, Cormac McCarthy, B Kevin Rebechi, Ralph Hayn, B ham, who among other Austra- B lians gave their lives in the 99 struggle of the Spanish people. 91 (Right) Jim McNeill, the author of this article, between two other Australian Inter national Brigaders, Jack Franklin and Tom Bloom- field, and (above) Jim Mc Neill's "Card of Honour", testifying to his service in the International Brigade during the Spanish Civil War. 