 MORE FEDERAL AID TO SCHOOLS DEMAND ADELAIDE: A strong call for Federal Gov ernment financial aid for education wa3 made by a public meeting or more than 1,000 people in the Adelaide Town Hall last week. The meeting was organised by the Parent-Teacher Council which consists of the SA Insti tute of Teachers, the SA Schools Committees' Association, the High Schools Councils' Associ ation and the SA Schools Wel fare Clubs' Association. A resolution (with only two in opposition) urged the Fed eral Government to: Make additional funds available immediately to meet the costs of all aspects of teach er training. Institute a Federal enquiry into the needs of pre-school, primary and secondary, educa- tion throughout Australia — and to act oh the enquiry's conclusions. President of the SA Schools Welfare Clubs' Association (Mrs. R. Sharpe) said the States could not hope to overcome deficien cies in education without Fed eral finance. She said such deficiencies were fundamental— shortages of buildings, teachers and equip ment and of teacher-training facilities. In supporting Federal aid for education, Mr. C. Cameron, Lab or MHR for Hindmarsh, stress ed the need for more teachers, receiving higher salaries and. better training. Mr. Cameron effectively answered those who say that Federal aid would mean in creased income tax on the ordinary people. He said that if the wealthy companies— so many of which are owned by overseas investors —had been required this year to pay the same share of the total amount collected in in come tax as they did in 1958-59, the Holt Government would have an extra $131m in revenue. This would have been almost enough to pay the total cost of all tertiary education in all states — without increasing per sonal taxation one iota. The Holt Liberal Govern ment's Minister for Health (Dr. A. Forbes) said the education system was sound and that in creasing Federal aid would lead to increasing Federal con trol and that this Would be bad for education. These statements both sur prised and annoyed members of the audience who considered the system anything but sound (as shown by the resolution) and also regarded the Minister's talk of Federal control as a bogey to excuse the lack of Fed eral aid. 