 " j B - ' ' ' I AND HE CALLS 1 THIS SPORT. . . 1 By The Challenger (I flRST leg of Francis Chichester's epic of seamanship and courage is over; 11 He has sailed in 107 days non-stop from Plymouth to Sydney— eight 1 days more than the time he set himself. 1 Soon he plans to go on, non-stop round Cape Horn, back to England. When he crossed the Atlantic from east to west in 1962 he set himself the time limit of 30 days. He missed his target by three days 15 hours and seven minutes — precisely. After the crossing he wrote in his book the "Lonely Sea and the Sky": "If I hs,d succeeded in making a 30 day crossing, as I had hoped, I should have been deprived of the immense sport, anticipa tion, hope and excitement of trying again." As good as Murray? y ICHAEL WEN DEN, aged 16, the Sydney schoolboy swimming won der, has won the Austra lian section of the Helms Trophy for 1966. He's the first swimmer to win this section since Murray Rose in 1962. The award goes annually to outstanding amateur athletes in six geographical zones throughout the world. Wenden is also a mem ber of the Australian teams that broke world records for the 4 x 100 and 4x220 freestyle and the 4x110 yards medley re lays. Wenden is Common wealth Games 110yds free style champion and the Australian 100 and 200 metres champion. At the Jamaican Games his 220 metres freestyle dash in 1:57.3 cut 2.6 sec onds off the world record. Can you tell us ? "yHO was the bantam and featherweight boxing champion of pre war years who took his ring name from a world- famous greyhound because he considered his own | name too "cissy" and what was his real name? if ; i There were two Aus- I tralian cricket test plaj I ers who were also State f Australian Rules football I captains. Who were they and what I State teams did they cap- J| tain? .11 '1 Who is the world famou|L 1 film st2-r and comedian I that once fought at Mad- ison Square Garden in ji New York? '1 # # # One of Australia's all- |j time boxing greats, Jack | Carroll, was 'only beaten once at his weight. By \l whom and at what weight? |i # # # | Tod Morgan was one of JJ two American fighters to f get 2, decision over Aus- f tralia's champion Vic Pat- S rick. What was Morgan's I real name? 1 1 # 3 3 3 When did Good Friday fall on Easter Monday? s (Answers next week) M 