 ETHICS, PHILOSOPHY AND A LIVING WAGE By a Correspondent £YDNEY: Support for trade union opposition to a "total wage" has been given by Judge Taylor retiring NSW Industrial Commission President and a leading NSW Public Servant Mr. T. J. Kearney, the Under-Secretary of the Department of Labour and Industry. . Judge Taylor's support came from an interview with a Sydney Morning Herald re porter. Mr. Kearney's position was set out in a prepared paper he read to the NSW Industrial Relations Society. Both men expressed concern at the likely abolition of the basic wage as a separately assessed part of the wage structure. Their remarks ware directed against views supporting a "total wage" expressed by the Pull Bench — Judges Wright, Moore, Gallagher and Com missioner Winter — in their national wage case decisions. Opposed Proposals to have expressed in awards as a total wage and assessed periodically as a total were submitted by the em ployers and opposed by the unions. The Full Bench decisions go a long way in conceding the employers claims on this question of a total wage. Mere retention of the basic wage as a separate wage is no guarantee of reasonable wages and while support for the Unions' view on this matter is welcome, workers will find much to wonder at in the statements on the basic wage by both Judge Taylor and Mr. Kearney. Judge Taylor said "The basic wage has traditionally been the guarantee for the wage earner that he will receive a wage to maintain himself and his family at a real standard. "If the concept of determin ing the basic wage on the needs of a wage earner to live decently is departed from, it will have an extremely serious effect industrially, there is no doubt about that." But the basic wage has not been fixed as a family living wage for many years and since 1931 not even the pre tence at this has been main tained. Basic wage Certain it is that the basic wage set out in NSW State awards does not guarantee a worker a wage to maintain for his family "a real standard". Mr. Kearney spoke of "a living wage related . to needs" being a direct result of the application of principles of Christian philosophy to wage determinations promoted by humanitarian writers about the turn of the century." Workers will find it hard to associate "Christian philosophy" or humanitarianism with the idea that the current basic, wage rates — $33.50 in NSW— are a "living wage related to needs." Mr. Kearney also said: — "Undoubtedly based on ethical grounds the Court postulated an absolute right vested in every able bodied adult male worker to a family needs wage for a unit of up to five persons." There i,s little ethical in any suggestion that $33.50 or the current basic wage for any area in Australia is "a family needs wage for a unity of up to five persons." Separate rates What matters most to a worker is how much he gets as a wage and above all how much it will purchase. Insistence on retention of two separate rates, viz basic wage and margins, is of impor tance only to the extent to which this assists the struggle for reasonable wage rates. The views expressed by Judge Taylor and Mr. Kearney on a basic wage being assessed as a family living wage, a minimum wage guaranteed to meet family living costs today, will be welcomed by all workers. They support ACTU official policy on the basic wage. But it is many a long day since there was such a basic wage and perhaps at no pre vious time was this wage further from being a family living wage than today. Printed and published at 21 Ross St., Forest Lodge, by D. B.v Young Pty. Limited, of 168 Day St., Sydney. 