 "Emergency" drought crisis j UNEMPLOYMENT i GROWS IN WEST gYDNEY: Serious effects of the drought on rural workers in western New South Wales were reported by the Stat$ Opposition Leader (Mr. J. B. Renshaw) this week, following his recent western tour. Unemployment was growing all . the time and there was no work in the western country towns, he said. The western division had been hardest hit. Unless the drought broke, or really ade quate measures were taken by Federal and State Govern ment, councils would be forced to dismiss experienced men and have road building machinery lying idle. 300 jobless in Bourke He believed as an emergency measure the Askin Government should speed up the main roads building program in the west ern division by one year in order to provide employment. This would require extra. Com monwealth finance from the drought relief fund. Mr. C. Oliver, NSW secre tary of the Australian Work ers' Union, told Tribuhe: "Drought conditions are re sponsible for the worst situa tion the workers in the NSW countryside have ever faced." There were 300 unemployed in Bourke, and many country towns had pockets of unem ployed with no prospect of get ting a job, he said. Mr. Oliver said the NSW Government should declare a state of emergency and take emergency measures in regard to the drought. "The wheat harvest is less than 25 million bushels as com pared to 136 million bushels of last year. There will be no shearing season as millions of sheep have perished. "Soon there will be only water for drinking, and if there are no heavy rains to break the drought there won't be even water for drinking," he said. Snowballing effect Mr. J. Badles (communist Party agrarian spokesman) said that the town of Bourke, nor mally a rich, .thriving centre, today was a depressed town because of lack of planning to offset the worst effects of drought. Hundreds of workers — agri cultural and town workers — were unemployed and forced onto the dole. "The abattoirs have closed down. Council works are almost at a standstill. Even the local farmers and graziers, seldom go to town because they have no money to spend," he said. The picture was similar in many other towns hit by the loss of employment for workers, and loss of workers and farm ers' spending in the local towns and shops. Mr. Bailes said the loss of rural production was leading to reduced exports and a loss of overseas income so that, with a loss of farm income there was developing unemployment for workers in the cities as well as in the countryside. The growing effects of the drought thus affected all the people. Federal responsibility "The main responsibility for the losses lies with the Com monwealth Government, which is fully aware that Australia is a dry continent and has suf fered in past years serious de vastation from droughts. "The real security and pros perity of Australia demands that our. natural enemies, droughts, floods and soil eros ion, are conquered. "The Federal Government has ignored this urgent need, while spending millions in sup- port of American and British armed intervention in foreign lands," he said. 