 MISTAKES OF 1950's MUST BE CONFRONTED tetters K0HMMflH3E9989CB5B3S3BHSS9B9BM8SBBRBI - to the Editor DALPH Gibson's book IX "My Years In The Communist Party" is an imnortant and valuable book, but it raises some issues which sooner or later had to be subjected to criticism. It was perhaps a pity that this task was not tackled by Central Committee members but was left to Audrey Blake, as this may result in some people thinking that the is sues she raises are mainly personal ones. Important personal issues are involved, but linked with them is an issue many times more important, an issue that may possibly be the most im portant facing Australian Marxists at present. This issue can be stated in the follow ing words: "Is it possible for the Com munist Party of Australia to regain the prestige it lost in the 1950s without a thorough and serious examination of the mistakes made in the 1950s that resulted in E. Hill becoming a top leader of the Party, in a rejection of the real import of the Soviet Party's 20th Congress, and in the Party to some degree fol lowing the sectarian and dog matic line ' of the Chinese Party?" once this question is faced, it surely becomes clear that the whole future of the Party depends on a thorough self- critical examination of the leftist mistakes of the. 1950s. One reason why this has not yet been done is that the sup porters of Hill made Jack Blake and Jack Henry into scapegoats on whom all leftist errors could be blamed. These two comrades made leftist mistakes with the rest of us, but the proposition that they are mainly to blame for post war leftist errors is a myth and nothing but a myth. The fact that they were chosen as the main targets by the rising left-dogmatic Hill group in dicates that their position in the main was one opposed to leftism. It is time we recog nised this. Ralph Gibson's book takes some steps towards a re-ex amination of the past, and his call for creative Marxist thinking is a welcome one. But it needs to be said that the steps taken in the book appear to be extremely hesi tant ones. The book is in fact in some aspects a partial de- fence of past leftist mistakes. This is seen in its reference to shocking and inexcusable mistakes in the early 1930s as "in part' almost inevitable", and in the fact that the Sov iet Party's 20th Congress is given less space than the 1956 Olympic Games. This latter gives the appearance of an attempt by the author to perpetuate and validate the estimate of the Congress at the time by E. Hill and most other members of the Central Committee; this is an im portant matter and one would like to hear more from Ralph Gibson on this. His book, as I have already ' stated, is a valuable one, but one cannot help feeling that the author needs to do some further rethinking on the left- its mistakes of the 1930s, and, more importantly, on the Party's reaction to the 20th Congress. Finally, since I have cri ticised the book's apparent partial condonation of leftist mistakes in the early 1930s, I would like to add that I know from personal exper ience ' that Ralph Gibson played an important role in the later 1930s in correcting leftist tendencies (including a few of my own!) and that I have never lost my high regard for the sterling work he did in those years in the anti-fascist and socialist cause. Len Fox, Sydney. 