 Support grows for UK seamen LONDON: Stories that the striking- British seamen were "on their own" because the Trades Union Congress Rightwing had ditched them are wide of the mark. On the same day as the TUC decision the million- strong Transport and General Workers' Union executive con firmed that its members would continue to back the strike. The Lightermen's Union took a similar decision. The Boilermakers' : Union no 1 en it- £50,000 to the seamen's strike fund, and the foundrymen gave £1000, as the Scottish miners had done already. The influential New States man, which has the biggest circulation of any British per iodical review, criticises the Government for exacerbating the situation at every point. "The union's demands were never in, defiance of the prices and incomes policy which all along provided for exceptions," it says. "The 'overdue' argument was conceded in the case of the doctors at the very moment when the , seamen's demands! were being rejected. "And this week has brpught news of increases of between 6 and 9 J per cent for civil" seryice draughtsmen — justified' once again by the plea of 'overdue'. "Here is further evidence that Mr. Wilson's talk' of '.breaching the dyke', as applied to the seamen, was an absurd ity, certain to 1 be seen as an injustice and .to. deepen resent ment". "If this was riot already ob vious it is made crystal clear by the readiness of the court of enquiry to recommend terms for settlement that go far be yond the prices and incomes norm. M© alternative The London Morning Star, which alone of the British daily press backs the strike, points out that the court of enquiry showed its prejudice by saying the strike decision was not justified. "Yet is has to admit 'that;! the employers had made their 'last offer'. "So what alternative had the union but to strike? Without , the strike it is clear that the , employers would not have budged an inch. "Even the miserably inade quate 'compromise' now sug gested by the court would not have been suggested but for the strike. . "If ever men have been proved justified in taking in dustrial action- it is the sea men." r-r-J ' - -V- - - r r ' "-fY, "=""5 Cft ifORITY HOUR WEEK! &1& V & it V 5 tk ag&w-X -i- 4 . . . 1 fctu v GBSuhBMM&HNSI Photos show (above) UK seamen's leader Bill Hogarth addressing a public rally in support of the seamen's, demands and (left) striking seamen demonstrating for their claims for a 40-hour week and other improvements in conditions. (Photo London Morning Star). 