 JMES mm The Irish Socialist \ By RALPH GIBSON rT5?w 4lier uprising of 1916 ceijji last week, "was a mile||j| history. Though snlljij. crushed by — '"wmiigMj sj4 forces, it launched the|wide battle Troio fdePe»yithat swept after KM World War and resulted Lj Jetting up of the present 'g|e State." . J was slsolirlt? people's up- "smg of theKit: marked the beginning of the working peoril their rulers which was MgUe in the Russian Revctjofi 1917 (which ended the vWJthe Eastern !» 4m3i Revolution West)! lt in the The 1916 IjLCfmrising also marked the the life's work of the t:o'; Irish socialist hero JAMES MLY. CONNO -jjjas a re markable f aqjLabor his tory. Spea aniser and man qf atli developed also a social similar to Marxism-Le an|l in many aspects. 'v:M The Ireland iwrnch he grew up is tenj&miiis 'Jubilee Manifesto" In 60 y&Mptoria's reign, he said, l/fflMgh had died of famine, Kbi" , had . been evicted; ! 4iliffi|ped to emi grate. Stppbnged with starving unfaLipattle grazing on tenantlmfeshree out of four wage-epettihg under £1 per week. Such is hureaii For the uf'Mvthis Ireland Connolly hafmany a battle. He helped reef the many months' ii£'y:the Dublin workers in prevent the smashing ofjfrish Transport and General fs'- Union. In the course of this long, bitter industrial battle he found it neces sary to form the Irish Citizens' Army which later fought in the Easter rising. ? A fervent patriot, Connolly denounced the glib patriotism of the upper classes. A week before the Easter up rising he wrote: "We are out to free Ireland for the Irish; But who are the Irish? "Net the rack-renting slum- owning landlord, not the sweating profit-grinding capitalist, not the slick and oily lawyer, not the prostitute Pressman — the hired liars of the enemy. Not these, but the Irish working class, the only secure foundation upon which a true nation can be reared. "The cause of Labor is the cause of Ireland. The cause of Ireland is the cause of Labor." He was Irishman and socialist both. "We propose to show all mem bers of our fighting race that socialism will make them better fighters without being less Irish." As early as 1897 he wrote: "If you remove the English Army tomorrow and hoist the green flag over Dublin Castle, unless you set about the organisa tion of the Socialist Republic your efforts would be in vain. "England would still rule you. She would rule you through her capitalists, through her landlords, through her financiers, through the whole array of commercial and individualist institutions she has planted in this country and watered with the tears of our mothers and the blood of our martyrs." Prophetic words which the people of Ireland today should ponder deeply! Nationalism, Connolly said, must - be combined with "a reorganisa tion of society on the basis of a broader and more developed form of that common property which underlay the social structure of Ancient Erin." Yet he was an Irish patriot to the core. He called on all Irish workers to work and fight for Irish freedom. "The internationalism of the future," he wrote, "will be based upon the free federation of free peoples and cannot be realised through the subjugation of the smaller by the larger political unity." How similar to Lenin's judgment that mankind could only come to "the inevitable fusion of nations" through the period of "the com plete emancipation of all the oppressed nations"! ? HIMSELF a Catholic, James Connolly insisted that religion must not be allowed to divide the Labor move ment. Employers, he said, exploited Catholics and Protestants equally. Catholic landlords robbed ' their Catholic tenants while Protestant workers of Belfast had to fight their Protestant employers. While a warm friend and ad mirer of progressive priests, he warned those who would use the Church to stifle the voice of Labor on industrial and social questions. The issue of socialism, he said, must be settled at the workshop and the ballot box, not at the altar. ? WHEN war broke out in 1914 Connolly bitterly at tacked the decision of Red- mond and the Irish "Nation alists" to support Britain in the war. "For our part," he said, "we take our stand upon the funda- - mental truth that Ireland is a subject nation, and that therefore Ireland has no natural enemy in Europe save one, and that nation the one that holds her in subiec- tion. "Though Redmond may sell Ireland, he cannot deliver the goods," Connolly added. A lover of peace, he was pre pared to face armed insurrection for his cause. "There are many things more horrible than bloodshed," he said, "and slavery is one of them." That1 could have been penned today by one of Vietnam's national liberation fighters. "We serve neither King nor Kaiser, but Ireland," said Con nolly. In December, 1914, he wrote that "out of the grave of the first Irish man or woman murdered for protesting against Ireland's participation in this thrice- accursed war there will arise anew the spirit of the Irish Revo lution." Out of the graves of Connolly and his heroic compatriots of the Easter rising there came a mighty new impetus, net only to the Irish Revolution, but to the struggle - of oppressed peoples against imperialism the world over. WOMEN supporters landing arms for the Irish patriots In 1914. Both are Englishwomen — Mrs. Erskine Childers holding a rifle, with Mary Spring-Rice a cousin of the British Ambassador In Washington. They are aboard the ship Asgard, which carried arms to Howth a month before the outbreak of the first world war. This incident led to a demonstration in which British troops fired on Irish women and children. wrf ' ' ' . , ' //fit JAMES CONNOLLY. PHOTO below shows part of the crowd of some 500 Sydney people, mainly of the Irish community at Waverley cemetery (Sydney) last Easter Sunday. They were honoring the 50th anniversary of the 1916 Easter Rising. They are facing the memorial to martyrs of the Irish national move ment, erected on the grave of Michael Dwyer, a leader of the 1798 Fenian rising who was a convict in Australia and died here. On the back of the big memorial, under the names of some 80 leading patriots beginning with Theobald Wolfe Tone, there are inscribed the names of the leaders of the 1916 rebellion, signatories of the Proclama tion of Independence, including Padraic Pearse and James Connolly. Main speaker at the meeting, Peter Mcriachlan, was cheered wjhen he said: "Ireland is not yet free. We pledge we will never rest until our country is independent." 