 ASIA AFRICA LATIN AMERICA >\,1 &lt;S , t % . V , 1 (AA, " AL ; lt > t/' :v , Historic Cuba meeting ! puts U.S. in the dock j HAVANA: For the first time in history, representatives of the national liberation governments and people's movements of Asia, Africa and Latin America met together, condemned activities of imperial ism today and pledged greater unity in the struggle against imperialism. "jHE declaration of the conference, which met in Havana, for two weeks, stated that the United States was spearheading imperialist aggression and was the international gen darme and enemy number one of the colonial peoples. The conference set up a continuing organisation. The Declaration notes that at the conference representatives of 82 countries of the three con tinents exchanged experiences, strengthened the bonds of re volutionary anti-imperialist so lidarity and made decisions against :- .imperialist exploita tion.,:.' "The main bulwark of this system is American imperial ism," the. document says. -The Declaration calls for "ex- pesgldns.:7 of ; militant; active, dynamic solidarity of the peo ples of Asia, Africa and Latin America for intensifying the anti-imperialist nature of the national liberation movement, for developing it with still greater vigor and rallying all progressive humanity, behind this struggle." The General Declaration ends with the words: "Humanity proclaimed 'Enough!' arid went on the- march. "This march will not stop until the peoples win complete independence." The general political resolu tion adopted by the conference says that the imperialists can no longer contain the people's liberation struggles. The Soviet revolution, the Chinese revolution, the forma tion of the world socialist sys tem, the. triumph of the Cuban revolution and the tremendous victories of the anti-colonialist forces in the three continents created favorable conditions for the people's liberation struggles, said the resolution. Will aid struggles ! The conlerence solerrtnly pro claimed that all progressive countries and reyolutioriary movements will substantially and unconditionally help any people struggling for national liberation. The resolution also stresses the need for close co-operation with the socialist couritries, the working class and the revolu tionary and progressive organi sations of the peoples of Europe and north America. The peoples of the three con tinents would react with active, dynamic and fighting solidarity to any imperialist aggression, aiming to end all forms of op pression practised by imper ialism arid neo-colonialism. The Soviet weekly journal Life Abroad said the most im portant result of the confer ence was the unity achieved of different social forces round a common anti-imperialist plat form. An article in the journal' stresses the importance of co ordination of efforts between the world's national liberation movements. Call for joint actions "The possibility of such joint efforts is real, due to recogni tion of the variety of the condi tions and forms of struggle existing in the different coun tries", says the article. "The Havana conference be came an event of world im portance, upsetting the predic tions' "6f otferi' ' enemies arid also' : the narrow nationalistic' hopes i of those who wanted to make : it an undertakirig confined to the framework of three contin- ents. "The conference demonstrated its anti-imperialist edge, al though it was far from being uniform in composition." This contradicted, the propa ganda of open enemies and also of those who "posing as the most extreme and fervent re volutionaries, in fact are trying to split the mass progressive liberation movement." The conference "gave organi sational form to the solidarity movement", the article adds. Addressing the conference, Soviet delegate Sharif Rashidov won a standing ovation for a speech calling for unity and the ending of "polemics". 