 TEN-YEAR PLAN TO DEVELOP THE NORTH A marked feature of the Holt Government's election campaign was a brushing aside of the great problems of northern development This flows logically from the enormous escalation of the war budget to $1,000 million this year and the Government's clear indication that this will be increased next year. But the problems themselves will not wait on Holt... CEVEN major prob lems of development of the "remote" regions of northern Australia can be resolved. But only through deter mined action by governments concerned — the Common wealth, Queensland and Wes tern Australian. These views were clearly set out last week by Mr. J. H. Kelly, a leading expert on Australia's pastoral and other developmental problems and author of — the. — new.... book_. "Struggle for the North". He was interviewed on the ABC's "People" session by Mr. Bob Sanders. Mi'. Kelly explained that he defined northern Australia as the whole of Queensland and of the Northern Territory and that part of Western Australia to the north of the 26th parallel which marks the southern boundary of the Northern Territory. Divide For the purposes of North ern Australia development I would divide the north into 'inside' and 'remote' regions". (See map). The line of separation would be one drawn from Mosman, a little to the north of Cairns south-westerly through Chill- agoe and southerly through Richmond, Winton, Yaraka, Quilpie to Hungerford on the NSW border. That line separates the "inside" areas which would be to the east from the "re mote" regions of Queensland which would be to the north and west of that line. The rest of the "remote" regions include the Northern Territory and that part of West Australia to the north of the 26th parallel. Mr. Kelly said that the problem's of development of the "inside" regions are of lesser significance than those of the remote regions. "Also I consider that the beef pdteHtisr-uf-'tire "ms-ide-- regions is substantially greater than that of the "remote" regions," he said. Mr. Kelly named seven major problems of develop ment affecting the "remote" regions. These are: 1. Excluding the Alice Springs district, where nearly all of the cattle country is occupied by resident holders, more than two-thirds of the potential cattle capactity is held ,by absentee proprietors predominantly of overseas origin. 2. With some notable excep tions cattle raising in the the remote regions is still operated on a largely near- primitive outmoded open- range system which was aban doned in eastern Queensland and southern Australia half a century ago. 3. Again with some notable exceptions structural improve ment of cattle holdings i.e. water supplies, fences, yards, cattle dips and buildings is wholly inadequate. 4. About half of the cattle of the "remote" regions are carried in areas of tick in festation where control meas ures are either inadequate or non-existent. 5. Uncontrolled grazing and indiscriminate burning of coarse grasses had led to progressive denudation of native pastures and edible shrubbery and to severe soil erosion, a classic example of which is to be seen in the Wtsrhed uf "the-- Ord-Tirer:— Slave 6. Transport of cattle from breeding to fattening areas, to rail trucking and slaughtering points is often co_stly and difficult because of long dis tances over unsealed or un made roads. 7. Employment of Aborig ines under virtually slave- labor conditions over the greater part of a century has denied the development of a well-trained, well-fed, well- housed, adequately paid and potentially highly efficient in digenous work force thor oughly adapted to the harsh environments of the north. Turning to the requirements of government action to solve these problems, Mr. Kelly sug gested these six measures: 1. The resumption of all absentee-held cattle lands in the "remote" regions for setlement under bona fide resident occupiers under firm conditions of residence, struc tural improvement, soil and pasture conservation and animal husbandry under se cure tenure perpetual lease hold not subject to period ical reappraisment. 2. The provision of long term loans (say 30 years) at moderate'- rate of interest (say, at or less than the long term bond rate) for adequate structual improvement of holdings in terms of: a) Sufficient "made" watering points to enable the graz ing resources to be effect ively and protectively util ised; b) Sufficient fencing to secure property boundaries and to provide adequate internal subdivision to enable segre- ation of cattle according to age sex and type; c) Adequate yards to enable the efficient handling of cattle; d) Adequate dipping or spray ing facilities for the control of cattle ticks; e) Adequate homestead and outcamp buildings. 3. Rotational relief from grazing of a proportion of each holding' to allow for regeneration of pastures and vegetation, the preventation of erosion and as a reserve against the contingency of drought. 4. Prevention of overstock ing and the elimination of brumby horses and wild donkeys. 5. Adequate road, rail and water facilities to provide for the economic transport of cattle and of station stores and materials. 6. Positive governmental action for the all-round wel- fare of Aborigines to encou rage them to help them to make a full contribution to the development of northern pastoral, agricultural, mineral and water resources. Cost "A further question natur ally arises. How much will all of this cost and will it pay? "My answer to that is that although . the cost will be substantial the results would certainly justify the cost. "These costs would in brief bo resumption ' '.'Of all absen tee- held land, the settlement thereon of about 600 resident holders and the full develop ment of the cattle potential would cost about $160 million. "I estimate that a key road network of about 8700 miles of beef roads would cost $210 million. That 1200 miles of new and reconstructed railway would cost $130 million The all-up cost therefore would, be of the order of $500 million. "I believe my program could, be carried out over a 10 year period. This program would represent a mere 5 per cent per annum of our present $1000 million commit ment for defence. "If this kind of develop ment contributes to defence — and many argue Jthat it does — it would "be certainly" " reproductive. By contrast j.t must be admitted that there is an enormous waste of labor and. material resources in orthodox defence measures which are certainly unprod uctive. "I have been, asked whether my surveys of, and writing, in regard to northern develop ment have been completed. My answer to that question is that although my work in both official and private capacities has been continuous over the past 18 years it is not yet completed. "I am now engaged upon a new work Northern Aus tralia's Economy which will involve a further 15,000 mile overland tour of northern Australia in order to bring me right up to date on develop ments that have taken place in the north since my last tour which was in 1962," he said. 