 [?] FAIR AND SQUARE? \ By a, Special Correspondent , ! EXALTED and above reproach as the law is said to be, evidence seemed j to point last week that it DOES make a difference if you are a house j wife charged with shoplifting or a company director charged with conspiracy. j Last week. Mr. G. A. Locke. S.M., in Paddington Court of Petty Sessions, refused bail to six migrant women who had pleaded guilty to shoplifting charges and had them . re- ' manded in custody after forc ing them to parade in Court as "an example to the public." Value of the goods they were charged with stealing ranged, from $2.50 to $22.97. All six women were first offenders and two of them carried small children in the Court, which prompted Mr. Locke to warn: "I would ad vise you mothers to dispose of your children unless you want to take them to Long Bay." "The amount of money stores lose throughout the country must be enormous," said Mr. Locke when the women were charged, "I have been thinking for some time that I will have to jail people who appear before me found guilty of shoplift ing," he added. On the same day that these women were taken into, cus tody, the NSW Government , defended a decision to provide free legal aid for two .com pany directors charged with conspiracy. The Premier, Mr. Askin said that whether the charge was a serious one or not justice must be done. The men concerned were Louis and Joseph Steen, charged with conspiring to cheat and defraud the pub lic" by -false representation and diverse fraudulent de vices." Mr. W. F. Sheahan (Lab) asked in Parliament whether j the . public examination on the J Steens revealed that $160,000 | in personal loans were with- j drawn from International j Vending Machines, that Louis j Steen did not know what he j had done with $18,000 worth ! of shares that he had received j and there were other matters j relating to $14,000 paid for a diamond ring, $132,000 spent j on a home and $20,000 gambl- \ ed on horses. j In the H. G. Palmer case j of the same week, which in- \ volved the tidy sum of $72 j million believed to be owing j to suppliers Of goods and to ! mostly small investors. I H. G. Palmer, W. H. Rose j and .J. McBlane were commit- . ted for trial for participating j in the issue of a false pros- j pectus and were each allowed $500 dollars bail. 