 ! ON THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE CALWELL: WE'LL ACT ON PRICES, ! PENAL CLAUSES gYDNEY: The Federal Leader of the Opposition, Mr. A. Calwell, declared in Sydney last Friday that a Labor Govern ment would hold a referendum seeking Commonwealth power to control prices and interest rates. It would also, he said, take action to remove anti union penal clauses in the Arbitration Act. Mr. Calwell was speaking at a reception held at the offices of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths' Society where he was presented with a $2,000 cheque for the ALP's election funds. There was no such thing as wage justice in Australia, he said. "The arbitration system freezes wages but does nothing to freeze prices. "Over the past 18 years wages have not caught up with the cost of living and the worker has not received any Denein, j.ui b himself and his family from the increased productivity during this period. "But those who have goods to sell can charge what they like. "We are determined to alter this when we become a Govern ment," he said. Mr. Calwell told the unionists that Labor's policy is for Australia's sons to be kept out of what President Johnson has called "this cruel and dirty war" in Vietnam. "Wo are not changing our policy because there is a massive press campaign that wants to make us just an alternative government to the Liberals. "We want to change the basis of society . . . where the wealth of the community is collectively distributed and where those who are too young to work and those too old -to work will not be required to live at any lower standard than that of the average person who works for a salary or a wage," he said. Mr. Calwell thanked, the union for its support and pointed out that the ALF was founded on the trade union movement because the workers found it was useless for them to continue to rely on the parties of capitalism. He said he was confident of an ' election victory if real unity is developed throughout the party and the campaign is solidly backed by the trade union movement. T1!-/-. TPci/Qr'ol Drnci rlonf r>f f-Via Q Xrillic eairl f Vro union saw the need, to replace the present government because of its refusal to control prices, adequately increase social service payments, and for its use of penal legislation against the unions. 