 MASSACRE IN INDONESIA -|THE outcome proved to be disastrous. The Army swiftly inaugurated an anti-PKI campaign in Djakarta; Nasution was the mam man Denind tms. The crucial events were the discovery of the six generals' bodies and the death of Na- sution's daughter. These were used to start an immense pro paganda campaign against the PKI, magnifying every small detail of its association with the September 30 Move ment and pinning all kinds of horror stories on it: Armed mobs were encour aged to take advantage of this anti-PKI climate. Pog roms began. In Central Java the anti-PKI campaign took longer to get off the ground. Surjosumpena had re-estab lished control of Central Java by October 6, using the same methods as Suharto had: splitting the opposition toy ca jolery and ultimatums. Both he and Sujono Atmo issued appeals for calm and a re turn to normality. It seemed that the counter-coup had been completely w it h o u t bloodshed. However, almost a fortnight later, on pctober 19, an Army Victory Parade in Semarang, and the coincidental discov ery of two army officers' bod ies, were the signal for a wave of repression to start in Cen tral Java. The tide of mes- sacre eventually spread throughout Indonesia. Reliable estimates suggest that as many as half a million PKI mem bers and; sympathisers have been slaughtered. The Army stands triumphant above this swamp of blood and death. Practically .the whole of the top leadership of the PKI has been killed. The only Polit buro member to escape was Adjitorop, who was in Peking for health reasons. Aidit was shot probably in the last week of October; his execution was never announced, presumably in order to prevent him from becoming a martyr figure. Lukman and ftjoto managed to hold on longer, having taken refuge in ithe Presi dential Palace at Bogor. They were removed on November 30 and shot about two days later, in the square of the Naval Academy. But the slaughter did not stop with the Central Com mittee; it went all the way down. In 'Bali, reliable esti mates put the figure killed at 150,000. Whole Balinese vil lages have been depopulated. After Bali, the scene of the worse massacres has been in East Java and North Sumat ra. The technique has been for the army to enter a vil lage, force the headman to give names of all PKI mem bers and sympathisers, round them up .and then let the extremist rightwing muslim and Christian mobs know when they are to be released. As they come out of jail they are chopped up with bill-hook and machetes. / The number killed far ex ceeds the casualties in ithe Vietnam war. The scale has been even greater than, the French massacres in Mada gascar or the Baath ratissage in Baghdad. These massacres have struck down totally un armed people: men, ' women and children. They have not followed blindly in the after math of riots. They have been properly planned, organised and executed. # . &lt;= The PKI was wrecked by the sudden brusque emergence of forces into the political arena which had been brew ing silently in the officers' clubs of Semarang and Jog" jakarta, forces it was unable to cope with because unable to predict. It is hopeless to suppose that the revolutionary forces will always ha-ve perfect vis ion. As consolation, we can only imagine what will be re-created and re-crystallisea from the ruins of the PKI m the opacity which remains. SUKARNO: Power now eroded. 