 [?] QEAR Junior Tribune Readers, A very important date for all of us is fast approaching. This is March 8th. What is so important about this? It is the day when men, women and children > all over the world celebrate International Women's Day. You may have heard Mother or Father talking about tin's day, which is now in its 56th year. In 1910 one hundred women from several countries came together' in Copenhagen, to try and do something about the vote for women and to help women to have the same right as men to work. (Did you know that South Aust ralia first gave the women the right to vote?). March 8th was chosen be cause in 1908 on this day in New York women who worked in the textile industry, stopped work because their wages were so small and where they worked was so terrible. Prom that tiny little be ginning this day has gro&lt;vn into a day which is celebrated all over the world. Some countries even have a holiday, others hiave special concerts and dinners, and! in some countries a few women meet in secret in a house to just speak together, for in some countries women have few rights. Women can do a lot more now than they were able to do in the "good old days". Some become, doctors, scient ists, engineers, nurses, teachers, clerks and one even became a Cosmonaut Do you know her name - - that's it — Valentina Ter- esbkova. Still lot's more has to be done for example not all women (and this means girls, also) receive the same pay as; men, yet they do the same work. Not ail women in the world have the right to vote. And not all women have the same chance as men to enter all professions. We know that not all wo men work in offices, factories etc., some have full time jobs looking after their families, but whatever they do, on March 8th we pay special attention to them. I am sure that all of you help Mother every day of the year in some way, doing the dishes, weedfhg the garden, cleaning your rooms hanging up your "clothes, and lots of other little jobs. On this day we try extra hard to say "Thank you" to Mother and a'l the other women in the world), who day by day try to make this poor old world of ours a better place for all of us. Perhaps some of you may Like to make a card for Mother (and, of course, Grandmother or Auntie), perhaps a little bunch of flowers on her dressing table, but best of all would be to do those lit r le jobs of yours with extfra willingness and a extra big hug at night. Our competition this week is about International Women's Day and 1! hope you all have a lot of fun entering it and that Mother is very pleased with your result. Dinewan. CODED MESSAGE WINNERS /"CONGRATULATIONS to Jenny P., Blacktown, NSW (6) for winning the Junior section and to Keith P. (11) Chifley, NSW for winning the Senior section. Thank you to all the Junior Tribune Readers who sent in their scrambled messages. We shall publish them in a few weeks. ANSWER TO THE CODED MESSAGE Safety first saves lives. Look to the right and look to the left and you will never, never be run over. PICTURE OF MY MOTHER JHJS WEEK'S competition is a little different, for instead of colouring in a picture, I want yon to draw one. As the day approaches when people all over the world are getting ready to celebrate International Women's Day I would like you to draw a picture of your Mother. 1. Ycu can use pencil, indian ink, water colour, poster paints,, crayons or coloured pencils. 2. Youir drawing paper should be no bigger than 8s inches by 10 inches. | 3. Ycu may choose to do I a portrait of Mother, Mother j at work or Mother at a picnic. ; 4. Entries to be in by noon ( on the 2nd March, 1966. | 5. There will be a 50 cent | prize for Juniors (up to 10 ? years) and 50 cent prise for Seniors (up to 14 years). Best of luck with your drawing. Attach this form to your entry. Name Age. Address PEN FRIENDS I HAVE received a number of requests for pen- friends from readers. (Here are a number of addresses from hoys and girls in Ghana. (West Africa). James King Arloo, c/- Pest Office Box 147 Tarkwa GHANA (James is 14 years old, and his hobbies are reading and dancing) . Miss Victorial Addu, c/- Housesah Adu, Post Office Box 147. Tarkwa. GHANA (Victorial Addu is 14 years old, and her hobbies are sewing, reading and dancing). Charles Lee Aidoo, c/- Urbarso New School, Post Office Box 147, Tarkwa. GHANA (Charles id 15 years old,, he likes swimming, reading, dancing and collecting photo graphs of places in other countries) . HAPPY INTERNATIONAL WOMENS Ofitf 