 DOCK MEN STRIKE OVER WAGE CLAIM gYDNEY : More than 2,500 Garden Island Naval Dockyard workers held a 24-hour strike last Monday in protest against the Navy Department's rejection of wage and other claims. A huge mass meeting, held a!; 7.30 a.m. outside the dock- yard gates, decided on the strike action. Over' 1000 workers at the Wi'lliamstown Naval Dockyard in Victoria met simultaneously with the Sydney workers. The meetings carried a res olution submitted by the Fed eral unions which called on all members in the dockyards to adopt a policy of no co operation until the Navy De partment adopts a more real istic attitude to the claims. Demanding The dockyard workers are demanding a $4 a week estab lishment allowance, four weeks' annual leave, a $2 clothing and an extra day's public holiday. Most of these claims were first proposed by the unions in 1963 and the latest .round of negotiations commenced last July. The present establishment allowance of 50 cents has re mained unaltered for about 12 years, Union leaders say the Navy Department has the power to increase this allowance, as did the Department of Supply which pays its workers an allowance equal to 12i per cent of their total wage. The Sydney meeting reacted with hostility to news that the Department has applied to the Arbitration Court for an order preventing strikes and bans by the unions. A resolution by the GI vigilance committee, called on the Australian Council, of Trade Unions to initiate a national campaign to back the claims. Action The meeting also called for combined action by blue and white collar workers to win four-weeks' annual leave for Commonwealth public servants. This demand was recently rejected by the Federal Govern ment and has now been taken up as an election issue by the national white collar organis ations. Two NSW Labor Senators ; Messrs. L. Murphy and D. McClelland, addressed the GI workers. Senator Murphy called on the meeting to work for the election of a Labor Govern ment pledged to: Grant four-weeks' ' annual leave Grant equal pay for equal work. Restore basic wage cost of living adjustments. Repeal anti-union penal powers. "We think money should be spent hot on war - but on health, housing, increased social services and higher wages and conditions," he said. Senator McClelland told the workers not to fall for the bogie that money cannot be found for this policy. "The Federal Government last year was able to increase its war expenditure by $600 million most of which is being spent on the filthy, dirty war in Vietnam," he said. Garden Island workers at Monday morning's mass meeting. 