 Aust. 'stabs' Africa at World Court By Roger Milliss A3 i anzanian UIN Ambassador John Malacela angrily exclaimed, Aus tralia has "stabbed Africa in the back" with the disgraceful performance turned in by local political cast-off Sir Percy Spender in last week's Inter national Court of Justice ruling on the crucial South West Africa case. Mr. Malacela was giving vent to African indignation at the Court's rejection of a sub mission by Ethiopia and Lib eria—former members of the now-defunct League of Nat ions—that South Africa had violated its "sacred trust" League mandate of the terri tory by its _ introduction of apartheid practices. They also queried whether the League of Nations man date was in fact still in force at all. The 14 Judges deadlocked 7-all on both these proposi tions, with the pint-sized Sir Percy predictably siding with the pro-apartheid half. But as President of the Court, he had a second and casting vote which he exercis ed to advantage to create an 8-7 majority against Liberia and Ethiopia, on the purely legalistic grounds that as in dividual former League mem bers they had no right to watch over the administration of South West Africa. This fine piece of legal hair splitting has given South Afri can Prime Minister Verwoerd the green light for his plan of turning this mineral-rich territory— over which his gov ernment now exercises de facto control— into an actual colony of his racist state. It is now being openly tip ped that Verwoerd will press ahead with his long-mooted aim of setting up ten Bantus- tans — or dependent African "states" — within South West Africa. The one positive effect of the judgment may be to help such states realise that much sterner methods than reliance on the dubious justice dis pensed by the likes of Sir X WU1 uc uecudl. to defeat apartheid, with its Western financial and political backing. Already it has been report ed that the African states, with Soviet support, intend to ask for a special sitting of the UN Security Council— follow ed by a session of the Gen eral Assembly— to discuss stripping South Africa of its South West mandate. In the meantime, Australia's stocks in the under-developed world— already perilously low with its all-white, all-the-way- with-LBJ slant— have taken a further dive with Sir Percy's dismal display. It is likewise disturbing to read of Polish judge Dr. B. Winiarski's inclusion in the pro-apartheid majority. The Polish Government has con demned the judgment, point ing out that Poland has al ways opposed apartheid and that International Court judges are appointed . as in dividuals rather than repres entatives of Governments. Dr. Winiarski joined the court in 1946— i.e. before the coming to power of the present Govern ment. 