 All points of view in new Vietnam play By Roger 'Milliss |T is not very often that the opening night of a new show is accompanied by the air of excitement and expectancy that surrounded "Private Yuk Objects", Melbourne actor- author Alan Hopgood's Viet nam problem-play, at the Phillip Theatre in Sydney last Saturday. Or that an audience breaks into spontaneous applause — sometimes almost defiantly — at the point of view expressed by the characters on stage. That such an atmosphere reigned is indicative of public concern over the fundamental issues involved in the Viet nam war and a tribute to Hopgood's determination to bring them to the surface for close examination. Hopgood's main aim appears to be to give all points of view a full airing and leave the spectator to make up his own mind. As a result, the anti-war partisan will most likely feel that he has made too many concessions to the pro-war standpoint in an ef fort to be scrupulously fair to both sides. By the same token, the defender of Australia's in volvement will probably con clude that the play is weight ed too much against his atti tude. But whatever the case, there will be a large body> of playgoers who will be forced in spite of themselves to think — and deeply at that — about the whoie morality of US- Australian intervention in Vietnam. If the play does nothing more than that, it will have served an invaluable purpose. Briefly, it concerns Hoth Yuk, a 20-year-old from the Baw Baw Mountains— where his father, Daddy Yuk, holds mystic communion with the Lord — who finds himself con scripted without having the faintest idea why. In Melbourne, he stays with Parliamentarian Henry Mc Kay, whose life Daddy Yuk had saved in the" Second World War, and whose family is split, down the middle by the war— one son being an officer with the Australian forces in Vietnam, the other son and a young daughter opposing the war and involved .,,in demonstrations against it. Thrown into a world of fierce discussion of rights and wrongs for the first time in his life, Yuk— under the in fluence of the domineering daughter — decides he is an objector to the war, just as the younger McKay son, Tony, becomes convinced that pro testing against the war is pointless. The situation is further complicated by news that elder son Peter has been cap tured by the NLF, a leader of whom proceeds to try and convince him of the Tightness of the guerillas' cause. Back in Australia, the con fusion in the McKay house hold is cleared up — somewhat ludicrously — by the appear ance of Daddy Yuk himself, who descends from his moun tain-top, looking a little like Moses with his tablets of clay, to tell his son he should go to Vietnam and then work out whether he's done the correct thing. But then — in an ironical ending which highlights at least the futility of war gen erally—the sympathetic NLF leader is shot and killed by Private Yuk himself, now an enthusiastic soldier — just as, he is releasing Peter McKay, who has come to respect his enemy and his point of view. There are many brilliant things about "Private Yuk Objects" — particularly the Brecht-like use of projected Newspaper headlines, the sim ultaneous use of three acting areas to show Vietnam, the McKay home and Daddy Yuk's farm, and playwright Hop- good's close ear for effective dialogue. But there is a. degree of didactic over-writing which is only overcome by the compe tence and dedication of the balanced Melbourne cast, par ticularly David Turnbull as Private Yuk, Brian James — in a masterly performance — as the NLF leader, and Hopgood himself as Peter McKay. j | Three young Australians — played , from left , by John | T>erum , Bryn Lloyd and Gary Down — demonstrate against the Vietnam war in a scene from "Private Yuk j Objects", now showing at the Phillip Theatre in Sydney. 