 Can we do it this time? "|HE last week has brought indications that people of various viewpoints in the Labor movement have become more optimistic about the outcome of the elections of November 26. This firming of opinion is based on a series of rapid developments showing the Government in an increasingly unfavorable light and starkly re vealing its difficulties. The latest of these indicates government use of its secret political police not against the extreme Left but against representatives of the large body of non-left people concerned over its Vietnam policy. The Government is exposing its own bewilder ment by its attack on these representatives — the Liberal Reform. Group — but this is only one of fjhe recent signs of stress and division within the ranks of the Liberals and between the Liberal and Country Parties. Even more significant and in fact, dominating the situation, is the contrast between the policy speeches of the leaders of the two main parties. Prime Minister Holt skated round all the import ant issues of social and economic, development, whereas Opposition Leader Calwell put forward a detailed, realistic plan. Despite the uproar with which this plan has been greeted by the big dailies the plan, if implemented, would represent nothing more nor less than a necessary beginning, a basis for the future peace ful development of tihe Australian economy. Out of Vietnam Mr. Holt asked for a blank cheque for war; Mr. Calwell would opt out of the Vietnam war. Some gaps, of course, show out in Mr. Calwell' s program. In the foreign policy field, for example, he said nothing about military commitments other than Vietnam and the. need for the total disengage ment; of Australia from any form of interference in any Asian countries. On the question of foreign investment in Aus tralia Mr. Calwell took a positive stand and prom ised action against the depredations of foreign capital. But he stopped short of recognising the need for nationalised development of some key Australian resources now passing into overseas con trol. Just the same, Mr. Calwell's policy speech was the most far-reaching and positive made by any Labor leader of recent years and it incorpor ated the major reforms demanded by the trade union movement. Dominating everything however,' is the question of conscription for Vietnam which it not only a bread and butter issue but a matter, literally, of life and death. The Holt Government has shown that if it wins it will regard itself as having a free hand to squan der more and more Australian lives and vital economic resources on the futile and immoral effort to police Asia against national self-determ ination. The nearer polling day approaches, the clearer it becomes that a united effort by all sections of the Labor movement, for which Mr. Calwell's speeph has laid a good foundation, can not only inflict severe losses on the pro-war government but actually turn it out of office. 