 [?] By BILL SUTTON Vladimir Ilyich Lenin was born 96 years ago on April 22. He was the man who, more than any other, built the Com- munist Party (tnen tne Russ ian Social . Democratic Labor Party) in Russia early this century, and led ithat party and the rewJutionary forces of the working class, soldiers and pea santry to successful seizure of power and the beginnings of the world's first Socialist Society. He is honored throughout the the world as one of the out standing Marxist Theoreticians and practical leaders. Here is an Australian's impression of the places in the USSR where Lenin worked. LENIN returned to Russia after ten years of exile, on the 3rd of April, 1 9 1 7i and later set up modest quarters at the Smolriy in Petrograd (now Leningrad) from whence he helped direct the preparation and carrying out of the Socialist Revolution of 1917, In March 1918 he moved to his Kremlin apartment in Moscow when that city became the centre of the Revolution. His Kremlin study, as a Rus sian writer once described it, was built for work and not play. Only the necessities are there; a desk and chairs, two phones, candles, soissors, two table stands, one containing current, and the other reference material, a 'Continen tal' typewriter and roller maps on the wall, To this study came people from all walks of life to be met as equals by Lenin irrespective of their status; one such visitor was the English novelist H, G. Wells, who, although a great thinker himself, left the Kremlin firmly convinced that Lenin was a Utopian dreamer. Lenin disliked working in soft chairs. This put him in direct contrast to bourgeois politicians, many of wbom aspire to soft chairs and hard whiskey after assum ing office, His wife, NadezhOa Krupskaya, and his youngest sister also lived in the Kremlin apartment, the total living space of which con sisted of three bedrooms, a living room, Lenin's study, a. small room in which he used to entertain visitors, a kitchen with stove, oil cloth covered table, aluminium pots, two irons, a samovar and a china cupboard. Krupskaya's library contains 20,000 volumes; on her desk a photo qf Lenin. A sample of her handwriting is 'preserved under glass. Her briefcase, bed, umbrel la and file of press clippings are still in their same places as they were when she occupied the room. Lenin was brought to this room for medical treatment after he was wounded in an attempt on his life on August 30, 1918. Lenin was no bureaucrat con fined to his study; after he was wounded he spent a brief three weeks convalescing at Gorki out side Moscow, then came back to work, addressing gatherings, do ing intensive study, interviewing countless people, attending meet ings — including those of the International and writing some of the most important political doc. uments that mankind has ever known, among which was the classic 'Leftwing Communism, an Infantile Disorder'. In March 1923 ill health forced him to move to Gorki perman ently, where the conditions were ideal, there was central heating and a direct telephone link to the Kremlin as well as a healthy climate. Previous to the 1017 Revolution the Gorki residence in which Lenin lived had been the prop erty of the Moscow Chief of Police. It is a palatial place with spacious grounds which is now preserved as a museum. Even here Lenin lived simply, his liv ing space comparatively small and plainly furnished. He liked to hunt and his hunting clothes and boots can be seen there, as can the silent movie projector with which he viewed films with his family and the villagers of Gorki whom he invited for this purpose. Lenin's Communist Party card is prominently displayed in one of the rooms, as are copies of his letters in English, German and French, appealing to workers all over the world to help the Russ ian Revolution with donations of food and other necessities. His library was extensive even containing a book on Australian agriculture. At the top of a flight of steps stands a wheel chair to which an engine has been attached; this had been sent to him as a. gift from some British workers — un fortunately conditions there made its use impracticable A Rolls Royce sedan fitted with snow tracks, is housed in its garage; this was used by Lenin and others for transport when the snow was heavy on the ground. A beautiful tree lined drive which was a favourite walk of Lenin's is now traversed by many tourists; a large forked tree in this path is said to be older than Moscow, Every place where Lenin lived or worked in the Soviet Union is now a museum or a historical monument. The question of whether or not this is a form of cult of the individual arises, but Lenin was very careful not to cultivate the idea that he should be glorified. He once.issi jjeamera. man, "Take eW£r of me, and mre of 2 2JS fins" to listen to J»rades who are going However, «h people to gether witW fcsuig number of the peotf forld con tinue to P9 this un doubted ' leadership played a Wj? SLA gmS 0ld Russia oufru fdows. Lenin in his stuay. 