 HQ'S WARNING TO AMERICANS: WE'RE READY FOR LONG WAR and bombing won't bend us JOSCOW: President Ho Chi Minh's announcement of partial mobilisation of reservists was a warning to America and its satellites that Vietnam is calmly organising for a long war which cannot be ended by any tonnage of bombs. The Americans, said Ho Chi Minh, should realise that they could bring in half a million or a million troops, that they could use thousands of planes for intensified raids on north Vietnam, but they would never be able to break the iron will of the Vietnamese people. "The war may last five, ten or 20 or more years longer. Hanoi, Haiphong and other cities may be destroyed, but the Vietnamese people will not be intimidated" Ho said. Bertrand Russell described Ho's statement as "an appeal to the conscience of mankind", adding "The threat of the Un ited States, which augurs the destruction of the Red River dykes, the invasion of the north and even the use of nuclear weapons, must be taken by every human being as a threat to his or her sur vival". British premier Harold Wil son's reception in Moscow was courteous but cool. Wilson was left in no doubt of Soviet anger against Ameri ca's annihilation war in Viet nam and against his govern ment's support of this war. Wilson, who brought no new peace proposals, was told that if Britain wanted to help reach a settlement it should demand that America respect the Geneva agreements. Wilson flew home to face a cabinet crisis, divided govern ment ranks, growing revolt against Vietnam war support, the wages freeze and credit squeeze and another pound sterling crisis. In Pravda commentator Yuri Zhukov pointed out that President Johnson was using Australian prime minister Holt as "a go between in an effort to persuade the British government not to limit itself to arms supplies for Austra lian troops involved in the Vietnam war". Protest Meanwhole, the Liaison Mission of the Vietnamese People's army supreme com mand has made a strong pro test to the International Com mission on Sunervisinn and Control in Vietnam. "The United States is ener getically pursuing its plans of bombing the hydrotechnical installation to cause floods and destroy the Democratic Republic of Vietnam's har vest," the mission said. The protest points out that American planes have recently bombed and damaged the dam on the Lazian River in Ha Tinh province and Mai Ho Dam in the same province. Correspondents in Vietnam report that Americans also bombed a hydropower station and dam at Thac Ba and bombed dams in Thai Binh province. The DRV Chamber of Com merce in Hanoi warns that the USA "is planning a naval blockade of the DRV to par alyse its ports." 