 r WKuf With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman piRE Brigades NSW secretary, Jim Lam bert, has rightly put the Board of Fire Com- missioners in the hot seat following the recent tragedy which claimed J the lives of a young couple and their four children at Campbell; iown. For years now the union has campaigned to end the unsatis- . factory voluntary system and in ; particular has mentioned that Liverpool be made district sta- : tion and that permanent staff, man the surrounding stations. Maybe this tragedy might sh'ake up the Board to realise , that human lives warrant the cost ,of a few extra dollars for . permanent men be on call. O f! M ' rpHE Sydney waterfront news- , sheet "Wharfie" poses the . following riddle: Does "all the way with LBJ" mean if you don't agree you will finish up in Long Bay Jail? ? TV/TUCH publicised Mrs. Zara 1VL Holt (wife of "all the way, .but none of the say") has again hit the headlines. This time for allegedly running a "sweat shop." According to the Victorian Clothing Trades Union, there are award breaches in a couple of rag trade ventures in fash ionable Toorak of which Mrs. Holt is a director. It couldn't really be true, that those super creations had been toiled over by outdoor work ers, employed without permits and paid at ordinary rates in stead of treble time— or that some employees were taking work home— or that proper records were not kept and that union officials were denied ac cess to sorrie information. Why it's enough to make you smash your euphonium! ? COUTH Coast Labor Council ! secretary, Ted Harvey, : reckons that since the recent : strike at the steelworks, about I j;1800 new unionists have been ; signed up. The drive for 100 per cent unionism is also spreading to -.other industries where work- ers are organising show card days etc. 1 However, it appears that the 'IjColes Store management at i'Unanderra thought they could go it alone. Only the other week ;:,!a 15 year old lass was put off ,,as "unsatisfactory." I; Ted said the real reason was ' because she had the audacity f'ito join the Shop Assistants' jljiUnion. i ; ; The 'stink' from this incident icaused the top management brass from Sydney to come down and square off. 