 Storm grows on conscription for Vietnam PROTESTS ON LIVING COST, WAR J I Strike wave in Q'land ils tea 1 BRISBANE: Tens of thousands of workers 1 in Brisbane and other centres of Queens-. J land held a four-hour strike yesterday I (Tuesday) to back up trade union demands 1 for increased wages and control or prices. These actions came at a time when workers action ' in support of national wage claims and against price 5. inflation is spreading in most States. I : The Queensland Trades and Labor Council called the E> stoppage in support of a $4.30 increase in the basic wage ¥ \ claim which comes before the State Industrial Commis- 5 sion today. r Over 10,000 men and women at a mass strike rally at |f the Brisbane Cricket Ground demanded the rolling back and pegging of prices. f The meeting unanimously' detttanded" an immediate \ $2.50 a week interim wage rise pending the granting of vj the full claim. It About 38 unions affiliated with the T&LC took part M in the Brisbane stoppage. i The State Leader of the Opposition, Mr. Duggan, was I one of the 10 speakers at the Cricket Ground rally. I He said that the Labor Party, now engaged in a State i election campaign, pledges full support for price control. If Another resolution condemned police interference in I public demonstrations and called for the granting of full j| democratic rights in Queensland. % Following the meeting $368 was raised to pay the legal expenses of 26 young people arrested during an anti-conscription demonstration last Thursday in Bris- H bane. || Four-hour stoppages were also held 'yesterday in :f| Ipswich, Rockhampton and Mt. Isa. This week miners kf throughout Queensland also stopped on the afternoion II shift. i3i| During the previous week the Townsville Trades and I Labor Council called a four-hour stoppage of workers I in the North. A 24-hour stoppage was also held at rj| the Gladstone alumina project and Rockhampton rail- II way workers stopped for one hour. H Even the wealthy Queensland newspaper "Courier- Mail" admitted this week that pensioners living on $12 J| a week "are living in poverty. | NSW censure move J In NSW, the Parliamentary Labor Party moved a J no-confidence motion against the Liberal Government I for allowing "alarming" increases in the cost of living. I The motion was lost. J The Opposition Leader, Mr. Renshaw, said: "It costs Jj at least $6 more a week to feed, clothe, house and supply a family than it did 10 to 12 months ago". He said that a survey of the. monthly NSW grocery price guide issued by the Grocery and Storekeepers' ||| Association shows that since September 1965, 396 H grocery items had risen jn price. Ill "The Askin Government not only gave the lead for |B much of what is happening by its actions iri increasing bus fares, stamp duties, and a whole list of other charges, ' Jg but had also given the green light to all others who \M trade with or charge the public". y| The NSW Minister for Agriculture (Mr. Chaffey) is 11 under pressure over reports that the State Government III ls deferring a decision on a milk price increase of 2 H cents a pint. ' |ljj h is expected that over 65,000 signatures to trade If! union petitions demanding the "reintroduction of price || control by the NSW Government will be presented to || Parhament this week. SOME of the young demonstrators against the Vietnam war and conscription watch a young man burn his draft card outside the Sydney Home of National Service Minister Bury. 