 South Coast nurses say paltry raise is an insult \yOLLONGONG: Nurses on the NSW South Coast protested last week against the paltry 10 to 40 cents a week wage in crease granted to trainees at public hospitals. About 350 nurses and nurs- ing sisters from several hos- pitals in the area demonstrated against this insult at a meet ing in the Wollongong Town Hall last- Thursday evening. Two Scot pipers led 100 nurses carrying banners down the main street and into the meeting hall. The banners in cluded: "Politicians' Arbitration Sys- tem will suit nurses" . . . "Nurses from Coledale say: They can stick the 10 cents!" . . . "Slave labor" . . . "Salary Justice for MLA's . . . For Nurses When?" Last week the State Indus trial Commission had announ ced an interim wage increase to nurses ranging from 10 cents to $6 a week. Trainee nurses many of whom get little more than $10 a week after paying board and taxation, are to receive 10 cents for each year of train ing. Nurses see this as an insult considering their service to the community and the lack of compilation for lc!ng hours of work and years of study. Small increases granted to nursing sisters and matrons will leave them about $10 a week- worse off than their counterparts in Victoria. Many telegrams and letters of support were sent to last week's Wollongong meeting from unions and members Of the public. Meetings of Whar- fies at Port Kembla, seamen from many ships and miners offered moral and financial support. The nurses stamped their approval for a telegram of support sent by the girls from the Commercial Hotel. Officials from the South Coast Labor Council, Miners Federation, Seamens- Union, Port Kembla Waterside Wor kers Federation and the Mis cellaneous Workers Union addressed the meeting and offered the full backing of their organisations for the nurses. Mr. L. Hart, secretary of the NSW Nurses Association, said the small increase showed "the contemptuous attitude of the Government." Although the Premier said nurses should be adequately compensated he had declined to receive a deputation. Mr. Hart asked: "Who is in control, the Government or the Hospital Commission? The Government can tell the Com mission to pay nurses decent wages if it wants to". Answering Liberal MLA J. Hough's allegation that the public were not supporting the nurses, a miner declared that "if he wants to challenge the people on the issue, the miners alone would organise a march of 10,000 to back the nurses." NURSES from Coledale Hospital on the NSW South Coast applaud a speaker at last week's nurses meeting in Wollongong. 