 Nasser: leave Syria alone A DECLARATION that aggression against Syria was aggression against all the Arab states was part of President Nasser's speech on the 14th anniversary of the Egyptian revolution in Cairo. He expressed the readiness of the United Arab Republic for actions concerted with the Governmenti oi. Syria in. case of Israeli afeession; ' The Syrian- Government has appealed to the United Nat ions against raids, launched by Israeli forces across the Syr ian border. Israel claimed that the Syr ians were diverting the waters of the Jordain. President Nasser broke with past policies by warning against the US-backed "Islam ic League" being promoted by King Feisal , of Saudi Arabia and other Arab reactionary leaders. ' ' , He held a meeting with Irak premier Bazzazz who visited Cairo for the celebrations. A statement was issued that an Irak-UAR : summit meeting would be 'held in Bagdad in September, In his anniversary speech President Nasser said that the Egyptian revolution had had DBBBBRSmBBMBMBMnMOHMIMMn far-reaching results for the en tire Arab nation. : The UAR people had achiev ed big. successes. "Following A-vthe; ; nationalisation of . the Suez' ' Canal and, our victory over the tripartite aggression we set about socialist trans formations in production and built up a state sector" he said. "We nationalised all foreign enterprises in the UAR and thus freed our economy. "We are building a society free from all aspects of feud alism and exploitation". The national income had more than doubled since 1952. The Egyptian dream of building a High Dam was coming true. "We have set about the second stage of con struction and the piower sm- tion will be commissioned within the year. Nasser outlined the difficul ties facing the UAR, including those due to a shortage of foreign exchange and a growth of population from 19 millions to 30 millions since 1952. On the US decision to sus pend wheat deliveries Presi dent Nasser said. "Now we have to rely on ourselves. We will not sell the freedom, bought with our blood, for wheat, maize or rice". Praising the .UAR achieve ments, the Soviet journal Pravda says that during the past 14 years it has thrown off the anti-Soviet prejudices foisted on it by imperialism. It has established friendly all- round co-operation with the USSR. UAR PRESIDENT NASSER Strong words to Israelis. 