 The Stockade in Saia on "J"HE war of aggression which Washington is waging in Vietnam has opened up a sharp contradiction between the drart-age youth ana the U.S. Government. It is also producing an ever- sharpening conflict between the ranks and the command in the armed forces themselves. The violence of the indignation with which the press and TV abuses the conscience-burden objectors to war by burning their draft cards is matched only by the ecstatic acco lades given to the B-52 pilots for napalm-burning human beings, for the jellied torch fires they are mak ing of the homes and bodies of men, women and babies in Viet nam. These days a large number of junketing US Congressmen are going to Vietnam to witness the sport. It appears to be the "in" thing in Washington's VIP circle to have feasted on LBJ barbeque in Texas and to have feasted one's eyes on the dead bodies of Vietnamese peo ple after they were barbequed by the fire of napalm bombs dropped on them by US bomber pilots. It surely must have been the con templation of such features of the horror and injustices of the mission of slaughter-without-honor upon which they were sent which led four Negro citizens-soldiers on their way to Saigon to go on a hunger strike in protest against being compeled to go to war against the Vietnam people. These Negro youth are members of the airborne USA 1st Cavalry Division. The Army administered a swift drumhead courts martial verdict on these young soldiers who put de mands of their conscience and sense of humanity above the orders of the military commanders to "kill or be killed". Private Percy L. Green, 24, of Liiucago, was tnrown into tne Saigon Stockade for 10 years hard labor. Harold Brown, 22, of Stanford, Fla., was sentenced to two years hard labor. David Clark, 26, of Coral Gables, Fla., also received a two-year sen tence bard labor. PJolmni L. Jackson, 21, was given a six months sentence hard labor. All were heavily fined and ord ered to be dishonorably discharged at the termination of their sen tences. Their address is:— STOCKADE Saigon, South Vietnam APO SF 96243. Two US sergeants in Vietnam who were captured and then released by the South Vietnam Liberation Front forces are threatened with impris onment. US military authorities at Okin awa (Japan) US military base said that they would be tried by a mili tary tribunal for helping the enemy. The two sergeants, Smith and McClure, said upon their release by the Vietnamese that they realised the criminal nature of the war waged by the United States in Viet nam, and they intended to parti cipate in the struggle for its ter mination upon their return to the United States. It is for this "crime" that they are to be tried. Back in the United States, a military , tribunal sitting in Fort Bliss, Texas, sentenced Lieutenant Henry Howe to two years of hard labor for disrespect to the Presi dent and conduct unbecoming an officer. His "crime" was that ne took part in a mass demonstration of protest against American aggression in Vietnam. Other cases of protest in the US Army and Navy include: — James Gilbert, 22, a sailor, re fused to take off a badge depicting the emblem of peace, and was sen tenced by a tribunal to 30 days of hard labor. John Gorman, a Marine, refused to go to Vietnam and was sentenced to five months imprisonment.. Verwoerd's South Africa. A terrorised youth is dragged off for questioning, jail or worse. Menzies has decided to give drought aid to South Africa, including Rhodesia, but he refuses to have Australia officially represented at the Lagos (Nigeria) conference for stronger action against Smith's racist Rhodesian regime. (Story Page 2.) 