 To the executive, it means fewer workers Extracts from a paper by the late JOHN I. SNYDER JNR ., read at the International V Congress on Human Relations seminar on "The Social and Economic Impact of Automation and ( Technical Change" in Melbourne last May. V jET'S begin with the slogan, "Automation Creates Jobs". It's a catchy slogan and many people believe it. As a man living in a scientific age, I have tried to relate the slogan to the test of evidence. How, I wonder, does automation create jobs? And when? And where? . . What amazes me most about the stance that most ^auto mation executives take in discus sing this new technology is their hyprocrisy. Before an investigative commis sion, the executive will say that automation does not displace any appreciable number of workers. But when he sells his automation equipment to a prospective cus tomer he boasts that the equip ment "cuts costs" which means in most cases that it does "elim inate workers"; when he says it "increases productivity and pro fits" he means it "eliminates workers", and he mean it again when he uses the words "mod ernize", "update", or "systems control". If I may take advantage of your hospitality and be quite frank Mr. Justice Richard's report to the Parliament of New South Wales also says the usual things, though of course, charmingly, about the effects of automation: "Changes introduced, ex cept in rare and insignificant instances, were not introduced with the prime object of reducing staff but were primarily introduced for various other reasons." I respectfully submit, ladies and gentlemen, that if 'reducing staff' isn't the 'prime object' be hind most changes over into automation, it nevertheless ex- erts so compelling a secondary thrust as to require from us almost primary attention. Now, I do not want to be mis understood, and I hasten to add that it would be equally false and foolish to equate automation with disaster. There is a formula for disaster we must avoid Automation plus Warning plus Inaction = Disaster T O avoid such disaster, then, men must speak openly about the effects of automation. Why should the various indust ries which have automated not make available figures on the elimination of jobs? Why should a country not know — years in advance — that such and such an industry will automate and that an estimated number of people will need other jobs? Why, in this age of computers, havn't men in business, govern ment and labor not ceased their arguments? Why have they not fully pro grammed this enormous problem of employment as it relates to automation? With proper information we could project now what might be done to make jobs available for the 1.5 million new workers entering our labor force each year from now until 1970. During this time, in addition to the new workers, other men will lose the jobs they now have Other men will not be employed because the jobs they might have taken will disappear, and still others will not be fixed but will be allowed to work until they retire, or quit, or die; and when they go, their jobs will go with them. 