 SR0ftTS--f Cricket going, footie coming, boxing out ! Another Australian summer is drawing to a close and cricket I followers are analysing the recently concluded Test series. THAT eight batsmen (five Australian and three M.C.C.) could average well over 50 runs in T est matches — yet the four best bowling averages in Tests were 26, 29, 35, and 37 runs per wicket by the four biggest wicket takers — shows clearly that the batting of both sides was much stronger than their bowling. IN the two Tests where decisions were obtained, fast bowlers— Jones in the third Test and McKenzie.in the fourth Test— were deci sive in achieving the initial break-through. It is significant that in in ternational cricket in the post war years, the teams that have possessed the best fast bowlers have had most success. Ray Lindwall and Keith Miller in the 1946-1950 per iod, Fred Truman and Brian Statham for a short period and lately Charlie Griffiths, and Wesley Hall have taken the West Indies to the top. Though neither Australia nor England had a really fast bowler in this series, McKenzie and Hawke for Australia, and Jones and Brown for England, the four fastest bowlers, got the most wickets. It would seem that though the bowling of both sides was not of an exceedingly high standard, the prepar ation of wickets in this country highly favours bats men. Cricket would be all the better if curators aimed to prepare livelier wickets that allow batsmen to play strokes and give bowlers a sporting chance. The series were even and provided some fine cricket. Barber's exciting 185 in the Third Test, Bob Simpson's great captain's knock in Adelaide and Cowper's mar athon innings in the last Test innings were highlights. The "arrival" of Doug Wal ters, generally accepted as the best Australian batting prospect since Neil Harvey, aggressive Graham Thomas and stylish Ian Chappel, augurs well for Australia in future Test matches. How ever, the bowling prospects, expecially the fast-bowling ones, are not so bright. England's captain Mike Smith, one of the most bril liant close to the wicket fieldsmen we've seen, prov ed that no matter how fine a fieldsman, one might be, un less getting results in either the batting or bowling dep artment, one cannot be kept in Test cricket on fielding alone. Thus the contrast with Australian captain Bob Simpson, an equally great fieldsman and probably the best opening batsman in the world of cricket today. A feature of the Tests was the spirit that existed and differed so much from the "warlike" attitude of some of the Anglo-Australian series of the not too distant past. 1966 kick-off WITH the kick-off of the 1966 Rugby League season a matter of days off, fans are no doubt estimating the chances of their differ ent favourite teams, reach ing the premiership finals. However it would not take a very serious student of history studying the Sydney League book, to conclude that 1966 will in all probabil ity see St. George (dragons) squaring up to Souths to decide the premiership and whether or not St. George is to take out its 11th straight title. In last season's final St. George beat Souths 12-8, but this year will see the Saints take the field minus their former team captain, Norm Provan, one of the best sec ond rowers ever seen in Aus tralian Rugby League. Norm took his final bow last season and reports are that he will keep in- touch- with the game by refereeing next season. This year is ruled out because of busi ness and domestic commit ments. Incidentally, Provan was the subject matter for paint-, er Reg Campbell in the re cent Archibald prize art competition. The leadership of the drag ons has been taken over by the extremely capable Ian Walsh. Others in order of favour itism for the premiership judging from their records and off-season activity should be: Balmain, North Sydney, Manly, Parramatta, Newtown, Wests, Canterbury and Easts. Balmain through its off: season build up drive for new talent, could very well give the king-pins of league a real shaking. Name play ers like Arthur Beetson, Kevin Yow Yen and Laurie Moraschi must improve Bal- main's chances. . With the exception of Manly and Norths, other clubs do not appear to have made any drastic changes in their make up, so will have to rely on an increased ef ficiency of their players if they are to reverse last year's results. Of course this holds for all teams and a pre-season indication of this will be next Monday night when Souths play St. George at Redfern Oval. Souths side will be the very same side with which it opposed St. George in the grand final last season. Boxing banned OOXING has been banned 1 in Czechoslovakia, ac cording to an AAP report in last Monday's Sydney Daily Telegraph. The move by the Czecho- slovakian Boxing Association follows the death of a young boxer, Frantisek Marecek, who died from brain injuries after a bout last week. His was the second death from boxing in three months. The Czechoslovakians have finally taken the step neces sary to break with any "vice" no matter how pleas ant or delightful.it may be to some. A smoker for ex ample, must eventually stop smoking if he is to over come the harmful effects of tobacco. So too is the case with boxing, unless the game is eventually so changed that it will no longer be recogniz ed as the same sport that it is now. A PAINTING of Norm | Provan, by It. CampbeB, H that was entered in this I year's Archibald Prize Ex- I hibition in Sydney. I 