 The peacekeeper of 1066 Letters » to the Editor PRESIDENT DE GAULLE boycotted last year's British celebrations of the 1 50th Waterloo anniversary and Premier Harold Wilson is likely to be just as unenthusiastic about the 900th anniver sary of the Battle of Hastings next October. Apart from England's de feat (explained by Lord Mont gomery last week) the vic tor was one of history's most notorious baddies, a bastard in every sense of the word, whose open desire to grab what didn't, belong to him (England being only one ex ample) has given him a shocking Press for nearly a millenium. It is only fair to note, how ever, that if William had been able to employ a mod ern American Presidential speechwriter we would now be talking with respect of a very different William — a Nor man whose main idea in for eign policy was good relations with England. Only with an anguished spirit did he decide that a measured, controlled response must be made to English aggression; that it was bet- er to fight the English in England than in the Norm an's backyard and that a Norman presence in England was needed' to stabilise the area. "I want you to know your Conqueror cried this morn ing" he would say before each fresh massacre of anti- Norman serfs and villeins. During the battle of Hast ings, we would learn from history, William was very willing to have unconditional negotiations; it was Hard line Harold who demanded, as a condition tc talks, that the Normans go home. Har old thus was the warmonger, not William. Most of all did William resent the slander that the Normans sought any perm anent territorial advantage in England. They would stay, he repeatedly declared, only till conditions were created where the English were fit' to con duct their own affairs. (Seme cynics in other countries, and even in England itself, doubt whether this stage has been reached yet, or will be for another 9CCj years). There is still time to bor row a White House public- let who, by October, could do what is necessary to en able us celebrate, with unan imous acclaim, the anniver- sary of the greatest triumph of William the Liberator. W. W Mosman (NSW) 