 Defend right to protest I- DERTH: Our young men I voteless and voiceless, 8 were being sent to war far from our shores, 1,500 of them without choice because they hap pened to he horn in 1946, victims of a policy of "banging away" in Asia in a hopeless struggle. Senator Doug McClelland (NSW) said this at a May Day rally in the Fremantle Town Hall on Sunday. If the Liberal Government was allowed .to remain in of fice tens of thousands would be sent to die in this useless war, a war that had no he- ginning and no end in sight, he said. Senator John Wheeldon warned that according to Liberal Minister Fairhall the Holt Government was con sidering action under the Crimes Act to suppress op ponents of conscription for the Vietnam war. "If we want to save demo cracy let us save it in Aus tralia where it has never been , more gravely threaten ed," he added. ? On Friday night, nearly 400 people in Perth Town Hall responded with cheers when urged by Senators Lionel Murphy Q.C. and John Wheeldon to wage the battle for democracy where it is really threatened, here in Australia, and not in Viet nam. "Defence Minister Fairhall said the Government con templated suppression of its political opponents on Viet nam by designating them a fifth column," Senator Mur phy warned. Senator Wheeldon said: "Don't be afraid to protest just because some people are taking photographs and tape recordings. What good will this do them? There is an upsurge of political inter est in what the Government is doing, and the biggest pub lic meetings for many years." Together with Senate can didate L. Wilkinson, the two Senators were speakers at a public protest meeting call ed by the ALP State Execu tive. Chairman was Trades and Labor Council President D. Cooley. Senator Wheeldon said those people, like Marshal Ky, who now claim to up hold the right of free ex pression and independence for South Vietnam were traitors when their people were fighting the French for independence. Ky even went to Algeria to help the French suppress the independence movement there, he said. OTHBBHBBHBMBHnRBBHaBBBn 