 LUU" J 1 Whitlam up on Friday MAJORITY of ALP State executives have now endorsed the decisions of the last Federal executive meeting, which will go before a special Federal conference next Friday. The Federal conference will deal with -the recent public attacks by Deputy Leader E. G. Whitlam MHR on the executive. The executive decisions include a finding of "gross disloyalty" against Mr. Whitlam for "public repudiation" of the executive's vested authority, constituting a "very serious threat" to ALP wel- ' fare and "grave damage" to the party. It is expected that Mr. Whitlam will be severely censured next weekend. However, as his election to the Education Committee at last week's Federal Parliamentary caucus shows, Mr. Whitlam retains a following. Though extreme rightwing forces are now heaping scorn and insults on Whitlam as a "weakie", his cur rent retreat is . only the end of one phase iri the general struggle by the Australian ' Establishment v to push ALP policy (especially for- eign policy) to the right. The bright side is the public support now rallying to the cam paign, endorsed by the ALP, to defeat conscription and end Aus tralian involvement in Vietnam. Words of wisdom "1'HOSE who bewailed' the passage of "Pig-Iron Bob" from the language of Aus tralian politics are already being reassured by the slogans of today. Prime Minister Holt ("Childe Harolde", to some) drew some dis comfort from the slogan of 20- year-old demonstrators outside his home last weekend; "Stick to kill ing fish, Harold." This is not. so far from the well-known chant "Hey, hey LBJ, how many kids have you killed today?" Now 26-year-old Andrew Peacock, : Victorian president of the Liberal Party, and winner of Menzies blue- ribbon Kooyong nomination, has inspired a poster at present plaster- ed around Melbourne: "Peacock for Vietnam!" Strange that some most promin ent Vietnam war urgers of military age— like Peacock and the young Sydney independent Liberal Michael . Darby — seem to avoid the recruiting depots like the plague. But then, they are only following the example of Menzies and Holt. What, no cream? INCIDENTALLY, according to his wife Susan, Master Peacock gets good plain food at home li'ke "straw berries grilled in brandy juice with fillet steak" and "chicken in scooped out pineapple". A letter from afar T the office of the central committee of the Com munist Party of Australia this week came a letter from the central ' tortimittee of the Communist Party of In donesia, personally signed by its chaiman D. N. Aidit. The letter is dated June 25, 1965, with a July postmark, and was . sent surface-mail. Some postal aberration has delayed its arrival these many months, during which a brutal and tragic massacre of hundreds of thousands of Indone sian communists and other demo crats has; been carried through by the rightwing militarists now in power there. Like the struggle of the Indo nesian people for democracy, the message in the letter will not fade. It expresses "profound gratitude for the warm congratulations your ' party sent us on the occasion of the 45th anniversary of the found ing of the PKI," It says: "The greetings have fur- ther enhanced the spirit of prole- tarian internationalism of the work ing people of Indonesia ... for the building of a new world free from the exploitation of man by man, a democratic and peaceful world." The restoration of democracy in Indonesia is important not only for the Indonesian people, but also for the Australian people. They like Australians AT the Adelaide Festival writers' week seminar Mr. Anatoli Sofronov, editor- in-chief of the Soviet mag azine "Ogonyok" and well- known playwright, amazed his audience with a long list of Australian writers of all literary trends known to Soviet readers. Mr. Sofronov said that readers in the USSR appreciated Australian writers for their obvious opposi tion to "pomp and posturing". No profit', no war? JETTERS to the press are revealing the weight of , opposition to conscription . for Vietnain. ' :,V' ;-0nr. The range of reasons . . . forc ing men to fight in a cause they don't support, to kill people who have never harmed us; the destruc tion of Australian democracy; the evil of pitting force against ideas . . . and many others. One letter in the "Australian", deploring the moral outrage of the capitalist clamor for war contracts while the government despatches conscripts, proposes:— That "firms eligible to supply war equipment could be chosen by marble ballot and ordered to supply it at cost price to the nation." A good question for Master Pea cock in the Kooyong by-election. "I'm clearing out before they lower the call-up age!" 