 Tmsharp touch of the Thistle : ; Wit : dim or half? THE WIT OF SIR ROBERT MENZIES, compiled by Ray j Robinson (. Leslie Erewin, London) . $12,. Reviewed by ROGER MILLISS. ""HERElnia Unfortunately butftndi itedly at large sceptics, M-jiynj -,vand detrac tors who .will LWard ithis im- pressivetyoslii /volume with undisguised tempt. Hard of t, j blinded by irrational fpoijtJj|jrej3judice, and almost cer&ijiig (inspired by an alien ideology ,/jiy y will be unable to transcend tilir '.sterile stero- typo of urn/ft IheroiPrijne Min ister as ias nati lALi affliction, an internationaL'asj jjastsri and an historica\tn;4n« sonlsm to see, beyond, thd;n« sntiali image of Menzies the M! M $ri ; There Are; a! fi perhaps those who, whi.len; ipingi,' the week end garbage- it rin>?jthe Sunday Telegraph! ovti the' last month or so, have la ed /incredulously at some iol j-tiii ihoicer examples 3f Sir Robert' verbal' brilliance reproduced' in: jat bulging com petitor with t j Telephone Dir ector and del ed that nobody in his rtgatoui jpiwdUld possibly fork out itW dollars for this book. Lastly, ttojpialso be those who simptank' the subtelty, refinement pfoteUigence to appreciate'.®wjfundity of the Knight ofiiaiKpthTiing Thistle's wit — a wpfd.li Bfd/ijby the way, as "the pdwei giving sudden intellectual1 pi se by unexpec tedly corabinU if contrasting of previously')". iected ideas or expressions". J ' - For suclii pi h this book is obviously caW-l mded. Sir Rob' ert himselivlm |iever : been one to cast pearls before swine — or, for that matter, malcontents- let alone the poor. - m "|HIS present selection of the best of Menzies has been painstakingly compiled by Mr. Ray Robinson, whose labour of love in ploughing through what must have been tomes of press cuttings one can only regard with un bounded admiration. M. Robinson is best known as p cricket writer1 and author of; such authoritative works on that worthy game as "Between Wick ets", one of the best accounts and analyses of the great Bradman- Hammond-Larwood-O'Reilly era of tho thirties. It is understood that in cer tain bar-room circles there has been intense debate as to whether, after delving into the art of the Don and other such immortals, Mr. Robinson has not lowered his standards somewhat in his choice of subject for this book. Bo that as it may, there can be no doubt as to the nature of the Immense contribution Mr. Robinson has made to the study of psychology, psycho-therapy and neuro-surgery in Australia by his unravelling of the mystery of tho mind of Menzies. Before the reader it lies in all its majesty and splendour. One is simply dazzled by the sheer brilliance of the man, his sweep and verve, the thrust and parry of his rapier-like repartee, which ranges the gamut of style from thistle-like delicacy to ponderous . ImnrmriArohillti) Let only two or three examples suffice: Menzies Was at his best, of course, in handling interjectors, either with humiliating courtesy of withering abuse. The heckler at Geelong who was politely told: 'T cannot hear your words, sir, If indeed they were words" came off considerably better than the thousands— unmentioned by Mr. Robtnson — who oover the years found themselves elegantly des cribed as "Yahoos!" Menzies could never be un settled even by the bizarrest news —his penetrating brain was always alert. On being told during the War of tho arrests of two Yugo slav generals named Tavekovitch and Markovitch, Menzies asked, auick as a flash: "Vitch vitch i,s vitch?" Menzies was always able to dispose with (he case of those who attempted to capitalise on tho malicious rumours often cir culated about his alleged fascist sympathies and similar supposed tendencies. When an interjector once had the temerity to suggest that Menzies had once expressed admiration for Hitler, his reply was devastating: "You probably picked that up in some dirty littlo sheet." Sir Robert' 8 world has never been that of the ordinary mortal. He prefers the milieu of the wealthy, the titled, the blue- blooded, the socially distinguished —in short thoose whose interests ho has most ably and conscient iously represented during his political career. It is no exagger ation to say that some of his best and most significant speeches havo been made to gatherings of bankers and captains of industry. His taste in friends is amply Illustrated by a series of excellent photographs in Mr. Robinson's book. He is shown enjoying a joke —no doubt one of his own — with such well-known democrats as President Ayub of Pakistan and Prime Minister Verwoerd of South Africa. Frequently, Royalty has sought tho pleasure of his fascinating coompany and his scintillating conversation. One stunning photo graph shows him, an imposing figuro in jowls and tails, escorting the Queen to an official function during he 1954 Australian tour, whi'o a lone Dame Patti tries valiantly to keep up behind. But of all Sir Robert's loves- even exceeding his obvious en thusiasm for fine foods and wines —none means more to him than cricket. This "sport of flannelled fool'." at it has so inadequately been labelled, is dearer to him than any other pursuit and plainly considered more important than tho affairs of state. It is p, pity that Mr. Robinson p.troarently lacked space to re print Sir Robert's profound observation — made during the fifties— that if only Russians played cricket, there would be no Cold War. But other examples of Sir Robert's deep attachment to the gamn abound. In November 1956, when there was a slight internat ional crisis over the Suez Canal, just as Press Secretary Hugh Dash was telling a Press confer ence that Menzies had been too pre-occupied with politics to worry about cricket, the Prime Minister poked his head around the door and asked: "Any mbre wickets fallen, Hughie?" And to cap it all, when inspect ing the Old Trafford at Man chester after it had been dam aged by German bombers, Men zies pontificate, his voice no doubt trembling With the extreme of human emotion: "To bomb a factory is war. To . bomb a cricket ground Is sac rilege." QNE could go on. The book overflows with both aphorism and diatribes of similar quality, but the limita tions of Tribune's space mercifully prevent further quotation from it. By now the reader will "have grasped the essence of Mr. Rob inson's selection. By now the undecided prospective purchaser, wavering between spending two bucks on either book or half a dozen beer, will have firmly made up his mind which would be more worthwhile. But one question remains un answered. What is the exact nat ure of Sir Robert's wit? Does it resemble Shakespeare's in its subtlety and range? Swift's in its penetrating incisiveness? Dr. Johnson's in its learned weightiness- Charles Lamb's In its sensitive delicacy? It is « question we are as yet unable to answer with certainty. So far we have narrowed the possibilities down to two — sug gested in the heading above. (Not available from New World Booksellers.) Tribune regrets that, due to circumstances beyond our control, Sam Aarons' article on the Spanish Civil War, announced in our last issue, has had to be held over until next week, I Artist Len Hay's addition to Ray Robin son's collection of some of the better known examples of the Master of the Cinque Ports' wittiest remarks. 