 Health threat ,u while home delayed PERTH: While the erection of long-promised houses for Aborigines at Pingelly is held up by departmental apathy and red tape, health conditions at thq local reserve are deteriorating rapidly. Health is menaced by the obnoxious overflow from the septic tanks; effluent cannot drain away because of the heavy clay soil. A letter from the Rev. Harry Lucas, president of the Pingelly Native Welfare Committee, pub lished in the "Pingelly-Brookton Leader" in December, says: PROMISES . . we have been promised nine new houses for the" ideal" native people, but no erections have been made at all. Of the nine houses promised, five are supposed to be built off the reserve, thus giving Pingelly its first new houses for natives for quite some time. "The remaining four will he built on the reserve itself, so that all other 'erections' will then be done away with. These nine are promises covering three years of requests. "The Department of Native Welfare has indicated that pay ment has been made from their Department to the State Hous ing Commission so that these houses may be built. The SHC state that tenders have already been called and let. . . "Why the delay? In these building contracts there are penalty clauses. Why aren't they being enforced? "Housing doesn't seem to he the only amenity that the Pin gelly native population misses out on., NO ELECTRICITY "Approximately two years ago the promise was made to the Shire Council that electricity would be put on to the reserve, if the council shared in the cost. Keen to do their part, the shire put in the poles and the wires ... all to no avail. Still no electricity on the reserve. No lights No homework at night for the children at school and no opportunity to use the hall on the reserve at night for entertainment purposes. . " The State Electricity Com mission and the Housing Com mission have been passing the buck hack and forth for the last two years. The attitude of Pingelly peo ple is very sympathetic to the Aborigines' plight. The Rev. Lucas last year led a deputa tion from the Native Welfare Committee to the local Shire Council, which agreed to ap proach the Minister for Native Welfare about improvement in the situation. The Minister's Department ad vised Tribune that a start would be made on sb? of the houses "shortly". 