 New ABS selection launching f LITERARY FUND AID "CHICKEN FEED" YDNEY: The $58,000 spent by the Australian Literary Fund to encourage the development of Australian literature was "chicken feed", Mr. Gordon Bryant, MHR, said last Friday night. Mr. Bryant, who is also Senior Vice-President of the Federal Council for Aborigin al Advancement, was speaking at a function organised by the Australasian Book Society to launch its latest publication — "The Jimberi Track", by Max Brown. Australia, said Mr. Bryant, was going through a new stage of literary development, par ticularly in book publishing, with approximately ten million locally-printed books being sold here last year. This made the work of the ABS all the more important, he added ,and congratulations were due to those who worked so hard to place resources at the disposal of Australian authors. Mr. Bryant, who had flown to Sydney at the height of the election campaign specially to take part in the launching of the book, said that "The Jim beri Track" would help great ly in placing before the public the real position of the Abor iginal community. Author Max Brown had written a book in the Australian idiom which dealt with the Aborigines without condescen- I sion or sentimentality. Arouse | "I appeal to you to regard i Mr. Brown's book as part of 1 the crusade to arouse the I consciousness of the Australian I people in regard to tihe Abor- I igines," Mr. Bryant said. | Speaking in support of Mr. i Bryant, well-known Aboriginal I spokesman Mr. Charles Perkins | said that "The Jimberi Track" contained "a lot of truth about my people" — the Arunta tribe. There were some 300,000 Aborigines in Australia, said Mr. Perkins, defining an Aboriginal as anyone who like himself, contained any Aboriginal blood. The white people, he said, had "not only taken our land but have desecrated our people". Mr. Brown's book, which was written in terms that all Australians could un derstand, would help to provide readers with background know ledge of the Aborigines, and how they had been treated by white Australians. Material for his book, said Mr. Brown himself, had been mainly collected while he was working in Western Australia, "where the Aboriginal people treated me better than the white Australians." The book had originally been written as a- children's story, he said, but he had decided to re-write it after he had re- isigned as a journalist- "I have learnt that you cannot be jp a journalist and a writer of g fiction at the same time." he said. More than 100 people at the j function, held at the Royal S Commonwealth Society rooms and chaired by ABS President | Leslie Haylen, gave the speak- g ers and entertainers Heather | and Walter Pitt, who sang | songs of the Torres Strait | Islanders, an enthusiastic re- I ception. I ABORIGINES' LEADER PERKINS Truth about my people 