 A day to be proud of 1 1 1 >,! i v;r "'A- By TOM WEIGHT, NSW State Secretary and Federal President, Sheetmetal Workers' M - Union. QN Monday 3rd October, the workers of N.S.W. will again celebrate the Anniversary of the historical victory of the. trade union movement, the first break- through in 1855, when Sydney Stone masons decided to work only eight hours a day and enforced their decision with strike action. At -this period the demand for a limitat ion of the working day to eight hours was a basic aim which united the trade unions in ' all countries where they have been established. The victory of the Australian . trade unionists 111 years ago was an example and inspiration to workers everywhere. In the early years of the last century "free" workers in Australia wereTsf ffiT'a minority, the main work force was the convicts who were assigned to work for employers. During 1822, convicts on an estate near Sydney went on strike over rations and wages. This action resulted in severe punishment particularly for the leader, who was flogged and sentenced to solitary confinement. A strike of Coopers in 1824 led to a trial for. combining and conspiring against the employers. There is a record of a strike of Compositors as early as 1829. The repeal of the combination laws in England was made effective for the Col- onies during 1828, and the trade union organisations began to emerge. By 1840 at least 10 trade unions were operating in Sydney. In the 1850's trade unionism quickly expanded. Conditions following the dis covery of gold in 1851 stimulated the struggle and growth of the trade unions. The European population of Australia grew from 405,300 in 1850 to 793,200 in 1855 The , gold rush produced a sit uation where the demand for labour greatly exceeded the supply. It was a period of rapidly rising prices, but workers, particularly building trade and other skilled workers, were able to advance real wages and to use their organised strength to reduce hours of labor. The victory of the Stonemasons slowly extended to other building workers, and over many years, to the rest of the work ing class. Beginning with 1871 the workers of Sydney; have annually celebrated the eight hour victory. The , first Monday in — October was - established - as- a public . holiday for this purpose. The change of name from "Eight Hour Day" to "Six Hour Day" was to indicate that the dem onstration was not only to celebrate a past victory, but to continue and develop, the struggle for further limitation of the working day. The eight hour day meant a forty- eight hour working week. It was not until the 1920's that the workers succeeded in the next step of winning , a standard 44 hour working week. At ' the same time the workers moved forward to a five-day working week. This took about 1 0 years to establish through out Australia. More rapid progress was made in the great campaign of the trade unions for a 40 hours working week, at the end of the second world war. Early in 1947 a Conference of Federal Unions, disgusted with delays in the Arbitration Court, called for strike action on May k to. enforce a 40 hour working week. . ' .,v / WL This speeded up legal | procmling/. avoiding the proposed May . 1 storage, but at the A.C.T.U. Congress in September 1947 a decision was made for a National: stoppage, if the 40 hours was not in troduced by 20th October. A few days later the Arbitration Court announced its decision, establishing a standard working week of 40 hours. In the meantime this reform had been legislated by the N.S.W. Government, and the standard working week of 40 hours applied throughout Australia by the be ginning of 1948. Since 1957, the trade unions have been campaigning for a 35 hour work ing week, as the next step in limitation of working hours. Modern technological developments, improved mechanisation and; the introduction of computers, is increas-j ing productivity at a greater rate thatrri at any previous time. The struggle fdr| the 35 hour week is becoming a mattefl of urgency. During recent years the trade unions have made important gains in establishing a minimum of three weeks paid annual leave, and a measure of long service leave, and are campaigning for further increases but these are, no. substitute for a shorter working week. In the United States, despite the colossal wasteful production for war# on which the main capitalist monopolies de- pend, millions of workers are unemployed, or working part time, and 20 millions live below the poverty line, j j &lt; >. The workers of Australia do not want such a future. We demand expenditure for-/ peaceful purposes, higher living' standards and the 35 hour Working 