 Some good advice for those facing national service The following advice to prospective conscripts was specially supplied to Tribune by a member of the Youth Campaign Against Conscription with special knowledge of the problems. Conscripts are in the army for five years — two years full time and another three in the Supplement ary Reserve, equivalent to the CMF. Boys who have signed up for six years in the CMF before they register for national ser vice are not conscripted. A conscript may have to spend more than two years with the Regular .Army. If he goes AWL, the time he is absent is added to his period of service. If he is overseas when his term expires, it is possible he will not be dis charged until his unit returns to Australia. National Service De partment doctors, not the Army, conduct med ical examinations of con scripts. Despite the 50 per cent, re jection rate the Department's standard is lower than that of the Regular Army. Some volunteers have been rejected by the Army but accepted by the Department. Conscripts are not rejected for bad eyesight or teeth or small stature, but only for serious physical defects. Although the De partment calls up many young men with pro fessional or trade training to be doctors, dentists, engineers, tradesmen, they will not be used in these jobs but will become infantrymen. A volunteer can choose his job in the Army; a conscript can't. Doctors, dentists and engi neers are officers in the Army. A conscript can become an officer, but not a specialist officer, as long as he is a conscript. After registering, most boys will be told that their call-up has been deferred indefinitely. Those that are selected can appeal against it on grounds of hardship. This appeal should be made as soon as they are notified that they are liable. Anyone who will lose a great deal of money, whose career will suffer or whose family will suffer hardship is advised to appeal. Anyone who is married or about to be married— who is supporting parents or other relatives, learning a trade or is ah apprentice or student should appeal. In theory boys in these cate gories should be exempted if they are married or have their service deferred in other cases, but the Department feequently makes mistakes. Forms for this are available at Commonwealth Employment Bureau offices. You should register as C.O. as soon as you register for conscription. CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTORS Anyone who objects to fighting against the National Liberation Front in Vietnam, or helping the Holt Government in its support of imperialism or who objects to any form of warfare or violence. A person may object either to any form of military service or only to combatant duties and may object on the ground either of religious belief or personal humanitarian or political conviction Anyone who wishes to make conscientious- objection should contact his local Conscientious Objectors' Advisory Com mittee for help. Both types of appeal will be heard before a magistrate. You are strongly advised to get legal help though it may cost about £50. There will be many delays in these court hear ings, but while they are pending you remain a civilian. CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTORS' ADVISORY COMMITTEES. A.C.T.: 16 Balmaln Crescent, Acton, Canberra. Tel.: 4 4546. N.S.W.: 10 Latona Street, Pymble, N.S.W. TeL: 44 2225. 5 Hainsworth Street, Westmead, N.S.W. Tel.: 635 8663. Q'LD.: 37 Grenfell Street, Mt. GraVatt, Brisbane. Tel.: 49 2046. S. AUST.: 6 Kelham Street, Hillcrest, S.A. Tel.: 613419. TAS.: 10 Malunna Road, Lindisfarne, Tasmania. Tel.: 2 9374. VIC.: 133 Orrong Road, Toorak, Victoria. Tel.: 24 3595. 10A Mt. Ida Avenue, Hawthorn East, Victoria. Tel.: 82 1793. W. AUST.: 9 Almondbury Street, Mt. Lawley, W.A. Tel.: 71 2323. 