 Vernon hauled to wages hearing By an Industrial Correspondent THE national wage case at present ad journed will resume in Melbourne on May 17 with : e Sir James Vernon, head of the wealthy Colonial Sugar Refinery and chairihan of the Federal Government's Committee of Economic En- ; quiry, appearing as a wit ness. The employers continu ing their case for only&lt; a very small increase in wages, in opposition to the unions' bigger claims. Sir James Vernon has been j summoned to appear, at the initiative of the unions, ben cause of heavy reliance of the employers on the report of the Vernon Committee and deter - min2.tion of the unions' advo cate, Mr.' R. J. Hawke, to chal lenge the employers' reliance on the report by publicly ex amining one of its authors on the validity of the report's reasoning and conclusions. The employers' vigorous at tack on the unions' claims hasf & been assisted by the stand of K the Holt Government, whose r so-called neutrality is mere i, pretence. y Counsel for the Government j urged the Commission to go no further than a. limited increase. This is precisely what the employers propose. But they spell out what they mean by actually claiming a wage in crease up to 60C. The employers' counsel de scribed the unions' claims as exaggerated and irresponsible. Claiming the increases can not be afforded by the em ployers, he quotes the total claims as costing an additional $1,030 million per year. This statement is exagger ated and is based on the as sumption that the total claim of $10.30 being claimed for a tradesman would apply to w workers. Anticipating this very argu ment, a pamphlet "1966 Wages Fight", published by the Boil ermakers and Blacksmiths' So ciety prior to the case com mencing, said: "The money to meet the unions' claims must come out of profits." The pamphlet then says:-- "But plenty of profit wm remain and various means by Whi"h the employers can in". crease their exploitation fit labor power and the bigRer market resulting from in" creased purchasing power oi the workers will more than re store their profit levels." Despite the employers past prophecies of doom, ProIlt have soared higher than ever and the rich have grown richer than ever. . Today they make niucn about the size of the wage cle.im $10.30 for a tradesman and less for others. But $7.30 of this amount lor tradesmen is needed to restore their wage to what it woui have been if the 1946 basi wage had been adjusted quart erly in accordance with move ments n the Consumer prce Index and if the 1947 Pur" chasing power of margins na been maintained. Next week: What the Vernon Report said. 