 [?] Jack's house is not a home Country Party appeal going the rounds of big business is headed "$300,000 dollars wanted to say than'k you to John McEwen, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Trade and Industry and Leader of the Australian Country Party. It's time, says the appeal, to say thank you in concrete and stone. The money is to build "McEwen House" as the Canberra head quarters for the Country Party. A company led by a boj.rd of directors comprising initially four representatives of the country areas, three industrialists, Mr. G. R. Fisher, Sir James Kirby and Mr. C. J. McGrath, and two re presentatives of rural interests, are to 'build and operate John Mc Ewen House. The Country Party; who know that their days are numbered un less they era project an image of a national and not just a rural party, are utilising Mr. Mc Ewen to bring together industrial and agrarian interests in a joint effort to build their headquarters. The chairman of the Victorian Appeal Committee is Mr. C. G. McGrath, head of Repco Auto motive parts groups. The chairman in Queensland is the head of Mt. Isa Mines, Mr. G. R. Fisher. Another committee member is Sir Maurice Mawby, of Consoli dated Zinc-Riotinto. There are also traditional Coun try Party interests in top positions in the committee such as Mr. T. B. C. Walker (NSW) and Sir Keith . Angus, of South Australia. . Some questions, have been raised about some of the interests of the businessmen on the Appeal Com mittee. There is Sir John Webster, of Bradford Cotton and felt and textile whose firms are regular vis itors to the Tariff Board. An other is Mr. McGrath, of Repco' Ltd., whose firm was one of the biggest beneficiaries of the pro tection extended by the Tariff Board to spare part manufactur ers. Perhaps some of the industrial firms connected with the appeal are saying thank you because of past satisfactory relations with the Department of Trade and In- dustry. On the other hand we shouldn't overlook the fact that Mr. Holt's economic policies when he was Treasurer was under fierce attack from sections of industry. The whole exercise is developing some rather fascinating specula tions. Watch it Mr. Joel "THE star of the Hon. Alex ander Joel, MLC, OBE is still rising although there are a few clouds on the horizon. With the backing of Mt. Isa Mines, one of the clients of his public relations firm, he recently commenced a- new daily, the North West Star. His paper has now scooped up its rival, Rupert Murdoch's Mt. Isa Mail. Asher would also like dearly to scoop up the current vacancy for President of the NSW Legislative Assembly. Asher is going flat out to fill the vacancy, but his chances are fairly slim. However, Asher will soon, be tested out in the Legislative Coun cil. Asher Joel handles the public relations activity of the Austra- lian Hotels Association, formpriv the ULVA. formerly In the near future' the Upper House will have to vote for 0; agamst the proposal of the Askin Cabinet to allow single bottles nf spirit and wine to be sold hv licensed grocers. Y We hear on the grapevine that if Asher votes with the Govern ment, as he always does, his tmblir relations firm will have one le- client. Ky and the lie REMEMBER when the Fed eral Government used to insist that Australian troops had been sent to South Viet nam only because of the re quest of the Sou'.h Vietnam Government. Speaking to the Nations! Press Club at Canberra after his over seas trip, Harold Holt said "While in Washington he had not been asked to send more troops to South Vietnam". They couldn't have been true, then, those stories that Austra lian troops are in South Vietnam either because of a request from the Government of South Viet nam or an independent Australian assessment of the situation. Apart from this you can bet long odds that our All-the-way Prime Minister promised Johnson another battalion, but not till after the elections. The only safe bet. is to vote out the Holt Government — all the vioy. 