 [?] US methods shock TV critics CADIST1CALLY cruel prac tices by United States forces in Vietnam, and systematic brutalising- of the trainees in US army camps shocked thousands or Aus tralians when shown oh TV screens here in the past week. ITEM 1: Channel 2, in its Im pact show last Tuesday (Sydney) showed film taken in a dive- bomber cockpit during a raid in South Vietnam. "See it bum!" shouted the Amer ican pilot exultantly as he napalm- ed a village area. "This is great fun. See them run. I'd really like to get down and see the results." The same film showed Saigon puppet troops, pouring water into the mouth of a guerrilla prisoner while Americans looked on. ITEM 2: Channel 2 (Four Com ers) last weekend contained film of brutality training so bad that it shocked most Sydney press TV commentators into print. Film showed US soldiers at "Tiger Camp" making a mock at tack while " they screamed and roared "like tigers" to order. It showed them being taught to ad minister the drowning or water- treatment torture to a mock prisoner. In a long "interrogation" sequ ence, brutal instructors beat up US trainees Mid even sprinkled "blood" on them, evidently to en gender a fear and hatred towards Vietnamese patriots they would soon be fighting. The commentator's descriptive phrase "togetherness of violence" was reminiscent of Hasluck's sum- up on foreign policy: "No alterna tive to force". Charley sings around I AST week's "Sunday Mirror" (Sydney) quoted from a BBC1 radio program a satirical song in the form of a . letter from i Charley-boy at Timbertop to his palace parents. It begins: "Dearest Mumma, dearest poppa" and ends "End of . parley, from your dinkum Pom- mie Charlie." In between, home sickness. The point of interest is that one of the hit numbers of Sydney New Theatre's New Year revue "You've Never Had It So Good," which closed in March, was a parody song by Mona Brand to the same tune ("Dance of the Hours") put ting exactly the same idea with somewhat different wording. "Hello mater, hello pop Here I am at Timbertop Nearly dropping from wood- chopping And a week of up and down the mountains hopping."' Is the BBC version coincidence? If not, it's not the first time New Theatre ideas— and members—have moved on to top professional bill ing. Business unusual CJEVERAL speakers in Channel 7's national "white paper" TV debate on conscription for Vietnam pointed out the contradiction between the Government's scaremongering over Vietnam and its "business as usual" policy at home. In fact, it's worse than that— it's "business better than usual" for those big firms equipped to sup ply modem war needs. Recently there has been a shameless scram ble among them, backed by the Government, to share in the en ormous war contracts let by the United States Government to . streamline its mass murder in Vietnam. For example, a press release by the Associated Chambers of Manu factures revealed that major earth- moving and materials handling equipment firms have entered this unsavoury race. Firms like Caterpillars, Allis Chalmers, International Harvester and Le Tourneau Westinghouse (all US subsidiaries) and Austra- lian firms like Conquip, Chamber lain Industries and Jaques Bros were mentioned. At the April Tariff Board In- quiry into this industry, the stated ment says, "the industries will be asking the Tariff Board for suffi. cient protection to enable them to gain a greater share of defence contracts ..." Roll on, the war— "for ten years" (as PM Holt predicts)!!! Incidentally, if these merchants of death are looking for a spokes man, they could do worse than the Anglican Canon Knox who (in the Channel 7's debate) provoked an outburst of incredulous laughter by declaring that war was "a form of administering justice." Contemptuous of a suggestion that conscripts might be allowed to refuse service in Vietnam, Knox asked "What's the use of an army if you can't use it?" An insult to Anzacs |_AST Thursday's Sydney march of conscripts be fore embarking for Vietnam was described, correctly, by some commentators as reveal ing a quiet, even sombre, attitude among many on lookers. In Perth, too, the previous day (our correspondent writes), there) was "a scene of gloom and silence", as the latest draft ' of conscripts departed by air for the eastern States. "Inside the airport building peo ple stood in groups with the con-j scripts who were in civilian clothe labelled for transit. A mother stood:, in the arms of her son, weeping . . girls saying goodbye to boy friends ... all very sober and sad." This was not the position when troops departed in World War II and World War I. The reason? Basically, that in those cases most people believed the war was just. The same reason explains why there were nearly i a million vol-; unteers in World War I and over i a million in World War II. j Most Australians are not con-: vinced about the Vietnam war. And to contend, as Government apolo gists are doing, that the figures in the two world wars were, due to1 unemployment and adventurism is a REAL insult to Anzacs. j "It was sure nice of you to arrange this home-style reception for me." - 