 \ All southern mines strike in protest BLOOD ON STEEL FIRM'S PROFITS Govt must ;; prosecute \ W OLLONGONG: Thousands of mineworkers from all mines on the NSW South Coast went on strike for 24 hours from midnight last night (Tuesday) demand ing that Australian Iron and Steel be prosecuted over the Bulli mine tragedy. The AI & S company is a major subsidiary of the Broken Hill Pty. steel monopoly, the richest company in Australia. The Southern Board of Management of the Miners' Federation called a mass meeting in Rest Park, Wol- longong, at 10 am today (Wednesday) . A proposal to the meeting will be for deputations to the NSW Mines Department demanding that action be taken against the company. A protest demonstration will also go to the company. Significantly, today's meeting is being held beside the memorial for over 90 miners killed in the 1902 Mt. Kembla disaster. - Early pointers to the miners' anger were strikes at Old Bulli, Nebo, Mt. Kembla and Corrimal pits. At Kemira, BOO men went on strike "indefinitely" on Friday, demanding prosecution of the company. These actions followed last week's refusal of the Min-. ister for Mines (Mr. Lewis) to prosecute the AI fc S after the findings of Justice Goran into the Bulli mine disaster. The Judge made trenchant indictments of the com pany for disregard of essential safety measures at the Old Bulli mine, where four men lost their lives in a gas explosion and fire last November. The AI & S company also owns the Corrimal colliery, where two men were buried alive on April 12. Experienced miners said these men should not have been working in the unsafe conditions where they were killed. Broken Hill Proprietary, the big iron-steel monopoly which includes Australian Iron and Steel and owns Bulli mine, is Australia's biggest company and profit- maker. Last July it announced a record profit of £19,625,313 — s an Australian record — beating the previous record held by General Motors-Holdens. BHP owns the following collieries: Burwood, John Darling, Lambton B, Stockton Borehole, .Hebburn (part) , Pacific (NSW northern district) , Kemira, Mt. Kembla, Nebo, Wongawilli, Bulli, Appin, Corrimal, Helensburgh, (southern district) . ® Continued, Page 12. COAL MINES STOP ® Continued from Page 1. A recent meeting of the Miners' Central Council, when discussing this tragedy, called for nationalisation of the industry, Central Council said this would ensure that the welfare of miners was put before profits. Judge- Goran, when announcing his findings at the Old Bftlli Court on April 27 after an inquiry into the disaster, said that the management has adopted a "cava lier attitude" to the problem of gas. Judge Goran said that the management had "ignored the fundamental principles of ventilation" and "tolerated concentrations of noxious gas which drew complaints from the workmen." The company's method of dealing with this gas was a "mere improvisation for which no justification could be found in mining practice and which was dangerous in the extreme," he said. "I must issue a warning that, the tragedy which occurred on the morning of November 9, 1965, at Bulli colliery can be repeated at this and other collieries with possibly far more disastrous results unless the lessons learned at this Inquiry become rooted in the minds of all men who work in mines, both management and employees," he added. Exposing the monopoly-dominated character of the NSW Government, the Miners' Federation statement says:1; — "The decision of the Minister, in the light of these findings, not to prosecute the company can only be considered by the Federation as a decision that in no way can be reconciled with the findings of the inquiry, and emphasises the fact that there is a law for mono poly and a law for the workers." It adds that to have adopted the correct method of ventilation would have, on occasions, meant that production would have to cease and the men withdrawn. "And therefore it must have become obvious to everyone that, the arguments submitted by the Miners' Federation that safety principles were ignored in the interests of coal production have been undeniably proved and indeed the findings make definite reference to this particular fact." 1 Mines Minister Lewis felt some of the anger of miners and their wives at Wongawilli, on the NSW South Coast, on Monday; He had attended a parents and citizens' meeting at the school to hear demands for an improved bus service for schoql children. When he left the school he was surrounded by placard- carrying miners and members of the Miners' Women's Auxiliary, representing ; nearly every mine on the South Coast. They left Mr. Lewis in n,o doubt as to their feelings and demanded that he prosecute the BHP. S.A. chemical men win on pay gOUTH Australian chemical workers, following strike action, have w,on service pay increases of $1 for the first year, $1.25 for the second, $1.50 for the third, $1.55 for the fourth and $2 after five years. These payments are retrospective to April 1. The fertiliser companies have made big profits by keeping wages down and increasing the price of super phosphate. pERTH: About 400 construction workers from six major sites near Perth have stopped work for more PaY- . They want increases of about $17 on the basis of five days work. 