 The years of 1900-21 : if A halcyon time | of the labor movenmt "INDUSTRY ily11 aND POLITICS", by Dr. IAN TURNER. Dynamics ®ur Movement in Eastern Australia. 1900-1921, Australian Nl mVerslty 1%5> $5.25. IF the history of Labor in Australia might be divided into periods, the second great period, in some ways the naicyon days, could be the span of years covered by this book, In these years syndicalism and Communism appeared, to acid to Socialism and labourism thein own characteristics. A great change came over the working clasr. in the years from 1900 to 1921. While Dr. Turner maintains that he can find little evidence of a great popular debate in,- 1920-1, it is an obvious! fact that the degree of Socialist and general class consciousness reached by 1921, however difficult and only sub-consciously realised, was vastly greater than at the be ginning of the century. H>m»&lt;iqi»nw»nwi i iwuimi i o&lt;BW€iM&lt;pn tfr To a very considerable extent the movement in 1921 was a different movement from that in 1900. The skill with which the how and the why of this change is traced, is the merit of Dr. Turner's book It is not a history of the Labor Party. Rather it is an attempt to take a general view of the labor movement as a whole, espec ially as viewed from the base. The trade unions and their, ups and down® are at the heart Of the study, but there is noth ing of a narrow organisational approach. Dr. Turner shows the rele vance of ideology in affecting the course of events. Of par ticular interest is the story of the attempts of the Socialists. from outside#®1 and influence thWy, and of those sylg.who first rejected Pll,sWp' , only to become C0IPletely identified gi' Jjssian Revolution aW LjfT Political ideas advance ana the Bolsheviks, gi lt was ilvSl act ivists who J to influence pe"P if cnsciou> ness did S1'0 || jf there A 11 substantial criticism of W lt is an apparent re®0 pursue some ideas there is not much ian a him. One- such P#, \ contin uity with nfdn|on, o«w»ri Mm'" m perhaps an exaggeration, of poorly developedi systemic thought and little integration of profound cultural and intel lectual achievement with pop ular movements. Thi:, hag been largely absent from Australian political Litre, especially where it might be of greatest importance — - in the modern working class rev olutionary movement. However in spite of thh' lim itation and an occasional ten dency to too great scepticism, Ian Turner's considerable gift?; have been well directed to a major achievement in the writing of labor history. Roger Coats. 