 The political credo of Dr. J. Cairns "LIVING WITH ASIA" By DR. J. F. CAIRNS REVIEWED BY L. AARGNS General Secretary, Communist Party of Australia v ' . ' . ' ; &lt; \ "LIVING WITH ASIA" ... an important con tribution to the search for a genuinely Australian position in foreign policy. However, he sometimes wavers between an outspoken and realistic criticism of US and Australian policies and an acceptance of what he .calls 'humane and advanced thinking' of the 'liberal' wing of the US Establishment ..." Here is a book every Aus tralian should read, think about and discuss'. It is a controversial book, about a controversial sub ject, vital to the national future. Di\ Cairns is a courageous inde pendent thinker who , often dis closes the uncomfortable reality behind the platitudes and anti- Communist catchcries which con dition orthodox thinking and official policies. He has already proved his sin cerity and courage by acting on his pledge "Speaking for myself,. I do not intend. ,to allow my country to drift into war or be forced into war with the emerg ing Asia if I can possibly help it." Dr. Cairns covers a wide field, outlining his views on economic policy, defence, Australian politi cal parties, New Guinea and the Aborigines and radical policy he advocates for the Labor Party. In a sense this is his political credo, tied to the central theme — Austra lia's relations with Asia. This credo merits much more attention than it can receive in this review, concerned, mainly with the central theme. A general observation is that the author's thinking on capitalist society is strongly influenced by modern academic sociology. This explains some acute insights and also a certain superficiality in analysis, particularly of monopoly capitalism and the struggle for profound social change. The book's greatest strength is that it has something real and challenging to say about the de cisive question of Australia's place in the world — its relations with Asia. It is an important contribu tion to the search for a genuinely Australian position in foreign policy. Cairns rejects our "half- sovereign" position, in which the United States and Britain make the real decisions. However, he sometimes wavers between an outspoken and realis tic criticism of U.S. and Austra lian policies and an acceptance of what he calls "humane, and advanced thinking" of the "liberal" wing of the U.S. Estab lishment, men like Galbradth, kennan, Pall and others he so often quotes. ' " ' Yet even this has a useful pur pose, crystallising many issues for that serious thought and dia logue so vital for the labour movement. ? The value of this book to the labor movement is recog nised in a backhanded way by the Sydney Morning Herald. Speaking for the Establishment, this august journal accords it the unusual honour of a review by editorial, completely rejecting the book's concepts and making a quite bitter personal attack on the author for "lack of intellec tual distinction and deep know ledge." The "Herald" leader-writer, to prove his own intellectual "dis tinction," ; q u i t e a dishonestly t accuses Dr. Cairns of failing to "distinguish his own position from that , of the Communists." In fact, Cairns does repeatedly distinguish his position from that of the Communists; it is precisely this care, and the reasons he gives for it, which make for a certain failure to follow consis tently the logic of his own argument. The most powerful part of "Living With Asia" is its analysis of the real causes of the national revolutionary movements which have altered the face of Asia, in the last 20 years. The author has a real sense of history in the making, sincerely striving to con vince his fellow- Australians to move with this great historical process, not allowing the nation to be drawn into efforts to re verse it. He shows that the' Asian revo lutions are profoundly national and anti-colonialist, springing from the great need for social change. The "Herald's" reviewer tries to challenge this, alleging it a sweep ing generalisation and question ing "whether it is helpful to use the word 'Asia' at all, except as a geographic term . . learnedly lecturing that there are differ ences between Asian nations. Two main features characterise all the liberation movements in Asia — the struggle to throw out foreign imperialist rulers, and the struggle for agrarian reform and industrialisation to build genuinely independent nations. . .x In .India the fight against the British was won without war but certainly not without mass action and violence. In Indonesia the fight was against the Dutch and needed two wars. In Vietnam the enemy was first the French and now the Ameri cans. The Vietnamese tried peace ful means in 1945-46 which the French rejected. They tried again in the South from 1956-59, but the Americans forced war upon them by prompting and uphold ing Diem's refusal to accept democratic elections and peace ful means. The Chinese fought Japanese imperialism and then had to fight a. civil war against U.S.- backed Chiang reaction . . . The list is long. Similarly with agrarian reform and industrialisation. Ch i n a , North Vietnam and North Korea have taken the socialist road, and are solving with great effort the problems of agriculture and industrialisation. The struggle for agrarian reform and a national industrial base also proceeds, in other Asian nations, at different levels and in different conditions. Japan is in a different cate gory. A developed monopoly capi talism even before the war, it is the only Asian nation to seek imperialist domination in Asia. Already the outlines of a new Japanese expansionism are clearly forming, helped by the United States ifor its own jpolitidal motives. The future of Asia— and Austra lia—will be profoundly influenced by the internal political struggle taking place in Japan between monopoly capitalism seeking re armament and the popular forces seeking a peaceful future. Dr. Cairns has clearly seen the causes for the national revolutions in Asia, and the decisive' import ance for Australia of supporting their aims and not opposing them by aggressive intervention and war. His vision is not so clear on how they tehould be supported, obscured by acceptance of the need "to sli ,-ithe advance of Communism,' He quotes i. approval a 1956 statement oiouth Vietnam by Sena tor Johi ennedy : What weij;: offer them is a revolution, lolitical, economic and social lution far superior to anytNirjtlie Communists can offer. . This thatiat "we" (the West, i.e. tiaqiopoly capitalist countries) ippffer or give social chanftiAsian nations recurs throiatisthe book. The laborivefiient, and par ticularly thelsiaHst left, should never identlijjj$elf with mono poly capiteljj$®place any faith in its williipto bring revo lutionary to other countries. |: As Dr. cljtiimself says, the cause for litions becoming revolutionaiju|| is the use of force to || social change, supported dSfggi prompted by outside poWf| A classitffpie of this is precisely Sfl®ietnam, where the United ®lPUt Ngo Dinh Diem into w® hold down the revolution. >'1 \ Indonesia supplies another les son in where the Australian sup porters of "democracy and non violence" really stand. They scarcely try to hide their glee at the brutal massacre of 100 000, 200,000 or 300,000 Communists- each figure has been reported. "The "Herald" review of the Cairns book grew lyrical on "rem nants of the PKi hunted gallows- wards with jeers," whilst piously deprecating terrorism. Yet surely there is no closer parallel with this mob violence under Indone sian Army protection than the violence of Hitlerite thugs pro tected by the Weimar police. The world remembers the conse quences of this historical prece dent. It is not just an accident but almost a. law of modern history that the regimes supported by the United States (and other imperia list powers) have the narrow social base of landlords, merch ants and the wealthy, are corrupt and brutal in their method of rule which upholds feudalism and opposes agrarian reform. This is not only in Asia, but also in Latin America and Africa. The paradox of John Kennedy's statement out of office and the practice of President Kennedy is surely most instructive — and, to be fair, Dr. Cairns himself com ments upon this. Instead of "offering" social revolution the Kennedy Admini stration made that first fatal de cision to step up U.S. military intervention which Johnson has carried to its terrible conclusion. It is worth remembering that among President Kennedy's closest advisers then were those very men of the "liberal" wing mentioned earlier. The theoretical root of these in consistencies is Dr. Cairns' think ing on monopoly capitalism, to which he returns several times, and expresses thus: "Some people say that . . . present policies are determined by the needs of monopoly capi talism and will continue to be. I do not agree . . . the great weight of evidence is that the collective, democratic power of the people has modified the old order a great deal ... "I do not agree, either, with those who claim that monopoly capitalism, checked and sub missive, is now subject to the will of an all-powerful parlia ment. 'Monopoly capitalism is still very much on top, but the point is that monopoly capi talism can be influenced and changed — and will be." (P.3, emphasis added) . This thought is widespread in the Labor movement, including in the left. It is not altogether wrong; the concept that the policies of monopoly capitalism must be opposed and can be in fluenced through people's struggle is the basis for united action by people of diverse political and re ligious views. The wide and vigorous cam paign against Australian involve ment in Vietnam — to which Dr Cairns has made such a notable contribution— is living proof of this- So are the ever-present movements for economic and social reforms within monopoly capitalism. However, there are strict limits to possibilities for making real changes in the external policies of monopoly capitalism powers. Kennedy did not alter these fundamental policies, as we have seen. We cannot expect that "America will not forever seek to hang tenaciously on to strategic ally useless bits of Asian soil . . . (page 3) as the result of changes brought about by a new Kennedy. There is a decisive connection between monopoly capitalism and imperialist foreign policy. The stronger the monopoly capitalist nation, the more expansionist and aggressive its foreign policy. Thii explains U.S. bases ringing the world; Vietnam and Dominica; the demand that the American writ should rule supreme on friend and foe alike. The Cairns thesis on monopoly capitalism has important implica tions for the way to make the profound social changes needed in Australia, some of which he raises in his book- This cries out for a serious dialogue. Many Labor Party members are seriously pondering the question Dr. Cairns puts to his readers What difference will it make it . Labor does win ? This summarises in a nutshell the question before the whole Labor movement, and Dr. Cairns has not yet thought it through. Yet his book does pose important ideas which need much more discussion from all who think seriously as he does, about the way forward for Australia. The book deals with many issues which cannot be discussed even in a review of this length. These include a challenge to the current official theory that Australian defence demands fighting a preventive war in Viet nam, Malaysia and other countries thousands of miles away. He comes out for a defence policy based upon two pillars— a foreign policy of peace, and friendship with Asia, and military strength geared to real defence against any threat of invasion. He shows there is no real threat of invasion a-t this moment, nor is one likely. ? Some of his views on political parties merit further development, particularly his interesting theory that many real issues of Australian policies are fought out first within the Labor Party. The truth in this — and there is some — throws some ' light on the very nature of the Labor Party and raises the query: can the Labor Party in fact fulfil its proclaimed aims and objectives? His views on the Communist Party are not very profound, and indeed reflect some prejudices spread by conservatism, although he clearly recognises the specious and dangerous nature of anti- Communism. The Communist Party welcomes genuine criticism and serious dis cussion, and is in fact studying its policies and work. Dr. Cairns' views on the Communist Party are certainly worth further examina tion. In such a wide-ranging, thought-provoking and valuable book, it is unfortunate that a glaring error should have crept in, the statement "Asians are emerging from a thousand years and more of poverty and national impotence." Great and powerful states existed in India, China, Indonesia and Indo-China for much of this thousand years. More research would probably also show that poverty was at least no worse in Asia than in Europe at the same time. The past era of "poverty and national Impotence" was ushered in by Portuguese, Dutch, British and French conquest. This, however, is a small blemish in a valuable and stimulating book which will play a big part in national thinking and dis cussion. 