 [?] The Sheet Metal Working, Agricultural Implement and Stovemaking Industrial Union of Australia I The Sheet Metal Workers Union, NSW Branch, gives a full support to the struggle for a 6 hour working day I and calls upon its members and other unionists to Amalgamated Engineering I Union Sydney District Committee extends Labour Day greetings to all trade unionists and calls for a united campaign by the labour move ment for the defeat of the Holt-Liberal Government and the election of a Federal Labour Government. M. J. Malcolm, District Secretary. 1 nBHBBBBBBBffiBKBnBBBBSBBBBBBaSBmBBBBflBBHBBSBBBBBBSBBBBBBBflBBBBBBBnBl Federated Gas Employees' Industrial Union Federal Council Greetings to ail unions participating in the celebration of 6-Hour Day, 1966. Let us go forward to an ever-stronger ' trade union movement. L. H. Thompson, Federal Secretary The Operative Painters' and I Decorators' Union of Australia! New South Wales Branch 1 extends fraternal greetings to all workers on the occasion of Six Hour Day , 1,966, and calls on all Trade Unionists to activeVyi work for the defeat of the Holt Liberal Government. F. BUTLER, Secretary. The Boilermakers and Blacksmiths' Society of Australia Newcastle Branch No. 4. Extends fraternal greetings to all workers fighting for a shorter working week, improved living standards, the strengthening of the international solidarity of the workers of the world, and PEACE. Ray G. Miller, W. M. Eveleigh, WORKERS' CLUB WOLLONGONG Extends fraternal greetings to all con cerned in the struggle for increased wages, better conditions, higher living standards, peace on earth and for the success of the Six-Hour Day procession which is part of that straggle. W. Hume, Secretary/Manager. 1 — M WWIBI—Mi IHW,IUW 111 IN .I,,.,.,. Ml BUILDING WORKERS' INDUSTRIAL UNION OF NSW Six-Hour Day symbolises the struggle for shorter hours and higher living standards. These ideals can best be advanced by defeat ing the Holt Government in the forthcoming Federal Elections, for this Government under mines living standards through its policy of war and monopoly enrichment. P. Clancy, Secretary. | Hill— — — — —— — — Milk & Ice Carters & Dairymen's I Employees Union of Australia 1 The Officers and Management Committee extend fraternal greetings to the working class movement of Australia. We express our sin cere desire for further progress in social, economic and living standards, wage and job justice, socialism and world peace. Rex H. Rickard, General Secretary. J ihitiyiHiiiiniTBiBMBBiBinnifi hnWii),ll"iiiiiii'iiiiihiiH"&lt;ij""KLlwmi i TfrirmgMTgWTTfVifVf iHi-rii'imTrnLmg | Federated Engine Drivers / J and Firemen's 1 Association of N.S.W. V Greets Six Hour Day and calls on the working class for the defeat of the Holt Government, demands the cessation of the war in Vietnam and a shorter working week. I D. W. Rees, Secretary. Bmg—P— mm, .-ifTif" ".- Waterside Workers' I Federation of Austraiia ' Sydney Branch Waterside workers on this anniversary of the historic s eight hour day victory send greeting of solidarity to all \ Australian Trade Unionists and draw attention to the speed of oncoming automation and technical changes and the ever increasing need for further compensating I social reform of a national six hour working day. | NEWCASTLE TRADES NAlil COUNCIL EXECUTIVE extends Fraternal Greetings to all Unionists, Workers and their Families . . . for Peace, Higher Living Standards and Socialism. Unite for Six-Hour Day Demands. A. DOWLING, Secretary. I : ; "1 I Liquor Industries Union Extends fraternal greetings to all trade unionists. i March on 6-Hour Day for peace, higher living standards and socialism. W. J. ROSER, State Secretary. 