 LESSON OF RHODESIA: The need for action against South Africa By ALF WATT | AN SMITH'S regime in Rhodesia though seriously inconvenienced by economic sanctions, is riding the storm and gaining valuable time to consolidate its position. For economic sanctions against the Rhodesian racist rulers to be effective, action must be taken ; against South Africa as well. The repeated United Nations appeals for an economic boycott, and arms embargo must be heeded by the imperialist governments. Oil supply These points are clear from several: recent reports in the Sydney and African press— South Africa is to sup ply Rhodesia with oil. O South African' trade dele gations are visiting,. Rhod esia. ' The "Financial Review" writes that Rhodesia lias begun a gradual shift of her patterns of trade from Britain to. South Africa. The South African Sunday Times says that in Pretoria'' a strict security blanket has been thrown, over the entire Rhodesian situa tion. , State officers have all been forbidden to comment, but events indicate that the South African Reserve Bank is con tinuing to do business with, the Rhodesian Reserve Bank through its Salisbury Board of Directors. Sir Humphrey Gibbs, Gov ernor of Rhodesia, and Sir Hugh Beadle, Chief Justice, have both told the British Government that they don't think Smith's Government will nnllansp under the effect of sanc tions. Assurances Smith was assured by the South African and Portuguese Governments last year that any adverse effects of "inde pendence" could be over come. South Africa is the econo mic and military base of the fascist-type alliance embrac ing the three states that has been under construction in re cent years. Sir de Villiers Graaff, leader of the so-called opposition party in South Africa, ex posed the closeness of this alliance when he said re cently:— "We are bound to them (South Rhodesia) by ties of blood. Our affairs are, in many instances, joint enter prises. Our lives meet on a thousand planes." The British Government is responsible for the situation that has developed. It could have at any time before inde pendence suspended the con stitution and held elections under the democratic principle t one man one vote, thus , ri£mS to office the African leaders who are kept in deten- tion by Smith. The British Government did . before "independence" hn ? same reason that it Ttv,w, acted decisively since. Sense!y Powerful imper- in ii mterests are involved S U ee -states of the southern Fascist alliance. There are 155 big British companies with subsidiaries in Rhodesia, and in South Africa as well. In South Africa alone there is £1,000 million of British capital and £500 million of American, besides Belgian, West German and others. ' Neither Smith nor Verwoerd could rule without their sup port;; The profit gained from ex-' ploiting African resources and African labor paid less than £5 a month is the reason for the support pf overseas capi tal for the dictatorships — a fact that both Verwoerd, Smith and Salazar seek to conceal by declarations that they are fighting against Communism. ' '\ith ' ' "''"PoTlibesIS'' forces in Angola and Mozam bique, and with Rhodesia itself well armed, there is every reason for independent Africa's bitter opposition to Smith's Government and bit ter criticism of British actions. If. the Smith Government is not brought down, arid in consequence he wins' a free hand to s t r e n g t h e n t he alliance, a. seat- of / aggression will -.come into existence in Southern Africa that,, will at some time threaten the peace of the world. 