 Judge slams policeman's evidence "Liar, provocateur" in "exposure" case JYDNEY : Growing public concern and the demand for an open inquiry into highly questionable methods adopted by the Police Force, will not have been lessened by the statements of Judge Goran last Friday that a policeman had lied, acted as a provocateur and that a magistrate had ignored a "patent piece of falsehood." In the Quarter Sessions Ap peals Court, the Judge upheld an appeal by Michael Clifford Cathels, 19, a trainee chef, of Croydon, against a finding by Mr. L. E. Stapleton, SM, that he had wilfully and obscenely exposed himself in a lavatory on October 29 last year. Judge Goran said the police man, Constable Brian Cedric Rowland, of Darlinghurst pol ice. had acted as a decoy and provocateur to trap the youth. He added that the magis trate had tended to reverse the onus of proof and place it on the accused person rather than on the prosecution. He added that Constable Rowland had lied before the magistrate and before him. His Honour said that Row land had given evidence that Cathels committed the alleged offence while standing, within a foot of. him in the lavatory. It was alleged that when Rowland indentified himself and told Cathels that he was under arrest he ran from the lavatory into the arms of a waiting policeman outside. The Judge commented: "The ordinary citizen who visits such places is in grave jeopardy." He ordered that the Police Commissioner be informed that it was a case in which the per son's fingerprint record be de stroyed.-,,. Judge Goran said the magis trate, in giving his decision, had said some things which he could not understand. This included that Cathels' explanation was "a lot of hoohey", and the magistrate had also said, "my experience is that persons like the defend ant are most likely to commit offences of this type." Judge Goran said that he did no know what the magistrate's experience was, but in his ex perience as counsel and in the in » short time he had been sitting on the Bench the true position was not like this. "One finds the learned mag istrate ignored what was a pat ent piece of falsehood from Constable Rowland," he said. "It is a shocking thing to find an officer of the police force, when a man's liberty is at stake, calling upon his Maker to witness that he is about to tell the truth and then lie," he added. "I have formed a most fav orable impression of the ap pellant and his evidence. He, it is true, may have acted unwisely, but he was only a boy of 18, obviously not versed in the ways of the world," Judge Goran said. 