 [?] With T ribune'6 Industrial Roundsman. H NIONISTS are watch ing with keen interest the outcome of the Vehicle Builders Union's ap- plication for a court order against the British Motor Corporation. The union is seeking the order through, the Arbitration Commission (under Section 109 of the Act) to force the company to pay men stood down during a strike at the plant. These men lost a day's pay for the day after the strike ended. The application for the order was made three weeks ago and now the judge has reserved his decision. It's a bit different when an employer seeks an anti-strike order against a union. This is carried out With great haste. If the judge rules in' favor of the union it will be a history making event! ? RECENTLY eight men work ing in the pit at GMH's line at Pagewood reckoned they couldn't keep up with the pace of the after-lunch speed-up. They let the vehicles go past unfinished. Following an investigation, three extra men were put on. ? A MEETING of unions will discuss protest action against the Askin Govern ment's removal of Labor Council organiser, John Duck- er, from the Maritime Ser vices Board. Labor Council had branded this as an affront to the trade union movement and sees it as a first move to replace work ers' representatives from State Government bodies. Sydney wharfies' president, Jim Young, recalls that prior to having a union rep on the MSB, there was not even wom en's toilets at passenger termin als in Sydney. "Labor Council is no longer represented on the board, but the British shipowners are!" ? A CABLEGRAM of condolences from the general secretary of the World Federation of Trade Unions (Louis Saillant) said Norman Jeffery's "devoted life as a militant trade unionist is an example to all." The NSW Labor Council last week also paid respects to his work,, sincerity and conviction of purpose. Tom Wright (Sheet Metal Workers Union secretary) told delegates that Norman once represented the Council at the 'Red International'. "The leadership of Council was much more militant in those days," he said with a grin. 