 Match of the Day By JIM SHARROCK. fHE "Match of the Day" between competition leaders, Balmain and New town. at the Svdnev Cricket Ground last Sat urday, resulted in a 9-6 win for Balmain; one try, three . goals for Balmain and three goals for New town. . The match, a long awaited game by League fans on ac count of the leading positions of both teams, was not a very thrilling game from a spectators point of view. This could have been due to the heavy nature! of the field after the rain, j Newtown won the j scrums and received the majority of penalties, thus ! having most of the ball. But they lost it too often! There was too much loose passing, and they allowed Balmain to "pinch" the ball on numerous occasions. This is a tactic at which Balmain is becoming very efficient. . The Newtown boys moved too slow, especially in clear ing the ball from the scrums. Thus, their centres didn't have the room in which to move. M If they had used their I forwards to move the ball s i up field, it would have then I given the backs a greater i chance of scoring. 1 Instead, they asked too | much of their backs. The best feature of their game was their defence. , In possession, Balmain, did look much better than Newtown. They moved the ball much more smartly and had it not been for Newtown's sound defence, would have scored more tries. Balmain's de fence was also sound.. On the day, I thought there was not much in it, but Balmain certainly had . the edge on Newtown. A boost fjj for South p Coast sport Bv W. McDOUGALL, 1 Publicity Officer, if South Coast May Day g Committee. || IN 1965. the N.S.W. South 1 Coast (Wollongorig and I district) May Day Com- | mittee approached the offi- 1 cials of the' South Coast | I United Soccer Club. 1 From this meeting the | May Day Shield for soccer f was instituted. 1 The Shield is played for annually in conjunction with | the First Division Competi- | tion. ' I In addition, the May Day | Committee will provide trojs- | hies each year for the best | and fairest players in each | team. | Last year the match be- i tween South Coast United j and Metropolitan Adriatic , resulted in a scoreless draw. This year, the Opposition was the St. George-Buda- pest team and the result was the same as the previous year — a scoreless draw. Thus, no team has yet won the Shield. The trophies were Pre; sented by Mr. M. Nixon and Mr. E. McAlear, members of the May Day Committee, to the best and fairest players. j The winners were South Coast goalkeeper, Ian Astil. and St. George centre for ward, George Yardley. This annual event will be held on the first home game of "South Coast United from May 1. The May Day Committee has also promoted a 40-m»® bicycle race, conducted under the control of the South Coast Bicycle Club. It is the intention of the May Day Committee to fos ter further sporting ahtletics activities in tne district. 