 I Holt's crude manoeuvre on I Calwdl incident C YDNEY : Prime Minister Holt's crude attempt to turn last week's attempted assassination of Opposition leader A. taiwell into a political attack on the - peace movement has j caused widespread con- j cern. j A shooting attack was made j on Mr. Calwell just after he ' had made a strong address to i 900 people at an anti-conscrip- j tion, anti- Vietnam war meet- j irur of Mnfimon T7a i ATVVAAAMA1I \ W J VIIAVJ / t «v was only slightly hurt. A young I. man, Leonard Kocan, has been j charged with" attempted mur- j der and remanded until Thurs- ' ! ' day of this week. 1 The attack shocked the Aus- j tralian public. Hundreds of messages of sympathy and ; support went to Mr. Calwell, ( among them telegrams from many trade unions and one ! from the Communist Party's ' central committee. "Demonstrations" Within two days Mr. Holt had made a considered state- , ment on the need to tighten : security and pinpointing as "reasons" for the increased pos- j sibility of such an attack: — j Growth of the migrant ; community. \ .Ideas for demonstrative political action among young i people, inspired by actions of ; youth in neighboring coun tries. Tendencies for public demonstrations to "pads be- :j yond the border of legitimate — protest into a process of har assment and intimidation." j In fact— as Mr. Holt's haste ! indicated — the Government and its supporters were afraid -j that their side in the Vietnam struggle might suffer bad ppli- tical repercussions from the ; attack. i Background External Affairs Minister Hasluck stated in 1964 that the i Government saw "no alternative to force" in dealing with Asians \ with whom it disagreed. j On March 28 this year De- I fence Minister Pairhall a.t- j tacked street demonstrations j which he said could turn into civil war. "We have got to put our foot on it," he said, with a further 1 reference to "the fifth column ; \ in our midst". Three days later the Minis ter for Labor and National Ser vice, Mr. Bury, talked about Australia's "enemies" conduct- I ing "political warfare in our midst". The NSW Labor Council last week said "violence of this kind is abhorrent to the Australian people who have strong demor cratic traditions, including free dom of expression and of poli tical activity". A call was made for a com plete investigation into all the : circumstances concerning the ' attack on Mr. Calwell and for ; the strongest possible measures to be taken to prevent further i such acts of violence and to ; defend full freedom of poll- I tical expression. WA protest PERTH: Telegrams from t Fremantle unions last week i condemned the attempt on the &lt; life of Opposition Leader Ar- thur Calwell as the fruit of j the unbridled and unscrupulous campaign against him by re action through their mass me dia.. They included Waterside Workers, Ship Painters and Dockers and Shipwrights, Mis cellaneous Workers and Sea men's Union, who also wished him a speedy recovery. AEU metropolitan shop stewards ex- pressed similar condemnation.. 