 Army shares in jolt to Lib. govt. A SENIOR army officer still in the army who is appalled by the destruction and loss of life under his direction in Vietnam is the main election fund-raising consultant for the newly-formed Lib eral Reform Group. The new group, while sup porting domestic policies of the: Liberal Party, are very strongly opposed to the government's policy on conscription for the undeclared war in Vietnam and the involvement of Australia in that war. They will contest 21 seats in the coming election, 19 being against sitting Government members, and will give their preferences to the candidates whose _ policy,,..., on- Vietnam .is nearest" to theirs. (This will in essence mean the ALP.) A key official of the group, Mr. K. Thomas, who announced the news of the officer's sup port to a press conference last Monday, said he would not reveal the officer's name as he was still in the Army. First time The leader of the group, Mr. Gordon Barton, said that the officer had told him that the longer he remained in Vietnam the more he had become con vinced that it was wrong to be there. He also considered that other Australian officers of compar able age and rank shared his views. This is the first evidence of serious differences between serving army officers and the Holt Government over involv ing Australia in the Vietnam war. It follows closely on public criticism expressed by the sec retary of the Army Department, Mr. B. White, on the bombing of North Vietnam. (See P. 9). These events, particularly, the split in the Liberal ranks, have shocked and rattled the Government already entering a key election campaign very much on the defensive. Leading Government ' mem bers, who owe their- past coali tion victory to the preferences of DLP members and now face this position in reverse, have not hesitated to call their past friends (now in the Liberal Reform group) a "jackal" party, or a "discredited Labor plot". Mr. Barton told the press conference that there had been a great deal, of pressure on some of their candidates not to stand. "They have been told they may lose customers- or the goodwill of boards of direc tors." On downgrade But- whatever happens in the election the die has been cast for serious disintegration with in the Liberal Party which has lost its momentum, and is now on the downgrade. x In addition, the attempt of the Country Party to give itself a new image as a centre party representing both manufactur ing and ' primary industries means that the political scene in our country can never be the same again. Earlier, the anti-Labor forces were busy attacking the ALP over the struggle for its, leader ship; now they are facing the fact that most cabinet ministers are extremely unhappy at hav ing Harold Holt as Prime Min ister. Among the rank and file, too, are views like that expressed by Mr. Neil .Wilkinson Jones, young Wagga Liberal, who last week said, "I have nothing against President Johnson's visit but it was sick to see our Prime Minister kowtowing to the American gentleman." A move within NSW Liberal Party circles to remove Holt as Prime Minister if the Gov ernment is returned is being supported by business circles who want to see him replaced by Defence Minister Fairhall. Most evidence points to con scription as being the question on which the election will be mainly fought. But even if the recent Gallup Poll's estimation that domestic issues such as hospital fees and medical services and education are bigger issues in the elec tors' eyes than conscription, Continued on Page 12 JOLT TO LIBS Continued from Page 1 then the tide, even on these questions, is against the Gov ernment. The Federal Government, through starving the states of finance is largely to blame for the enormous increase in hos pital fees and has come under a great deal of criticism for insufficient money for educa tion. We are entering a short but bitter election campaign with the Government parties split for the first time in post-war history, with a majority of elec tors opposed to conscription and states like Western Austra lia up in arms against the Gov ernment for lack of support for development schemes. — H. Stein, 168 Day St. Sydney. 