 ? 1 | Fares slag... i Makes mockery of I election promises j The Askim Government's specious use of decimal currency conversion to heavily in crease bus fares caused widespread anger when it was introduced in Sydney and New castle Bast Monday. THE fare slug makes a mock ery of the Askin Govern ment's election promise not to increase fares. All bus travellers whose fare before Monday ended in 9d or 3d will now pay an extra 3d. The Sydney Morning Herald, on a careful examination of Transport Department figures, estimated that the fare increases will mean an in crease in revenue of £1.6 million to the Government. The Government's move has dis mayed the Decimal Currency Board, which believes that it will encourage business interests to follow suit. Months ago the Board urged business interests to adjust their prices, including anticipated price increases, so that the changeover to decimal currency on February 14 would not be blamed for price increases. The NSW Minister for Transport, Mr. Morris, last week told a press conference that the new concessions to pensioners and others, claimed to balance out the increases, would have been introduced even if bus fares had not increased. He said he had no answer to a question on why the 2/6 special bus fares directly convertible to decimal currency had been increased to 3/-. In fact he said that it was a weak ness in the argument for the reason for fare increases. When it was pointed out to Mr. Morris that bus fares would now increase workers' living costs, he was I asked if unions would be justified in applying for a wage increase. He answered:. "If I were a union leader I'd always be on the lookout for a wage increase." The bus fare grab by the Askin Government is > only one new.- move of the many they have taken to attack the people's living standards. Their Christmas present was to announce a penny increase in a 2-lb. loaf of bread right, on Christmas Eve in the anticipation that it would be forgotten during the holidays. Straight after the holidays Mr. Maddison, Minister of Justice, an nounced new inroads into tenants' rights. The next increase will be a penny a pint in the price of milk. The current enquiry into the price of milk, after one more hearing, is expected to recommend to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Chaf- fey, this increase'. The "hit the people's pockets" policies of the Askin Government will surely lead to trade unionists asking their unions to take action to gain increased wages. 