 Students support education campaign with "work-outs" JTUDENTS in most States, last week, threw their weight behind the struggle for the needs of public education and to expose the critical inadequacies of Australia's education system. About 2.000 students crammed the Melbourne University Library on Tues- day night a? part of a national "workout" project launched by the National Union of Australian University Students. A simultaneous sit-in was held by Melbourne students at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology Library, as a protest against the Melbourne C',ty Council's rejection of building plans on the basis of inadequate parking space. Nine universities, four un iversity colleges and eight tech nical colleges were involved. Sydney University students held a teach-in on the public education crisis. In Brisbane mass blood donations were planned and teach-ins were arranged in Canberra, Perth, and Armi- dale in N.S.W. Adelaide action In Adelaide, the main activi ties were: A teach-in organised by university students attended by some 2,000 people between 4 p.m. and midnight last Friday night in the Bonython Hall. A work-out by some 2,000 university students and teacher trainees who distributed leaf lets, held deputations to State and Federal members of Par liament and carried out prac tical tasks in the schools to emphasise inadequacies. At the teach-in, the Holt Gov ernment's Minister in charge of educational activities Sena tor Gorton, refused to admit there was a crisis in educa-. tion. The only thing wrong, he said, was the lack of uniformity in education from State to State, and, as this was outside his jurisdiction, he could do nothing about it. Other speakers, among whom were eminent educationists, members of State and Federal Parliament, teachers, students, and members of school parent organisations, though differently. It was felt that the present position had been largely brought about by inadequate ex penditure by the Commonwealth, its refusal to set up a national committee of enquiry on the needs of primary, secondary and technical education and its refusal to . make substantial Federal emergency grants to all States for education purposes exclusively. A publication by the Adelaide Teachers' College Students' Rep resentative Council and the Trainee Teachers' Association of the S.A. Institute of Teach ers shows that S.A. school population has increased almost three times since 1945. The output of teachers has not kept up. It was pointed out at the teach-in that only 3 per cent of Commonwealth expenditure was for education. Mr. G. Bryant, Labor MHR, called attention to the large sums spent on the security ser vice and that the Federal Gov- ! ernment seemed more interest- ed in thought control than in ! thought advancement. 