 6 Streamlining' not new it's jnst slow By a Correspondent "STREAMLINED" inspection of work perform ed in the metal industry is planned by Com missioner Winter as part of his investigation into a report on margins in the Federal Metal Trades Award. Mr. Winter's powers are to report on: Any re-arrangement of ex isting classifications in the Award, the deletion or re-nam ing of any such classifications and the addition of any classi fications he considers neces sary. The marginal rates he con siders should be paid under this award. His report is to be made to the Full Bench which dealt with this year's national wage case —Judges Wright, Moore, Gal lagher and Mr. Winter him self. Full Bench nnai decisions on ciassmca- tions and margins in this award will be made by this Full Bench. These decisions will affect only the Metal Trades award. In considering margins to be paid in this award Mr. Winter is not confined to assessing "work values". But work values will loom large in his considerations. There is nothing new about a wage case based on "work value" or a "streamlined" in- spection of work as part of such a case. Furthermore neither "work values" or "streamlined" pro cedures guarantee results fav oring workers. A "streamlined" inspection of the work performed in a limited number of representa tive classifications for purposes of "work value" assessment has been a feature of arbitra tion proceedings for NSW steel- workers at BHP (Newcastle) and (Port Kembla) for the past 18 years. The current margins for these workers are the result of just such procedures in 1963-64 and it took Judge Kelleher of the NSW Industrial Commission 10 months to award increases of less than $1 a week to 90 per cent of the classifications in the two NSW steel awards. "Work value" is nothing more than one of several , formulae used by arbitration tribunals to determine margins. Another formula is "comparative wage justice". The "work, value" formula has been in use for the past 60 years and is in use today. Determined by skill Unions concerned with the Federal Metal Trades Award which Mr. Winter is to investi gate for "work value" purposes are currently seeking increased margins in the Federal Award covering the aircraft industry. This case is being dealt with by Conciliation Commissioner McCreadie and is a "work value" investigation. The "work value" of any classification or group of classi fications is determined by the skill required to perform any classified job, the responsibil ity borne by the persons per forming that job and the cir cumstances under which that job is performed. In "work value" cases the unions seek to show the pre sence of each and all of these factors associated with every classification and the employ ers seek to show the opposite. In support of their conten tions the employers make use of every technological develop ment to show that the degree of skill and responsibility has been reduced and that conse quently the "work value" of the job has declined. This, they say, arises from increased mechanisation of processes, the use of new mat erials and extensive planning, supervision and research in which workers play little if any part. Their position in the contest over "work values" before arbi tration tribunals is strengthen ed by the practice of those trib- unals of "assessing that the current margins are a just as sessment of work value when the award was last investigat ed" placing on unions the onus of showing that skill, responsi bility, etc. has increased since the last "work value" assess ment was made. If the unions can show this they are entitled to an increase, if they cannot, no increase is due on the "work value" basis. In the case just concluded for an industry allowance for GMH workers Mr. J. Robinson, coun sel of the metal employers made clear that they will pro ceed from this basis in the case now before Mr. Winter. 