 i.-nn— , — u ||mm|| r - 1 They wifl run a | | "Hungry Mile' | I And when the world grows wiser and all men at last are ! I free, I | When none shall feel the hunger, nor tramp in misery j I To beg the right to slave for bread, the children then mav I smile, j At those strange tales they tell of what was once the hungry ( j mile. | I JHESE lines are taken from the poem "The Hungry Mile", by wharfie poet Ernest Antony, who wrote under the pen-name of "Yard-Arm". The poem describes the exploi tation and brutality of the vicious "Bull System" that operated on the waterfront in Sydney before it was replaced with the rotary or gang system.' The "Bull System" was a hang over from the auction block of the slave mart. The boss sleected labor from hundreds of hungry workers who vied outside the wharf gates for a job. There was no such thing as equalisation of work. Regardless of changing condi tions and times the strip of road, part of Sussex Street in Sydney, from the wharfies' union rooms down along Darling Harbour, will forever retain the name of I bitter memories, "The Hungry 1 Mile." | For a place that has known | such hardship it is indeed sur- S prising and pleasant news that I the Sydney Branch Youth Com- | mittee of the Waterside Work- = ers' Federation are organising a I fj footrace along "The Hungry | | Mile" to be called "The Hungry f ?! Mile Gift". ! I The Australian National Line I has donated a return ticket for ! two from Sydney to Hobart in j the "Empress of Australia" as a j prize in the proposed race. j The Committee is reported to I t be considering inviting members j I from other ports and other wat- j erfront unions to compete. The j I date of the race has not yet been j fixed. i \ ? j ' 'pHE Federated Engine Drivers j and Firemen's Association | cf Australia (NSW) has protested I to the Minister for Immigration, I Mr. H. F. Opperman, against the j unnecessary and distasteful re- j strictions imposed by the Austra- ! lian Government on the table j tennis players from the German = Democratic Republic (East Ger- I many). j The GDR players will be par- j ticipating in the Table Tennis I Pentathlon to be held in Mel- j bourne next October. f Reports are that the entry cf j the GDR sportsmen to Australia ! | was permitted only after pro- | j tests from sporting bodies and j a condition of their entry is | I that they will not be allowed to g exhibit their flag and play Their | national anthem, etc. | The FEDFA (NSW) in its letter \ I of protest to the Minister for I j Immigration pointed out that I j German Democratic j Republic is a reality and sane- | j tions against this sovereign | j State, especially in sport, only g prolong the cold war and create S j unnecessary unfriendly relations I j with a country desiring trade, | peace and friendship." ! The FEDFA further called on j j the Government to ". . . grant I . full and normal facilities to the j table tennis players from East I I Germany and any others who 1 may wish to visit Australia either j for sporting purposes, trade or g ! friendly contact." I | This protest by the FEDFA is j | one that indeed all other demo- | j cratically - minded organisations g and people could follow. S Looking down the "Hungry Mile." J ' 