 SOME FACTS ON RHODESIA Background information compiled by ARTHUR JAMES from the English magazine "Comment." JHE denial of the vote to about one million potential voters in the African population in a mirror of the whole situa tion in Rhodesia. An examination of what is required to get on the the register to vote shown up the fallacy of the claim that the 1961 Constitution could lead in a few years to African self-government. The Salisbury Parliament has 65 seats, 50 of which are elected by the "A" electoral roll, and 1 5 by the "B' roll. The "A" roll is overwhelmingly for whites. Nothing like the entire electorate voted last time, so Ian Smith's Gov ernment represents only a minority of the European adult population. Yet this Government, with Britain's consent, administers a country three times the size of England with 4,210,000 people, comprising 3,970,000 Africans, 217,000 Europeans, 12,400 Coloured.?, and 7,900 Asians. Africans outnumber Europeans by 19 to one. "A" ROLL At the last election on May 7th all the 50 "A" roll seats, were won by candidates (22 unopposed) of the ruling Rhodesian Front party which did not bother to contest any on the "B" roll. The 25 "A" roll candidates of the European-led opposition Rhodesia Party were defeated. "B" ROLL Of the "B" roll seats, 10 were won by the Rhodesia Party (all Africans, 2 unopposed), and five by independents — one a European, Dr. Arhn Falley. Dr. Palley got 195 votes in the Highfield District, the big African township seven miles from Salisbury. This was the high est vote by any "B" roll candidate. After the election, the Rhodesia Party folded up and its "B" roll M.P.'s formed the United People's Party led by J. M. Gondo, the first African to lead the Opposition in Parliament. ZAPU AND ZANU Only 1,782 votes were east for the 34 competing "B" roll candidates. The banned nationalist parties, Zim babwe Africnn People's Party (ZAPU, leader Joshua Nkonio) and Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU, leader Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole), had called for a boycott of the election. On the "A" roll, 36,505 votes were cast for 56 competing candidates. According to an official statement in August 1964 there were 94,080 "A" roll votters (89,278 Europeans, 2,263 Africans, 1,308 Coloureds, and 1,231 Asians); and 11,364 "B" roll voters (10,466 Africans, 608 Euro peans, 176 Coloureds, and 114 Asians). "Rhodesia in Brief 1965" pub lished by the Government printer in Salisbury says: "The franchise in Rhodesia is based solely on merit, Every individual, regardless of race, has equal rights to the vote, pro vided he or she has the requisite qualifications. All Seats ),n Parlia ment are likewise open to anyone of any race." VOTING QUALIFICATIONS The "requisite qualifications" for getting on the "A" roll are (a) income of a certain amount, or (b) owner- -nlp of property of a certain value, or (c) lower income or property values plus education (note the "plus"), or (d) holder of the office oi Chief or Headman. The lowest annual income figure is 11330; the lowest property value is 31550; education requirements are completion of primary school, or four years' secondary school. While "A" roll voters elect 50 M.i-.'s "B" roll voters elect only 15. And to get on the "B" roll the qualifications are similar — income, property and/or education. The lowest income allowed is 11132, or property valued at £275, plus two years secondary or completed primary schooling. INCOMES What chances have Africans of fulfilling these conditions? Average European earnings are £1,250 a year — the average African income is £120 a year including "payments i,n kind." A fair wage for an African worker is £12 a month, and an urban worker is usually twice as well off as a rural one. Only one African in ten is employed in the cash economy. The vast majority keep alive by the food they grow; they are subsistence farmers. LIVING CONDITIONS The Sunday Times printed a picture of African post office sorter Cornelius Maruta, aged 30, "out side his one-roomed house in the newly-built African township of Kambusma. He shares the accom modation with his mother, brother, wife and two children. There is a kitchen and hole-in-the-ground lav atory: Rent: £3.10.0 a month In the rainy season, October to March, his wife and children go back to the reserve to work on the land". In proportion to numbers Euro peans have four times more hos pital beds than Africans; Europeans get a small retirement pension; Africans do not. The Rhodesian Government spends £6m. on European educa tion, and £6,500,000 on African education. Primary schools have 600,000 African pupils, secondary schools have 11,500, and secondary sixth forms have 156 pupils. And parents have to pay towards the cost. Ninety per cent of the African education budget goes to subsidising African primary schools in the 7- 12 years age range. Africans are educated just enough to read, write and shop, so that they can be ser vants. Of two million Africans aged 17 or under, fewer than 100 get as far as the secondary sixth form. There are only 84 grant-aided African university students. OPPORTUNITIES There are only three African lawyers practising in Rhodesia, about 12 African doctors, and not one African civil servant in a key position. An advertisement in the Daily Ex press last April urged Britons to "come out and settle in thriving Rhodesia and forget about income tax worries". It said that a married man with two children and an in come of £1,400 pays only a £16 a year income tax (compared with nearly £200 in Britain). LAND SCANDAL Perhaps the greatest scandal is land. The Land Appointment Act 1830 divided up Rhodesia, ensuring that the best land was for European use. By 1964, the European Area, National and Tribal Trust lands, in which no African is allowed to own land, amounted to 86 million acres, while the Unreserved and Native Purchase Area lands amounted to 10 million acres. The European Area land has the best soil, highest rainfall, and best communications. The Act prevents Africans from buying, leasing, occupying or using land in the European urban sections. So no African business man can operate from the centres of towns where trading is best. SEGREGATION Segregation is official policy. There is strict supervision of Africans living as servants in European sections and, as has happened in South Africa, the Gov ernment is continually shifting Africans to separate communities. Any European immigrant is en titled to a grant of 750 acres on arrival, while six acres of arable land is the standard for African farmers. African farming, upon which one half of the total African population depends, provides an income of about £20 a year of which £2 is in cash. Land hunger drives thousands to work on European farms in Rhodesia and South Africa. The average wage of 227,000 Africans employed in agriculture in 1963 was £67 a year. In industry it was £114. In unreserved land open to African purchase, an applicant would need about £6,000 to buy a worth-while plot. There are 6,200 European farms in Rhodesia, some of which cover tens of thousands of acres. During the period of the Central African Federation of the Rhodesias and Nyassaland it was stated that only 39 per cent of the European population were born in the Federation; 25 per cent were born in South Africa, 24 per cent in U.K., and 12 per cent elsewhere. BRITISH INVESTMENT British capital invested in Rhodesia, either directly or in shareholdings, "may be put at nearly £200 million". (Statist.) U.S. investment, in industry, mining and agriculture, amounts to 56 milion dollars. The main British firms are Charter Consolidated (of which British South Africa Company is now a part), Anglo American ||| Corporation (Oppenheimer's mining ||| empire), Roan Selection Trust, Rio Mj Tinto-Zinc, Lancashire Steel Metal gra Box, Ford, Shell, Dunlop, Kodak, H and three banks: Barclays D.C.O., H Standard and National, and Grind- Hi Miners in Southern Rhodesia at the end ot a shift if watched by a policeman on the platform. if 