 THOSE "ACCIDENTAL" BOMBINGS: PART OF TERROR CAMPAIGN fHE murderous bombing of civilians in four Vietnamese villages recently were not accidents as Washington claims, but conscious manifestations of a deliberate terror campaign by the US to force defiant people in US-occupied areas to submit. This is stated by the New York Worker in com menting on Johnson's response to the bombings. When the President "heard" about the bombings he is reported to have asked the \Var Department whether there were Vietcong in. the village, whether, they fired on a US plane and whether they 'forced the villagers to remain in the village . It is obvious, says the New York Worker, from these questions that Johnson was not concerned about the victims of the attacks hut aimed to get answers which would 'justify the bombings. . „ His reaction was therefore an admission that the incidents are part of a full scale strategy for winning the war. That the bombing of civilians in villages in US occupied territory is a conscious policy is indicated in a report by Charles Mohr, New York Times correspondent, in Saigon. Mohr wrote: "Critics insist that the main problem is that 'pre-planned air strikes' are being carried out on inhabitated areas by the US'. Referring to one of these bombings, a critic is quoted by Mohr as having said: "The air strike was already approved and scheduled and that hamlet was going to be bombed whether there was any ground fi,re or not; Real explanation of the new policy is given by US News and World Report which says: "The war itself, as of now, is going badly. Limited bombing has not checked the Communist build-up. Limited ground actions are not wearing down the enemy forces, which seem stronger, not weaker., . "Goais set months ago for ground strategy are further from, realisation. And it, is becoming more .and more, an American' war". . , . . This latter phrase means a great deal. Fighting "an American war" the US forces don't care what happens to the Vietnamese, friendly or otherwise. The London Times correspondent says that was like a war at sea where opposing ships may be sunk but the sea remains unsafe. Support In an article in the US Catholic Ramparts magazine, former Master sergeant Donald. Duncan, who served 18 months in Vietnam, says that the Vietcong could not succeed as they do without the support of the people. "One of the first maxims of unconventional warfare is that no insurgent or guerilla movement can endure without the support of the people" he says. "I was always told that the people helped the Vietcong through fear. This argument is denied by history. "The people don't betray the Vietcong movements even, though it is a relatively simple thing to pass the word. "It's not democracy we are bringing to Vietnam. It's anti- communism. "It's the American anti-CommUnist bombs' that kill their children. "And when anti-Communist napalm burns their children, it matters little that an anti-Communist Social forces medic comes later to apply the bandages." 