 Jim Stevens looks at our tanker trade Another tale of sell-out to abroad JHIRTY-SIX tugmen had assembled on the harf at No. 1 1 Walsh Bay in Sydney last Wed- nesday morning. SThey had arrived in six tugs, which lay tied up along side while the men held their meeting. These men, members of the Firemen's and Deckhands' union, together with tugmen in other States — Seamen's Union members — had black- banned tankers, immobilising eight in a matter of days. Their action resulted from their anger at the Federal Government's and ail monop oly's attempts to drive R.W. Miller's Australian owned tankers out of the trade. ' 1 Already the "Miller's Can-. 1 opus" has been sold to a | Philippines company and I now the "R.W. Miller" is up | for sale leaving only one, the I "Miller's Macarthur." 1 The foreign oil monopolies can and do dictate to the . I Australian Government. Fines | The tanker ban by tugmen I also shows how much a I I large tanker depends on a I 1 small 200 ton tug and its five | crew members. I I But the ban only lasted I 1 about three days. It was I i "withdrawn under protest by the men under the threat of fines against the two unions. The order from the NSW Industrial Commission was read to the Sydney men. . Failure to carry out this order could have meant fines and/or deregistration of the union. . As Jim Dummett, 21 years at sea before his 5i years on the tugs, put it: "The whole business stinks." Action "The Arbitration court ordered Us back almost im mediately we banned the tankers, but it takes the same court about six months to hear our new award," he said. Charlie Newman, a fourth generation Aussie, 30 years at sea and 11 years on the tugs said: "We took this action to try and force the Government to do something. "I hate to see an Australian company being forced off our coast by the foreign oil combines", he said. Tfte tugmen also realise that R. W. Miller and Co. entered the coastal oil trade under the backing of the Seamen's Union's campaign to have tankers manned by Australian crews. Until Miller broke into this trade, all oil carrying on the Australian Coast was handled in foreign ships with low paid crews. The men also know that if Miller is forced out and the oil monopolies are allowed to revert to their old methods 700 Australian seamen will lose their jobs. And.., it doesn't only effect seamen, stewards and cooks. Following the sale of the Canopus, The Merchant Ser vice Guild, covering masters and navigation officers, are now conducting a ballot for a strike. Last Thursday a . conference between the maritime unions and the Department of Shipp ing was called by Justice Gallagher in an effort to re solve the tanker dispute. A five page document by the Minister for Shipping was submitted by the Depart ment. Document Seamen's Union federal secretary, Mr. E. V. Elliott, said the document "is not worth the paper it was written on." "The Minister tells the unions to have no fears. "The Canopus has already been sold and the R.W. Miller has been without an oil cargo for 12 months." Mr. Elliott said the Gov ernment seeks to boast about the tanker trade now being conducted in Australian man ned ships. "This situation was forced on, the Government and ojl monopolies by the Seamen's Union and R.W. Miller acting together. "The Miller's Canopus was in fact 'illegally' imported onto the coast in 1963," he said. "In 1964 the Government said the trade needed 12 tankers but now in 1966 we are told 10 are sufficient. "It could be that in two years time they' will tell us that only six are needed." Mr. Elliott explained that Miller's had three tankers on the coast before the inter national combine had one. "The principle appears to be first to come, first to go. "The main issue is that an Australian industry is being sabotaged by an Australian Government," Mr. Elliott said. 4TH-GENERATION AUSSIE NEWMAN Forcing the Government's hand 