 Into the 50th year Alec Robertson , who recently visited the USSR , discusses the new stage reached by the Soviet economy 4#QUR wages are up, we're making better under wear, our pride in our work has grown.' She was a comely young woman, leading hand of a group of mach inists, some of the female 75% of the 1660 workers in a women's underwear factory. The place — Kaunas, 950-year-old city in Soviet Lithuania. The time —August, this year. Her simple words perhaps best sum up the turning point that has been reached as the Soviet Union this month entered its 50th year of building the first socialist society. The turning point is in the new methods of management of this economy. Of course, it is not so simple. In Moscow, Alex Bachurin, prem aturely greying deputy chairman of the State Planning Committee (GOSPLAN) had talked of more scientific and flexible planning, more independence of each enter prise, of incentives to factories and to each worker, of closer relation between enterprise and market, and of sales and profit ability (net income) as main measures of the health of an enterprise. Still, down in the Siauciuneite factory at Kaunas, pouring out its 9& million brassieres, slips, pants and whatnots per year — 35 underwear products using 15 different weaves of synthetics in many colours— it all came to life. Reforms This was one of 650 industrial enterprises which had been sel ected to begin implementing, be tween January and August, the economic reforms adopted in prin ciple by the Soviet Government last year. They have been the subject of a lot of ill-informed —and ill-intentioned— comment. A key point in these reforms is that the management of each en terprise (factory, mine, shop etc) is given a pretty free hand, with in the general limits of avail ability of materials, machines and workers as governed by overall national planning. The job is not only to make, but also to sell, the products to an increasingly discriminating population, and to do all this more efficiently so as to create more value. What happened in this factory in Kaunas? Prom January through July, the management, assisted by the Com munist Party and youth organis ations and the trade union branch, had:— Convinced all the workers that only they collectively could make a success of the change and that it was their direct interest and the national interest to do so. Improved quality and almost eliminated "spoils". As one girl said: "We're all inspectors now as well as workers." Emptied the storerooms formerly cluttered with unsold products. Increased productivity by 95 per cent, mainly through mechan isation. Cut the working week from 55 to 5 days, increased the work force and gone from one to two- shift operation. Lifted wages by an average of 20 ' per cent. Spent 40,000 rubles on hous ing and kindergarten construct ion, compared with '10,000 in the same period of 1965. The key points were: they sold everything they produced because women wanted their improved products; and the income rose because wastage and production cost-per-item were cut. Distribution of the income was subject to discussion and endorse ment of the workers themselves. Sales and new designs are pro- . moted by close liaison between factory and the state and cooper ative trading enterprises, and by regular trade fairs and meetings, it is now commonplace for the factory quickly to make switches in production which formerly re quired long delays while papers were passed up and down the chain of centralised authority. Further north along the Baltic, in Estonia — Qne of the smallest Soviet republics— it was a similar story. Specialised My visit was to the specialised Tallinn electro-technical works which had only PARTLY made the changes. For example, five out of the 50 workshops were operat ing their own accounts. This was possible because various special ised items were produced — from electric loco rectifiers to tiny semi conductors. In this plant many thousands of rubles have already been saved this year, principally because:— They perfected the method introduced experimentally earlier of the workers themselves check ing for defects right from the first stage of the production line — not just at the end as before. There are bonuses for discovery of defects. : Each "new method" shop has its own target for lowered cost of production. A collective bonus of up to 40% of wages is awarded if the target is fulfilled. In one of the smallest workshops, where 20 proud women were en gaged in baking procelain into a precision component, they had saved 1200 rubles- in the first quarter, 1600 rubles in the second. This had netted each of them 40 rubles bonus at mid-year. Typical These are, of course, fragmen- ary glimpses of the workers efforts in particular plants. They seem rosy. They ARE promising. But are they typical? Questioning planning expert Bachurin revealed cautious optim ism—based on the "important successes" but also on the need to proceed stage by stage. "It's very complex," he said. "It's only the beginning." But quite a beginning. In Jan uary of 1966, the first 43 enter prises went over to the new methods. In the first quarter, these plants sold 25 million rubles worth of goods above the antic ipated figures, or 8.5 per cent above the 1965 quarter. Targets for the 43 were upgraded for the next quarter by 2.4 per cent, but still by June 30 they beat the planners, exceeding the first-quarter results by 8 per cent. All this meant increased output of capital and consumer goods, more income for the State and more net income (profit) for dis tribution within each enterprise. No special extra resources in higher grade materials, plant or skilled workers were given to any of those 43 trail-blazing plants. Some of the "complex aspects include:— PLANNING— "Central plann ing has to be more far-sighted and scientific, and coordinated with enterprise planning. Central 'patronage' of 'the enterprises must end", Bachurin said. Gaps, such as that between in dustry and agriculture, are to be eliminated. An initial result was in; this year's record grain harvest, due not to perfect weather, but to better investment of capital and increased incentives to state and collective farmers — especially higher wholesale prices and a guaranteed monthly base pay to every collective farmer. Attitude MEASUREMENT — Until re cently, the main thing was devel opment of quantity production, by which an enterprise was judged. Now it is quantity SOLD by a fac tory .... gross revenue of a trans port enterprise ... or buildings satisfactorily completed by a con struction enterprise. ENTERPRISE— "The crucial question is, as Bachurin said, "a change in the work habits and attitude of the workers, managers and staffs." This means a vast program of study of economic questions as well as technique, and incentives. PRICES: A full review of wholesale prices next year will mean that all enterprises will have the possibility of making and im proving profit. But most retail prices, certainly on basic consum er items, will not rise. The 64-ruble question has been raised— is it socialism or capital ist profit-sharing? Such a question ignores the basic fact that not only are there no capitalist employers in Soviet enterprises, but also that the authority of the workers over planning and production is growing. What were the Soviet people celebrating this November 7 if not 49 years of socialism? In 1917 they overthrew the power of the class of private owners of factories, mines and land, where the labor of the working people of old Russia had been exploited for private profit. Despite many differences in conditions, the essence of that exploitation was as it is in Australia today. The Russian workers and pea sants guided by the Communist Party set about proving— for the first time in history— that a gov ernment, a national economy, an entire society, could be built and managed by working people, with out any capitalist owners at all. They began constructing Social ism, in which the sole aim is the 