 Sydney Dailies nailed I Phoney tale of phoney Russian I JYDNEY : A Sydney daily press story last week | ' about an alleged Soviet acrobat who had 1 | "defected from the Moscow Circus" in Brisbane 1 last year, has been exposed as a complete fake. 6 The story as published in the Sydney "Sun" and "Mir ror" claimed: 9 Vladimir Zamotsky, 23, left the Moscow Circus in Brisbane the night after its final performance in May, 1965. A girl hid him for three months in her flat. In Sep tember he was granted poli tical asylum by the Immig ration Department. © He has since worked his act in cabarets, hotels and clubs at Surfer's Para dise, and Sydney, first under the name Jacobs, then as Zamotsky. He des cribed his "lack of free dom" in the Soviet Union, friendship with ballet dan cer Nureyev and his "fear of secret agents". The facts An immediate investiga tion undertaken by Soviet TASS correspondent in Aus tralia, Victor Khmara, re vealed the following facts which he has sent to the Sun and Mirror for publica tion: — "There has never been a Zamotsky in the Moscow Circus company. There is Mr. Vladimir Zamotkin, who is 32 years old and not 23 as reported ip your paper. I know him personal ly and also his wife Elvira who took part in the per formances of the Circus in Australia with her hus- | band. I "You report that Vladfmir 1 Zamotkin stayed in Austra- I lia and later asked for poli- 1 tical asylum. I phoned the I Immigration Department and the Publicity Branch Director Mr. H. Boardman said: "Of course it is quite fplse. Not one Soviet citi zen this or last year ap proached us with such a request." Horse's fait Mr. Khmara also cabled Moscow and was told that Zamotkin now lives and performs in the city of Sar atov on the Volga where his wife is expecting a baby. Tribune correspondent Rupert Lockwood cabled this tailpiece from Moscow: "Vladimir Zamotkin was wondering, as he sat in his suite at Saratov this week, whether there weren't bet ter circus acrobats than he in the editorial offices of the "Sun" and "Mirror" newspapers. "Zamotkin said: 'Once a I Russian magician called Caliostro showed at fairs a horse that had its tail where other horses had their heads. The fabricators . of this story make him look an amateur. This rubbish mars our good impressions of our Australian tour.' " 