 Nolan's war By. SL MOOIbolock SYDNEY NOLAN'S series of Gallipoli paintings is shown at the Qantas Galleries in association with a film called "Toehold in History This title is a variation on the theme familiar in speeches by politicians and brass hats that Australia came of age as a nat ion on the beaches of Gallipoli. As such it is also In the spirit of a treatment of history that vaunts as the epitome of human endeavour, involvement in des tructive and mostly unnecessary military campaigns. Nolan's pictures, however, though dccotmpanled with a printed commentary that follows tenuously the familiar line, in their own way do much to strip the veil of glamour from the events of Gallipoli. Nolan's realism is not the real ism of the naturalist; he relies on impression and expression, and achieves his effect by a strong and immediate grasp of charac ter or, more precisely, type. The technique employed here is a loosely handled brush work that resembles at times the practice of old time interior dec orators .known as graining. Overall, Nolan presents a . cheerless scene, beginning with mannered allusions to soldiers parting with their wives, then, after terrible days of the land ings, men grimly playing leap frog or saddle-me-nag to relieve the tension of ominous inactivity, and the forbidding cliffs and doleful strips of sand for which they fought so desperately and for which so many of their mates gave their lives. The series of head studies do not show us the typical digger with the cocked hat and jaunty . air of defiance, but instead a parade of faces at times blapk, _ at others expressing a vague an xiety, uneasiness and bewilder ment and finally scarred' and almost hammered out of shape. They afe terrifyingly impersonal these faces and carry the mes sage of "ours not to reason why" in a most expressive way. The artist may not have set out to create such impressions, but his paintings, though in no sense horror pictures, do not glamorise war but show young humanity dragged into a catas trophe of which they understood too little, and must draw the thoughtful beholder to the real isation of a stronger need for peace and the active denunciat ion of war. 