 Hawke hits hard for higher wages MELBOURNE: If the Arbitration Com mission failed to grant trade union claims for basic wage and margins in creases in full, it will have failed to mete out wage justice. Mr. R. J. Hawke, advocate of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, said this before the Arbitra tion Commission hearing in Melbourne of ACTU claims for a basic wage rise of $4.30 and. an increase in margins of $5.90. Proceedings before the Com mission have been enlivened by several sharp clashes be tween Mr. Hawke and Judge Gallagher, the sole representa tive sitting on this case of the majority on the 1965 Bench, whose basic wage- margins decision was des cribed by Mr. Hawke in the current hearing as "ana thema" to the trade union movement. Never in its history had more important issues come before the Commission than in this case, Mr. Hawke told the Com mission. Sharply attacking the employ ers' "capacity to pay" theory of wage fixation, which was em braced in its essentials by the 1965 judgment, Mr. Hawke said there was no evidence any where in the world that this theory was working out. He went on: "The theory falls down because since 1965, after a 60c increase, price rises were greater than after a $2 in crease in 1964." An increase of $2.30 was now ; needed to allow the wage earn er to buy the same amount of goods and services he bought in 1964. Last year's , majority judg ment had "deliberately reduced the real value of the basic wage". The general result was the unions were "hit twice with the same stick". They were hit when the Com mission did not adjust wages according to movements in prices and increased output. Then they were hit again when the Commission decided that if these principles were not adopted in the national cases, they could not then be applied in particular industries. The Commission must adopt the prices plus productivity principle if award wages were to be just and equitable, he said. "This is the only way in which the real value of wages can be maintained and in creased output." Anticipating employer argu ments, Mr. Hawke urged the Commission to ignore the ad verse economic consequences of the drought in reaching its deci sion. j "There is nothing the Com mission can do about the drought. "The Government cannot make it rain, but it can showei blessings of another kind in the form of assistance to those afflicted." The Commission should not, because of the drought, prevent award wages from rising in line with increased output. Mr. Hawke said that if the Commission adopted automatic adjustments to cost, of living, it would allow the "impartial, official consumer price index to do part of its job". Application of the adjust ments would do no more than ensure that the real value of the wage was maintained be tween wage fixations. Mr. Hawke told the Commis sion that costs did not rise automatically with wage in creases. Costs only rose if another set pf decisions was taken by the "price fixers" — either priv ate or governmental — after the Commission had met. Wage earners, he said, had to justify their claims in pub lic tribunals, but the price fixers did not have to come before any tribunal. Their decisions were made in the boardroom. Prices were put up by the price fixers in accordance with their estimate of their ability to make prices stick. BHP fixed its steel prices in an attempt to make the con sumer subsidise the company's future capital expenditure. Employers were quick to use a prices-plus-productivity form ula to protect themselves, but denied the same right to wage earners. Bread manufacturers had said that an increase in bread prices usually followed 15 days after an increase in the price of flour. "No annual or even quarterly waiting for them to adjust to increased costs, only a matter of 15 days," Mr. Hawke said. Decimal currency change-over price rises were another ex ample of how the price fixers looked after themselves. "The price fixers were free to do what they liked at the time of the change-over," Mr. Hawke said. Respect is 2 -way Of the 1965 judgment. Mr. Hawke said it was bad in prin ciple, ignored economic real ities, was in conflict with the law which created thp Cnmmis. sion, was self-contradictory and biased against the unions. Mr. Hawke described as "a cheap and unnecessary gibe" a statement of the 1965 majority that real value of wages should depend on future economic developments "and not on senti ment". Mr. Justice Gallagher asked Mr. Hawke did he adhere to that statement. Mr. Hawke said he did. Judge Gallagher then said Mr. Hawke had made "a wan ton, reckless statement", which should never have been put by senior counsel, and which "could have been expected to fall from the lips of a Domain Demosthenes or a Hyde Park Cicero". Replying, Mr. Hawke said "Respect is not a one-way traf fic. Those appearing before the Commission are equally entitled to respect and the observations of Mr. Justice Gallagher are in themselves inaccurate and un fair and do not give to me the respect to which I am entitled." Mr. Hawke also said that the majority on the 1965 Bench had said that the basis for increas ing wages was the increased output of goods and services. This statement could not be reconciled with the fact that the majority had deliberately reduced the value of the wage —by not adjusting to prices in 1965 — despite the fact that they acknowledged that there had been an increase in the output of goods and services. The Commission has adjourn ed until April 19. 