 US desperate, more violent, says Pravda The American aggression in Vietnam is assuming increasingly dangerous proportions, leaving its im print on all world developments as well as on political life in America, the Soviet paper Pravda said last week. An article signed by three correspondents, B. A. Alex- androvsky, N. Bragin and Y. Kharlanov says: "There is hard evidence to show that the aggressors have learned nothing from their experience. "They are looking for a way out of the deadlock by further aggravating the conflict in Vietnam. "American bombings of cities and villages of the north have grown especially ruth less and savage over the last few days. "There are more and more voices in the US demanding a sea blockade in the Gulf of Tonking and the extension of military operations to Laos and Cambodia." Typical of the losses being suffered is the killing, wound ing or capture of 1224 US and puppet troops in the fighting in just one province, Tei Ninh in May, just announced by the South Vietnam Liberation Army. The south Vietnamese pat riots defeated four large puni tive expeditions in which thousands of troops were en gaged, destroying 98 armored troop carriers and tanks and 35 planes. These are the facts behind wildly inflated US claims of "smashing victories" over the Vietnamese which . . .seem , to result in no" "teriitbriai' xgaiiis but only increased demands for .more fight&ig men from the US and satellite countries. Opposition Commenting on south Viet nam Premier Ky's strongarm action against the Buddhists, the deputy head of the South Vietnam National Liberation Front's mission in Moscow Nguyen Van Dong, said in a press interview .that the US interventionists were by their own actions bringing new ele ments into their opposition camp. '.'The social base of the Americans and puppets is rapidly diminishing" he said. The 1965 escalation of Amer ican strength in Vietnam had been motivated by the simple idea that American forces would succeed where the pup pet armies had failed. "Now, a year later, it is obvious that Washington has miscalculated — there has been no turning of the tide. "Internally escalation has turned against its organisers. The big American build up has only accelerated the growth of anti-Americanism which has spread to diverse social groups — Buddhists, students, the nat ional bourgeoisie, even some Saigon army units." Senator Fulbright's state ment that Saigon is now an American brothel is no exag geration, says Nguyen Van Dong. Desertions "Only for Americans" signs have appeared in the towns. Prices are soaring, due to the US presence and practically the entire power supply is directed to the US bases, south Vietnamese making do with what is left over. For the Americans the Sai gon army is just so much can non fodder and the troops resent it. A while ago a whole artillery regiment mutinied in Thu Dau Mot province and went over to the patriots. Despite all the hopes for the US' "dry season offen sive" beginning last October, they got nothing out of it but 40,000 casualties. Casualties For the first three months of this year the US has suf fered- 25,000 casualties, more than the total for the last five years. Nguyen Van Dong says that the South Vietnam Liberation Army holds the initiative. They are determined to fight till final victory. Confirming, from its own viewpoint, Nguyen Van Dong's estimate of the result of Mar shal Ky's operations aigainst the Buddhists, the Sydney Morning Herald (on June 20) editorially called for the. re moval of Ky as a precondition for a stable political, settle ment. The Herald says that Ky has alienated the "moderate" Bud dhists and placed the "extrem ists" in control. "The very circumstances of the anniversary parade which had to be held in an armed camp because the streets of the capital were unsafe pro vide sufficient commentary on Ky's leadership" says the Her ald. "It was an impressive demonstration of Ky's failure to command popular support." 