 Communists celebrate Australia Day The independence fight and January 26 YDNEY : Australia Day should be elevated and developed because from the begin ning its celebration had asserted the inde pendent Australia outlook and values, Mr. A. Robertson, Communist Party central committee member, said last week. Speaking to a well-attended Australia Day public meeting in the James Healy Hall, organised by the party's 3ydney committee, he said that there were some circles seeking to distort the true significance and spirit of Australia Day and even to eliminate it as the National Day. The meeting, chaired by Mr. Edgar Ross, heard stories from writer Frank Hardy, poems from Denis Kevans and Louise West, and Australian songs. Mr. Robertson saia tnat tne earliest celebrations of the January 26, 1788 landing at Syd ney Cove were initiated by em ancipated convicts and their locally-born children. The latter, by 1819, number ed 10,500 out of the total popul ation of 30,000. "To the land we live in" The annual celebration and its toast "To the land we live in" were quickly associated with the struggle for recognition by these Australians who had built or were buijding the new coun try. The struggle was against the military autocrats and big own ers who, while holding on to social and economic nrivileee. regarded Britain as "home" and the Court of St. James as the centre of the universe. Early newspapers, including the "Australian", the "Monitor" and the "Currency Lad" had been associated with this strug gle. Later, the cause of inde pendence and of Australian cul tural values had been taken up mainly by trade union and lab or movement publications. Of these, the most consistent part in the modem period had been played by the Tribune (formerly the Workers' Weekly, founded in 1923). Historic struggles The struggle for Australian independence had been entwin ed with such historic struggles as those for: abolition of con- victism, organisation of trade unions, political rights (includ ing the Eureka Stockade), the political labor movement and the Australian socialist groups, Federation, Australian literature and culture and opposition to military conscription and the first world imperialist war. The fight by those past gen erations had been taken up by the Communist Tarty of Aus tralia from its foundation in 1920. Australian independence was at the heart of resistance to the policies of overseas exploit ers of Australia in the' Great Depression, ' the anti-fascist struggle of the 'thirties and World War II and today's great and growing opposition to wars of intervention in Asia and the rape of Australia's resources by US and other foreign interests. Backward steps It was only in this period that the prospect became real of uniting the struggles of the Aboriginal people and the white Australian working people. "The wheel of Australian in dependence was turned back ward after the return of the Menzies Government in 1949, bringing the deep entanglement of Australia in -the efforts of imperialism to suppress inde- pendence ana democracy m south-east Asian countries. "In this period, the commun ists are among those Austra lians who have shouldered more and more the task of rallying the people, to the defence of their own independence within the context of the struggle for world peace. In full conformity "Despite false claims by our enemies that Australia's com munists are vassals of Moscow, Peking or even Hanoi, the main purpose of the CPA is to solve by means of Marxist, commun ist thought the essential prob lems of Australia and the neces sary line of advance for the nauun. "And so while our party is not blindly nationalist, we find a clearer and clearer definition of the independent line of pol icy and practice of the CPA in full conformity with its inter national socialist principles. "We find that it struggles con sistently against the American war in Vietnam, not only in solidarity with the struggle of the Vietnamese people for in dependence and democracy, but also because the independence, democracy and security of the Australian nation requires it." 