 Is art reactionary? T WOULD like to comment on the review by Gloria Meltzer (Tribune, Nov 7th) of the 'Viewpoint' exhibition of paintings and sculpture in which artists protested at what is happening in Vietnam. There is no doubt that the motives for holding the pro test exhibition deserve the highest praise and both sponsors and artists are to be congratulated. The point I wish to make is this: Despite Miss Meltzer's warm praise of the actual exhibits it does not show the real situation. What it does show is the need for a serious look into art which in the main has become withdrawn, isol ated, and divorced from reality and the people and is therefore reactionary. When the artists' ivory tower is shaken by reality they try to express themselves regarding this (Picasso's "Guernica", for example) from their isolated position through their divorced reactionary ideas. I include the Vietnam pro test exhibition in this category because it too, while having the best possible intentions, succeeds only in repelling and isolating itself from everyone, except those few people who have managed by sheer will power to accept a set of ideas and standards in art which are based on unreal idealist abstractions. The paintings and sculptures of this exhibition can be put into roughly three groups. Firstly, the completely abstract exhibits whose mean ing will always remain ob scure, even to the initiated. For all we know they could be designed to uphold the Vietnam slaughter. Secondly there are the semi-abstracts who try to cover the abstract elements1 with a veneer of visual reality but only succeed in creating nightmare worlds which do not exist and which have no relation to Vietnam. No matter what subject is painted in this manner it will always create a world that repells. Thirdly the realists. I give them this name only to distinguish them from the other two groups. They are realist to the extent that their subjects can be easily recog- nised as a face or a figure etc., but instead of going into long analysis of why they fall | short of true reality, it is I enough to say that if they 1 were taken and exhibited in I the main street of Melbourne | or any other city they would have little meaning for any one — certainly no meaning at all regarding Vietnam. A .photograph of atrocities in Vietnam printed in any of the newspapers has more power than the whole of this exhibition or a hundred like it. But the answer to the question "Where is art going?" must surely be "It is going downhill". What is needed now is a rejection of bourgeois art and a completely new basis and new concept of art which corresponds to the scientific age of today. This is the great immediate need in socialist art. I hope in future letters to put forward some ideas on this problem but for the present if this letter is read and discussed it will have served its pur pose. Les Johnson, St. Hilda (Vic). 