 GOefBT! Jt\ BE A SPORT AND PA Y UP! jS from last Monday, sports men and women if they had not I heard of it, are probably now well aware by virtue of a I lighter pocket, that there has been an increase in the price of J sporting goods. Tennis and golf, being among the most popular mass participation sports, have been the main target of the price increases. The price increase in the cost of equipment in these two sports has varied from about five cents to two dol lars. Ironically enough last week when the price increases were announced, it was re- ported that one of Austra lia's largest chain stores, Coles, had obtained a record net profit of over eight and one quarter million dollars for the last financial year. Part of Coles record pro- fts was no doubt due to the sale of sporting equipment. The managing director of Slazengers, Mr. N. Morris said last week that the prices of all sporting goods had to be revised because of high cost of materials and the basic wage increase. Without going into econ omic theories, it would be fair to state to Mr. Morris, that one other reason is the sporting monopolies drive after much greater profits &lt; at the expense of sport. And after all sport is very big business today. For ex ample, in the United States it is reported that nearly 140 million dollars is spent an nually on golf and an estim ated 2,000 million dollars is tied up in golf courses and facilities. Character builder Sport has long been lecog- 1 nised as a character buiVfexl and a way of promoting good! will among countries, while at the same time breaking j down barriers of prejudice and misunderstanding. It is probably with this in i mind that the New South Wales jails intend to intro duce changes in disciplinary and rehabilitation proced ures through sport. This procedure is already being followed in Victoria, Players from the Boolara Prison Farm regularly play in the mid-Gippsland League football competition. j The prison Governor Mr. | J. Armstrong is reported to f have said that the recreation | leave helps the prisoners to | integrate into the commun- g ity. J Tools of I trade I Good sportsmen like good tradesmen, need good tools of trade. So it is, that in neither the horse racing game is the good jockey usually found riding a don key, nor in the motor car racing sport is the champion driver usually found at the wheel of a bomb. In both these sports, a I close analysis reveals that I the usual fundamental for 9 success is the quality of the 8 horse or the car as the case | may be. The motoring industry is well aware of this as attest ed to by a recent report in the "Australian," of a state ment by the chairman ana managing director of Repco Ltd., Mr. C. G. McGrath. Mr. MoGrath is reported g I as- stating that Jack Brah- g | ham's successes in the world g I motoring championships g I would make millions realise g I that Australia was a country g I of advanced technological g 1 1 Jack Brabham in his Aus- j tralian designed and made I Repco-Brabham car, has I now become the only man in I motor-racing history to lead 1 in both the driver's ano I manufacturer's champion- ships, and in doing so has S really put Australia on the | I map not only sports-wise. | 8 1 1 111 igiiniiiiirniTlfnr' 