 Twenty— five years of the EYL M EXT Saturday, De cember 3, will mark 25 years of the life and action of the Eureka Y outh League among young Australians in support of their needs as young people and in the interests of freedom, peace and socialism. The date and the name, of course, commemorate the pitched" battle " in' the Eureka' Stockade, Ballarat, Victoria, of gold miners against police and army tyranny, 112 years ago. The initiative and energy displayed by EYL members, "among others, in demonstra tions and other activities against conscription and the Vietnam war in the past two years are only the latest phase of a long record of effort for peace. For example, in 1950 young people of the League collected 25,000 of . the signatures gath ered in Australia to the world wide ban-the-bomb petition. That was the period of the founding steps of what has grown into a wide public movement for peace today. In 1949 there was a youth peace conference in Melbourne. Activity was developed against the Menzies conscription scheme of the time and a big contingent of young people attended the Australian Peace Congress in Melbourne in 1950. Festivals Of great importance in com bating- the Cold War propa ganda of the major western powers were the world youth festivals which the EYL sup ported actively. These arose from the work of the World Federation of Democratic Youth, which the League had helped to form at a world youth conference in London in 1945. In 1947, the EYL had cam paigned for and sent a dele gation — including the Graham Bell band — to the first world youth, festival in Prague. The campaign for the 1951 world festival in Berlin was one of ' the most important actions for peace of that time in Australia. About 100 young people went directly from Australia and were joined by 30 more who were then in Europe. Much can be learned of the history of the League through the pages of the youth newspapers produced during the 25 years. The League's own publi cations during the war, after its 1941 foundation in Mel bourne, reflect a tremendous amount of work, education and organising young people in support of the struggle against the fascist war mach ine. Support of the rapid devel opment of war production, raising money for war bonds, the initiation of the "youth shock brigade" movement to back the war — these were typical activities. The EYL, received citations of honor from the Curtin Labor Gov ernment. Attacks Just after the war Victoria produced "Youth Voice", New South Wales produced "Advance" and Queensland had a paper called 20th Cen tury Youth". When "Youth Voice" went national in 1948 it soon became an 8 page edition, it print quickly reach ing 8000. It was sold at fac tories, technical colleges, theatre queues and at reg ular street stands. During these years the EYL faced serious attacks. It was forced out of the Associated Youth Committees, involved in tho Victorian Royal Com mission into Communism, and Menzies' "Red-Bill" campaign, the referendum and the coal strike. In the world at large this was the time of the cold war when a third world war seemed imminent, of the Berlin crisis, Korea aiid United States nuclear black mail, There was also the dispute between the" Soviet Union and Yugoslavia. "Youth Voice" reflected all this and in a sense was a very political publication. At that time the EYL was not publicly associated with the Communist Party but it took the same position as the Communist Party on all essential issues. In the Federal Elections of December 1949 the EYL ex pressed its equivocal position on political parties by decid ing to support those candid ates whose "words were matched by their deeds." The League statement in "Youth Voice" said, "From past .ex perience the EYL has found in ' practice that the only people who have stuck to their principles and fought in the interests of Australia and its young generation, have been members of the Com munist Party as well as some individual members of the Labor Party." In her historical notes on the socialist youth movement, Audrey Blake comments, "this amplified what is a very com plex and central question of the Australian Labor Move ment." The pages of "Youth Voice" bring to life many of the campaigns of the period, the national youth deputation to Canberra in 1949, the activity in support of the striking coal miners, the ban-the-bomb petition. The experience of the 1951 festival campaign strength ened the conviction that the way of advance for the pro gressive youth movement was through the development of an alliance of youth forces. Two main ideas were advanced —for the development of a youth newspaper on a weekly basis and for the holding in Australia of an event similar to the World Youth Festival. The weekly "Challenge" came into existence in Novem ber 1951. Originally sponsored by the EYL and the Australian Student Laboh Federation it re ceived backing from trade union youth groups, factories, unions, migrant groups but none of the major youth organ isations. The first print of "Chal lenge" was 5,500, soon to be raised to 8,000. The members of the EYL now accepted a major responsibility for "Challenge". It was an ex tremely big task to sell this paper each week and much of the League's work was dir ected. to this end. The finan cial problems were some times acute but a paid cir culation of over 4,000 was maintained, for quite a long time. Through the pages of "Challenge" one can follow the development of the Youti» Carnival for Peace and Friend ship, an extraordinary event which received the backing of wide sections of the Australian community, artists, writers, sportsmen, trade unionists and. young people. Onr thous and entered the sporting competitions and 300 the nterary competitions. The attacks on the Carnival were manifold with security police interference, the bann ing of a youth delegation from China, the cancelling ot halls and sportsgrounds and provocations of various kinds Contact When it was all over one could argue that too much effort of the whole labor movement had gone into this event. Certainly it cost a lot in time and money but it made a major contribution to the development of peace action in this country and its achievement in the face of such determined opposition was a new victory for dem ocracy in Australia. The EYL was, perhaps a little lost in all this work but it too made considerable contact in the period, and felt confident to develop from that time as an1 open marxist organisation within the framework of the democratic youth movement. There were conflicts in this position, not the least with "Challenge" since this was not an EYL paper yet was largely carried by the League. In the following years "Challenge" concentrated much of its attention on the rights of young people, basing it self on the pockets of the unemployed and the victim ised. "Challenge", due to finan cial burdens, closed down in 1956. For some years there was no youth newspaper and then the EYL tried again. "Target" began as a pocket sized monthly in 1959. It called itself a magazine of the EYL and stated that it stood for a policy "devoted to winning socialism in Aus tralia". In the beginning it was a very modest journal, had little scope and tended to be a journal for EYL members but times were changing and the possibility of presenting the ideas of socialist youth to wider circles were exten ding. Election By 1962 "Target" had de veloped into a 8 page monthly magazine. Its contents re flected the times, the peace marches, the crisis in edu cation, the problems of school leavers, apartheid and aborigines. In a special election issue in 1963 the EYL called for the return of a Labor Gov ernment but asked that a vote be cast for Communist can didates where they ware standing. "Target" said, "Communists have proven themselves in the trade unions as good representatives of the people and have helped to win many gains. If they can do it in the trade unions, they can do it in Parliament. Re turn Labor— Elect Communists — Stomp out Menzies!" During those years, as be fore. League members de bated their role and the role of "Target" (circulation then 3500). The problem revolved around. whether "Target" should speak from the polit ically committed to the politi cally committed, or should speak so that even the most indifferent could understand. Direction Today the direction is to those who make up the growing section of aware young people concerned with conscription, Vietnam, edu cation and racialism, and sceptical of the "establish ment". Expansion to a 16-page bi monthly i.n 1966 provided scope for more range and depth in each issue and for the' development of sales (to day's print is up to 6,000 copies.... The campaigns of the EYL come through: Vietnam, con scription, active promotion of the trade union: youth, week, ' and currently, around the EYL petition for a vote at 18. "Youth Voice", "Challenge" and "Target" all mirror their times and each played no small part in the EYL's achievements. "Youth Voice" fought hard, enthusiastically and sharply in r. time when the going was hard; "Challenge" contributed much to the development of peace sentiment in Australia and "Target", endeavours to develop the socialist view point in the growing radical youth, movement of today. Constantly in the forefront of young people's struggles for a better life, the EYL has always taken part in working class demonstrations and celebrations. Here a strong and colourful EYL contingent marches up George St. in Sydney's 1964 May Day parade. National Secretary MAVIS ROBERTSON discusses the contribution made to Australian life by the Eureka Youth League since its inception in 1941 SPORT plays a prominent part in EYL activities — and Denlse Edwards, an EYL member, shows some of the grace and skill that made her NSW girls gymnastics champion. 