 i "1 — — . i With Tribune's Industrial ' Roundsman ACCORDING to a press report Mr. D. F. ! Fisher (an economist) has been appointed by the Department of Trade to investigate and formulate "policies in respect of ! | Australia's overseas ship- | ping needs". jf He Is to negotiate with g shipowners and attend con- | ferences but at 'this fltage no move has been made to seek the views of trade j;4 unions. The unions have long been in the forefront to force Australian Governments to adopt policies in the national interest, both in shipbuild ing and for an overseas na tional line. Old records of the Boiler makers' Society show that in 1909 approaches were made to the Deakin Gov ernment to give Australian workmen the opportunity to show their shipbuilding skill. ? , j, THE "Building Worker", || journal of the BWIU, j|y says: . .'jjfi Your kids are growing up when they stop asking where they came from and start re- fusing to tell you where they . are going. vl it flNE of Humphreys staff told AEU organiser Wal Buckley last Saturday in Canberra that he thought it ; .1 a small demonstration against their arrival in Aus tralia. Wal pointed out that 200 had travelled 200 miles from ;;4ii Sydney for the occasion and that 800 Sydneyites had de- monstrated the other Friday outside the US Consulate with- i out any "star" being present. "Had we a 'star' like Hum- nhrev in Svdnev we could have got about 8000 to 'wel- sp come' him," said Wal. 4; "A good reason for us being uVf, here and not there," said Hum- i|| phrey's mate. |f ? i THE Plasterers' Union has g| protested to both Federal j|| and State Governments at tM the fall off in cottage con- >1 struction. a The NSW Government was g| reminded that more than 45,000 families in this State have a housing need, whue building workers are withou a jb Tn Hi The Building Workers' in |i dustrial Union says that not m so long ago a brickie could go onto any big job in Sydney ana ff| get an immediate start. |l Now there are brickies loos- iy ing for work while school kids are doing lessons in improvised || classrooms! |j 