 c — - Tas. rightwing blocks campaign lin»naMUll««MmHUIIIIlJMW1IMIllJMI— MM M UliLUMIH J THE Tasmanian conference backed Mr. Calwell's call to oppose conscription and his pledge that "Labor would recall national servicemen from Vietnam if elected". It condemned the Government's decision to send conscripts overseas. The only voice in opposition was that of Clerks' union right- winger Harridine, who opposed the allowing of a motion from the Labor Women's Organising Committee condemning con scription. However, conference failed to support a move by Mr. Wil liams, Hobart Waterside Work ers' Federation and Federal vice president of the ALP, to have the state executive organ ise public and job meetings throughout the state in opposi tion to conscription for over seas service. Mr. Williams' proposal at tracted strong' support but the rightwing, headed by Harridine and former Premier Cosgrove, were able to defeat it. The Tasmanian conference carried limited support for state aid to private schools on the basis of need, a sort of means test proposal. Some voices were raised for a prin cipled stand of opposition to state aid to private schools. Senator J. O'Byrne, himself a practising Catholic, said it ap-' peared that non-state schools were "using state aid as poli tical blackmail." Delegates widely recognised the need for adequate Federal aid for education. Prices Other features of the Tas manian conference included:— The State Government was urged to introduce legislation to prevent price increases of essential commodities, particul arly food, clothing, rents and fares. A proposal by Mr. Costello MHA for a Parliamentary Sel ect Committee on prices was overwhelmingly defeated. The Attorney General (Mr. Fagan) won considerable sup port in his demand for Com monwealth price controls, warning that state control alone would not work, © Conference set up a spe cial committee to decide whe- ther the State Milk Board should be abolished and to ex amine all aspects of the indus try, especially "the desirubUitv and practicability of instituting a complete cooperative system in the whole milk industry in Tasmania." At present, a Melbourne-based monopoly, Metropolitan Dairies trading under the name of Baker's Milk, has control of Hobart, Launceston and Devon port milk supplies and is spreading its tentacles with con trol already of most of Hobart bread and ambitions in cheese production. © Conference came within an ace of rejecting the Govern ment's "personal patient scheme" under which, if a patient pays $2 a day he can choose an approved doctor to attend him in hospital. There was strong opposition to this further eroding of pub- lie hospitalisation services as every patient admitted to hos pital as a personal patient means one less bed for the nub lie. Rejecting a proposal for a state shipping line, conference called for the entry of the Nat ional Line into the overseas trade. © A decision to change the party's rules forbade members to join or associate with the National Civic Council and the Protestant Democratic Move ment. The ALP state secretary (Mr. D. Lowe) said: "The NCC is solely an anti-socialist organ isation and has no part in the ALP. They claim they want to knock the communist influence put of the ALP but this is a lot I of bunkum. There is no com munist influence in the ALP, J only democratic socialism. It h they knock that out of us there ft will be no ALP— only the Lib- I .eral Party." V Despite a reported effort to replace Senator Poke at the top of the ALP Senate ballot paper with a rightwinger, K. Wriedt, Senator Poke topped the pre-selection poll and will have top position. Overall, at the Tasmanian conference the leftwing— al though defeated on several ques tions—had a big influence on decisions. On most of the issues mentioned above, the rightwing efforts were held in check. 