 Govt arms Syrian people "|"HE progressive Syrian Government is arming the people to. 'defend themselves against the threats of local and international reaction. To this end it has set up a supreme People's Deience Committee which, with the backing of the trade union movement, is enrolling the workers in popular armed detachments. A Syrian note to the United Nations stresses that the clash with Israeli forces on July 14 was part of an im perialist plan . to strike down the progressive revolutionary movements of the Arab home land. Rightwing Syrian leaders who fled the- country after the change of government on February 23 are helping im perialist circles to plot against the new Government. Ships of the US Sixth Fleet have moved closer to the Lebanon coast near Syria. US navy ships visited Beirut. Reaction is concerned at the extension of land natipn- isation in Syria, where 5104 Peasant families received land between mid-April and mid- June. The program for nationalisation of big estates and distribution of land to the landless is expected to be completed by the end of the year. Last year all large and medium-sized enterprises were nationalised. They are to be . run by elected committees of workers. Oil has been discovered and will soon be extracted. The USSR is helping to dam the Euphrates. Better relations have been established with Egypt. Reporting this, a Soviet New Times article says that the outcome of the internal struggle now depends on the unity of the progressive forces. The newly appointed pre mier of Irak, Naji Taleb, in p, statement last week out lined the main points of his program. They include the strength ening of national unity, re organisation of the Iraki Socialist Union in co-operat ion with all national forces and implementation of the agreement with the Kurds. Mr. Taleb said he favored unity 'with the United Arab Republic and that the Gov ernment would support all free and progressive Arab countries and movements. The Government, he added, would oppose the projected Islamic Pact (being pushed by Saudi Arabia) and all other imperialist alliances and groupings. It was also against foreign military bases on Arab soil. The Government was also determined to preserve close, friendly relations with the USSR and thejother social ist countries. The statement is import ant as it was feared that -the sudden dismissal of former premier Bazzazz just after he had signed a peace accord with the Kurds and visited the .USSR might mean a Rightward switch in Iraki policy. 