 ' WT>| H Iff H jnrfHABVj lilll ||pil|| HI I lj Y' gotta think right, bud HIGH in the bank building overlooking Wynyard Square, Sydney, the girl on the counter with the Balti more accent turned two shades paler . . . Are you from the Tribune?". The background : In response to an invitation to attend and report the forthcoming National Convention of the Com munist Party of the USA (New York, June 22-26), Tribune decided to send Alec Robertson, who ap plied for a US'visa. Knowing that various Australians (such as Professor Marcus Olip- hant) have had trouble securing one, he specifically applied for the waiving of any restrictions on ground of "political affiliations", pointing out that the visit was . strictly for journalistic purposes. (There is provision for such waiv ing in the US regulations). Support for such an application lay in the Reuter report from Wash ington (May 4) that the State Dep artment was now prepared to waive the discriminatory regula tion for some communists and ex- communists seeking to attend cer tain international conferences in the USA. However, at the US Consulate at Sydney's Wynyard Square, there was no referring the matter to Washington. In the time it took Alec Robertson to walk the 10yds from the counter into the visa sec tion office, it had been decided: NO VISA. The Australian Government, bad though many of its policies are, does not (at present) lay down any such openly political restrictions on entry. Nor are there many coun tries in the world where an Aus tralian traveller, whatever his pol- itics, would be subjected to such crude discrimination. Could Tribune possibly be that much of a menace to the 111 ol USA? Land of the bullet ylSAS, no; violence, yes. Last week, the Sydney Sun (May 17) reported that a man had walk ed into the Eugene Debs hall, (Detroit) office of the Socialist Workers' Party, and asked about books by V. I. Lenin. Then he said "You're all com munists", pulled a gun, ordered the three young men present to sit on the floor, shot one man (Leo Bernard) dead and put four bul lets into each of the others (both university students). Police have arrested a 40-year-old man, Edward Waniolek, who in March had sought to go to South Africa. The three men were active in opposing the Vietnam war and racism. This tragedy confirms the recent warning by US Senator W. Fullbright against the war hys teria being whipped up by the Pentagon. 1-2-3, you're a VC "p AKE a good look at him: Crew-cutted, with-it, could be a normal, decent Australian . . . but in fact, it's Mr. Owen Warrington. What? You've seen him at Syd ney demonstrations against the Vietnam war? You've heard him shouting idiocies like "One-two- three, we support Ky"? You reckon he wouldn't be game to say it in Saigon or Da Nang? And you've heard tell that he's secretary of the "Friends of Free- dom"? Well, write it in your hatband that this type's real job (as con fessed to pressmen during the Wyn yard Park demonstration last Fri- day and earlier on a Four Corners I program) is to organise the sur- j reptitious photographing of peace I demonstrators and pass the results I on to "the security police and I twenty other government agencies". I Question: What's his piece-rate j per photo? And what are the 20 other agencies? I Some freedom! Some friend! g 