 Holt and immorality F is significant that the year-long public discus sion about the Vietnam war and, more recently, about conscription lor that war, has lately been marked above all by serious argument about the "morality" of the issue. This is not only due to the ever-widening inter vention of clergymen, both .senior and junior (mostly against the Government's policy) and by religious publications, The shadow of the immorality of the government's policy has lengthened, too, with the airing h has been given in the press. Today, there is growing mass disbelief that there is any justice at all in the American war of inter vention in Vietnam. ? ' . it is to be noted that the relatively few pro- 4 government "moralists" of wjar, (such as (the three Sydney bishops Loane, JDain' '".anil Hume-Mpir) spin words about conscription as against voluntarism, or plead- the case for holy war against the "evil" of communism, but carefully avoid certain points: Conscription lor Vietnam was adopted because the Government's recruiting statistics proved beyond all doubt that the Australian people were REJECT ING the war policy by refusing to enlist. Most Australians rightly believe there is no real military threat to Australia today. How can a government that has tried and failed to convince the people to support its policy claim moral grounds for then coercing them into obedience? No ingenious argument about the "justice" of conscription can conceal the fact, made in a number of letters to the daily press, that there is not the slightest suggestion of a plan to conscript wealth or (as one writer put it) force capitalists to draw marbles for their war contracts, to be fulfilled at cost price I There is a clear contrast in the conduct of the war by (he two sides. The forces of the National Liberation Front and (in the north) the Vietnam1 Democratic Republic are engaged in defending and liberating their own nation, their own soil. They uSe no gas, white phosphorus, defoliants, napalm, "tumbling" armalite bullets or mass bombing raids. Nor did the Soviet Union in World War II, for socialist morality forbids these things, many of which contravene solemn treaties. But the use of these methods is the cynical stock-in-trade of US imper ialism. And now, the disintegration of the Saigon puppet dictatorship to which both the US and Holt governments have officially pinned their faith and their justification, will inevitably further reduce Australian public support for the war and greatly strengthen the opposition to it. The anti-Ky upsurge is a new expression of the Vietnam national demand for independence and democracy . . . against "nine years of US support of ' dictatorships" (as the Buddhists put it) . . .a new exposure of the Australian Government that is helping deny democracy and independence in South Vietnam by making war against the majority section Df the people there. Few indeed will find this anything but deeply, immoral, wrong and shameful. Now is the time for the majority of Australians to demand of Holt: Bring back Australian troops and support Vietnam's right to self-determination — or get out of office! . I " " South Vietnam workers demonstrating last year against military conscription and loss of trade union rights. 