 Who's reallv breaking Geneva? CAPTURED YANKS GET TREATED WELL But anything goes in the South Milk of human kindness j PRESIDENT Ho Chi Minh's statement that captured American war prisoners are always treated with humanity was strongly supported this week by Mr. W. E. Gollan. Mr. Gollan, former Sydney headmaster and member of the World Peace Council was in the Democratic Republic of Viet nam last year as a member of the WPC delegation sent to the DRV. One of its tasks was to in vestigate the welfare of captur ed prisoners in the DRV. "I can personally confirm that what President Ho said was a fact" Mr. Gollan told the Tribune this week. He said that while in the DRV he interviewed two US pilots including a Lieutenant Commander Schumaker who acted as spokesman. Both pilots he saw were in good physical condition. Commander Schumaker said they were treated with human ity. They were living in small cottages, with freedom of move ment, and with adequate food and shelter. Respect Asked whether any sort of personal pressure had been used on them by their captors, Commander Schumaker said their personal lives had been treated with respect and he volunteered the hope that cap tives were getting as good treat ment on the other side in the war. "It. was obvious" said Mr. Gollan, "that he was under no emotional or nervous strain." The other American POW Mr. Gollan saw was still in a state of shock as he had attempted to take poison, after capture. All American pilots were issued with poison pellets and instructed to take them if brought down and likely to be captured. The Vietnamese peasants who captured this American, how ever, had prevented him taking his pellets. They showed more humanity than those who were now accusing the north Viet namese of inhumanity, but sup plied American airman with poison pellets as standard equipment. The North Vietnamese were at least proposing to give the US prisoners a legal trial, Mr. Gollan said. Contrast By contrast Mr. Gollan quot ed an admission in the Sydney Morning Herald of last Thurs day that the US was "quietly taking steps to improve the treatment of north Vietnamese prisoners" who are now "being thrown into jails with terror ists, murderers and other crim inals." This said nothing about the many who had been killed on capture without any pretence of a trial, Mr. Gollan com mented. W. E. GOLLAN. He recalled that Australian Prime Minister Holt had said in Washington that he had no difference with the USA on any point of policy. This implied that he did not disapprove of the US treatment of prisoners of war in Vietnam. Deliberately A Sydney Morning Herald editorial last Thursday said that "Americans have not them selves ill-treated captives but they have turned a deliberately blind eye to South Vietnamese brutalities and for that they cannot escape responsibility." In his book, "War Without Honor", Mr. Gerard Stone, former correspondent of the Sydney Daily Mirror in Viet nam, writes that the South Vietnam National Liberation Front has issued a handbook to its troops detailing the hum ane treatment to be given to all prisoners. "The document, issued to all guerilla troops, gives special at tention to foreign nationals . . . maltreatment of prisoners is expressly forbidden . . . Conspirators "There has never been a con firmed or even semi-confirmed report of an American prisoner being subjected to torture while in the hands of the Vietcong authorities. "None of the Americans freed from Vietcong POW camps has ever claimed to have been brut ally treated by his guards." By contrast, says Mr. Stone, western soldiers, including Australians are being "drawn into the role of conspirators in the torture and murder of cap tured guerillas" by handing them over to the pro-US pup pet troops for slaughter. A warrant officer told Stone: "I go for a walk" when a pris oner is taken and "when I come back they tell me the man was shot trying to escape". Brutality The South Vietnamese puppet troops, he adds, "have a reputa tion for refusing to take pris oners and for slicing out the livers of captured Vietcong while they are still alive". On April 23 last the Govern ment TV station ABN2 in Syd ney showed a film of brutality shocking to most Sydney TV commentators. The film showed US soldiers at Tiger camp being taught to administer the drowning or water treatment torture to a mock prisoner. On April 27 last the Sydney Daily Mirror showed a picture of Chinese mercenaries tortur ing a "Vietcong suspect." who was hung upside down. More recently Time Magazine (July 22, 1966) telling how Kor ean puppet troops in Vietnam deal with prisoners says: "Suspects are encouraged to talk by a rifle fired just past the ear from behind while they are sitting on the edge of an open grave, or by a swift, cheek-bone shattering flick of a Korean's bare hand" the Kor ean version of karate. Admits None of this is authorised by the 1949 Geneva Convention on prisoners of war, but it does not draw any protest from Time which nevertheless admits its brutality. Time admits that once revenge-seeking Koreans "track ed down a Vietcong, skinned him and hung him up" in an allegedly Vietcong-sympathising village." . That, too, is not authorised by Geneva. AMERICAN MARINES LEAD AWAY VIETNAMESE PATRIOTS TIED BY NECK. Treated like humans or horses? U.S SOLDIER GUARDS GAGGED, BOUND VIETCONG "PRISONER". Geneva a la LBJ. I; 