 The funny FIGHTING WORLD of Dick Gregory One of the most popular night-club enter tainers in the United States, Negro comedian Dick Gregory is also deeply involved in the struggle of his people for racial equality. Here are some typical examples , of his biting comment on the American scene, taken from his hook "From the Back of the Bus", published by Avon Books, New York. rJ,HERE'S only one difference between the North and the South. In the South, they don't care how close I get as long as I don't get too big. In the North, they don't care how big I get, so long as I don't get too close. J SPENT six months once, sitting at an Alabama lunch counter. And when they finally served me, they didn't have what I wanted . . . My brother is so sure he isn't going to get waited on, he don't even take no money with him. ("JAN you imagine how it will be, when they hire the first Negro bus driver in the South, and the steering wheel's twenty-five feet long? "A LL the record stores are playing that subversive song again—I'm Dreaming of a White Christmas ... It's kinda sad, by my little girl doesn't believe in Santa Claus. She sees that white cat with whiskers — and even at two years old, she knows damn well ain't no white man coming into our neighbourhood at midnight ... Be honest now. How may of YOU have ever seen a black Santa Claus? He ain't even black after he comes down the chimney— and he SHOULD be! ()NCE upon a time there was a girl named Little Black Riding Hood ... , JjJVERYONE looks on this Civil War ..Centennial in .a different light. Up in Harlem, all it means is the 1 00th Anniversary of separate rest rooms. jpEOPLE keep talking about the white race and the black race — and it really doesn't make sense. I played Miami last week — met a fella two shades darker than me — and his name was Ginsberg .... Took my place in two sit-in demonstrations— nobody knew the difference, ASN'T that nice of them to come up with a Freedom Rider's Martini? That's right — a Free- | dom Rider's Martini. Three and you get stoned! YOU gotta give those Freedom Riders credit. I mean — that takes guts! Anyone who's willing to use the washroom in an Alabama bus station HAS to be some sort of hero ... J)0 you realise how many people are still in jail from those Freedom Rides? I mean, if you buy a bus ticket for Alabama, and it says GOOD FOR ONE YEAR — -you better believe it . HERE is no truth to the rumour that Georgia is passing a law banning mixed drinks. ( JfOR those of you who don't know what the Ku . Klux Klan is — that's people who get outta bed k in the middle of the night — and take the sheet with ' 'em;' ASEBALL is very big with my people. It figures. It's the only time we can get to shake a bat at a white man without starting a riot. YOU gotta say this for the white race- — its self- confidence knows no bounds. Who else could go to a small island in the South Pacific where there's no poverty, no crime, no unemployment, no war and no worry— and call it a "primitive society". JSN'T this the most facinating country in the world? Where else would I have to ride on the hack of the bus , have, a choice of going to the worst schools , eating in the worst restaurant , living in the worst neighbourhoods — and average $5,000 a week just talking about it? 