 Response to Pope 9s Viet call M'BOURNE CATHOLICS FORM PEACE GROUP By Harry Stein yHILE the recently-founded Catholic Peace Movement was a new venture for Aus tralia, it was certainly not new for England and the west of Europe, Dr. Max Charlesworth, one of the initiators of the organisation said in Melbourne last week. There had been Catholic peace movements there for some years, he said. Dr. Charlesworth stated that he and a colleague who insert ed notices in Catholic news papers were surprised at the results from Catholics inter ested in joining such a peace movement. At a preliminary meeting held to set up the organisa tion, they had discussed aims and elected a working group to draw up a constitution. Dr. Charlesworth said that they visualised the movement as a study group rather than a demonstrative body. They hope as a result of their studies to present their findings to Catholics who could then decide what action they wanted to take. Pity It was a great pity, he said, that there was a tendency for Catholics to see existing peace movements as something not, quite respectable. In his opinion, this could to some extent be overcome by Catholics' establishing their own movement which could study the issues and circulate its findings, which would car ry a fair amount of weight in the Catholic community. The existing European Cath olic peace movement Pax Ghristi, whose views on peace they would help to circulate, was little known in Australia. They would keep in touch but would not formally affiliate with Pax Christi. Advertisement Asked why the Catholic peace movement was being organised at the present time, Dr. Charlesworth said that without doubt the war in Viet nam had made it an urgent issue. An advertisement in the Mel bourne "Herald" On the eve of the elections inserted by 40 prominent Catholics aimed at clarifying the Pope's views on Vietnam was organised separ- ately from the Catholic peace movement, he said. The advertisement said in part: "Within the past fort night great confusion had arisen particularly among Catholics as to pope Paul's attitude to the Vietnam war. "In his recent Peace Ency clical, His Holiness said: 'A settlement should be reached now, even at the expense of some inconvenience or loss. 'For it may have to be made later in the train of bitter slaughter and involve great loss. 'But this peace must rest on justice and the liberty of mankind, and take into ac count the rights of individuals and communities. Otherwise it will be shifting and un stable.' Disturbed "We are also disturbed that Pope Paul's call for 'peace with justice' has been narrow ly interpreted to mean justice merely for the Christians of South Vietnam," Dr. Charles worth said. "In his public statements, His Holiness has made clear his concern for humanity, and not exclusively for any parti cular section of it. "The injustice of the war falls heavily on the whole pop ulation, both North and South —those who are being bomb ed, those who are being ter rorised, those who are being flushed out of their villages. Civilian casualties are already in the hundreds of thousands." Initiatives Dr. Charlesworth continued: "His Holiness, while not of fering detailed proposals for a settlement, has warmly and repeatedly associated himself with the peace initiative of U Thant, the United Nations Sec retary-General, whose main proposals are: 1. Cessation of American bombing. 2. De-escalation of all mili tary activities. 3. Negotiations to include all parties actually en gaged in the conflict." The advertisement was signed by F. W. Bendeich, BSc, Paul Bourke, MA PhD, Niall Brennan, Virgil J. Cain, MA, Dip. Ed. M. J. Charlesworth, MA, Ph.D, A. Coady, MA, B.Phil., John G. Coleman, LLB, Janeve Coleman, BA. Frank Costigan, LLB. Kath leen Costigan, N. Courtney, BA (Hons), B. Dodweil, BA (Hons), John F. Dynon, MA (Oxon,, LLB (Melb.), Moira Dynon, BSc, Prof. Peter D. Finch, BA, Frank Golbally, LLB G. N. Givney, MB, BS, BA, Peter Gill, BA BEd, James Griffin, BA, A. M. Har old. LLB, Kenneth Hince, BA, Stanley J. Ingwersen, MB, BS, Frank Keating, Rev. D. J. Kenny, SM, BA, BLitt, MACE, Joanne ' "mil mm mm— Lee Dow, BA, Dip Ed, Dan Ley, F. J. Magee, Philip Martin BA , ; (Hons.), Peter McTigue, MSc, ; .-ft D (Phil.), P. J. Molan, LLB. J. : % G. Oakley, AASA, J. M. O'Con- nor, BA, Dip Ed AASA i(Senior), AC IS, Paule Ormonde, Marie Or- i ,v» monde. Prof. Owen E. Potter, MSc, PhD, K. Presa, MA, Leonard Radic, BA, Joan Ryan BA, J. P. J ; Ryan, BA, BSc, MACE. N. A. Szorenyi, BA (Hons.), C. B. f Thornton-Smith, PhD, BEd, Rod- i ney Watson, BA, Ann Watson, ! ,-a Oscar Whitbread Corinne Whit- bread. i', I It was widely believed, by political observers that the timing of the advertisement j, wr made it perfectly clear that zm the advertisement was a reply t-. to the intervention in the elec- : tion campaign by Bishop Fox. ' v 