 ' JOLLY COMRADE' AND RIGHT TO DISSENT I ' Letters i :.v v. - .£ K... ; t , i pS'- to the gjgf : Editor il tills II JN the preface to the CPA Congress doc uments, the Central Committee invites "any interested person (com munist or non-commun- ist) to submit and argue their views, opinion and criticisms". The question is, will inter ested persons believe we are dinkum, that we really will take some notice of their views. Some readers of Tribune might be pardoned for doubt ing our sincerity when they see the prominence given to Bill Wood's review of "Once a Jolly Comrade" by former C.P.A. member Keith Mc- Ewan. I go so far as to say that our attitude to such a book will make or break any res ponse from a lot of people whose help we dearly need in the pre-congress debates. A reading of his book shows that McEwan gave years of devoted service to the C.P.A. and the Socialist cause. His experiences are obviously im portant to us, all the more for the fact, as noted by Bill Wood, that his book must "grievously disappoint Right- wing readers" who expected him to "lash out at the Com munist Party." Why did McEwan bother to write? I find the answer clearly given by his book. As a Socialist, interested in the development of Marxism, he believes the C.P.A. has taken a wrong path, he believes he should say this publicly, and rightly or wrongly, he believes he could not say it as a mem ber of the Party. It is up to us to PROVE he is wrong on this last point. The words "There are to be -no limitations upon the dis cussion" over the signatures of R. Dixon and L. Aarons J must be honoured by all of I us, and not least by our press, so that never again will any one feel he or she must leave the Party in order to un burden themselves. Bill Wood is far more gentle than others have been in such cases, myself included, but he is holding McEwan up. to ridicule. In my opinion he does not enter into genuine debate on the important issues raised by the book, ALL OF WHICH ARE OFFERED FOR DEBATE IN THE CONGRESS ' DOCUMENTS. It matters not a jot what anyone feels about it, the fact is that we have set up the ring and McEwan's hat is in there (in good faith, I believe). I cannot let pass the words in the Tribune article — "the few people who drop out of the C.P.A." Scores of people playing a positive part in the socialist and other progres sive movements are former members of our Party. We have said publicly that in 1965, for the first time in years, our membership grew, gains exceeded losses of all kinds. It is common knowledge that former members outnumber those who hold a card today. We just have to face up to this, openly, and find out why. We just have to reject the empty myth of keeping up ap pearances for the sake of prestige and admit that we can be wrong and others can be right. We demand from society the right to dissent, to put a min ority opposition view and seek support for it. We claim this does not conflict with majority rule but gives it real meaning and strength. What we demand from soci ety, we should demonstrate as a model in the shape of our own Party. Communists individually and collectively cannot pos sibly hold a monopoly of the truth. When we really accept this, we will be able to make, in full measure, our special contribution to Australian life. Ted Zeffertt, Yokine (W.A.). 