 ALP disunity hid fails By our Parliamentary Roundsman ANBERRA: A new attempt by Labor Deputy Leader E. G. Whitlam last weak to disunite the ALP on tje eve of the important Kooyong by- c!e:tion, when the Government was on the defensive over conscription and Vietnam, has led to a further decline in Mr. Whitlam' s stocks in the party. At the Executive meeting held before Wednesday's Fed eral Caucus, Mr. Calwell accus ed the Deputy Leader of holding secret meetings on the Tuesday, aimed at securing the leader ship. Mr. Calwell in Caucus gave Mr. Wh '7:1am the opportunity to come out in the open and offered to move a suspension of standing orders. "You can move a motion of no confidence in me," Mr. Calwell said. He accused Mr. Whitlam of "treachery" and said he would not tolerate it. Mr. Whitlam refused the challenge, saying if Mr. Calwell resigned he would stand against him. The majority of Caucus showed how they felt by voting fairly qutckly to ge.t on to the next item on the agenda. Mr. Whitlam told Caucus that if he was elected leader he would continue the fight for the Federal parliamentarians' rights against the dominance of the ALP Federal Executive. This brought the immediate reply from a Caucus member, "Then the assurance you gave the Federal Executive that you would observe the decisions of all properly constituted bodtes is not worth the paper its printed on." In fact, Mr. Whitlam already knew before the Caucus meet ing that the majority of Labor Members would not support his move. Rightwing forces backing Mr. Whitlam held emergency meet ings last Thursday to see hbw they could patch up the damage and make a fresh attack. They are concerned that it is the left and centre ALP forces who are leading the present offensive against the Govern ment with such success that even some of Whitlam's sup porters in marginal seats are becoming less worried at their electoral prospects. These MPs are beginning to take to heart what Mr. R. Webb said at Caucus: "If we have a united party we will win the next elections, but if people continue to carry on the way they have then they will lose their own seats and others as well. Mr. Webb, a West Australian MP, launched an attack at last week's Federal Caucus "on people behind intrigue and treachery within the party." Mr. Webb, a member of the ALP Federal Executive, was the only exception Mr. Whitlam made when he recently referred to the Executive as the "twelve witless men." 