 IF GAS KNOCKS US OUT WHAT ABOUT VIETNAM? - Letters ; to the ; Editor 1 residents of sydney and indeed other parts of Australia were ailarmed at the serious accident in Bexley on July' 23rd when through an accident drums of chlorine gas and hydrochloric acid were smashed and the fumes affected people in the street and surrounding houses. j Sixty four pepole were tak en to hospital, three of them eriously ill. i. Statements from household ers. in the . vicinity revealed that their gardens had been destroyed by fumes. One man said that 30 years' work had oeen wasted. ? Watching the TV film which showed the battered truck and broken drums, listening to those interviewed about the effects of the fumes, seeing the police with masks and hoses battling to clear the irea, my thoughts turned . to 'ietnam. Try to picture what happens 3 thousands of people living ih villages where US and Aus tralian soldiers are carrying (Jut search and destroy opera tions. Into tunnels which ljiight well have been prepar ed for people to take shelter from air raids, gas is poured to force out the so-called Viet- qong. No-one knows whether there are soldiers in these tunnels—but there have been ijnany pictures which show women holding babies in their arms have been forced to come out gasping for air, It is said that the gas used will not kill but only force people into the open. But napalm has been used to kill trees and crops. The users do not know whether there are people among the trees and they do not care. Napalm kills trees and crops and people. Following the accident at Bexley many proposals were made about making cartage of such cargo safer to guard against accidents— and rightly so. What can be done to guard the Vietnamese pepole against bombs and napalm? There is no safeguard except to end the war by the withdrawal of all foreign troops from a country thousands of miles from the United States, a country where the only desire of the people is the right to determine their own way of nits. June Mills, (North Sydney). 