 ill in H piii |i|i| iiiiii|||||||||||||||ii (Hi||ii8iBiaiii| pi pan pi I ill II I z II ,ihl 1 1 1, III ji LUpib rJi I i III nllll 1 iiiiiiiiiiiiliiillllliiilliilliB liiilllllllliiiiilllllliiiiillifciiMWEiillliiiiiilllliiiilllMliillliiiiiillliiiiillll iilllliil in (lil 'Me and mah big mouth' I IS Embassy officials in Canberra have been seriously embarrassed by their Ambassador Mr. (Ed) E. Clark shooting his mouth off about America's next stage of escalating the Viet nam war. After Mr. Ed told a recent luncheon in Canberra that the US would now knock out electric grids, power lines, dams and canals in North Vietnam, a wave of protest spread all over Australia. The next thing Mr. Ed was in terviewed on TV in Canberra saying his statements were mis understood. The Canberra Times, which reported his original statement came into the picture, saying: — , "The reporter who attended the luncheon for the Canberra Times insists that his notes of Mr. Clark's remarks were taken ver batim and were accurate." Attempts to get newspapers to retract statements made by their reporters of Mr. Ed's remarks at the luncheon met with a blank wall of refusal. Favourite son TAA has formally asked the Federal Government to allow it to enter more strong ly in competition with Ansett- ANA. This is the reason why Sir Giles Chippendall utilised his retirement as former head of TAA to attack the Government's favorite son treatment of Ansett-ANA. TAA haVe asked to be permitted a share in intra-state traffic where State Governments agree. They also want the right to compete in tourism, the hotel trade and to be able to do outside engineering jobs in their work shops. As a counter Ansett's have asked for TAA to be deprived of Government funds. A package deal "pERHAPS you would like our order formV A Tribune reporter was glancing at one of the book stalls in the foyer of Sydney's Trocadero before the opening rally of "Captive Nations Week". On the table were such literary gems as the Blue Book of the John Birch Society, next to the Federal Government's latest pamphlet "Vietnam— Questions and Ans wers". The order form for title publi cations included a memorable list such as "Color, Communism and Common Sense", "Subverting Our Religious Heritage" and a treatise on "The Organised Labor Move ment". Another stall exclusively had copies of that racialist fascist magazine "International News Review". We didn't send for the 75c anti- communist paekage deal of books which included one titled "No Coexistence". None as blind as . . . PRESIDENT Johnson may have loved our Harold like a son. But many important pressmen and journals didn't altogether see .eye to eye with the President. Pressmen at the Washington Press Club laughed at a reply Mr Hoi1 gave to a question. Asked whether there was anv thing at all wrong with Us nclicv Mr. Holt replied: "Well, franki,,' currently not in our eyes." The Associated Press of Arne rica and the New York Times were put out by a criticism of what Mr. Holt called "dramatic and episodic" reporting of the Vietnam war and lack of coverage of oth«r events in Asia. The Washington |»0st was quite unhappy about Mr. Holt's refer ence to the Indonesians having "knocked off between 500,000 and a million communists". Pinnock of Nippon N unusual leaflet has reached us from Adelaide warning that machines brand ed "Australian made" under the PINNOCK trade name are "actually made in Japan and assembled in Elizabeth S.A." It also makes the claim that the Advertiser newspaper and the as sociated TV Channel 7 have pub lished "Australian made" Pinnock advertisements. Background to the leaflet is that Pinnock sacked 65 women employ ees a week before Easter last year. The publisher of the leaflet, a worker named A. Figallo, made representations on their behalf over accrued holiday pay with suc cess. The Advertiser refused any pub licity to the successful efforts ot what they called this "self-appoint ed leader"; soon afterwards there was . lavish Pinnock advertising in its pages. j 