 World poultry farmers will meet in Kiev AUSTRALIA, already preparing its exhibits for the International Farming Machinery Exhibition in Moscow next May, will be represented at the World Poultry Congress in Kiev (Capital of the Ukraine) from August 15 to 25. Some 2,200 scientists and specialists will attend this Kiev Poultry Congress to review poultry farming achievements and -promote greater quality and quantity production for the future. In addition to farmers and research workers from Aus tralia, there will be delegates from America, USSR, Britain, Poland, Hungary, France and other countries. Between them they will make 214 reports — 174 by overseas visitors and 40 by Soviet experts. Many Australians remember the last World Poultry Con gress, held in Sydney four years ago. This was. a great step forward for poultry farmers of the countries repre sented in Sydney. They dis cussed and learned the latest international achievements in the industry. The delegates who came to Sydney from all over the world pooled their experiences in breeding pure-line poultry and hybrids; they exchanged opin ions and information on farm management and feeding sys tems. Demonstrations were held of the latest improvements in mechanisation and automation, to reduce labor - consuming operations in the poultry industry. An international poultry breeding exhibition will be held in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, to coincide with the Congress. The latest equipment for poultry farming, the most .productive breeds of poultry, methods of selection and pedi gree study will be shown to visitors to stimulate interest in what the USSR Chamber of Commerce President Mikhal Nesterov called at a recent press conference "one of the major branches of agricultural production." Some of the exhibition's de partments will deal with new preparations for treating and preventing poultry diseases, and with new technologies in processing of poultry meat. Models of the best designed poultry breeding farms will be on display. The USSR, like all countries of harsh winter climate, has problems to overcome in poultry-breeding and egg pro duction. These problems, like all others standing in the way of greater food production for the people, have been strenu ously tackled by Soviet scien tists and poultry farmers in recent years. Production of eggs per bird per year is now about 180 in the USSR and fast approaching productivity rates of the USA, where the poultry industry is organised on a huge scale. The latest Soviet plan is to treble egg and poultry meat production in the next 10 years. It is planned to lift egg output from 3,000 million dozen eggs to 9,000 million dozen eggs in 1975. At Kiev, visitors from many lands next August will see some of the advanced technology, of benefit to all poultry farmers, developed by the Soviet Union to neutralise the severe cli matic effects on poultry pro duction. There will be on show at the Poultry Exhibition in the Ukraine apparatus for pro ducing a micro-climate — that is, a warmer or cooler climate in a very limited area, as need be. Once man can control the climate, as Soviet scientists are beginning to do, then vast pos sibilities are opened up not only in poultry breeding and egg production, but in many other farm industries. 