 Government suppresses pilots' charges BIG SCANDAL BREWING OVER AIRLINES | SAFETY (By the Parliamentary Roundsman) C YDNEY : Thousands of Australian airline pas- sengers' lives may be threatened by the profit hunger of private air line companies and the Gov ernment's failure to police safety precautions. Serious charges against the Holt Government and private airline companies over short comings in civil aircraft safety were suppressed by the Government last week, one day before the first of two plane crashes that killed 30. (On Thursday, a four-engined Viscount of the biggest private company — Anseitt-ANA— killed ail -24 aboard when it crashed near Winton (W. Qld.) follow ing an uncontrollable engine fire. On Saturday, a wartime Lockheed Hudson crashed near Tennant Creek (NT) killing all six aboard.) But on Wednesday, in Fed eral Parliament, Mr. L. T." De- vine, MHR (Labor, East Syd ney) was refused leave by the Government to place on record the contents of a petition signed early Hihis year by 125 licensed Australian airline pilots, pin pointing serious weaknesses in official testing and mainten ance checking procedures- Experience The pilots quoted from ex periences. and from the regula tions concerning DC3 aircraft to.show that insufficient margin of safety is being allowed, with particular reference to engine failures, including engine fires. They showed, too, that pilots are restricted in using their own "safety sense" — they cannot normally cut the load below a certain permitted rfiinimum fig ure even if they consider local conditions require an extra margin for takeoff. Pilots' demands Mr. Devine told the House that the Civil Aviation Minister had received the petition and the Department had replied that it could "ill afford the time" to investigate the pilots' de mands, which included — "Pilots and public alike are entitled to expect that they will benefit from the latest ad vances in aviation." "At no time should their uves ne jeopardised by failure to provide the safest possible operation." Tests "Properly conducted per formance tests and the intro duction of take-off charts with accountability for temperature, pressure and humidity. . Mr. Devine demanded to know if the Government thought that 125 airline pilots could be wrong on such issues, or that they would have no good reason for requesting the tests. He pointed out that the An- sett-ANA journal had quoted a lower figure for the required rate of climb for a DC3 plane after an engine failure than the figure required by the Depart ment. Mr. Devin also quoted in formation that one Ansett-ANA machine had had port engine failure 36 times in 12 weeks. Other major points exposed by Mr. Devine, and given little attention in most daily news- Papers, included: — a An aircraft is. permitted to fly even if a number of im portant instruments and com ponents are out of service, in cluding fuel gauges, artificial horizon instruments, windscreen wipers, pressurisation systems and generators — especially if the spare parts, are not imme diately available at the par ticular airport. - BB A #« engine tire Thus if such a fault occurs e-t Mt. Isa or Darwin, Mr. De-" vine said, and spares are not available, the plane can be okayed for flight back to Bris bane, Sydney or Melbourne. Pilots say that the .fuel gauges are vital, since fuel leak age in the wings can condemn a plane to rapid disintegration in the event of an engine fire such as occurred just before the Winton crash. Mr. Devine said there were no safety officers going round the airports checking on these mat ters, and no safety officers sta tioned at major airports. Existing airworthiness sur veyors investigated accidents and incidents, but could not make spot checks on airline maintenance and overhauling, and in any case did not work at night. Pilots who refuse to accept the conditions mentioned are subject to company Intimida tion, Mr. Devine revealed. 