 » - — I B I f f 4" F" 1 1-m ff I BTl jfS HELLO Tribune Juniors, I Continuing our story of Patchie the Spaniel, Tanya has- discovered that you must be patient and understanding if you want your dog to obey your commands and do tricks. IN THE FOREST 'pHE schoolchildren were preparing for a celebra tion. They were decorating the classrooms with green branches and stayed in school till it was quite dark. It was alright for those who lived nearby. But Tanya and her neighbours Kolya and Tolya, all three pupils of sec ond grade, had to walk over two miles across field and forest to reach home. The road in the forest was wash ed away by the rain and prac tically invisible. Said the boys: "We'd bet ter wait till they send the horse for us. The road can't be seen at all. It's kind of frightening to go." But Tanya would have none of it. She was a brave little girl— nothing could scare her so long as Patchie was with her. And Patchie was never far away. They even went to school together, Patchie wait ing in the school yard while Tanya was in class. So now Tanya said to the boys: "You little cowards! Patchie will run ahead and show us the road. She'll never get lost: she can tell her way with her nose." This convinced the boys, and the three of them set off down the road. They entered the forest, and the road lost itself in the darkness. But Patchie ran on ahead, and the children caught glimpses of her white back. The white showed well against the black of the road. The children went on and on— the road seemed mucn longer in the night, ther seemed to be no end to » Suddenly it began to snow. It was the first snow that year, but it came down very thick, in large, heavy flakes, cloaking everything about them. - Patchie gave a yap and then another and another, ana sped away out of sight, a hare must have strayed ou .on the road, and she was gw ing him the chase. , The children walked &heaQ a little way, and they felt un trampled ground under then feet. They went on further, and stumbled against som bushes and trees. The roaa had vanished. (To be continued) 