 Why the hush-hush policy on New Guinea? By JIM COOPER jyjEMBERS of the New Guinea select committee on constitutional development recently came down to Canberra for discussions with the Territories Minister on the future of their country. Some of them sharply criticised the Government's failure to commit itself. While it may have seemed that the Minister's conduct was rude, and was certainly accepted as such by some members of the select com mittee, the refusal in fact arose from very different motives. Mr. Barnes said on August 27, 1965: "While internal self- government is probably the minimum and sovereign inde pendence the maximum in political development, there is a variety of arrangements which could be made within these two positions if the people desired a continuing relationship with Australia." Colonialism in New Guinea began, as in all other colonies, as the imposition of the arbi trary power of the colonialists by a governor, and the "variety of arrangements" in between this and independence have always been determined by the pressure of the people within the colony and world opinion. Colonial power tries to give way only as far as necessary while retaining the real control. France, after trying many forms of sharing power, con ceived the plan of national . unity cf all her territories. A1J the territories were proclaimed as integral parts of France and were allowed to send rep resentatives to both chambers of the French parliament. Aeria with 11,001 C'O people had 11 ro.sr.sentative; in Ihe:' French parliament. An Alger ian Assembly was created in which the 1, COD, 030 French residents had equal represen tation with the Algerians whose representatives were elected on a severely limited vote. This was rejected by the Algerians who took up arms and finally expelled the French. A further "arrangement" is between USA and its colony Puerto Rico, which is nomin ally independent. Puerto Rico has its own parliament and ministerial control of all its departments. The important thing in the maintenance of US control is the ownership of the major sections of industry and agri culture in the hands of US monopolists. The inflow of capital from the USA ' from 1952 to 1957 was $7 million. The USA controls military and naval bases on the island. New Guineans have won the elected House of Assembly, but the Australian Government hopes to retain this more or I less as an ornament with no real power. It is evident that New Guineans will not tolerate this "arrangement" for long. What will be the next step? Probably some ministerial powers will be extended to the Adminis trator's Council. The present Administration with its Distrct Commissioners is the reality of authoritarian power exercised by the Aus tralian Government. Transfer of the control of the depart ments of the Administration to the elected members of the Administrator's Council who would then be acting as a Cabinet, would be an abdict- ion of Canberra's powers, , at least in part,, to the locally elected parliament. The actions of the Depart ment of Territories and its Administration since the assemblng of the new House are ample evidence that they don't intend to transfer any of their powers unless the mass pressure of the people forces the i-sue. Political independence is a important step on the road to full independence, but until a country achieves full econ omic independence it cannot call itself free and its develop ment is retarded. I Capital for development is the ' major problem of the fcrmer colonies, already ex ploited and often denuded by che operations of the colonial monopolies. In New Guinea very small amounts of capital are invested by the indigenous people. With wages at the present levels and the returns for agricultural products at low levels the possibility of expansion of in digenous capital is very lim ited. With ever $200 million in vested in the Territory by expatriates (mainly Australian) and the even greater capital of overseas companies operat ing, the profits being extracted from New Guinea must far exceed the total annual Com monwealth grant The struggle for indepen dence in New Guinea is one that is difficult and involved. The present Australian Gov ernment will seek to frustrate the drive of the people at every turn, so the indigenous leaders and the people need clear objectives. They need to be wary of the pitfalls which will be pre pared by private enterprise and they should seek to strengthen the public sector of the econ omy and increase the people's spending power. 