 v CUBANS are CLEAR . ..ON VIETNAM A second despatch from Tribune Editor ALEC ROBERTSON in Cuba. QNE thing in socialist Cuba that would ring a bell with most Australians in that the Vietnam war is the big- gest international political issue in daily life here. The Vietnamese people are re ceiving material and moral sup,- port from all socialist countries, particularly from the Soviet Union, against the American aggression; and, it is true, in all these countries the press gives big space to the Vietnamese struggle and mass meetings about the war are widely held. But in Cuba, it is worthy of special note that the national rev olutionary anniversary of July 26 was dedicated to the Vietnamese people. Never before has this sacred celebration been offered in tribute to another nation. July 26, 1953, was the day when the 27-year-old lawyer Fidel Castro led 95 young revolutionaries to a heroic dawn attack on the Moncada barracks in Santiago, seeking to wrench modern arms from the arsenal of the 1500 troops of the dictatorship, who were quartered there. The rock-like conviction and determination, the courage and the sacrifice of life of that superfic ially unsuccessful revolutionary offensive continue to be one of the main sources of inspiration for the Government and people of today's blockaded socialist Cuba. Normally, its annual celebration with a speech by Fidel himself to a vast mass meeting, is dev oted to a major 'stocktaking of Cuba's own problems and trir umphs. But is came as no surprise to the 800,000 enthusiastic Cubans gathered in Havana's Revolution Square when their eloquent Prime Minister declared: "We dedicate this 26th of July to the heroic fighters of North and South Vietnam". EAC" year in revolutionary Cuba is associated with a particular aim; 1966 is the "Year of Solidarity". In con crete terms, this has meant solidarity with Vietnam and with all the multiplying Latin American revolutionary struggles. Already in Cuba this year there have been two nation-wide Viet nam solidarity weeks in which highly publicised mass meetings, exhibitions, film shows, radio and TV programs have spanned the country with the facts about the war. In July, an important in ternational symposium in Havana examined scientific and legal as pects of genocidal methods used by the USA in Vietnam. Last March 13, Fidel Castro paid tribute to the heroic res istance of the Vietnamese people and publicity added his voice to the demand for international unity of the socialist countries to suport them— a unity which has been frustrated by the Chinese leaders. The Cuban Government repeated its early statement of readiness to send volunteers from its armed forces, if such help was asked for by the Vietnamese. The state ment recalled that it was Cuba that had first accredited a perm anent mission of the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam and had first set up a national committee of solidarity with south Vietnam and said "Vietnam's cause is our own cause". Then on July 26, Fidel Castro explained three significant points: "The people of Vietnam are defending not only their own right to freedom and independence but also that of other peoples that might be potential victims of imperialism. They are fighting for all the peoples of the world . . . they have given the world an invaluable example of courage and the world will always have to be thankful to the people of Vietnam for having thought that the size of a country is not important ust as the number of the enemy is not important. What is important in this case is conviction, love of country, firmness, perseverance, un conquerable spirit. 0 "The American imperialists are at this moment at the lowest level of prestige, at their highest level of uni versal hatred, in the greatest isolation they have ever suffered. The heroic Vietnamese resistance has brought them to this state." And he spelled out what was meant by Cuban volunteers to help Vietnam: "If Vietnam asks us for aid and tells us what kind of technicians they want us to send, whether tank, anti-aircraft, artillery or infantry specialists ... we will go to out well-trained military units and we will ask them . . . which of them want to go to Vietnam. And we know that entire units will be ready to go . . . complete units, together with theii equipment, to fight there." "THESE are no idle words, from the main, leader of a nation of 6i million only 90 miles from Florida, badgered and blockaded economically by the US Government since the revolu tion in 1959. A nation which has been bombed and invaded by US mercenaries in the abortive aggression of April 1961; directly menaced by US nuclear attack in the October crisis of 1982 sfiltrated ' by CIA assassins;; iccupied by the Navy's Guat amo base from which come : uent provocations in the formii iir incursions and aggressive gi >: Cuba "wi ibe immediately attacked . w ;ver any great conflict bri nci out in any country of 'world," Castro estimated1 lal March (and the green-clad 'ma ind women of the army and ilia 'in every part oi this isiantiow it well). Takmg alljlse; statements to gether, theSe: no doubt the Cuban prepared to stake KWQrfSjgfnot only on the principle Ami a bsOltite necess ity for ra||psupport for any socialist tafpthat comes under imperialism but also on the opportunitsTOhas been opened, by the Vielfe/people's stand, for g deatrafci-jlto imperialist wars of"t|l||on as practised by the USABvietnam. Does thisoroirm to the facts? In the light;!®' 'long talk I had with twdiinl ind . a woman of the National! leration Front of South Vietef who had travelled thousands! hcult miles from the jungle (of a in Havana, the answer wassTOar. Huynh Phan, a quiet s®k arming man from the centred luth Vietnam, said flatly that the USA is "caught" in both South and North Vietnam. "Their whole plan to scorch the land and weaken the people in that period (the "dry" season) was frustrated by our forces which are now on the offensive and inflicting heavy losses," he said. J_|UYNH Phan pointed out, too, that each of the four major increases made in US forces in South Vietnam since March, 1965, has been accompanied by a burst of protestations from Washing ton about its "peaceful intentions". "The aim of these is to influence people internationally to .support the USA, or to weaken opposition to their aggression, which is aimed at the permanent subjug ation of South Vietnam to their interests," he said. It was easy to understand why Huynh Phan and his co-delegates from the jungle were acclaimed as heroes wherever they went in the hero-country of Cuba — and why, as he said, they would go back to Vietnam further strength ened in their resolve to defeat the invaders. 