 Facts on automation J have read with interest articles just published on the problems of automation. As this problem is vital for the Labor Movement of our uuuntry, i wisn to araw at tention to a number of in accuracies in the contribution of J. J. Brown. Being a par ticipant in the Transport Union Group in Melbourne, I am keenly aware of Comrade Brown's interest in the question of automation. Mr. Brown states in his article that some 50 jobs were eliminated recently by the ap- plication of automation to the engine room of a new Italian passenger ship on the Australian run. The ships in question are the Flotta-Lauro Line vessels, "Angelino Lauro" and "Archille Lauro". Prior to a major refit they were "Willem Buys" (24,000 tons) and "Oranje" (21,000) respectively, and were oper ated by Dutch owners. As these vessels were not large, it is very doubtful that they would have had an engineroom complement of 50. If they had half this number, for Dutch ships it would have been good mann ing. Dutch Companies have never been noted for large crews. Only very large ves sels, the like of "Canberra" (40,000 tons) the "Queen Mary" and "Queen Eliza beth", (80,000 tons plus) carry complements of 50 and upwards in the engineroom. Mr. Brown also refers to a tanker, built in France for the Shell Oil' Company need ing only 4 people to run the ship. Again, this is at var iance with the facts, The vessel referred . to is the super-tanker "Dolabella" of 65,000 tons dead weight. This ship was the subject of a detailed article in the Aus tralian Financial Review (6/7/66). According to the Financial Review report, the actual crew numbers 23, from the Captain to the most . junior rating. In Maritime experience this is a very low manning. However there is a considerable difference be tween 23 and 4. The point I wish to emphasize is that ex aggeration or mishandling of the factual material available should be avoided. Otherwise I found all the articles very interesting and informative. Tribune is to be com mended for initiating a dis cussion on the vital prob lems of the working class and automation. Other lead ers and activists of the Labor Movement should be asked and encouraged to submit their views to the discussion. R. Wilson, Asst-Sec., Victorian Branch, Seamen's Union of Australia. 