 METAL UNIONS SEEK MARGINS LIFT NOW By an Industrial Correspondent METAL unions are seeking an immediate increase in margins for. workers covered by the Metal Trades Award. This increase is being sought as a down-payment on the full increases claimed and now be- ing investigated by Counciliat- j ion Commissioner Winter. A claim seeking this interim increase has been notified to metal employers. Decision to seek an interim increase on the full claims is not new. xne iiKennooa oi such a claim was foreshad owed in the 1966 national wage case decisions and was contained in resolutions of the ACTU Wages Committee and Interstate Executive since the ! Arbitration Commission's de cision was handed down. The claim now filed for interim increase does not mention any sum of money. However the case will be based upon the movements in productivity and prices since the general 10 per cent increase in margins in 1963. Confined to these grounds the increase to be claimed for A metal tradesman would be limited to approximately $2.00 less the 60 cents increase in the 1965 national wage decision. Full This would give an interim claim of $1.40 for base rate tradesmen, i.e. fitter, boiler- maker, etc., and lesser amounts for the varying non-tradesman classifications. Full claims are for $5.90 in crease in the current trades man's margin of $11.20 and correspondingly lower increase for other classifications. These claims are the subject of a special investigation cur rently being made by Com missioner Winter. They will be finally dealt with by the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission which dealt with the 1966 national wage case following Commissioner Win ter's report on his investigat ions. At present Mr. Winter is in- specting work performed by classifications selected by the unions and the employers in metal work-places in Queens land. With similar inspections still to be made in at least three other States, it will be some time before his report is made and the full margins claims finally dealt with by the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission. With the $2.00 basic wage in crease made earlier this year already heavily eroded by tax ation, increased government charges and price rises, more than the likely $1.40 interim increase being sought is need ed to restore lost purchasing power of wages. 