 SP/fftTS r 'She's apples, mate!" By THE CHALLENGER JHE " Hungry Mile" athletics carnival at Sydney's Sussex I I Street next Thursday between noon and 1.15 p.m., is draw- I ing some very interesting starters to its events. 1 For example, Ron Macker- i ras writes that the hopes ox 9 wharfies in Hobart for this year's fruit season, will be carried by popular Water- I side Workers' Federation member and Communist, Adrian Lubbe, in the vete rans' walking event. A win for him would be a great advertisement for Tasmanian apples, for on this diet he has been work ing a ten-hour shift on Hobart wharves, plus a five to six mile roadwork each day. The "Hungry Mile" carni val has been organised by the Sydney branch of the Waterside . Workers' Federa tion to help raise finance for | the Commonwealth Games g Fund for the Australian team. Union protest -THE Sydney and South 1 Coast Branches of the 1 Federated Engine Drivers I and Firemen's Association have protested to Immi gration Minister, Mr. Op- perman, on Australia's loss of the World Table Tennis Championship early next year due to his refusal to permit entry of players i from North Vietnam. The union points out the Minister's previous imposi tion of "nasty restrictions" on East Germans, who will be participating in the Mod ern Pentathlon Champion ships to be held later this year in Melbourne. These restrictions include a ban on the East Germans to exhibit their national flag or play their national an them. | Another Reappraisal! I IT is some time since the West has made a reap praisal of the Soviet Union's scientific know- how. This week the United States launched another space satellite in an endea vour to catch up to the Soviet Union's soft landing on the moon. Author Fred Cook in his book, "The F.B.I. Nobody Knows", pointed out that when the U.S. counsel for the Senate Internal Security Committee announced that the Soviet Union had stolen the "secret" of Sputnik from the U.S. even the New York n Herald Tribune gagged on it. I This paper had said that I if it were true, the U.S. had 1 better dust the carbon I copies of its old "secret", 1 as it could sure enough use I it. 1 Last week the "Australian" 1 reported that U.S. Vice-Pre- 1 sident Hubert 'Humphrey 1 made what could be con- I sidered another reappraisal I — that of Soviet sport. | Mr. Humphrey urged Ame ricans to prove that a free (?) society could surpass the Soviet Union in the de velopment of amateur ath letes. "We are going to be humi liated as a great nation un less we buckle down to the task of giving our young people a chance to compete," said Humphrey. Such a humiliation was suffered recently, when the Soviet Union won the World and European ice-hockey championship for the fourth successive time — a record in itself, which even the Canadians, who invented the sport, have never been able to equal. Since the Soviet Union's, entry into the Olympics, an I end has been put to the | unchallenged reign of the j United States in interna- tional sport. This i,s particularly true in the field of light athletics j as a whole, fencing, chess, | gymnastics, basketball, vol- I leyball, shooting, etc. | It won't be' long now be- 1 fore Soviet sportsmen chal- I lenge the West's domination in swimming. I There is no lack of I material needs to prevent the 1 development of Soviet sports- I men. I The capitalist countries, as I has been pointed out have I been forced to make reap- I praisals of Soviet science | and sport. I Before long we will ieed I to make a reappraisal of the a Soviet Union's concept of I "freedom" and of our own. 