 Peace and dramatics HERE is plenty of high drama in Washington "at this time". Perhaps "dramatics" is a better word. There was the temporary halt in the aggressive bombing of North Vietnam; the scurrying of US envoys through various world capitals to no avail; the resumption of bombing and (on the same day) an approach to the UN Security Council that took everyone by surprise; there is this week's scamper to Hawaii for talks &c> unexpected that they caught Air Marshal Ky, Saigon Premier, with his flamboy ant pants down. Even more startling, the American Administration, which previously rejected the idea of a Geneva conference on Vietnam, now claims to favor it, according to last week's reports. ? ? But, in the context of the Vietnam war, "Geneva" means not merely a place to talk but the Geneva agreements , which were concluded in 1954 to open the way to a unified, independent Vietnam. The main decision made then was that foreign troops (French, at that stage) should be with drawn, that no part of Vietnam should have an alliance with a foreign power and that no further foreign troops or arms be introduced into Viet nam. Unless they are prepared to respect this agree ment, as originally they promised they would, the Americans can save themslves the cost of a trip to Geneva or any other place. The heavy sacrifices by the Vietnamese people over 15 years of war for their independence and „.... democracy are not likely to be lightly set aside. President Ho Ghi Minh of the (north) Vietnam Democratic Republic, replying to the US "peace offensive", said: "If the US really desires a peaceful settlement it must recognise the DRV's four-point program and confirm this by deeds. It must stop the bombing and oher military actions against the DRV finally and unconditionally. . . "If the US really observes the 1954 Geneva agree ments it should withdraw from south Vietnam all its troops and the troops of its satellites. . ." The US shows no the slightest sign of even begin ning to comply with any of these Geneva-dictated conditions. On the contrary it is proposing an "unconditional" conference. President Ho also said that the essence of the US policy and current activities is an attempt to "remain in south Vietnam, to preserve the US-created puppet administration there and split our Vietnam". President Ho is not by any means alone in this view. For example, New York Times editor James Reston said that the recent "peace" pause took place "while there was a severe supply problem on the allied side, with dozens of tankers, ammunition ships and other cargo vessels tied up off south Vietnam. "This was not only greatly relieved during the pause, but US officials estimate that the US and south Vietnam brought in substantially more sup plies during the pause than the enemy." That is, the "peace pause" had . military advant ages for the USA. ; Clearly the US is not preparing for peace but for a bigger war. As Rupert Lockwood's message in this issue indicates, it may include a naval block ade involving clashes with DRV allies. ; It is also clear that the US has a bigger scheme in mind than the winning of the unwinnable Viet nam war. The gigantic US budget announced last month contained provision for tremendous lifts in US spending at bases all round China and south-east Asia, from Korea to Thailand. Former Under-Secretary of State Roger Hilsman warned last week that the US was headed for a collision course with China and war was inevitable it matters continued as at present. In the light of these factors, all well-known in Washington, the present dazzling display of US "dip lomatic peace moves" can be summed up as: ingcnr ious political manoeuvring by Johnson to combat the public criticism at home and abroad; and a screen for the hard facts of a mammoth US military buildup in south Vietnam and the western Pacific.' 