 1 LJaUL LJLJb UI J 'Varsity veto on Vietnam yCADEMICS at Australian universities who took parti in a recent poll on the Vietnam war opposed it by a substantial majority, ac- cording to an announcement last week by the poll organ isers. The verdict of the poll will do nothing to assist the Holt Gov ernment's election campaigning. Of 1337 university staff members who took part in the poll, 721, or 54 per cent, opposed the war while 399, or 30 per cent, supported it, according to the poll organ isers. - Biggest proportionate opposition to the war came from the Uni versity of Tasmania which voted against it by 69 to 21, and Sydney, where the result showed 65 against and 24 for. Forty nine per cent of the acad emics said they believed that a "Vietcong" victory would not threaten Australia. Only 28 be lieved that it would. Forty-eight per Cent said that the US had no right, moral or Otherwise, to impose a military solution on Vietnam, 28% backed the US stand. Opposition to the war was strongest among top academics, . 55% of the 152 professors taking part being against the war. Organising the survey were Messrs G. Sinclair and Alex Carey of the NSW University and Drs. K. McNab and I. V. Newman, of Sydney University. Over to you, Mr. Holt |"HE Government has to face the politically diffi cult decision as to what to do about Mr. William ' White, Sydney school teacher who, as a conscientious ob jector, refused to obey his call-up notice. . ' His appeal to the High Court to set aside the decision of a lower court that he must obey the call-up was dismissed last week. Mr. White has - stated that' he . will still refuse to join the Army. A decision by the Government to commit him to a military prison for taking a stand on con scientious grounds (similar to the one Mr. Holt and Sir Robert Menzies both took in their day without the same grounds of conscience) would lead to pro test. Mr. White is backed by a strong committee, headed by teachers, which has won him extensive backing. Army to fight demonstrators? RIOT content with the Commonwealth and State police forces and their "Security" outfit, special squads, other political police, and the riot-squads, tjhe Holt Government is now having army men trained to handle demonstrations. This emerged from a Rockhamp- ton (Central Queensland) Morn ing Bulletin report on Oct. 24. The report said that a demon stration was staged by CMF members, "with a few outsiders, to test the Army's efficiency in dealing with disturbances of this nature." The staged disturbance included a sitdown and lie-down across the roadway at the main gate of the Army's 1st Logistic Support Force. ' Those who confronted them in cluded military police 'and armed reserve guards, and a fire truck . was brought up. " Later, the I LSF commander, Colonel K. R. Colwill, said that the demonstration had been "beneficial" to the troops involved. But it is certainly not "bene ficial" to democracy that such stunts be staged to train army men to "handle" people who seek to put their views by peaceable ways. This sort of thing calls for pro- . tests. "Bogey" men don't help ALP election cam paign TV film shown in Sydney at the weekend introduced a disturbing anti-communist theme into that party's campaign. The , film, with comment by Federal deputy leader E. G. Whi.t- lam, dealt with Vietnam. Good visual shots exposed the suffer- 1 ing of the Vietnamese people in the war but the commentary ran ' , -right away from the main issue as . spelled out by Mr. Calwell last week in the official policy speech- conscription and the disengage ment of Australian forces from the war. ! Instead, viewers saw a menac ing head of Mao Tse-tung imposed on a map of south-east Asia, and heard a long explanation that Holt should be defeated because he wasn't emulating the USA by sending more "civil aid" along- . side the military activity. The final appeal was along the lines that more civil aid was needed in order to win the "fight against communism" for the West. If this is the best the NSW leadership of the ALP can do, they would do better to stay out of the ..... campaign, since such material can, U only divide and confuse the labor J movement' and weaken the chances c of defeating Holt. 1 