 inn; n r t- r i K ii n a. £ ELLO Tribune Juniors, Last week our friends stayed late at school, it was dark when they left. Hoping that Patchie would find their way home for them they walked on, suddenly the road vanished I fpHE children turned back, thinking to retrace their steps. But no road. They took to the right and found them selves in a forest thicket. They turned left and walked on for an eternity— the forest seemed to become less dense, the tops of ' the trees were now visible, but the road was still nowhere in sight. The children stopped: they realized that they had lost their way. The two boys snif fed and snuffled, and than they burst out crying! Tanya felt worse than any of them: it was she who had persuaded the little boys to come with her, without wait ing for the horse. Now, since they had strayed off the road, the horse and buggy would never find them in the dark. Tanya felt that she alone was responsible. FOOTSTEPS Tanya seated the boys ben eath a large fir tree: she could tell even in the dark it was a fir tree by the way the way the needles pricked her hands. Kolya and Tolya gave voice to their fright and were sobbing freely now. "We're done for!" they said over and' over again. "We'll freeze in the cold or else the bears and wolves will come and eat us!" "You be still", Tanya ad monished them. "There aren't any bears and wolves in these parts and there haven't been, not for a hundred years. They were driven out long ago." And all the while she kept remembering how her mother had told her only yesterday that a bear had appeared in the forest beyond the lake and killed a calf. It couldn't take him very long to find his way to their part of the forest, could it? And, oh, how fright ened Tanya became at the though! She wanted to call to Patchie, but found she couldn't utter a sound: what if the bear heard her instead of Patchie! Suddenly Tanya seemed to hear a strange noise coming ever closer from the distance! It was as though Baba-Yaga, the Witch with the Switch, were tramping along the road, striking the frozen ground with her stick. Closer, closer came the sound . . . Clumpe- ty-clump! Clumpety-clump! The boys were still sobbing and heard nothing. But Tan ya's heart turned over in fright. If only Patchie were with her, she would have sniffed the air and known what it was. (To be concluded) 