 [?] Safety iced-up "THE disastrous Ansett- ANA Viscount crash near Winton (Qld.) nearly two months ago drew from Civil Aviation Minister Swartz the promise of a public in quiry as soon as his depart ment's technical inquiry was completed. To borrow a pilot's phrase, the Minister has since been stalled, despite the fact that another An- sett ANA Viscount engine caught fire at Hobart on October 15. Counting also the Viscount that caught fire at Mangalore (Vic) in August, 1965, three Ansett Vis count engines have burned over r. relative short period. Some Opposition MHRs after Winton, said they believed that the Government would delay the inquiry to stave off a major pre election scandal on air un-safety. They were on the ball. Reg and the regulations jsjOT so fast Mr. Minister Swartz. There's some thing else. It seems that Ansett-ANA's Plight Manager, Line Operations (Mr. Murdoch) on July 14 issued a letter to «his pilots. He said: "We have recently sustained some delays to our services where pilots, checking engine hours) have decided that the subject engines were out of hours, and therefore should be changed before the aircraft can be flown. "Let me assure you that you need to have no fear in this area, that this is the .responsibility of the Maintenance and Overhaul Manager, and provided that the aircraft and its engines are prop erly "signed off" in the trip record, you have completed your responsibility . . . " Now, Mr. Swartz, isn't it a fact that your department's regulations state- that such responsibility lies with engineers and pilots? Four Corners — the facts |Sy|EWS that Four Corners would show two film documentaries instead of their usual program during the election campaign, made it appear obvious that Gov ernment pressure for political purposes was once again raising its ugly head. Friends of this significant and important TV program immediat ely took to pen and telephone in its defence. However the chief of ABC publicity in Sydney Glen Hamilton, told Tribune this week that the only reason for the change in plans was to allow Four Corners to do what had never been attempted before— a complete profile on an election campaign. This meant that they had to send a man to each state, which then made it impossible to. produce two weekly programmes. Mr. Hamilton denied that the BBC documentary to be shown next Saturday night was "just a travelogue. "It was an important film dealing with scientific achieve ments in Siberia and it would be followed a week later with a documentary on American scien- tific achievements, centring on the Massachusetts' Technical Institute he said. ' Still, we don't, think the gov ernment can breathe a sigh of relief. Past experience shows that even objective BBC documentary films (e.g. Michael Charlton on Vietnam) can cause uproar in Canberra. She won't vote Liberal now "J"V cameras were in action on Monday at the Wentworth (Sydney) elec toral office as 2 1 -year-old conscript Brian King handed in his nomination papers as candidate in the Federal arena. Clearly, up till recently, he had never even dreamed he would be standing for election against a Cabinet Minister— in this case, Labor and National Service Minister Bury. The background— three times his appeal for exemption as a con scientious objector was refused in court. Now comes his most important form of protest. Later at a beer garden press conference, Brian said in his de termined way: "Once the Govern ment introduced conscription for Vietnam, it ceased to be a liberal government." His mother, Mrs. A. King, also at hand, said she had always voted Liberal but conscription had changed her mind. "If a boy wants to go in the army, all right," she said "But I didn't rear three boys for the Government to come and snatch . , them away against their will." | & Brian King and his mother. 