 [?] The Miners' Federation of Australia Sends May Day greetings to all members and to trade unionists throughout the world. May peace and unity be our watchwords. W. Parkinson General President W. Mahon General Secretary May Day Greetings 1966 To all people who are concerned with the need for a just and peaceful world. From — Current Book Distributors. Wholesale distributors of Progressive literature and periodicals from all parts of the globe. CURRENT BOOK DISTRIBUTORS PTY. LTD., 168 Day Street, SYDNEY. The Job Delegates Association of the Sydney Branch of the Waterside Workers" Federation extends frater nal greetings on this 75th Australian May Day Anniversary to all workers and people struggling for peace and a better life. THE GREEK MAY DAY COMMITTEE , SYDNEY, exfends fraternal greetings on the 75th Australian anniversary of May Day to all Australian workers and to workers of the world . For Peace f democracy and prosperity The Italian Progressive Movement extends greetings for the 75th Australian Anniversary of May Day for peace and international friendship. I THE MINERS' FEDERATION Southern District, extends May Day greetings and fraternal good wishes to its members and to the workers of the world for success in struggles for living standards, international solidarity and world peace. A. Marshall Wollongong Secretary Seamen 's May Day Message World Without War On the occasion .of the 75 th Australian Annivers ary of May Day — day of international peace, friendship and progress for the people of all lands — the Seamen's Union of Australia greets fellow Australians and our international brothers. We pledge ourselves to continue the struggle foT world unity, peace and happiness. E. V. ELLIOTT, Federal Secretary The Operatife Painters and Decorators Union of Australia N.S.W. Branch. The Officers and Management Committee greet all members and fellow trade unionists on this ' day which annually affirms the resolution of all to work in unity for common aims. F. BUTLER, Secretary. BUILDING WORKERS' INDUSTRIAL UNION N.S.W. Branch, Sendis May Day greetings to our members and to trade unionists the world over. Pat Clancy, Secretary. The Liquor Industries Union Extends fraternal greetings to all trade unionists at home and abroad. For and on behalf of the N.S.W. Management Committee. W. J. Roser, State Secretary. Newcastle unionists, fighters for peace in Vietnam and all who support price control, higher wages and improved living standards, MARCH ON MAY DAY, SUNDAY, MAY 1. Assemble at 1.30 pm. Move off at 2 pm from King and Pacific Street, via Hunter Street to No 1 Sports Ground. There will be an afternoon of sports and the crowning of the May Queen. Guest speaker will be Mr. M. O'Brien, Fed eral secretary, Australian Railways Union. Fifteen Central Coast and North Coast bands will compete. March for these trade union demands, Increased wages, mar gins, price control, no conscription, peace and a National shipping line. SOUTH COAST MAY DAY COMMITTEE GREETS the workers of the whole world on the occasion of the 75th Australian anniversary of May Day. For Peace and Socialism. Federated Engine Drivers' and Firemen's Assodation, N.S.W. Extends hearty fraternal May Day greetings to members , their families, and to all trade unionists. March for increased wages and margins! D. REES, Secretary. The Boilermakers & Blacksmiths' Society of Australia, Sydney Branch Ho. 1, extends fraternal international greetings to all Aus tralian workers find international workers the World over for consolidation of workers' aims, May Day, 1966. H. Grant, Secretary. Milk & Ice Carters & Dairymen's Employees Union of Australia Extends fraternal May Day greetings to all workers and expresses the sincere desire that the immediate future will see the further development of socialism, world peace and international brotherhood. Rex Rickard, General Secretary. Amalgamated Engineering Union Sydney District Committee extends May Day greetings to our members and to members of the trade union move ment throughout the world, and calls for a peaceful solution in Vietnam. M. J. Malcolm, Secretary. NEW THEATRE 1 EXTENDS May Day greetings for peace and friendship on occasion of 75 th Australian anniversary. NEW THEATRE, St. Peter's Lane, E. Sydney. Federated Ship Painters and Dockers MAY DAY GREETINGS FOR PEACE, HIGHER LIVING STANDARDS, SOCIALISM. Divert war budgets to peaceful needs! T. GORDON, Federal Secretary. / The Waterside Workers' Federation Port Kembla Branch, extends warm May Day greetings to its members and their families and to workers everywhere. We demonstrate for peace, socialism and living standards. The Waterside Workers' Federation SYDNEY BRANCH Greets its members and the international working class on this 75th Australian anniversary of May Day in the fight for better living standards and a world at peace. Tom Nelson, Secretary. The Boilermakers and Blacksmiths' Society of Australia The Federal Officers greet the 75th An niversary as a day which affords workers an opportunity to celebrate the achievements of the labor movement, both nationally and internationally; and to demonstrate our determination to achieve: (a) Improved living standards. (b) The end of the aggressive war against the Vietnamese people. (c) To build and strengthen the international solidarity of the world's working peoples struggle for peace and socialism. All members are urged to roll up and march in the districts in which you live or work. J. Bevan, Federal Secretary. 