 Under pressure I mi || 1 1 III I III! Ill imillliHUlM Ml 1 1 III I I—HUM Milium IMIIIII— —iMIIIHMM Willi HOLT ADMITS BIG WAR PL AN By A Political Correspondent If "pHE Federal election campaign, reaching its climax, 1 has forced the Government to admit its intention 1 to increase Australian troops in the Vietnam war. | There can no longer be doubt that! a secret promise I of at least another battalion has been made to the I United States, probably dating from the period of the Johnson visit. A RAAF combat squadron has also been mentioned. Pressure by all anti-conscription parties and groups and the effect on public opinion last weekend forced Prime Minister Holt to abandon the tactic of saying nothing about the plan during the election campaign. In a Brisbane TV interview, Holt declared the Gov ernment "would unhesitatingly increase its Vietnam commitment if the allies decided to escalate the war". A simultaneous new statement by US Vietnam com- I mander Westmoreland that "still more" troops were needed showed clearly enough that the escalation is on the way. The New York Times predicted 100,000 more troops would go in. The continuing failure of the Australian Govern ment to gain volunteers in any number ensures that Australian contingents would in future be mainly con scripts, if the Government remains in office. Further evidence of the Government's hard-line war commitment was given by Defence Minister A. Fair- hall last week. He said that even if the USA and Britain pulled out of south-east Asia, Australia would still keep military forces there. The results of two recent public opinion polls in dicated that conscription and the Vietnam war were major election issues. Sixty-seven per cent of replies to a questionnaire conducted in 1 4 key electorates by the staff of "Inside Canberra" during October and Nov ember expressed opposition tp conscription of 20- year-olds for Vietnam, even though 62 per cent favored participation in some way in the Vietnam war. "Inside Canberra" in analysing the survey predic ted a swing, against the Government which might reach four per cent. While conscription is not the only issue the news sheet; believes "it is the only one likely to cause a major swing". They said that there is considerable evidence that the electors are also disturbed about rising costs, health and education. In conducting ,tbe survey people were asked how they voted in 1 963 and how they proposed to vote this year; 49.5 per cent indicated that they voted Liberal 4 Country Party in 1963, 44.5 per cent for the ALP and 6 per cent for others. In indicating how they would vote next Saturday, 4 1 per cent said they would vote Liberal-Country Continued on Page 12. Holt admits war plan Continued from Page 1 . Party, 4.7 per cent would vote Labor and 4 per cent others. A poll taken in Canberra last Friday by the Can berra Times also "revealed that the major parties have succeeded in making the Vietnam war and conscrip tion the main issues in the election campaign". Of 71 people questioned in Canberra streets 48 described eit,her or both as the most important question and selected education as the next compelling issue. "A mother with one son in Vietnam said she had always been a Liberal but this time would vote Labor over the conscription issue," the Times said. Results of these two surveys appear poles apart from another public opinion poll which reported there could be a 5 per cent swing to the Government. Political observers recall that this poll, which is close ly associated with the Melbourne Herald and the Sydney Fairfax group, was wide of the mark in its 1963 forecasts. Factors seen as providing the basis for a substantial swing against the Government on Saturday include: — The growing unpopularity of conscription and the Vietnam war. ® The economic effects of- the massive war budget which Holt plans to increase. These include already general increases in state government fares and other charges and relative stagnation of the economy. ® Failure of the Government to face up -to urgent needs in social services and national development, while the Communist, and Labor parties have ad vanced realistic programs, including price control, wage increases, free hospitalisation, a new deal in ed ucation, and restriction of foreign capital exploitation. ® The emergence of the Liberal Reform group. In 1940, jfwo Liberal rebels polled over 20,000 votes between them in safe Liberal seats (Nt- B. Rydge, 7,189 votes against the sitting Member's 25,561 in Parramatta, NSW, and N. Cowper, 13,099 against the Members 26,969 in Wentworth, NSW). ® The open and hostile clash between the Country Party and Liberal Party co'alifiion members. Country Party Leader and Deputy Prime Minister McEwen is spending the final week of the campaign hitting not at the ALP but at the Liberals. 