 TEACHERS' CONFERENCE DEMANDS FEDERAL AID FOR EDUCATION SYDNEY: The annual conference of the N.S.W. Teachers' Federa tion, held prior to Christmas, urged the State Premier (Mr. As kin) to make a strong demand on the Federal Government for finance to ensure that the school building program for 1966-7 is carried out. "J1 HE 380 conference delegates, representing about 180 Teachers' Associations throughout N.S.W., made this demand for finance following an nouncements by the State Minister for Education (Mr. Cutler) of a cutback in the building program. Already 11 woriters from the school building and maintenance section of the Public Works Depart ment have been sacked and a further 160 dismissals are threaten ed early this year. These are at a time when the school building program needs ex panding to cope with the heavier requirements for secondary educa tion. State aid Suspending standing orders, conference carried a resolution that state aid to non-State schools was "undemocratic and opposed to the best interests of the Aus tralian people." Miss Helen Palmer, of the Second ary Teachers' Association, said state aid "is a fraud because in the guise of liberality and social justice it is being effected for purely political reasons." The state aid handouts were be ing made as an excuse for the Com monwealth Government not inves tigating the vast problems of public school education, she said. Wages, salaries A resolution on salaries said that in preparing the 1966 claim, priority will be given to lifting the rates of classroom teachers to a professional level. Conference said that in view of the extensive increase in prices and the refusal of the Public Service Board to give the 1£- per cent margins increase to teachers, the Federation will take steps to mount a vigorous dual campaign in support of salary justice for teachers. "The spirit of International Co operation Year must not be allowed to die out," conference said. . To this end, continuing efforts should be made to emphasise the amount of co-operation that does exist between nations, and support be given to international contacts at all levels. Schools throughout the State are to be asked to establish relation ships with schools in other coun tries. The Department of Education will also be asked to print and circulate to all schools excerpts from the basic United Nations documents. "Work together" A declaration unanimously carried by conference said "teachers, what ever their political or religious affi liations, should work together for improvement in educational facili ties and working conditions." Every Federation member must have the right to nominate for and be elected to any position and must have the right to vote freely in Federation elections without direction or dictation from any body outside the Federation. "The Federation is the property of all the members and not of any sec tion or group of members nor any group of Federation officers or of ficials," conference said. A lengthy resolution was carried by conference following wide discus sion on this year's topic, "recruit ment and training of teachers." "The NSW Government is not honoring its responsibility in the recruitment and training of teachers and to provide satisfactory condi tions for learning in the public schools. "The education of children must be entrusted only to fully qualified teachers," conference said, and called for the extension of training to four ! years. The State Government is called on to accept the principle of four years' training for all teachers; as a first step to this, three years' training be introduced into one college in 1966. Teacher trainees during their first and second year of training should be paid 50 per cent of the commenc ing rate of a two-year trained teacher. This rate should be increased to 60 per cent in third year, 70 per cent in fourth year and 80 per cent in fifth year. At the moment the majority of teacher trainees in NSW receive an annual allowance of less than £280. The resolution also demands that young teachers be exempted from compulsory, military service. "It is the responsibility of the State and Federal Governments to provide the finance necessary to im plement this program," conference said. The Council and Executive of the Federation is called on to organise a public campaign to establish a satisfactory system of public educa tion in NSW. At the opening session of the Teachers Conference at the Union Theatre, University of Sydney. 