 Tribune J r&lt;sh Mo y Day bhIBBMB t r 2 ) S WW I \m v I IMF w Vr- LLVrf A W smi gf IM0X4WM Wi |r I (M F-f ,.,« iPBM. L Rf gg si I 1 BBs k !— jmifciiitKaw; — H ill feii ill liM HSrSSSBs i III i, ill ii | JEVENTY-FIVE years ago, in the west- Jljj ern Queensland town of Barcaldine, j |!l, 340 men (618 of them on horseback) r pioneered Australia's first May Day I jl (procession. f ill This historic event placed Australian worneis | ( among the iirst in the world t,o cdebrate May Day ' |1 as a Day of labor and international friendship. 1 Today's May Day finds a still more urgent need, j ' not only for the ideas of peace, friendship and social progress, but also for increasingly powerful united action by the workers for these aims, s,o necessary for every family. The decision to observe May Day as an interna tional day of working-class demonstrations in all countries had been reached in Paris in 1889 at an international workers' congress, j The following year when the first procession was held at Barcaldine (centre of the mighty strike struggle of the shearers in that year) the local "Labor Bulletin" wrote: "In the procession . every civilised country was . represented . . . showing that Labor's cause is one the world over, foreshadowing the time when the swords shall be turned into ploughshares and Liberty, Peace and Friendship will knit together the nations of the earth". That was the workers' message 75 years ago. The same theme will predominate in the jubilee marches in Australian cities this year. Every one of those 75 years has made it plainer j\ that by acting together the international working |i class — the world's mightiest force — can win what 1 its members want. || The eight-hour day — an unrealised aim in 1889 ||k in most of the world — is now established as stan- gfidard practice in every civilised country. HI Legal trade unions, the right to form workers' 111 political parties,- and vote in elections, a shorter m working day, a minimum living wage — these I' demands, emblazoned on May Day banners, have ) been enforced on the ruling powers in country after country. Socialism, a dream in 1891, is now a fact over a third of the world. Peace is not yet general or secure, but today there is a great world movement to this end. Through the years May Day has continued as an important part of our history but not without many fierce struggles against opposition from employers and their government representatives. Today, too, the workers are attacked by the same forces — through the courts with heavy fines for fj trade union activity, through laws that restrict their ' democratic rights, and through the activity of secret political police. But May Day lives and grows because it symbolises the rightful demands and the strength of organised labor. Today in 1966, demanding higher living standards and control of prices and profits, Australian workers are deeply aware, too, of the need, echoed by workers in mo? other countries, to stop the war of interven tion in Vietnam and the conscription of Australian youth for overseas. By rallying their strength in ever-closei unity and joining with other sections of the people, Australian workers of hand and brain can make these demands, too, a reality. mms PRospfxrF, 