 YOUTH UNITE AGAINST CONSCRIPTION SYDNEY: A national to initiate Commonwealth scription for overseas servi al conference of youth gr |T was the first such con ference to be held. Thirty-one delegates - were present representing Youth Against Conscription (Queens land) and the Youth Campaign Against Conscription (NSW and Victoria). Supporting messages were re ceived from groups in South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania, and the ACT. It is understood that this is the first national meeting of anti-conscription bodies held since the anti-conscription cam paigns of 1914-18' This year marks the 50th an- I niversary of the 1916 refer- j endum, when conscription was j defeated. Petition Last - weekend's conference decided to prepare and circul ate an Australia-wide petition \ to Federal Parliament condemn- | tag conscription. | A press statement said it was I also resolved that all anti-con- I scription bodies should co-oper- 1 ate to organise big demonstra- | wons in each state, with partic- j u»ar emphasis on the occasion j f the first batch of conscripts leaving for Vietnam, f The press statement said the conference urged anti-conscrip- uon demonstrators to adopt j techniques of non-violent non co-operation and non-violent resistence, should they be ar rested, as the most effective and publicly approved way of Protesting. "fP16 conference condemned tne narrow and poorly inform- T?,n., burst of 'PP' singer y Starr against anti-con- co-ordinating committee -wide action against con- ce was set up by a nation- oups here last weekend. scription demonstrators," the press statement said. "The conference challenged the RSL to hold a referendum among all its members to find their true feeling on the ques tions of overseas conscription and the war in Vietnam." Investigations are to be car ried out by .the National Co ordinating Committee into the sincerity, honesty and genuine ness of the ballot system based on marbles and birth dates. Addressing the public session ' of the conference, lytr. E. L. Pollard of the Federal Pacifist Council said the right of consci entious objection should be bet ter known to conscripts. "Inquisition" He was disturbed that only one objector in NSW had been granted total exemption and this was on an appeal from the magistrate's decision. Exempt ions from combatant service were few. This contrasted with other states. Mr. Pollard said objectors stated their grounds for objec tion to the court and were then interrogated by government legal representative who sought to test their sincerity. "People are on trial for their beliefs, as in the Holy Inquisi tion" said Mr. Pollard. I Mr. W. Leslie, president of the NSW Youth Campaign Against Conscription, who chair-' ed the conference, said that one-third of the university grad uates in science who had been due to start teaching in schools this' year, had instead been con scripted into the army. Delegates to the national conference of Youth Campaign Against Conscription: Left to right — Jan Ryal (Qld.) , Rex Hewitt, Alec Stewart (Vic.), Bruce Searle (NSW) . 