 SU plans farm land increase From Rupert Lockwood AAOSCOW : The Soviet Union's fam lands will be increased over the next 1 0 years through drainage reclamation, clearing and irrigation by an acreage far greater than the entire ploughed lands of Australia. This greatest and fastest agricultural expansion in all history was decided upon by the Central Committee's plenary meeting just con cluded. The CPSU Central Com mittee resolved that in the years 1966-1975: — The irrigated area would be increased by between 17 and 20 million acres. Reclam ation of lands now water logged would add another 37 to 40 million acres thus bringing the total area of re claimed land in the Soviet Union to between 90 and 95. million acres. For comparison Australia in the last two record pre- drought seasons — 1963-1964 and 1964-1965— had about 164m. acres sown to wheat, nearly 34m. acres to oats and about 2m. to barley. The aggregate of Australia's ploughed land would be some where round 25m. acres which could he checked. Australia has about 24m. acres irri gated. In addition to the new I lands to be reclaimed or irrigated for farming the Central Committee insisted on improved farming techniques I and intensified ' agriculture on | lands already being farmed. 1 Meadows and pastures to an j area of about 22m. acres are I to be radically improved and J pastures to an area of 125m. acres are to be watered. Staggering The staggering agricultural advance envisaged in the Soviet Union over the next 10 years will have world-wide repercussions. To imperialism food is still a potent weapon as the ex perience of Cuba, Vietnam and India reminds us today. So vast is the scope for expansion that given quick application of Central Com mittee decisions the Soviet Union should not only achieve self-sufficiency but- be able to lend a helping hand to those newly emerging countries sub ject to imperialist food blackmail or blockade. The Central Committee dec isions would seem to .indicate that rather than pursue adventurous ploughing up of marginal and non-irrigated areas the Soviet Union intends to' back a sure winner in agri culture — by intensification and scientific advance of farming in zones of proven product ivity and rainfall or by irri gation in drier areas. Water is the key to open ing vast central Asian areas for crops, particularly rice, of which the Soviet now im ports 60 per cent of require ments. Various plans are be ing prepared to divert Sib eria's mighty Ob and Irtush rivers into arid Kazakhstan and to divert two other rivers that also flow to waste ifti the Arctic into the Volga.. Under present plans that could be realised without serious problems the USSR according to data before the plenum could increase its irrigated area by 70m. acres. But if waters of North Russian and Siberian rivers were diverted to the dry south then the irrigated area could be increased from 175m. to 200m. acres. The era of wheat and rice imports will before many years give way to an era of Soviet food ex ports of vital significance to nations seeking freedom from American economic shackles. 