 ... Why did Bartos blow -the gaff ? : ' " . - . . ' "l.. . 3 By Harry Stein IA/HY did Charles Bartos, the US pilot who flew planes W for the CIA in Vietnam, expose their activities? I have been asked this question many times since Tribune published my interview with him. Let Charles Bartos answer for himself. At the end of the interview I asked "Why have you told your story, since it may get you into trouble with the authorities?" This is what he said:— "I wouldn't say I was religious, but I have a good feeling for humanity. "You can't rule the world by force. I don't see force as a policy of government. "The sooner you can come to an understanding of all the people of the world, the better off the world is going to be. "With the advance of science and technology we can feed everybody In the world, and machinery can take a great deal of the drudgery out of life. "You can't rule a country by force. Hitler tried it and Napoleon tried It and the Romans tried it and you can go on and on. "Now there is a third force, with science and technology to be reckoned with. "You have to devise a new human system that will take advantage of science and technology and bring the fruits of it to everybody. "This calls for a completely different approach. In other words all economic and political systems, I believe, arc obsolete from this moment." I then asked him "Have you told anybody in the USA your Story?" He replied: "Since leaving Vietnam I have talked with Senators Wayne Morse, Frank Church, Mans field and Fulbright. I dined with Senator Morse and since then have had several letters from him. "I think he is doing a remarkable job. At times he and Senator Gruening of Alaska have stood alone against the military and the Pentagon and the whole works. "He has also done some remarkable work in the Ful bright Committee meetings when he has questioned General Taylor and General Gavin and brought out some of the penetrating things that need to be said about the Vietnam war." US AMBASSADOR CABOT LODGE AND DECEASED DICTATOR DIEM Big Yank and Little Yank 