 CRACKPOT POLITICS "PRIVATE POLITICS A Study of Five Political Outlooks, by A. D. Davies ( Melbourne University Press, $ 7 ). Revieiued by JUDAH WATEN. "|""HE author of this book is the Reader in Political Science in the University of Melbourne and a short story writer in his spare time. Although "Private Politics" is based on interviews with five real people, inevitably the ordinary reader will, on occasion, wonder whether it is a work of fiction or intended as- an analysis of the reasons for political attitudes. Disguised under fictional names, five people representing five dif ferent outlooks in Australian poli tics are the subject of psycholo gical investigation and reflection. They are a doctor's widow turned Liberal Party organiser, a town planner and member of the ALP (for some unexplained reason called Bureaucratic Labour), a grazier and Country Party member of the Legislative Council, a pub lic servant and DLP'er and a union lawyer inexplicably called Militant Labour when Left Labour is meant. These five are presented as characteristic representatives, not of the first rank, "but second drawer politicos", though several may "come in time to the front rank". For some reason the Communist Party is not represented although Communists make their appear ance in several of the personal 'narratives. Unfortunately, despite the prob ing and psychological testing, none of the five can be regarded as in any wa.y characteristic of the second f lighters of their part ies, or for that matter the rank and file. Except for the Country Party man they are all of middle class origin. Three went to the university. They are all dispirited and four are dissatisfied with their parties. Several may well be in need of psychiatric treatment. After 12 to 30 hours of inter views the author managed to elicit very little information about the parties from any of them, except predictable cliches. It was as though the five were outsiders and depended on news papers for what they knew, and that was precious little. The Liberal Party organiser hardly knew what her party was supposed to stand for; she knew nothing about the history of her party. How she got her job re mains a mystery. The "bureau cratic Labour" town planner who went to university in the 40's ap pears not to have known that there was a war on. Although the author thinks he may come in time to the front rank, on his own admission this "ALP-er" is "apolitical" . "Yes, I attend meet ings and so on, but my politics is all for myself. . ." "J"HIS air of unreality in creases when we meet the militant labour lawyer. Although he is supposed to be a union lawyer he really despises the trade unions. He regards all union secretaries as "parasites". "They don't care about helping their members", he says. He wouldn't take a job with them even if he was offered one. "In the British trade union move ment", he says, "you could be a fascist (well, practically) as long as you did your job well. In AiiAf.rn.lia f.ViavVp n.lwn.vK nnkincr and prying into your politics- forcing you to play the faction game." Naturally enough, this alleged "militant" Labour lawyer, when mulling over his past, thinks that a lot of the university Commun ists he knew were "really hopeless neurotics". Like the author, Mr. Davies, this character uses many psychological terms. The "bureauci'atic" Labour re presentative also thinks of Com munists in extraordinary terms. He says: "The man who ran the Com munists was the butt for the uni versity, in fact for the whole city. He looked such a typical Com munist — weedy, sallow, narrow- faced and fanatical — a born victim; he was always getting beaten up." Now who could this have been? Or is this one of Mr. Davies' fic tional inventions? In which case it is a poor invention. For Mr. Davies must surely know that the weedy, sallow, etc., Communist is the stereotype who went out with the bombs and whiskers round about 1927. In any case it is quite clear that the author suffers from a kind of "academic innocence" where it comes to politics, spe cially Australian Labour politics. He just doesn't know what is go ing on and even a not very cri tical reader must detect the barely suppressed scorn for Australian politics generally. And foreign affairs, Mr. Davies believes, con stitutes in "Australian conditions a reliable rallying point for para noia". |F anything is needed to show that the methods of psychoanalysis as applied to political attitudes is useless it is this book. Even if the five people had been more characteristic of their part ies, it is doubtful whether any new light would have been shed on the mainspring of political outlooks. For Mr. Davies set out to prove that political outlooks are really fixed in childhood, that there are childhood prototypes of adult politics. As an adherent of old fashioned Freudian determinism he quotes approvingly Freud's dictum, "the little human being is frequently a finished product in his fourth or fifth year and only gradually reveals in later years what lies buried in him." He does not prove this because he did not base himself on real ity, on real people and real poli tics. A closer, less preconceived analysis would have shown the influence of the environment, the socio-historic factors as making for change. The Freudian theory as applied to politics is extremely comfort ing to those who do not wish to acknowledge the possibility of change in political outlook/ par ticularly in the direction of the left. It appeals particularly to the affluent section of society and to a small section of the intelligent- / sia who, like most of Mr. Davies' characters, have good, well-heeled family connections. In no field has Freudian theor ies stood the test of practice. Even as a method of therapy there is no evidence that psychoanalysis is more effective than others, and it is costly beyond its merits. As a science it is not established and as a philosophy it is chaotic and without hope. 