 "CIA DIRECTED DIEM'S DEATH" STEIN: Did they have plen ty of money to hand out? BARTOS: "Yes, the CIA had an unlimited budget. "They have fantastic am ounts of money and are not accountable to anyone. In the beginning they tried to buy their way through. . They figur ed, well, if they buy the key people in Vietnam the whole thing will fall in their laps. "It's just a matter of what the price tag is of these var ious people. Apparently they believe that everyone can be bought, that everyone has his price. Maybe not in money but in some other things. Some men— their price is women and those were sup plied ... "The CIA is very deeply in volved in everything, in every phase of the Vietnam busi ness. "It was reliably, said that _ the assassination of Diem and his brother Nhu— that the CIA engineered this. The CIA told me this." Murderous tangents STEIN: Members of the CIA told you they had actu ally done it? BARTOS: "They believed the CIA set it up. They said: I am pretty certain that we set it up because they were no longer of any value to us. Besides, we couldn't control him going off on his murder ous tangents, so the only way to stop him was to kill him.' " STEIN: Do you have any sfoa how many operators they have in Vietnam? BARTOS: "It is hard to say. 1 imagine by now they would number thousands because they have extended operations t0 a tremendous size." STEIN: Did you fly in Laos or into Laos? BARTOS: "I flew in Laos, out several times I flew into Laos on reconnaissance which I was asked to do by various people— CIA people. There were rumors that the Viet cong were building an air field some place in Laos for the Pathet Lao— they were constantly looking out for it, trying to find it." STEIN: Can you think of any other activity the CIA engaged in in neighboring countries? BARTOS: "They were in volved in Laos to a great ex tent and of course they are head over heels in Thailand. Thailand is a big, big, big CIA operation." STEIN: Have you found out what their activities were in Laos or in Thailand — from what people have told you? BARTOS: "After I left Da Nang I went to Hong Kong for leave and then I went to Bangkok and I spent some leave m BangKOk . . . men I went off to Vientiane, in Laos and I went to see the Company there, Burns and Sons, and I asked them if they needed pilots and they said 'we most certainly do' so they put me to work straight away. So I went to work in Laos for this com pany which, of course, was a CIA cover ... "They were constructing roads and bridges in Thailand and they had extensive oper ations in the Philippines and also in America. They had an office in San Francisco. Supplies into Laos "I flew with the air division in Laos and we dropped sup plies to the tribesmen and the Kong Le regular troops, and the Laotian Royal Army and we gave them air support — you know— took their people here there and everywhere. "We also had operations be hind the tines and dropped food to them and supplies — kept them going— things like that. This was a CIA opera tion all the way." STEIN: Was this directed against the Pathet Lao forces? BARTOS: "Yes ... And now they've really concentra ted on the area of Laos bord ering on north Vietnam and south Vietnam . . . When they formed the coalition govern ment . . . there were a num ber of coups and the rest of the Laotian Government made it very hot for the Com munists—they couldn't stay in Vientiane without being kill ed, so they pulled back into their area— the Plain of Jars and most of Sam Neua pro vince ... Pathet Lao blasted "Any encroachment that the Government makes against the Pathet Lao is immediately blasted and they have been very successful in keeping the Royal Laotian Government Army out . . . The Laotian soldiers have no heart for fighting— they drop their weapons and run at the first chance of getting hit. The Americans consider them very poor." STEIN Was it their job to train them or ginger them up against the Pathet Laos? BARTOS: "Yes, they move them along in aircraft and drop them and try to get this war heated up. They like to take back the Plain of Jars and . drive the Pathet Lao out of Laos but to this moment they haven't been able to do that". STEIN: And Thailand? BARTOS: "I used to fly one week in every month. We would be assigned to fly out of Bangkok for the Thai border police ... We would support them by taking their personnel around to the var ious border set points with I supplies and things like that . . . Thai police "This is when we were operating out of Laos, be cause Burns and Sons would allot one airplane a week and they would send the plane and crew to Bangkok and we would be under the direction of the Thai border police who operated from Bangkok." STEIN: But the fact that they were a CIA company and they directed you meant that they had a lot to do with it? BARTOS: "They had every thing to do with it because they paid the bill . . STEIN: Did you get any im pression about Thailand it self? BARTOS: "Thailand had just completed a terrible scandal. The previous prime minister— Thanarat, I think his name was — they had un covered evidence that he had stolen at least 150 million dollars American. And of course he was working very closely with the American CIA and military and this was a tremendous scandal — it just filled the newspapers every day ... So now they've got another prime minister and there's been a few scandals about him so I don't think the complexion of the thing has changed. And the Ameri can military are running things in Thailand . . . "They're flying missions against north Vietnam and against the Pathet Lao from Thailand. We used to fly bombs from Ubon to Vientiane . . . the Thais very definitely have entered this war and have been in it for a long time. They really don't have an ex cuse for hollering 'aggression' because they have committed aggression already." STEIN: You spoke of the activities of the CIA against north Vietnam. Did you have anything to do with. this? BARTOS: "No, I had nothing to do with it, but part of the company was composed of nationalist Chin ese pilots. They were trained, in America and they flewj many sabotage and all kinds of intrusion flights over northj Vietnam. They did this all the; time. ' "This was, . of course, sup\ ported completely by the CIA. and paid for by them . . . But"' the Chinese pilots told meM that, to their knowledge, all/ the clandestine operations failed in north Vietnam . . 