 [?] The key is mass action By Jim Stevens THE trade union's national Equal Pay Week, now an annual event throughout Australia serves to focus attention on the discrimination against women in this country. A Convention of the Inter national Labor Organisation at Geneva in 1951 adopted the principle of equal pay. It stipulated "that equal pay shall he ensured to the extent that national methods of wage determination permit, either by legislation or other recognised wage authorities." In Australia, the Federal Government, although a party to international declarations, has consistently refused to do anything about them. As the metal unions in NSW say: "There are no real reasons why equal pay has not been introduced into Australia — except the greed and desire for super profits— particularly the big monopolies who stand to gain most by the retention of this outdated state of affairs." In April, 1964, a national Equal Pay Conference in Can berra condemned the Federal Government for its failure to implement the principle of equal pay. A deputation led by ACTU senior vice-president Mr. Kenny met the then Federal Minister for Labor (Mr. McMahon), who refused a request to implement the ILO decisions. The reply from the Minister led the conference to decide that EP Committees throughout Australia examine holding a national stoppage to win this demand. As yet the ACTU has not called for any action to back up its long-established demand. Equal Pay Week gURING this year's Equal Pay Week, radio broad casts are being made, leaflets have been pro duced, dinners will be held and, in Sydney last Monday, a car cavalcade through the city f ocussed attention on this demand. These are all important activities, but many trade unionists believe that a much more militant approach is required if this reform is to be won. This fact is borne out by the experiences in NSW, where the main advances through Govern ment legislation have been made. Big campaign The Female Rates Act was legislated in 1958 which incor porated the principle of equal pay for work of equal value. This meant that certain classi fications of female workers under State Awards could apply to the Industrial Court for .equal pay. The biggest factor responsible for this legislation was the tremendous campaign of pres sure mainly exerted by the NSW Teachers' Federation. Eventually female teachers received full equal pay in 1963, as also did a- limited number of women in other occupations. New moves Last month the annual con ference of the NSW Public Service Association called on the State Government to amend the Act to at least allow females to seek equal pay. At the moment very few female public servants receive equal pay. In isolated factories and industries equal pay has been won by the combined struggles of men and women. The introduction of women bus and tram conductresses during the war years was only permitted by the union on the basis of equal pay. Female ticket collectors on the NSW railways get equal pay and a struggle by women carriage cleaners and porters also won equal pay for some, but not all. During the war years women in manufacturing industries received 75 per cent, of the male rate as against 54 per cent. paf,d in "non-vital indus tries." In new industries for women, such as munitions, they received 90 per cent, of the male rate, but after the national security regulations were lifted they were dropped back to 75 per cent, except where unions were strong enough to hold the gain. Task for all While some advances have been made, a lot of vigorous campaigning is still needed to win equality, including wages, for women. "This is a task for all unions, and not only those with women members," the metal unions say. It also requires that unions pay more attention to women, including promoting them to leading positions. Such a course would greatly assist the struggle that is needed. 