 82nd AUSSIE DIES IN VIETNAM: BUT WAR'S END NO CLOSER — Guerillas ' strength grows THE 82nd Australian soldier to be killed in the Vietnam war died in battle last! week — without bringing a solu tion to the war one inch nearer. So much is emphasised in the latest survey by US Newsweek magazine which ends a special article, detail ing US "victories", by saying: "There is no easy optimism by Westmoreland or any of his staff. "In fact, though some strategists in the USA haye claimed that the USA is on the verge of 'breaking the back' of the enemy's main- "core units, noseniof military men in Vietnam makes any such claim." The paper quotes Westmore land, US commander in chief, as admitting that, after two years of savage, terrible war, "we will have the main force to contend with for some time." Newsweek says that the real trouble from the US viewpoint is not the "north Vietnamese" at all but "the local force of some 200,000 I Viet Cong guerillas with the 1 deep roots in South Vietnam's villages." It admits that "80 per cent" of the population is still "influenced by the Vietcong". Simultaneously Time maga zine admits that the only' result of the orgy of slaughter in the first nine months of the year is that the number of "enemy" troops in the field has actually increased — by 39,000 to 279,000. As always the only response of the US military is to de mand still more troops. The US already has some 360,000 there — yet can't conquer a country the size of Switzerland. Truce Naturally non-military men are looking for some other solution and demands are being made that the Christ mas truce proposed by the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam should be ex tended into a permanent one. The US and Saigon author ities agreed to the Christmas truce and proposed two extra truces — for two days at the western New Year and four days at the Buddhist New Year starting on Feb ruary 8. In accepting the truce the US had to admit that it came from the NLF and not from "Hanoi" which is supposed according to the US myth, to control everything the NLF does. People are asking: "If the US can negotiate a truce with the NLF, why not a perman ent peace?" Manchester Guardian com mentator Zorza said last week —that— the truce proposal by the NLF could be intended as an opening towards ne gotiations and a long term settlement. Condemning The truce, he added, could be extended and thus create an ' atmosphere favorable to negotiations. Meanwhile in the USA the New York Worker hails the call of the Trade Union Div ision of "SANE" for a halt to north Vietnam bombing. "SANE" is a broadly-based moderate peace organisation to which important AFL-CIO unions are affiliated. Twenty union officials com prising the Trade Union Div ision of SANE issued a state ment condemning the "virtual blank cheque for the war in Vietnam" given just previously by the AFL-CIO executive council meeting in Washing ton. The Council reaffirmed its previous support, although a reappraisal of the war had been sought by the influential president of the United Auto Workers, and a vice-president of the AFL-CIO, Walter Reuther. The Worker says that the SANE statement was a signif icant expression of unionists' growing recognition that they must accept their share of the responsibility for lead ing the nation away from the disastrous Johnson policy. FIELD COMMANDER WESTMORELAND AND FRIEND No easy optimism. 