 r VIETNAM — 1. "A cruel, dirty war, and I don't want my boys to go" From Wattie Doig in Wonthaggi DES Pugh was working in one of his pad docks pulling up ti-tree roots by hand, when I ap- proached him to inquire why he is taking his family back to England, at a moment when he is just beginning to reap the benefits of his many years of toil in Australia. "I'm taking the boys home," he answered. "I've thought it all over. "My eldest son Dave has got his call-up papers, Des will be next. "This war has been going for 25 years and it could last another 25 years — they could all be in it." Des Pugh has nine sons and one daughter. The Fughs migrated from England 16 years ago, and for most of that time have lived in Wonthaggi. Des Pugh continued: — "My brothers, brother-in-law and myself put in a total of 30 years war service in the Sec ond World War. "I volunteered for that war because Hitler and all he stood for had to be destroyed. It was different, it was a just war. '' "But this war in Vietnam is not a just war," he said firmly. "It is a cruel, dirty, unnecessary war. Australia is not even being threatened." "I don't want the boys to go to Vietnam," he went on, "to kill or be killed in a war that should be stopped. It will be hard for all of us to leave, but it's all we can do." Des Pugh has the right to speak against war. He spent two years in the Middle-East, three years a prisoner of the Germans, witnessed the hor rors of Dachau, and when re leased, was six months in hos pital. He received a special award from the British Government for assisting the war effort while a prisoner. This is something he doesn't advert ise. His wife experienced the miseries and the horrors of the blitz in London. She saw a queue of children blown up by a buzz bomb. Their conclusion is that "war is futile." They came to Australia to seek a new life, and with hope in their hearts that they could leave the anxieties of the past behind them. To buy their modest home in Wonthaggi, Des Pugh work ed night shift in a Wonthaggi coal mine, and rode a bike 12 miles a day to a daytime job. On a meagre income of $40 a week, Des and the boys scratched out scrub with spade and axe, and built a small farm, which today keeps them in milk, eggs and veget ables. Today Des Pugh is consider ed the best outdoor work man the Borough of Wonthag gi has ever had. He and his boys have earned themselves a good reputation. Yet the Pugh home, the 40- acre farm and its 22 cows, all are today being advertised for sale at $11,000. The moment it is sold, the Pughs will sail for England. Wonthaggi does not want to lose them. Neither does Aus tralia. And they don't want to go. But as Des himself says: "It will be hard for all of us to leave, but it's all we can do." Their decision to leave is likely to have repercussions well outside the confines of Wonthaggi. (Reprinted from the Victorian Guardian.) It has since been reported that Des Pugh has entered hospital after a serious heart attack. — Ed. Three aspects of the Vietnam war: Migrant father decides to take his family back to England rather than, have them conscript ed, a cable from Rupert Lock- wood on the effects of US "blanket" bombing, and a re port of a recent poetry read-in for peace in Melbourne — together with a poem contributed by a reader. 