 Something for everyone I CADDIE — by herself 1 An introduction by Dymphna Cusack I A book of Australia during the years of the depression. 1 Caddie, a young deserted wife with two children to support, became a barmaid, housemaid and S.P. bookie. Throughtout she remained essentially a decent human being, determined to fulfil her role as Mother and provider for her children, Encouraged by Dymphna Cusack, she wrote a heartwarming account of life which covered far more than her own experiences. A true story, racy In style, full of human courage and dignity. 80 cents (90 cents posted). | HANS KOHN ANALYSES THE RUSSIAN 3 MIND | Y. Karyakin & Y. Plimak I An American Historian,. Hans Kohn is almost venerated I by Western- ideologists. I His theory of nationalism for instance: Britain was the cradle of nationalism and "embodied the individual's rights with respect for his state. It brought him the 'traditions of constitutional liberties and common faw'." Further "Western nationalism brought the world a spirit of tolerance, compromise and respect for the rights of other nations, while Eastern traditions perpetrated the spirit of violence, intolerance and national 'egocentrism'. In the East, nationalism ceased to be 'a vehicle . for individual liberty' and became 'adoration of collective power'." Kohn's propositions are ably answered by those of the author's. Kohn's "objective approach" is shown for what it reaHy is. 75 cents (85 cents posted). ON LITERATURE AND ART Anatoly Lunacharsky A brilliant art critic, Lunacharsky provided a bridge between pre-socialist culture in Russia and the culture of Socialism for a period of 16 years (he died in 1933). The book contains his articles on Jonathan Swift, Reinrlch Heine, Richard Wagner, Shaw and the artist Renoir (Luna charsky calls him "The Men Who Painted Happiness"). $1.25 ($1.44 posted). AN AMERICAN EXPERIENCE Alan Ashbolt A brilliantly perceptive survey of the American scene and the American Way of Life. The range of the book is astounding. There is scarcely any important aspect of American Society on which it does not have something significant to say. Incisively and fearlessly, with the pre cision of a surgeon and with a surgeon's creative intent, Mr. Ashbolt probes the American body politic in every area. The result is in many ways horrifying. $3 ($3.16 posted). New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St, SYDNEY. — Phone 26-3941. 