 One question toLBJ. JF the American leaders want peace in Vietnam as much as they claim, why do they go on ignoring the peace terms proposed by President Ho Chi-minh of North Vietnam? That is a fair question from a world increasingly aware of the dangers arising from a continuation of the American war of intervention and, even more, the escalation threatened by the Washington war- hawks. It becomes particularly important now that Wash ington has resumed bombing of North Vietnam. The US President has sworn that he will nego tiate unconditionally at the "drop of a hat". He will do anything, it seems, except seriously consider the only terms on which peace can be obtained — terms restated last weekend by the Pre sident of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. These were that the USA must -permanently call off its bombing of North Vietnam; it must withdraw its troops; and must recognise the National Lib eration Front as the government of South Vietnam. Similar proposals on behalf of the South Vietnam National Liberation Front were put forward in December by NLF President Nguyen Huu Tho. ? QN what grounds do the American rulers reject such .demands, which in effect express no more than the basic right to independence and self-rule - guaranteed to Vietnam and all other nations by ! r, .the United Nations Charter? Presidents Ho and Tho are not making new demands but seeking the implementation of some thing already agreed to — at the Geneva Conference of 1954. Article 16 of the Geneva Agreement on the Cessa tion of Hostilities in Vietnam states: "With effect from the date of entry into force of the present agreement, the introduction into Viet nam of any troop reinforcements and additional military personnel is prohibited." The only foreign troops claimed by anyone to be in any part of Vietnam are those from the . USA, Australia, South Korea and New Zealand. ? ODAY it is only the Americans, with thelir demand for an "independent South Vietnam" — an idea specifically ruled out at Geneva — who are making new and unacceptable conditions. It seems that the main issue revolved around the question of recognising the multi-party NLF in South Vietnam. The NLF is ALREADY the effective government of most of South Vietnam, notwithstanding all the death and destruction brought on it by the USA in the past year. A full-page report in the "US News and World Report" admits that whereas in 1960 Washington's puppet Saigon regime controlled 80 per cent of South Vietnam, today it has outright control of only 5 per cent. ? It can only be concluded that the USA is not seeking peace at all and that ; its recent "peace offensive" was meant merely to cover plans for a wider war. Tribune correspondent Rupert Lockwood this week cabled from Moscow repeating the view (pub lished in Izvcjstia) that the "peace offensive" through 40 countries was an operation to dredge. up more military support from reluctant allies. At his retiring press conference recently, Sir Rob ert Menzies complained how few allies the USA had in action in Vietnam. About the same time, other leg-men for US policy were putting pressure on "a whole line of countries", as State Secretary Dean Rusk said on TV. We enter 1966 with American policy on Vietnam in its greatest difficulties since the involvement be gan. It is a year of great opportunity for the demo cratic forces for peace throughout the world. 