 [?] I WONDER if anyone at next Saturday's Living Standards Conference will bring up a problem faced by workers — white- collar or otherwise — and the rest of the general public twice a day and five days a week — and that is the state of this State's public transport system. Transport standards have declined so much that in the battle to get home or get to work, the rules of common courtesy go by the board. There is no time to stand, back and allow ladies or elderly people to board first — if you did that you would still be standing where you were when the bulk of the commuters had already reached their destination. Some people show their irritation at this state of affairs by being rude to transport crews or other passengers — and in turn transport crews being sub jected to the full pressures of peak-hour chaos, retaliate bv being rude to passengers. This mutual venting of the emotions, however, does not do much to solve the prob lem. It would be far better if passengers and transport workers joined forces to compel the State Govern ment to make an honest attempt to tackle the trans port crisis. This is becoming increas ingly important in view of the continued deterioration i,n transport standards. A few years ago the Gov ernment — after taking the "advice" of an American team of so-called "experts" — decided to do away with the conductor on a couple of selected runs. The transport workers of course resisted this move on the grounds that this was only the start of conductors' being taken off many services. They proved to be right — but at the time many members of the public were influenced by daily press editorials and failed to support the trans port workers against the cuts, and now we are all reaping the results. NSW Premier Aski.n pro mised — before being elected, of course — to improve travel services. But instead he has allowed them to worsen further and raised fares 20% to boot. He claims that timetables cannot be improved because of the shortage of staff. But in fact this shortage is due to rapid labour turnover due to worker dissatisfaction with wages and conditions. Transport unions have asked the Government for wage rates that will stop the waste- age and attract new workers into the industry. But Mr. Askin prefers to brush this claim aside as "unjustified" and "holding the public to ransom"— and as usual is backed up to the hilt by the daily press, which also delights in running the workers down as much as i,t can. Meanwhile the system con tinues to grow worse, and as we pack sardine-like into trains and buses, all we can do is to dream of the day when we might have decent 1 | transport services. |' Speaking for myself, I get. | some idea of what it could | be like from the short feeder y bus service that takes me | down to the ferry every | morning. | As the bus is never par- | ticularly crowded, the atmos- | nViorn k nlpasant and the & driver and conductor polite' and friendly. But you can imagine the difference in (everybody— passengers and crew — if we were on a city run at morn ing or evening peak hour. Public transport as a whole will never improve while the Government looks upon it as a bad business proposition instead of what it really is — a community service. It is time Governments of this State— Liberal or Labor — stopped regarding public transport as a source of revenue, or rather a drag on revenue, and faced up to the fact that the public needs, has a right to and demands a better transport system. (Tribune will approach NSW Transport Minister Morris and transport union leaders I'or comments on Harry Roberts' article.). Harry Roberts asks for a fair go for Sydney's long-suffering |___comiHuters 