 PEACE 'BID' EXPOSED 2 MONTHS AGO CYDNEY: Two months ago m Havana, Cuba, three delegates from the South Vietnam jungles warned me that another 'peace . offer' manoeuvre would soon be made by the United States," Mr. A. Robertson, editor of Tribune, said on his return to Sydney this week. "Last week President John son fulfilled their prediction with his 'offer'— already reject ed by Hanoi and Moscow— to stop his illegal bombing and invasion if Vietnam conformed to Washington's wishes. Mr. Robertson said: "The Vietnamese pointed out to me that since March, 1965, the USA had made four major pro paganda outbursts in the form of 'peace offers' that were un acceptable' to the Vietnamese people. "Each of these had proved to be only preparatory cover for a major new expansion of US forces in Vietnam and major escalation of the war." The delegates had said that the US forces, already in July numbering over 300,000 and costing the USA $15 million a . day, would be further increas- K ed in a desperate effort to sup press the Vietnamese people's £ resistance. They claimed that the next ?&lt; "peace offensive" would also be tied to the US election cam paign, Mr. Robertson said. The delegates, all veterans of ' the jungle war, were: Huynh : phan, a regional leader of the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam; Le Mai, an NLF provincial leader; and a woman secretary, Nguyen Thi Tarn. Relevant r "These three friendly spokes- p men for their heroic nation had j,, some things to say that are ; v'ery relevant for Australians," Mr. Robertson said. "They said their people ; were absolutely determined to achieve their independence, neutrality and a democratic life ln peace. ' "Contrary to the views of some critics, they did not claim they could 'drive the Ameri cans into the sea' by military action alone.. . "They said they were confi dent of victory over the in-- vaders on the basis of two things: (1) united effort of the ; Vietnamese people, materially aided by the socialist coun tries, against the US military . aggression; (2) international Political support by popular movements and governments. "They branded the US 'peace offers' so far as attempts to weaken that international poli tical support' for Vietnam by confusing public opinion into believing that the Vietnamese independence forces are reject ing peace and seek to prolong the war. "Political opposition through out the world to the military intervention in Vietnam and political actions of sympathy for the Vietnamese cause — these were central in their dis cussion with me," Mr. Robert son said. "As to material aid, they ex pressed confidence that the Soviet Union and other social ist countries could supply their needs. Of medical and other non-military supplies, they said: 'The socialist countries can supply these too, though naturally we are grateful for anything that reaches us.' Mr. Robertson also said that, during an interview in Moscow, Mr. Gus Hall, general secretary of the Communist Party of the United States, had stated it was1 NOT inevitable that the US Government could continue to escalate its war on Viet nam. Hall had said: "There is an alternative policy; it must be fought for at every step; and it can be won. The USA can be forced to retreat if, alongside the military resistance, there is full-scale political mobilisation in all countries, to stop the intervention and permit a just solution by the Vietnamese people." 