 They had to muck it all up By Harry Stein j WAS idling an hour away at the bar of Mascots Inter national airport. The aero drome at Canberra had been closed by tog. A voice from the end of the bar called, "You will drink a cognac with me!" I left my stool and walked over. He was a Frenchman return- v ing i'o France after having lived n Tahiti since the end of the var. As we drank each other's health, he sighed, lqoked down and sadly said "Monsieur, the legend of Tahiti is dead." He then looked at me and began to i»a!k: "I remember when we were in the desert down near Beng hazi. We would sing a song in the free French army which went — 'We eat potatoes and Australian bully beef; it's an English diet washed down wf'.h a cup of tea; it's the lahd of Libya; it's the land without love; I'll leave it one day. "When we went >Lo Egypt we sang different verses: 'Down there in the streets of Cairo, you find more and more good looking girls; but to get them you have '.o give bakshee; it's not my land; I'll leave it one day.' "But wherever we were we always sang a special verse: 'Down there under the blue sky; under the flowering trees; all women a #» pretty and know how to give iheir hearts; it's an enchanting country, a lover's dream. It's the land of Tahiti, the land of love; and that land is my country — I'll go back here one day.' "And after the war I went to live in Tahiti. "Tahiti, Monsieur, to . a Frenchman was the earthly paradise. "The first clouds loomed ovfer the ear hly paradise of Tahiti when the Americans made the film of The Mutiny on the Bounty. The Americans arrived with their pockets full of money, and the pleasant relationships be tween men and women on the island began to be transformed. "The whole thing was speed ed up when French troops and members of the Foreign Legion arrived to prepare for the a/omic tests. A modern airstrip was built for the air force and the tests. Now the distant Atoll of Tuomoi'us resonates to the noise of the hammer and the saw, while the buildings necesary to observe the tests obscure the landscape. "Monsieur, let's drink a cog nac to old memories, for the legend of Tahiti is dead. I remembered my French companion when it was an nounced last week, that the first of the series of the French atomic tests had taken place. 