 TWO APPROACHES TO THE FIGHT FOR HIGHER WAGES n By an Industrial Correspondent Claims for wage in creases, which will be featured prominently in this year's May Day celebrations, are the mam features of Australia's industrial scene this year. Of many current wage, claims, two provide outstan dingly important lessons by way of contrast. These two are the basic wage plus margins claim of the ACTU and the basic wage claim of the unions in Queens land. At present, the ACTU claim is before the Common wealth Arbitration Commiss ion and the Queensland claim before the State Arbitration Commission. 1. The ACTU basic wage claim directly affects all workers covered byalT"Wd- eral awards and by State awards in South Australia, Tasmania, victoria and N.S.W. The margins claim immed iately concerns workers cov ered by the Federal Metal Trades Award. Its outcome will have an immediate direct effect on practically all other Federal awards and will have varying effects on State awards. 2. The Queensland claim concerns only the State basic wage but immediately affects the overwhelming majority of workers in that State. The y. claim is for an increase of the . same ' as ' the ACTU baste- wage claim. While supporting the ACTU margins' claim, Queensland unions have not at present advanced a general claim in relation to margins in State award. Generally speaking margins in Queensland State awards are higher than- ma-rgins in Federal awards for compar able classifications. For example, a metal trades . tradesman in Brisbane under the State Mechanical and Engineering Award receives a margin of 155 - compared with 112/- for the same tradesman working in Bris bane under the Federal Metal Trades Award.' Add to this 24- - being the difference between the basic wage in the two awards and the award rate for a metal trades tradesman is 67/- a week higher in Brisbane under the State award than under the Federal award. These differences are not a. charitable hand-out from the employers or the State Arbitration tribunal. The higher State basic wage re sults from continuance of the system of quarterly adjust ments and, with this now threatened, the unions are waging battle for its reten tion. But the higher margins are solely the direct result of mass action by the workers and militant leadership from the unions through the Queensland Labor Council. The State Arbitration body did no more than legalise as a minimum award rate the increased rates conceded- by employers in direct negotiat ions with the unions backed by wide-spread mass action by the workers. Knowledge of these facts has determined the approach of the unions in Queensland to the current basic wage claim and the associated arbi tration proceedings. This approach — a combin ation of mass action led by . the unions and vigorous ad vocacy before the Arbitration Commission — marks the difference between the app roach of the top leadership to ' activities associated' with ihe'iwo current main wage claims. ? ACTU decisions call for a campaign in support of the national wage claims but so far very little has been done at official level to develop such a campaign. A splendid demonstration in Melbourne by some thousands of job representatives on the day the case was due to open remains an isolated action. As against this the unions in Queensland acting jointly through the Labor Council have' sponsored a campaign which to date has included :- publication of a series of hard-hitting leaflets showing how price rises have reduced the purchasing power of wages and a colorful poster on the same subject; job meetings and exten ded lunch hour meetings and stoppages of varying duration in several main- centres through the State; a stoppage of over 150,- 000 workers in Brisbane and a meeting of 10,000 the day before the case opened. Prominent trade union leaders in the State have been actively associated with these actions and the principal advocate for the unions be fore the Commission, G. M. Dawson, has been to the fore in this activity. ? He opened his case by firmly declaring:— "Over the past three weeks the -full - details of pur. appli cation have been placed be fore many meetings attended in the aggregate by many thousands of citizens. "We doubt if any applicat ion has ever had so much support expressed for it as this one. Certainly no appli cation has ever been more thoroughly canvassed, "It is common ground that there is widespread public in terest in this hearing and the events which prompted it, viz. soaring prices, lack of price control and generally frozen wages. "We, personally, have never encountered such deep seated resentment, often boiling over into anger, as exists generally now among wage and salary earners, ' "The situation in our view is intolerable iahd must be rectified before it explodes." To back up his contention he arrived at the hearing carrying petitions signed by more than 15,000 persons and directed" against price rises and frozen wages. He pres ented these to the Commis sioners, advised them that more were to come and read them the resolution carried at a meeting of 10,0QD workers the day before. From this position of an advocate "representing thous ands of workers who had demonstrated in various ways — including stoppages of work — their support for the claim he was advocating and their refusal to any ldnger "cop" price rises and inadequate wage levels, Mr. Dawson attacked the Commiss ioner's policy of virtual wage 'freezing and called for its reversal. attacked price racketee ring and profiteering; protested against insult ing remarks of the employers' representative and attempts to convert the simple issue of a wage demand into an acad emic discourse. On this latter point he dec lared:— "I repeat that this is a dispute. It is not an academic discussion to see who can use the best gram mar or the worst.. It is a. wide and deep dispute. The only way it can be settled is to settle'the cause of the dis pute. We do not need art ificial documenting to try to make simple things appear obtuse." The result of all this is:— A wage claim reduced to its simple element — a demand by workers for more money — and advocated as such. A wage claim advanced with the conscious and active support of thousands of workers anjl the biggest mass movement ever in support of that claim. A wage claim advocated on grounds and in terms readily understood by work ers. A large body of workers well versed in the justice of their claim and unlikely to be fobbed off without a sub- stantial wage rise. ? In connection with the ACTU claims the picture is somewhat different. Very little coordinated action has been developed in sup port of this claim and to a great extent the Arbitration Commission proceedings have not been impacted by strong evidence of workers' support for the claim. This is due almost entirely to the failure of the ACTU and its State branches — other than Queensland — to spon- sor and lead action by the workers. . Distribution of printed mat erial supporting the claims has proceeded, in the main, in a haphazard manner. Except for the demonstrat ion on the opening day and the presence of some job rep resentatives at the hearing, proceedings before the Com-, mission have gone on in al- - most splendid isolation. Most of the time taken by the ACTU advocate to date has been devoted to "knock ing over" the adverse decis ion given in 1965. No doubt his advocacy is skilled but in general the case has proceeded in a man ner which has made simple issues obtuse. The difference between the j methods followed in the pur- j suance of these two claims I is the result of two basically different approaches to the wages struggle. In one case — the ACTU — the empihasis placed heavily on reliance on Arbi tration. In the other the em phasis is on the mass cam paign backing up the Arbi tration proceedings. Both .cases are still pro ceedings. The ACTU case res umed on April 19, the Queens land case on April 26. Both cases still need the support of vigorous campaigns and May Day is an approp riate occasion for developing just such campaigns. Mr. GERRY DAWSON carrying the petitions into Court. j 