 Under 21: Legend and fact Petition for vote at 18 JYDNEY: A national petition to the Commonwealth Govern ment to lower the voting age to 18, which would enfranchise young1 people eligible for conscription, is already attracting wide support. The petition, launched by the Eureka Youth League of Australia, is to be presented to Federal Parliament when it resumes in 1967. Press release A press release by the League's national council says that the initiators of the peti tion believe that the point of maturity and responsibility in a person's life is not fixed. "Fifty years ago there may have been something special about the age of 21 but this is hardly the case today. "According to legend at 16 you are supposed to be 'sweet and never been kissed. Most people would agree that this is more legend than fact in 1966. "Although the age group 18 to 21 is, at present disenfranch ised, it is from this group that the conscripts for overseas ser vice are drawn. Young people of this age can marry, have a family, drive a car and drink in hotels. Most of them work and pay taxes. If they break the law they are treated as adults — so they can do time in gaol. . "The initiators of the peti tions believe that everyone over 18 has sufficient responsibilities to society and consequently should have some say in the running of society. What is more, young people are matur ing earlier and are better edu cated than their counterparts of the days when 21 meant the key to the door and the right to vote. "Between now and next Feb ruary young people will be col lecting signatures to this peti tion. "Candidates in the November elections, members of the elec torate and young people them selves will be asked to sign. "The text of the petition states in part:— "The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia humbly showeth that they, believe that the official vot ing age within the Common wealth should be lowered to 18 years, call for the intro duction of the neessary legis lation so that the growing sections of young people who are eligible for conscription for overseas service, who pay taxes end who are considered odults befrre the law should have the ripht to express their opinion in accordance with Australian democratic trad ition." Forms are available from the EYL, 168 Day St., Sydney. 