 Calwell : Keep up Vietnam demos... By a Tribune Reporter THE Holt Government would be defeated this year on the Vietnam conscription issue, Mr. A. Calwell, Federal Labor Party leader, told the packed town hall at Balmain on Wednesday of last week. "I hope the Australian people will continue to demonstrate from one end of Australia to the other," he said. "I am confident we can win the election on this, as the number one issue, and the | other important issues. The meeting, , Mr. Calwell's first in Sydney since the chal lenge to his leadership was defeated in Federal Caucus on May 12, gave him an enthusias tic reception. Initiated by the local A.L.P organisation as part of that party's campaign against con scription for overseas, the suc cess of the meeting is a posi tive prelude to the forthcoming annual ALP State conference. Mr. Calwell Said Australian people were not disposed to see their 20-year-old men — or one-eighth "of them — concript- ed "to kill or be killed" in a hopeless, evil and unwinnable war. The Government, realising this, was becoming desperate and was trying to mislead the public by distortion of incon- . trovertible facts. Mr. Holt, since his short visit to Asia, had proved that he had completely failed to grasp the situation there, and had been proved even more blatantly misleading than External Affairs Minister Hasluck. Mr. Calwell recalled that Mr. Hasluck had assured Parlia ment that Saigon May Day demonstrations had "absolu tely no anti- American trend." But television films and cor respondents' reports comple tely refuted that statement. On May 5, Mr. Holt had told Parliament that "the recent political disturbances (in South Vietnam) appear to have had only minor adverse effects on, the military situation." The following week, in sworn evidence before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, U.S. Secretary of Defence McNamara had s aid that the political fer ment in South Vietnam had seriously affected military operations. Mr. Holt had said that in South Vietnam there was a "general will to resist com munist aggression" and that the people were not apathetic or dispirited. "The truth is that the South Vietnamese are apathetic and dispirited," Mr. Calwell said. Mr. McNamara had said that defections from the South Viet namese Army were high, very high indeed — in fact between 10,000 and 12,000 a month. Govt pamphlet Attacking the Government's recent pamphlet on the Viet nam war and its failure to give the public access to the other side of the case, Mr. Calwell said the booklet claimed the government did not seek to destroy the livelihood of the North Vietnamese people. "And the next day 350 sor- ties were flown by the U.S. against villages and food sup plies, bridges, roads and rail ways and other essential parts of the economic infrastruc ture which i.s essential to sup porting the livelihood of the ordinary Vietnamese," he said. Mr. Holt, denying that any member of the Government's "front bench" (Cabinet) want ed to use nuclear weapons against China, had clearly im plied, and correctly, that some government back-benchers do favor nuclear attacks. Mr. Calwell said that this view of the "lunatic fringe" of the Liberal Party and the "Jackal Party" (DLP) that followed it had been well- known for some time, together with their combined defence of the "obnoxious and rac- . ialist, rebel Rhodesian re gime of Smith". There is .a clear and terrible danger," said Mr. Calwell. US policy "President Johnson, who came to power opposed to the extremism of Goldwater, be gan to apply the Goldwater policies" "The danger increases be cause, as American money and lives are dissipated in Viet nam, and the people of America increasingly oppose it, the pressure increases among irersponsible politi cians for some miracle that may win victory," he said. If China were attacked by the U.S.A., Australians might live to regret it. Mr. Calwell criticised those Pentagon forces pushing for such an attack, on the excuse of alleged Chinese aid to North Vietnam. But North Vietnam has re ceived all its major aid from Soviet Russia, he said. Mr. Calwell said there were' now two civil wars going on in South Vietnam. The ALP would continue to tell Australian people the truth; a Labor Government would seek to disengage the Australian forces, as soon as it possibly could, from what was now an American war there. Mr. Calwell repeated the point he had made earlier i.n the week in the inaugural H. V. Evatt Memorial Lec ture at Melbourne Univer sity; that Australian foreign policy had turned violently and sharply towards power politics — a type of policy against which Roosevelt and Evatt had warned. Such a policy meant utter dependence on a great power - — the U.S.A. — whereas Australia needed the kind of policy followed by the Curtin and Chifley Governments, based on "a combination ol nationalism and belief in in- ternational ideals." "Boonaroo" dispute Towards the end of his speech Mr. Calwell said that the Seamen's Union stand against manning the "Boon aroo" for a war voyage to Vietnam was not "in con- formity" with A.L.P. policy which was to support sending materials while the Austra lian troops were in Vietnam. When a seaman in the audi ence asked if Australian sea men should be forced to take the Boonaroo to Vietnam. Mr. Calwell said:— "I don't believe any Austra lian should be compelled to go to Vietnam, neither does any section of the community have the right to prevent sup plies going to Vietnam." (The Seaman's Union had made clear from the outset that it was not taking any 1 action that would interfere I with movements of supplies J to Vietnam.) m Mr. Calwell told another P questioner that the National |! Liberation Front must be | accepted as having the same 1 rights and powers in any con ference to settle the Vietnam dispute as anyone else. 