 Callings Indonesia INDONESIA is the subject of animated explanation by Dr. H. Rathgeber, of Sydney University physics department. He was one of the initiators of an appeal, signed by 175 acad emics in Australia, over the mass killings in Indonesia (Story page 3). ACADEMICS APPEAL TO SUHARTO: STOP KILLINGS, HELP VICTIMS JYDNEY : "Very many people are interested in the morals of sex, but more apathetic on the morality of the killing of hundreds of thousands of people in Indonesia," Dr. Henri Rathgeber, of Sydney University, told Tribune last Friday. He confirmed that 175 Australian academics in the majority of Australian universities, had signed an appeal to the Indonesian Government to prevent further bloodshed on religious, political or racialist reasons. The appeal, which is also addressed to the Common wealth Government, is the most widely supported on this issue so far in Australia. Together with Professor Julius Stone and student ad viser Mr. J. C. Nield, also of Sydney University, Dr. Rathge ber initiated the appeal which found ready response in a short time, wherever the petition was circulated. "We waited," he said, "until things became clearer and as it became obvious no one else was going to do something about the terrible situation then we drew up our statement. Humanitarian "It's not a political matter, but a humanitarian one, the saving of lives. That's why people from all political trends and none at all supported it." Speaking of effects of the events of Indonesian families and life, Dr. Rathgeber said that he had heard of one ac count of a youth being given a weapon by certain authorities and told to execute prisoners, under pain of being classified as a friend of the imprisoned and treated likewise. "Indonesian life can never be the same when one considers this kind of thing happening in many, many cases." Dr. Rathgeber said he felt that communication to the Aus tralian people of these events and of the appeal itself was poor. The text of the appeal stated that "All Australians, and espe cially the leaders of Australian thought" must share the res ponsibility of understanding and mitigating the recent suf ferings of the Indonesian peo ple. Vast "It seems undisputed that a vast number of persons, vari ously estimated at between a quarter and half a million, have been put to death," it says. "It is of the gravest urgency that no further killings should take place, for whatever rea sons, whether religious, poli tical or racial. "It is also of grave urgency that detention of persons should only be on grounds war ranted by law , and tested by judicial processes. "The plight of persons de tained in violation of this prin ciple, and of their dependents, as well as the dependents of persons already killed, is piti able and. calls for immediate aid." The signatories appeal to Deputy Prime Minister Lieuten ant-General Suharto to con trol any authorities or indivi duals who violate these princi- ples, to stay all political execu tions pending proper judicial inquiries and to continue to intensify efforts to provide re lief to victims of past violence. Aid They also urge the Common wealth Government to respond generously to any , requests from Indonesia for aid and express the view that Austra lians will support such prac tical aid. Among some of the 175 names on the appeal (many names came in too late for inclusion), are Professor H. A. Wolfson (Latrobe Vic.), Professors C. A. Hurst and J. G. Smart (Adel aide), pr. B. H. Medlin (Queensland), Professor D. Mc- Callum, Associate Professor Kathleen Woodroofe, Associate Professor Ruth Atkins, and Mr. R. S. Walters (all NSW), Pro- fessor S. D. Rubbo and Dr. F. Knopfelmacher (Melbourne), Professor D. Armstrong, , Dr. K. Fowler and Dr. R. Makinson (all Sydney), Professor James McAuley (Tasmania), Dr. A. P. Roberts (Monash Vic.), Dr. Russel Ward (National Univer sity), Professor P. Mason (Mac- quarie NSW), Dr. M. A. Jaspari (W.A.), Dr. C. E. Price (Flind ers, SA). A visiting Japanese Professor, Ken-ichi-Inada, also signed. 