 I Falling for that old "integrity" line Fingers burnt in the North- West Cape By a Financial Correspondent in the Victorian Guardian Some local capitalists have burnt their fingers badly on American "business integrity" over die North- West Cape radio base. For them it has been a never-to-be forgotten demon- I stration of how the American Alliance works out in practice. I A local company, Concrete | Industries (Monier) Ltd., could lose $5 million because of its US "partner", appointed by the US Navy, has welshed on the contract. The US company, Paul Har deman Inc., was selected be cause it was "in" on the multi- billion dollar defence contract racket in the US. Share S Concrete Industries becaime involved because the Menzies Government bowed to local big business clamor for a share in profits from building the base. Australian business involve ment was also seen as a trick to make the whole politically scandalous project more pala table to the Australian public — Australian industry would work beside mighty American i enterprise in defending the 1 "free world". Undoubtedly, a true match born of the love of freedom. 1 But how has it worked out? Recently, the peace sur rounding North-West Cape has crumbled fast under a barrage of charges and counter-charges about who hoodwinked whom. Concrete Industries had won the mad scramble by local big business for the 25 per cent share in profits from building the $31m first stage at North- West cape. It was then "married" to Paul Hardeman Inc., by repre sentatives of the Menzies Gov ernment. Directors of Concrete Indus tries thought it prudent to bid an unprofitable prjee on the major contract in the hope of making handsome profits on subsidiary contracts with its subsidiary companies. Now, nqt only has the US company defaulted and left Concrete Industries with a 100 per cent responsibility, but the US Navy is not honoring the Menzies Government's glib as surances that large amounts of Australian materials would' be used in building the base. The Pentagon has contempt uously ignored an Australian Act of Parliament requiring maximum use cf Australian materials in the base. To this the Holt Government weakly replies that the troubles are "commercial" and nothing to do with it. Conceded However, even the rightwing Sydney Bulletin has conceded that "it is bad international manners for the US Govern ment to have an installation built in a foreign country at a cost that has, in effect, been subsidised by the losses suf fered in its construction by companies domiciled in that country." A far cry from Sir Garfield Barwick's 1963 parliamentary chortling that the project would be built according to "Australian law" and "without cost to Australia!" Perhaps Mr. Holt could find a poetic explanation for this latest tragicomedy — and, while he is at it, inject a little reason into Sir Robert Menzies' rhyme of 1963. Or again, perhaps the Penta gon has hoodwinked more than Concrete Industries and the Australian public? 