 [?] Wont get off his bike |F the Minister for Immigra tion, Mr. Opperman, a former champion cyclist ever goes to Dorrigo, NSW he had better ride through at top speed. The country town of Dorrigo is losing its only two doctors. This will leave Dorrigo like some other country towns in NSW without any doctors at all. Dr. D. M. Campbell -and his wife, Dr. I. Goodwin are going to Greece to screen migrants for the Immigration Department. While the NSW Government is attempting to recruit British doctors for country centres, the Federal Government is busily re cruiting NSW country doctors for posting overseas. That's really very bright. Worried man from the Snowy A RECENT vague state ment by Prime Minister Holt on the future of the Snowy Mountains Authority is not so vague as it might have appeared. It is now known that Mr. Holt only made the statement after a great deal of pressure from Mr. Ian Pettitt, Country Party member for Hume, (NSW). Mr. Pettitt lately has been hold ing meetings with engineers from the Snowy authority who could mean 500 votes for his electorate in the coming Federal elections. They have let him know in ho .. _ ,..r uncertain manner that they are extremely critical of the Federal Government's lack of proper planning for the future of the Snowy Authority. Many talented Snowy Authority engineers have already resigned because they don't see any future prospects. Mr.. Pettitt has been worried be cause he can feel Labor's candid ate for Hume, Mr. John Menadue, breathing right down his neck. Mr. Menadue, a candidate in the Dr. Patterson mould, is a former Treasury economist and . for the last six years has been private secretary, to Mr. G. Whit- lam, Deputy Leader of the Federal Labor Party. Mr. Menadue has been cam paigning in the Hume area for some time and hasn't omitted to present a constructive plan for the future Of the Snowy Authority. Mr. Holt's statement that pushes the problem of the future of the Snowy over to the State Govern ments has left Mr. Pettitt holding the bag. The pushers /V GENERAL practitioner in Victoria when asked by a patient what effect did the so-called "happy" pills have, replied that they made the drug manufacturers very happy. The drug manufacturers in Australia who are in the main controlled by giant overseas chemical companies, are continu ing on their happy way at the expense of the Australian tax payer. In his annual report tabled in Parliament last week the Director General of Health, Sir William Refshauge, was extremely critical that drug firms are employing 1200 salesmen to push their drugs on to the doctors. He estimated that this worked out to one drug salesman for every five or six general practitioners. These salesmen have the job of persuading busy doctors to pre- scribe their products, concentrat ing on the free medical list which can have a high turnover. We could suggest at least two ways to greatly reduce the drug burden on taxpayers. One would be for all drugs used, for the National Health Service to be. produced by the Commonwealth Serum Laborat ories and the other to nationalise all drug firms. Apartheid image abroad An editorial in the Northern Territory News last Monday said: "It is likely that the plight of Aboriginals employed in this in dustry will shortly be a subject of debate in United Nations chambers. Under these circum stances it would seem appropriate that Australia should nut it house in order. "We suggest that a Royal Com mission into the circumstances of Aboriginals employed in the . cattle industry in the Northern Territory might be the best start ing point to bring to light all aspects of the issues now develop ing into an industrial dispute of magnitude, a dispute . that can only cause lasting harm to the industry and to Australia's image abroad". A Liberal thirst yMONG other hardships the Liberal War budgets, federal and state, seem to guarantee a continuation for several years yet of Sydney's water restrictions — - unless an unexpected cloudburst occurs. A virtually untapped ocean awaits the thirsty city at Warra- gamba, but construction vof the necessary ten-foot pipeline is proceeding at the snail's pace dictated by the Holt Government's preoccupation with the spreading of slaughter in Vietnam. 