 HOW TRADE UNIONISM BROKE INTO BARRETTS By Our Industrial Roundsman yHE recent advent of trade unionism for workers at Barrett's milk and ice cream factory in Orange (Central New South Wales) means more money for less work plus at least $4,000 in back wages. No do'jbv this is the reason why this company has "no time for unions." It is also the reaon why union officials from Sydney were confronted with great difficulties to "break into" this non-union sanctuary. The Barrett family is well known in Orange. They have their own aircraft and air- ; strip and have donated gen erously to the local golf club. T. A. Barrett Pty. Ltd. and Barretts Ice Cream Pty. Ltd. are situated together at Barrett's Lane, Orange, and employ about 22 workers. The companies are how owned by Peters Ice Cream Pty. Ltd. which also own Fresh Food and Ice Pty. Ltd- The story of how trade unionism came to Barrett's is told by Mr. Rex Rickard, sec retary of the Milk and Ice and Dairymens' Union of1 NSW. Will "sign membership!" It was only towards the end of last year that the above union was granted State wide coverage of workers in the milk industry. During a trip to Orange and surrounding districts last Nov ember, Mr. Rickard was not able to see Barrett's workers but the management said it would "sign members up." In fact, however, nothing wa done by Barretts tosign up their workers into the union. The men, the management said, "did not want to join!" Workers in the district say the management forgot to add that had any done so, they would have been sacked. This company projects an image of being one happy family where a policy of "give and take" prevails. That meant they didn't worry much about sticking strictly to the award or of such humbug as paying over time. "Happy family" The Orange Trades and Labor Council last month was visited by a worker who had been thrown out of this "happy family." This man had asked the Council whether he was en titled to payment for a pub lic holiday that fell on his rostered day off. An investigation by the union showed he was not only robbed of this holiday but that he was: only being paid $34.75 for a six-day week. Mr. Rickard said what he shouid have been getting was $35.60 for five days and the sixth day paid at the rate of time-and-a-half for the first three hours and double time thereafter. This is why Mr. Rickard and two other officials had a cool reception from the manage ment when they returned to Orange this month. The management was- told that the underpaid ex-employee had to be paid — and so did all the other workers. But first, the task was to get even one of the Barrett workers to join the union so that the book could be inves tigated. 'Wait in fhe paddock!" Mr. Rickard was told: "You cannot go into the factory — wait in the paddock and you may see the men when they knock off at 1 p.m." A lad of about 19 who was washing down a platform out side the , factory .told Mr. Rickard he was getting $24 a week. The conversation was inter rupted when a "foreman," who "had no time for unions," ordered Mr. Rickard from the factory. No doubt inside the factory the workers were being told the "evils of unionism." At 1.30 p.m. these workers emerged. Six of them revealed stories of wage robbery. Fi.ve had been working six days and the other seven days for $34.75 a week. One worker said: "Some times I get an extra $2, but I don't know what it's for!" This was told with backward glances to see who was watch ing. At this stage the manager drove into the yard and the workers hurriedly left. In order to break through the company intimidation, the manager was told that Sydney unionists would declare black its milk supplies. $4,000 could be owing! Orange now has 22 new unionists! Their union is at present awaiting copies of the com pany's books to check what amount is owing to. each worker. This back money can only be legally claimed as from last August, but from this period alone a total of at least $4000 is owing to these workers. At the small cost of $2.25 per quarter union dues these workers will now get more money for working less days. They have also become an additional strength to the Aus tralian trade union movement. MR. REX RICKARD 