 [?] A bit of Spontaneous' organising Remember that "spon- tanous" welcome deputy Labor leader E. G. Whitlam was reported to have re- ceived at Brisbane Airport after his anti-leadership out burst a couple of weeks ago? Our Brisbane spy now reveals that the gathering (which he des cribes as the "worst of the weak est") was "spontaneously" organ- r ised by a former member of par liament. They copped an hour's harangue from Whitlam for their pains. ' Even more significant, most of the twenty "telegrams from ALP branches" presented to Whitlam were fakes. When the Queensland ALP ex ecutive made a check with the branches concerned most had no knowledge of the telegram they were supposed to have sent. Actions of individual branch officials who had sent telegrams with no authority were repudiated by the branch. More will be heard of this in cident. Trouble in the coalition HEN Dr.- Rex Patterson, MHR (Dawson) appears in Parliament next week, Prime Minister Holt and his deputy, Mr. McEwen will give a joint groan. Mr. Holt, who has had to live in the Menzies shadow for so long, was really enjoying his new job until last Saturday. Now his coalition is bleeding from the wounds inflicted by the , electors of Dawson. 'Mr. MbEwen . knows that the " Dawson results will start a new Liberal Country Party scrap. Mc Ewen is not a man to run away from a fight but knows that the hand of Liberals who would' like to see the Country party out of the coalition has now been streng thened. No only for jobs YDNEY building unions have struck a simultaneous blow for employment and public education. A deputation of these unions to the NSW Minister for Public Works, Mr. D. Hughes, last week was given an assurance that no building worker employed by the Public Works Department will be dismissed before June this year through lack of work. Following the sacking of workers from School Maintenance - and Building Section of the PWD last December, the unions threatened a State-wide 24 hour stoppage within the Department if further sacking occured. This threat was made when the Building Workers Industrial Union heard from the Director of the PWD that the Government . had modified its program of school construction and maintenance and that 120 building workers would be dismissed in February 1966. The Building Trades Group of unions said the drastic cut back in this program not only affects employment opportunities but also worsens the standards pro vided for children by inadequate school accommodation. Cos of a war policy QN October 30, 1963. Tribune dubbed the Lockheed TFX swing-wing bomber (now called the Fill) then being ordered by Menzies for the RAAF as "TFX — Too Flaming Xpen- sive". Now', less than 24 years later, with the 24 bombers still far from delivery, comes the revelation that the bill will be more than double original estimates, which Menzies, for 1963 election purposes ha'd boosted as a smart "package deal". Air Minister Howson now admits they will cost $5.95 million per plane, and over $7 million each with the necessary spares etc. It can be expected that this figure will rise further. What's even more disastrous for Australia is the policy this fancy hardware represents, neatly put in these 1963 statements: "You told the world you wanted a low-level fighter bomber to strafe troops in limited flare-ups in Asia . . . Now you suddenly plump for a high-altitude bomber designed to dump hydrogen bombs on big cities". (US air expert quoted in Daily Mirror, 25/10/63). "The RAAF is becoming a wing of the US Air Force". (Lon don Daily Telegraph, 23/10/63). And where i goes ... "|HOSE who want to know into whose pockets these hard-won Australian millions are going (the payments are already being made and con tributing to Australia's steady overseas deficit) should note: Lockheed Aircraft (makers of the Fill) again topped the list of 100 US companies in the --dollar volume of military prime contracts won in the financial year to June 30, 1965, with a total value of $1,715,000,000. General Dynamics moved frorn fifth to second place with $1,178,- 600,000. Then come: McDonnell Aircraft. General Electric, North American Aviation, United Aircraft, American Telephone and Telegraph, Boeing, Grumman Aircraft, and , Sperry Rand. ' \ Every one of them a vote for escalation in the war in Vietnam! New US "colony" here JjP around Wee Waa, in North-western New South $ Wales, American investors have moved into land owner ship in a big way and are t working extensive cotton plantations, largely on Abor iginal labor (see page 5). Some of the locals say it's like a Yank colony, a part of Australia that's been detached. . Tribune now learns that a two- way private radio complex has been recently installed to provide independent, communications be tween the farm managers. Do the Holt and Askfn Govern- ments approve of this, and is if part of the same policy that givei ' the Pentagon control of another . part of Australia at North-West ( Cape? "We should have let North Queensland go in 1942" | 