 i THE HIGH PRICE \ OF MOBILITY ' BY W. A. WOOD I e HAT is probably the r most frank, fearless e and thoroughgoing examina- tion of the cause of road d deaths ever to be submitted d o the Australian public will e be screened by ABC TV on December 20 in its Impact program. It is a documentary film en s'' titled "The Mobile Society — the:- :e Price We Pay." After seeing it, everybody should lg write to the Government (what- ie ever its complexion) demanding ir that it compel motor manufac- n turers instantly to adopt all safety n devices shown or mentioned in £ the film. n Failure to dc this, although many . of the devices have been available for years, amounts to gross ne- v- gleet of one of the main causes e of road mortality rate, d Why have they not been installed e already? Because, as somebody s- says in the film, there is no pro- it ' fit in it. The only financial gain d would be to the public hospitals i- who have to patch up the results is of accidents and then try to collect id the money from them. And hospital executives don't have nearly the pull with govern ments that motor-trade executives do. This must be the main, if not the only, reason, that the manu facturers are allowed to pour onto the roads a mounting flood of highly-powered, sleekly-pol ished killing machines. (One car, viewers will note, has a front bumper . bar that might have been specially designed to mow down pedestrians.) On the average every second one of these monsters will be involved in an accident before it is scrapped. Surely i.t is worth some thing to try and prevent it being e, fatal accident! We can all see what will happen if this goes on. It will be the same as being involved in a war > with casualties worse (for Australia, so far) than Vietnam. "In round figures" says a com- mentator, "a total of 12,000 are killed or permanently disabled on Australian roads" Every one of those 12,000 acci dents represents a tragedy. The value of this particular film is that it shows, for the first time to many, that something can be done about it, besides adjurations to drive safely and to be careful crossing the roads. It samples popular makes of cars, examining features of interior design dangerous . to the driver in an accident. On view— and spectacularly dem onstrated by a car which somer saults many times but lets the driver emerge unscathed and smiling — are improvements devel oped by the Mercedes Benz com pany in 1954 and offered — royalty free— at that time to all other . manufacturers. And yet, as the film shows, car users are still permitted to im pale themselves on steering wheels, skewer their eyes on rear- vision mirrors that could be made to deflect on empact or bash their brains out against unpadded dashboards. . r Seat belts have been proved to be necessary to safety, but are not yet universally installed or used. There's no money in safety, and as the commentary says, the problem is not so much to find new safety devices as to have their use enforced when found. Despite all their hand wringing governments still don't take road safety seriously. There are about 30 different agencies with some responsibility for it, but no single authority with power ito act. The Road Safety Council can only advise and persuade. It can't say: "That driver, or that car, is unsafe. Take him or it, off the road." Every credit must go to pro ducer Alan Dickes and special praise to young Adelaide engineer, John Maclean, whose research is used extensively. Such an intensive investigation cf the results of accidents (and how they could be mitigated) leaves little time for a similar en quiry into how they could be prevented altogether. The commentary says that reck- 9 less or drunk drivers are not the a main cause. It is the average a driver, just a little bit more wor- 3 ried or preoccupied than usual, 9 who is involved in most cases. a But some viewers will 9 want to know whether the inten- 9 sive medical (as well as driving) 3 tests which licence holders in 3 some socialist countries have to pass should not be required, here also. Further, could not better public ' - transport, especially underground - railways, cut down the need for =====5/ the immense number of private cars now choking city roads? The ABC might well encourage Mr. Dickes to follow up this success by a similar investigation 9 into this and other aspects of the 9 problem. (Journalists who attended the preview at the ABC's Sydney studios, of the film last week were kindly offered lifts back into town. Turning with rather more en thusiasm than usual to fasten the seat belt, I heard the driver say: "Sorry, we havn't got them fitted in the back seats yet"). , 