 SPfiRTS—f Somebody up there sure likes The Rock By the Challenger JJOMINICAN Republic fly-weight Lachy Linares, didn't put on any personal demonstration at the decision in his fight with Rocky Gatt'tpllari last Monday night — — he didn't -have to. Over 7,000 boxing fans pres- ent nurst into a barrage of booing at what they considered to be nothing but a "sporting" stick-up. It was clear to most of the crowd after the second round that an upset was in the mak ing, unless Gattellari could find the answer to tantalising Lin ares' bob-weave style. This he failed to do and didn't even look like doing. As the bout progressed, Gattellari could be seen be tween rounds in his corner, shrugging his shoulders dis consolately at his inability to keep up with the fast moving negro. As the last round came up, Gattellari fans in the bleachers could be seen crossing them selves to bring on a miracle. Their prayer, must have worked, for after the verdict Rocky could really say, "Some body up there likes me". Those who saw the bout and read the pre-fight splurge must have reached some conclusions regarding professional boxing. If boxing is to continue — in the face of the solid criticism it earns — then let's have more skilled boxing exhibitions of the Linares-Gattellari type rather than the usual "crowd- pleasing" blood-bath. "Fixing" And above all, let's make sure there's no suggestion of favouritism in verdicts. Other wise pro fighting leaves itself open to charges of "fixing". With the dearth of boxing talent in Australia, the local promoters naturally see the need to build up the reputat ion of local lads. Prior to Monday night's fight, it was reported that negotiat ions, were under way for a non- title bout between the world Boxing Association's world fly weight champion, Horaccio Ac- cavallo, and Gattellari. Big : money is involved and it is sufficient to say that followers of boxing tend to be reluctant to pay to see losers in action. It may be hard for some followers of the game to take, but if boxing is to continue as a sport that should develop skill and courage, then pro fessionalism must be removed from it. There's no other way. 