 Hoodlums wave the US flag Disrupters routed at Vietnam war protest meeting SYDNEY: Labor Party members, Com munists and other democrats and peace supporters combined to defeat a carefully organised attempt by fascist-type hoodlums to break up a meeting on Vietnam last week. "pHt meeting was organ ised by the Mosman Branch of the ALP in Mosman Town Hall and addressed by Dr. J. F. Cairns, MHR, and Senator Lionel Murphy. It was well known that an attempt would be made to stop the meeting by the same types as the Nazis, Liberals and others who virtually dis rupted a meeting at Gordon last month .held by the Kurin- gai Discussion Group and addressed by Mr. A. F. James. To counter this, people came from as far afield as Turramurra and East Sydney to protect the rights of free speech. They heavily outnumbered the hoodlums, who found it the best policy to withdraw or keep quiet and let the meeting proceed. The packed hall, holding 600 or more, gave Dr. Cairns, main target of the disruptors, a near-deafening ovation last ing some minutes. The main body of the dis ruptors, some 30-strong, sat in a line across the body of the hall about 10 rows back and started to heckle Dr. Cairns. Later they stood, and dis played an American flag. They stamped their feet rhythmically and chanted the name "Darby." I Elsewhere in the hall scuffles broke out as fascist 1 types sought to provoke brawls. One man's trousers were badly torn. Peace leaflets burned At about 8.45 the chairman, Mr. L. Briot, called on Michael Darby to leave the hall. Darby left, accompanied by some 20 or 30 youths and girls. Outside the hall, some per sons took some peace leaflets and burnt them. Non - political people and even known members of the Liberal Party were shocked at the language and behavior of some of the interrupters. A man moved to the front of the hall and called out to the chairman that the "Young Liberals were not responsible." After Mr. Darby left, the meeting continued without in terruption, though there was occasional heckling. At 10 p.m. Mr. 'Briot said the time proposed for ending the meeting had arrived, but after a show of hands it Continued till about 10.20. Experienced political observ ers said they had seldom seen anything so disgusting as the behavior of some of the dis ruptors, even in New Guard days. Dr. Cairns said that since 1954 the Americans had spent 22,000 million dollars in trying to crush the national liberation forces in Vietnam without suc cess. They had brought about the greatest concentration of fire power ever known in war. That the "Viet Cong" were able . to resist all this, along with 220,000 US troops in the field, showed that they had real strength and were fighting for what they believed in. People's support Even on American evidence, North Vietnamese and other "outside" powers did not con tribute more than five per cent, of the weapons or 10 per cent, of the manpower used by the "Viet Cong." Dr. Cairns quoted an official US publication, Modern Guerilla War, as saying that guerilla war could not be conducted successfully without the support of the pople. Obviously the National Liberation Front was a sig nificant force and could not be ignored — that was why Senator Kennedy and 35 other leading Senators were calling for its recognition. To carry on the war in the hope of destroying it would be morally reprehensible. It might cost another 5,000,000 lives. Dr. Cairns said the main centres of Vietnam had been under foreign control for 75 years — under the French, the 'Japanese and now the. Ameri cans. Debate challenge Naturally Vietnamese pat riots objected and fought as Australians would fight in the same circumstances. To an interjector Dr. Cairns said: "You would fight, too,, wouldn't you— or are you too subservient to a foreign power?" Dr. Cairns said that if Aus tralia faced invasion he would contribute all he could to her defence, but he did not believe it was in our interests to send troops 5000 miles away to occupy another country. Senator Murphy said that all ALP 'members were utterly opposed to sending troops to Vietnam. The South Vietnam regime had been installed by terror and violence. The bulk of the aid we had sent had found its way into the hands of corrupt officials. Closing the meeting, Mr. Briot said that the Mosman ALP branch would accept a challenge by the North Sydney Liberal Party branch to debate Vietnam. Some 30 odd disruptors failed to break up the anti- Vietnam war meeting at the Mosman Town Hall. Picture shows the crowd standing up as the hoodlums were forced to leave the meeting. 