 BERLIN CONGRESS DRA WS UP NEW JOURNALISTS' CHARTER From RUPERT LOCKWOOD AN end to intimidation of journalists — such as was suffered by a photo grapher of the "Australian" in the Melbourne anti-LBJ demonstration — will be a major demand in a pro fessional charter to be issued by the International Organ isation of Journalists. Framing of the charter was decided on by the recent 6th World Congress of the IOJ in Berlin. Preparation of the charter will be assisted by international dis cussions by journalists and their organisations. It will be sub mitted, when completed, tto UNESCO and other interested world organisations. . Helped by its affiliate organ isations, the IOJ is initiating re search and other activities de signed to improve working and living conditions of journalists in the newly-emerging democratic nations and to Uphold press free dom against the attacks of mon opolists and despotic governments. The IOJ wil seek to have the rights of. journalists defended against compulsion by employers to write lies through a "con- science clause". Congress recog nised that the faith of the people of the world in much press in formation had been seriously im paired. The IOJ wants the kind of press that will restore faith in journal ism, will prevent the use of its columns for war, hatred, racialism and, lies. The Ethical Declaration of the Congress stated: "In face of the magnitude of the dangers facing mankind; and the great extent of their own re sponsibility, journalists cannot simply regard themselves as technicians uninterested in the consequences of their work." The Declaration appealed to journalists to recognise their duty, whatever their political philoso phical or religious convictions, to take their stand for settlement of international differences by nego tiation, for peaceful co-existence and general disarmament, for real independence of nations and respect for the dignity of man. The President of the IOJ, vet eran French journalist J. M. Hermann, put it this way: "The consequences of the way in which journalists present in- formation to the public are un limited, for both good and evil." By modern techniques news in formation and pictures and ideas spread instantaneously to all parts of the world. Thus honest journalism, in order to serve democracy,. joeace and freedom was indispensable to mankind, Hermann stressed: "The enormous increase in nuclear destructive power" com pelled journalists to defend man kind against war and lies, hate and confusion. Nearly 300 journalists from all continents attended the Conference from east and west Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America. Obser vers included three Australians. The Congress was strengthened by the affiliation of 22 more journalists associations from Africa, Asia and Ltin America. President Hermann pointed out unity of progressive journalists throughout the world had not yet succeeded but the IOJ would con tinue to work for this goal. He said he opposed sterile polemics and repudiated defamations and favoured frank discussions of differences of opinions. Congress paid particular atten- tion to the duties of journalists in opposing the US invasion of Vietnam, the chemical and air war atrocities. The South Vietnamese delegate Huynh Van Ly told Congress that upright journalists in South Vietnam were subjected to un paralleled terror; many were tor tured to death. Many newspapers had been banned in occupied areas, others appeared with blank, censored, pages and all were forced to publish articles supplied by the Ministry of Information and psychological warfare. In liberated areas, journalists published 40 newspapers and 17 periodicals and . ran the liberation newsagency. They often interrupted the use of pens as weapons to take up guns. "We are both soldiers and journalists." International prizes for journal ism were awarded to Professor Gerhard Eisler, well known fighter against Hitlerism, now a German Democratic publicist. Others receiving awards were Cedric Belfrage New York Nat ional Guardian editor, exiled in the McCarthyite period, to the late Fabricio Ojeda of Venezuela and the South Vietnam patriotic journalists association. 