 That security file BHHUMMnBMHBanmBBIMRMBnBRBK-iiiHMHaaniMll London to a brick it's a genuine job By Our Parliamentary Roundsman a senior public servant who is continually examining security dossiers in the course of his work has privately confirmed to press men that the photostat of the Francis James dossier was a copy of a standard form of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Political observers place no importance on the denial of the authenticity of the dossier by the Attorney General, Mr. Sneddon, as it is standard Gov ernment practice to deny all accusations against the ASIO. The Francis James dossier case has brought into the open the fact that such dossiers on government opponents or critics are commonplace in Australia today. Trevor Kennedy, in articles on ASIO in the Australian Fin ancial Review (Oct. 11 and 13), revealed that a large part of the budget of ASIO went to pay operatives to compile such dossiers. Dossiers There are thousands of sec urity dossiers today on govern ment opponents and critics and public servants. In explaining the significance of his dossiers, Kennedy said: 1 "It is possible for a public servant to live for years in ignorance of the fact that an adverse security report has placed an insurmountable bar rier in the path to further promotion." If the James dossier is not authentic how could it contain information which could only have been collected by such a snooper organisation as ASIO? Would the Attorney Gen- eral deny that he gave approval for Mr. James telephone - to be monitored, which he must do according to the Act? Does Mr. Sneddon deny that the information in the James dossier was obtained not only by tapping telephones but also by opening his mail and checking his supposedly private bank affairs? Does he agree that, from the time of the formation of the Liberal Reform movement, the Government issued instruc tions to the ASIO to compile dossiers by snooping on every one of their candidates? It is interesting to note that the NSW police authorities have not denied that Francis James' office was twice broken into on the dates shown in the dossier. It is known that AISO have used criminals from in side and outside gaols to break into homes, offices and to crack safes in order to compile information for their dossiers. 