 Demised but undefeated Well-known Australian author ALAN MARSHALL looks hack on his association with the Victorian 6 Guardian 9 S the Guardian has reached its last issue. I'm sorry. It made its mistakes; it had its troubles, but it always came back fighting. It fought for truth and justice and a better life for all of us. It was a courageous paper. I owe it a lot. I cut my writing teeth in the pages of The Worker's Voice, the name of The Guardian in the days when the wage of a girl start ing in a boot factory was 12/6 a week. Those were the days of the depression and I spent a lot of time wandering the streets. I was not politically conscious, and . imagined in my innocence that articles describing the fiuardian conditions under which people were forced to. live would be welcomed by the daily press. I was mixing with hungry, despairing men and I wrote a series of reportage pieces in which I attempted to describe the tragedy of their existence. I couldn't place them until someone mentioned The Worker's Voice. I tried this paper and thus began a rela tionship that gave me an op portunity to develop any writ ing ability I possessed, and to say what I wanted to say. The articles appeared under the heading of "Proletarian Picture Book" and became a weekly feature. They were exciting times. The battles fought by The Worker's Voice embraced all the aspects of the struggles then taking place. Those I remember most vividly, those in which The Worker's Voice played a lead ing role, were struggles in which I was involved and which represented signposts in my life. In 1934, I was stirred into action by the Government's treatment of Egon Erwin Kisch, a Czech writer, who was barred from landing in Australia where he was going to address a meeting against War and fascism. He had been a victim of Hitler's persecution in Ger many where, even then, con centration camps were being set up. Finally he jumped from his ship on to the pier at Port Melbourne and broke his leg. Kisch was a writer, arid his arrest became the concern of all Australian writers who valued freedom. He was released, and I heard him address a huge meeting at the West Mel bourne Stadium, where I first learnt of nazi torture and the horror its victims were suf- fering. Count von Luckner's visit to Australia in 1938 started a series of demonstrations which culminated in mounted police charging crowds of de monstrators in Victoria Street. The police did not discrimin ate. Women were batoned as well as men, and there was a number of arrests. Luckner, a nazi spy, featur ed in the press as a personal ity figure whose strength was such that he could tear tele phone books in half, was a dyed-in-the-wool nazi who even then was preparing for the war that was soon to break out in Europe. Yet he was presented as a hero. It was the Worker's Voice that show ed him up in his true colors. General Motors about this time was preparing to intro duce a speed-up system which would have turned workers into machines. I managed to obtain a book of instructions which was issued to foremen who were supposed to familiarise them selves with its contents. It was an astounding book which gave a minimum time for all movements necessary in the simplest tasks. . While the right hand was HHuanlian screwing a nut, the left hand had to be engaged in an equal ly productive task. .05 of a second to extend the arm, .06 to do something else. Everything was timed to a fraction of a second, a system, which, so we were told, had the blessing of the Duke of Windsor. I wrote three articles expos ing this speed-up system. When The Worker's Voice, in which they were featured, ap peared, hundreds of copies were sold outside the gates of General Motors. The system was not put into operation. The visit of the Italian cruiser Raimondo Montecuc- coli to Melbourne in 1938 was an occasion in which The Worker's Voice exposed the sinister activities of the fas cists aboard. An Italian taxi driver who had gone aboard with hund reds of other visitors, was seized and held prisoner on the ship. The demonstrations that took place in protest against the seizure of this man were among the largest Mel- . bourne had seen to that time. Thousands of people collect ed along the Port Melbourne waterfront. The pier where the Italian cruiser was berth ed was barred to visitors. . The huge crowd paraded the waterfront shouting their anger across the water from where answering shouts could be heard. "Taffy" Orlando, the taxi driver, had been bashed un conscious, and was in danger of being abducted to Italy. However, continued demon- strations succeeded in having him released. It was the Worker's Voice that kept the public supplied with the facts which would otherwise have been suppressed. I wonder does anyone re member Dick Waitley? He fought in Spain with the In ternational Brigade, and lec tured on his experiences at the Writers' League, of which I was then president. He was a shrunken man, shy and awkward, and when speaking gave the impression of trying to efface himself. Yet on that night when he spoke at the Writers' League, he held us in silence by the force of his personality. We rose and gave him a standing ovation. One of the best journalists The Worker's Voice ever had was Jim Crawford. He was a fine writer and an honest one. We interviewed the Red Dean together. Jim was so thorough he left me with nothing to say. "What songs did your mother sing to you when you were a little boy?" I asked the Dean. I was searching for a new angle. He leant back in his chair, smiled, and sang a little song about a mouse. When we were leaving Jim said, "I think that song re vealed a lot. He is a great man." The trial of Frank Hardy was given a complete cover in The' Guardian, as it was then. I have only mentioned a few of the outstanding events of the last 33 years, but this is evident: though The Worker's Voice was subject to the most unscrupulous and vicious at tacks for the stand it took in each of these events, his tory has proved it was right. In the light of this fact it is interesting to speculate what history will say of The Guardian's fight against con scription, of its stand against the terrible war in Vietnam where a country is being deci mated and a people destroyed in a courageous defence of their freedom. As in the past, history will prove The Guardi an to be right. Farewell The Guardian. You retire undefeated. Alan Marshall 