 One year since the slaughter INDONESIA: WHO PLANNED THE COUP? October 1 marks the first anniversary of the coup in Indonesia led by Lt-Col. Untung, which precipitated the deliberate massacre of an estimated one million Indonesians, condoned by the right-wing junta under present Premier . . Suharto; Here former Victorian Guardian Editor and CPA Central Committee member REX MORTIMER examines— and -rejects — the evidence implicating the Indonesian Communist Party in the planning of the Untung coup, advancing the theory that it was really conceived and executed by a group of junior army officers, without PKI foreknowledge or approval. | N keeping with the sym bolic flourishes that have been a feature of Indonesian politics for more than a decade, Indonesian officials have announced that the trial of former Foreign Minis ter Subandrio for his alleged part in the ill- fated Untung coup will open on October 1 . This date marks the first anniversary of the coup. Subandrio, of course, is a prime victim of the new regime, as he more than any other implemented often bril liantly, President Sukarno's adventurous foreign policy pivoted on an alliance with China. As he has been -in custody $ for ; .six.- months,- the military, f & men should have" all the "evid ence" they need for a convic tion. But they will need to do a good deal better than they have to date if they are going to make their "com munist conspiracy" story stick. A number of key documents relating to the earlier trials have now been published., Some have appeared in Eng lish, notably in the Cornell University publication, "Indo nesia", and the China Quar terly. Others have been pub lished in the Indonesian press. In the main, they consist of "confessions" and trial evid ence by PKI leaders (Aidit, Njono, Pardedo) and coup conspirators (Untung, Supard- jo, Sujurno). D. N. Aidit, the PKI chairman, is claimed to have made his "confession" in the few hours that elapsed between his capture and murder; consequently, the authenticity of the document depends upon the word of his army captors. The others mentioned were put on trial or gave trial evidence; in some cases they are alleged to have been tortured or ill-treated. The credibility of these documents is a critical test of the case made out by the present rulers to justify their v massacres,- and massive re- pression, since the Indonesian people and the world have been invited to judge the PKI on the basis of them. In fact, such is the confu sion and contradiction they contain that they do more to wreck the "conspiracy" story than any other evidence that has come to hand. The main points in the documents are treated under the following headings. PKI Preparations: JgOTH the Aidit and Njono "confessions" refer to meetings of the PKI leader ship in July 1965, at which it was decided to support the Untung coup in view of Presi dent Sukarno's illness and the threat of action by the ; army leadership. According to the "confessions", Aidit, Njo- | no and Njoto were present at > these meetings and were al- f lotted special responsibilities in the coup preparations. J However, it is established beyond doubt that both Aidit and Njoto were absent from Indonesia for the whole of July, returning in the first and second weeks of August respectively. They could not have been present at any such meetings, nor assumed any responsibilities for direction of the coup at that time. At his trial, Njono retracted his "confession", and excul pated the PKI leadership from any part in the coup. But he accepted personal responsibil ity for aiding the conspirators. However, hjs role appears largely to have been confined to supplying PKI volunteers for military training at Halim Air Base. Pardede, who gave evidence at Njono's trial, im plicated the PKI leadership in this activity, claiming that at a meeting of the party's Political Bureau on August 28, it was decided to assist the Untung group with the supply of trained volunteers. But, as, we shall see below, the volunteer training scheme commenced in early July (during the absence of gjllll and Njoto overseas) ana in all probability was not con nected with plans for a coup. PKI contacts: QNE'of the leading members of the Untung group- Surjorio, air force officer in charge of Halim Air Base — alleged in his "confession" that at meetings of the con spirators, two PKI agents, identified only as "Sham" and "Pono", took charge of the preparations and convey ed orders from Aidit. These names are almost certainly pseudonyms, as they are completely unknown. They have never been officially identified, and there are no reports that they have been arrested or even that a search Aidit' at Halim: A IDIT, like Sukarno, was certainly present at Halim Air Base on the morning of the coup, but there has been no suggestion by anyone that he was directing affairs there. Surjono stated that he picked up Aidit at his home and took him to Halim, as was the case with Sukarno. The explanation seems to be that the conspirators did not want Aidit at large in case he in- The volunteers: rpHE government case rests , heavily on the fact that PKI members received mili tary training at Halim Air Base, and that some of them participated in the coup. But, as noted above, this training began early in July, before the coup group had commenc ed its preparations. Furthermore, the training project was in no way clan destine. For a considerable period, the PKI had been urging the creation of a fifth . service of armed volunteers, designed to strengthen the anti-Malaysia campaign, but no doubt also intended as a means of breaking the army's monopoly of force. The project had been ap proved in' principle by Sukar no and the Cabinet, but the army had refused to co-oper- Regional coups: JjpOUR centres in Central Java were the scene of military coups close on the heels of the Untung coup — Semarang, Solo, Djokjakarta and Salatiga. But in each case the seizures were undertaken by army officers, and local PKI leaders were not in volved. The only exception was Solo, where the PKI mayor was drawn in. However, this appears to have been the result of rebel army pressure upon a personality known to have been regarded by the PKI as lacking in political astuteness. If PKI involvement in the coup is negated by the evid ence, relied upon by the gov ernment, then the most likely theory is that it was planned somewhat hastily by junior has been made for them. (The Indonesian press has report ed on numerous occa sions hunts for other PKI leaders and alleged coup con spirators.) Finally, at his trial Surjono dropped all reference to "Sham" and "Pono" being present at the conspiratorial meetings. It should be added that neither Untung, Surjono nor Supardjo had any record of being strong PKI sympathis ers, let alone communists, and their histories are inconsist ent with the suggestion that they took orders from PKI agents. structed the PKI not to sup port their actions. When the . coup collapsed, Aidit flew to Central Java, and all the evidence points to the fact that he tried to sup press support for the coup there. He then tried, but fail ed, to return to Bogor for the Cabinet meeting on October 6— strange behavior if he were implicated in an attempted uprising against the govern ment. ate. Thereupon the air force had openly commenced a' small training scheme at Halim. From testimony given at the trials, it seems clear that the volunteers were only brought into the coup at the last min ute, when some armed forces units upon whom the Untung group was relying were trans ferred out of Jakarta. The trainees had strict in structions from the PKI to carry out air force orders, and so were unlikely to have referred back' to the party when they received sudden instructions to help seize key installations in the capital. When the coup collapsed, they were told by air force officers just to return to their homes, where they were even tually arrested. army officers to take advant age of the simultaneous pre sence of their units in Dja karta for Armed Forces Day (October 5). Most of the military con spirators came from Central Java, a Sukamoist stronghold and centre of resentment against the army high com mand. They were fighting men with distinguished mili tary careers, resentful of the corruption, mismanagement and luxurious way of living of most of their generals. They may well have con sidered it their duty to assist the President by purging the army of treacherous men in high places, just as other in stitutions and political parties had been purged. The air force officers who took part shared the long- standing antagonism of their service for the army chiefs, which partly sprang from al- Three features: QUPPORT for this interpreta tion can be found in at least three features of the coup: The Untung proclama tions: These could not by any stretch of the imagination be described as sophisticated political statements. Their stress is all upon the griev ances of the army against the cosmopolitan ways of their generals. The Revolution Council: This was the body announced by Untung as the interim .gov- , erriment following th&, :.c&ixp? It is significant that it con tained few communists and . no high-ranking ones, and that it included a large number of rightwing generals closely as- ' sociated with the Untung , group. It was certainly not . the type of council the PKI would have chosen, as it was not representative in terms of the Sukarno formula; it did not even contain a representa tive of the prominent Partindo party, which was strongly in fluenced by the PKI. The generals spared: A legations that the army was not pulling its weight in the anti-Malaysian campaign. PKI-directed coup would hardly have overlooked the arrest of Generals Suharto and Umar, after. Nasutidh the most strategically-placed mili tary leaders, and both anti- communists. Yet no attempt was made by the Untung group to seize either. This is only explicable upon the basis of the personal asso-? ciations of the conspirators. Umar was a close friend of Supardjo and was put on the Revolution Council. Suharto, commander of the strategic .reserve responsible for the . 'security ' of the capital, sur vived to smash the coup ap parently because of his rela tionship with Untung. He had flown to East Java eighteen months before to be present at' Untung's wedding! This is no more than a theory. But one fact is clear: the evidence against the PKI produced by the new Govern ment would not suffice to hang a dog. Nevertheless it has been used to justify one of the most brutal and in sensate bloodbaths in modern history. INDONESIA, 1963 Uncle Sam goes up in flames 