 Where have all the flowers gone ? US General wants another cool half-million men Significant American and South Vietnamese losses and defections con tributed to last week's sensational warning by a leading US general that the US needs another half-million troops there to win. Meanwhile US defence sec- retary McNamara announced that another 18,000 US troops would go to Vietnam soon, bringing US strength there to 285,000 men. McNamara's claim (despite the general's view) that "the military situation was encour aging" contrasted with another announcement — that to swell the depleted forces in Vietnam, the US call-up age is being ex tended to 35. The Sydney Sun-Herald's Washington correspondent says another 100,000 US troops will be sent to Vietnam by the end of the year in a "quiet but steady build-up" which could result in further escalation after the November congression al elections. The paper says the US casual ty-rate is growing. Last week another 109 died, 636 were wounded and 13 more were missing. Also killed were two Austra lians including another con script only recently arrived with the latest batch—Private L. T. Farren, of Victoria. The US general who demand ed another half million troops was Major General Sternberg Commander of the 101st Air borne Division,, just back from Vietnam.. He said the US was in its most hazardous position since the civil war, of 1861-65. Cheerily Yet only a month ago Aus tralian Prime Minister Holt was cheerily telling Parliament tht "all is not grim in South Viet nam" and "the military situa tion has been secured." . Fed consistently to the Aus tralian daily press are stories of Vietnam battles in which the Americans always win with "light casualties" while the "enemy" losses are heavy. Not reported, however, are such events as raids by the South Vietnam Liberation Army on three US airfields between May 25 and June 4 in which they destroyed several dozen planes and helicopters, and killed or wounded some 280 US and South Vietnam officers and men. Reporting this a South Viet namese Liberation Army com munique says that on May 29 patriot forces shelled Vinh Long airfield, disabling 26 planes and helicopters and kill ing 146 officers arid men, in cluding 100 Americans. Earlier, on May 25, Liberation forces attacked the Phu Loi air port killing 32 men of the First US Infantry Division. Close to 100 Americans from the" First Airborne Division were killed and wounded at _Loc Ninh when Liberation forces attacked an American air field with guns and mortars on June 3. On June 2 US headquarters in Saigon admitted that in the past four days six of their planes had been shot down over north Viet nam, including an FC Phantom capable of flying at twice the speed of sound. A South Vietnam Liberation Command . communique said that the US and puppet forces' "dry season offensive" cost them 114,000 in killed, wounded or captured. In the fighting in . Kontum province, represented in the Australian dailies as an un broken succession of American victories, the Liberation forces wiped out five platoons of the US army, and two battalions and two platoons of Saigon troops. 