 Twenty-five years ago it was Pearl Harbour i 2 months later came b,==— s=a=====M DARWIN i a ft SHAMBLES, HEROISM AND THE WHARFIES By ALEC ROBERTSON JUST 25 years ago last week the crump of Jap anese bombs on Pearl Harbour (Hawaii) and Malaya heralded the south ward drive of. Japanese imperialism. After one of history's most re markable and rapid aggressive sweeps, in a little over two months Japan's forces were liter ally at Australia's "doorstep"— so often today proclaimed by the Government as an early target of the "Asian Communist Hordes". The same Pearl Harbor task force aircraft and air crews were able, by February 19, 1942, to launch a devastating attack on Darwin which, although only the first of 60 separate raids on and around that town, was far and away the most serious attack on Australia's own soil. But these were not hordies — or communists. They were a well- equipped and superbly trained air force based on the only modern and highly integrated industrial and commercial economy in the Asia of then— or now. They be longed to the third arm of the Berlin-Rome-Tokyo fascist "axis" that sought world conquest. Even so, they never were able to come any closer to a successful landing in Australia than on that sunny February morning when — in two separate waves, of 188 and 54 aircraft respectively— they accur ately unloaded their bombs on an ill-defended Darwin. Despite official secrecy, some how the word got around Austra lia of the seriousness of the blows at Darwin, whose victims served as an added stimulus to the whole Australian people in what soon became their massive iand success ful mobilisation of all resources to defeat and drive back the ag gressor. Story The full story of what happened that day has been told for the first time in "Australia's Pearl Harbour",'1' by Douglas Lockwood; a book remarkable for its pains taking detail based on interna tional interviewing of survivors and on official documents — on both sides. A shambles it was, a-nd one that bears thinking about in a number of ways in the situation of 1966. Some keynote statistics are: eight ships sunk, 243 persons killed aiid some 300-400 wounded; the harbor installations, nearby parts of the town— including post office, police station, the public hospital, Government House and many small houses — as well as the RAAF base, were devastated. The casualties included: on the ships, 191 dead and 330 wounded; on shore, 52 civilians and service men dead. The shipboard dead included Australian and American navy men and 57 merchant sea- men, mainly Australian. The biggest group deathrolls t were: crew of US destroyer Peary, 80; crew of Australian coastal trader Neptuna, 45; waterside workers, 22. While reading the reports today of unceasing US air strikes against Vietnamese centres, it is sobering to recall that hundreds of people fled from Darwin that day, leav ing half-smoked cigarettes, half- finished drinks, pets in their cages. As Lockwood says: "They walked and they ran. They rode on bi cycles and they rode in cars, in garbage trucks, ice-cream carts, sanitary carts and road graders." Most of the RAAF base officers and men, went bush. Four days later 278 of them were still un accounted for, some being in fact as far away as Batchelor, Adelaide River and Daly Waters. One reached Melbourne in 13 days. Shame That part of it was not a pretty story, though when the present External Affairs Minister Hasluck in 1955 referred to it as "panic evacuation" and "a day of na tional shame", he came under sharp criticism from Darwin. Certainly it was not that. Lock- wood's account leaves no doubt that the only shameful part was the extraordinary failure of the RAAF command structure to cor rectly interpret and act on three separate advance warnings from outstation observers of the ap proach of the Japanese squadrons, wocnnnf ivrolvr A3 93 ohH 19. minilt.Afi IcojjwvKArw; — --- . before- the first bombs exploded to provide the only real warning the town had. Not only that, but (to quote Lockwood) "Until now it has not geen generally known that the RAAF was directly warned of a big build-up in enemy air activity near Portuguese Timor in time for Darwin to have been given as much as 24 hours notice of impending trouble. This warning, sent in code from Dili by the Aus tralian Consul (David Ross) was apparently still being evaluated when the bombs fell". No wonder the official trans cript of the Royal Commission which in March 1942 investigated the Darwin events has never been released for scrutiny; even to the Official War Historians! Lock- wood could not get access to it, though he quotes extensively from Commissioner Lowe's general findings reported to the Govern ment. System From the facts given it appears that, rather than any single RAAF officer, it was the system of oper ations and command that was to blame for this tragic breakdown — ) an instructive point for a 1966 Australia whose destinies are be ing more and more decided by ah American-Australian military ap paratus. This was not, after all, an in experienced air force, for RAAF air crews had been fighting her oically for two years in Europe and North Africa. But "shame" aside, there is no doubt that of heroism there was plenty. Navy crews and merchant seamen, Army militia A/A gun ners, men and women of the post ' office, bank clerks, doctors and nurses were among those who in their various callings stood firm, many paying with their lives. Of the Aborigines, Lockwood says "Not one left Darwin " except by direction". Ten American Kitty hawk ; fighter pilots fought gallantly in, a hopeless situation. Four were killed and all the planes destroyed. But among the outstanding stories of heroism is that of the wharf ies (though daily press re views of the book gave this scant rmereiiuej ui IU WJHU wcic o-t work that 'morning, nearly one- third died . . .22 men out of a total of 37 civilian dead. As is the custom with the Aus tralian Establishment, the civil and military rulers of Darwin had been blaming the wharfies for every shortage or delay in supplies. Yet- in fact they were all volun teers, working on the single long jetty-wharf (under blazing lights at night) which, in a town expect ing air raids, and even invasion was certainly the most exposed target. They had been working stretches of up to 20 hours a day in tropical heat, including the manhandling of rail trucks along the jetty. Five 14-man gangs started at 8 a.m. that day. Just before 10, the first stick of bombs had landed among them. . The warning? . . . No. 3 gang, working the Neptuna (loaded with depth charges and other ex plosives) "had opened No 1 hatch and was about to knock off for morning smoke-oh when Tye saw aeroplanes high overhead. He saia to uuoiuu, xaiiK.ee ieux-> forcements at last! That makes me fell better.' The planes were approaching from the south-east. Then the bomb bays opened and they saw and heard bombs scream ing down towards them." . A shed on the wharf where men had gathered for smoke-oh "just disappeared". Others, hurled into the water under the wharf, were there when bombs hit and cut it asunder. Some died there, others — like many a seaman — swimming through blazing oil. Jimmy Yuen was' one of two Chinese wharfies on roster that day. As the bombs fell, he got under the- decking, then back to the Neptuna, then to the seaward end of the wharf where he helped push empty drums to help men struggling in the water. He was 20 minutes in the water before a launch picked him- up. One of the crew said: "Hey, this is a bloody Jap! Let's throw him back or knock him on the head." Yuen shouted: "Fair go, mates! I'm a bloody wharfie." Covered in oil, he was put ashore a few hundred yards away. He described the explosion of the Neptuna (which shook the whole town) to Lockwood thus: "The explosion lifted me two feet off the ground, like I was a feather, and dropped me back with a splash in the water' . . . It was terrible . . . terrible! . . . .. these huge planks and masts thrown hundreds of feet like matchsticks . . . they landed on the foreshore and on the town and on the ships ..." Survivors Neptuna's Australian and Chinese crew of 125 suffered their heavy oacnnitiRs (45 dead and many in- jured) from the bomb blast. -The survivors were on or near the shore when she blew up. The RAAF command's failure to pass on its advance warnings was paid for, above all. in the lives of the men or 1 be ships and on the wharf. Commissione: j (Lowe's report said, that if. th jarning had been given promptl "it is at least probable that 'number of men who lost their ires while work ing on ships i the pier might have escaped j safety. "There is mi bin the evidence, too, which sue sts that a warn ing of 20 or ev&lt; \ 15 minutes might have enabled p'essels in the harbour to get ader way ..." Almost twentilve years had to pass betoT&-,th|taste of the re- > eeiving end.,agxa j.wionai high explosive bomwof a town could be unveiled i&ustralia. Today, aggressive afcieets use bigger . bombs and sul -terrible "refine ments" as.- irjalm with HE rockets insteai I;, machine guns. US aircrews re doing to the Vietnamese -pej&&lt; what the Jap anese did— aric j 1th- as little good reason— to tha irivin people. Big Japanesarms are selling cars today toiitorians and not so many mile fcm: Darwin, the rich iron ore- leing opened up by Japanese other interests to feed Japa: I ifsteel profits. Which is no bt- why this 25th anniversary o e launching of aggression th ffered the only genuine threa Btralia has ever known has pas almost unnoticed in most of the Impress. "Aust'ii sPearl Harbour — Darwin, 14 'by Douglas Lock- wood (Cass istralia) $4.00. Ross Thorn pson as Donny in Rod Milgate's "A Refined Look at Existence , at the Jane St. Theatre recently. Robert Walker photography 