 THERE MAY BE ANOTHER DR. IN THE HOUSE By the Federal Parliamentary Roundsman AlNDEiKKA: the perpetual smile on the face of the new Prime Minister, Mr. Holt, is likely to be wiped out by the coming Dawson by-election in central Queensland. His first major setback could easily be the loss of Dawson on February 21 to the Labor candidate, Dr. Rex Patterson. The Prime Minister's pessim ism is shared by many Govern ment parliamentarians who ad mit to worry about the Govern ment's prospects. The by-election arises from the death of the Country Party Member, Mr. G. W. Shaw. It will be a straight out con test between 40-year-old Dr. Pat terson and 34-year-old ' John Fordyce, a cane farmer (Coun try Party). Mr. Holt, who recently point ed out that any government that allows unemployment of more than 2b per cent will be defeat ed, knows that unemployment is reaching 3i per cent in Queensland and that there are more on relief there than in any other State. Electors in Dawson have also been hit badly by falling sugar prices and severe drought. The Prime Minister is already under pressure from Queensland Mem bers to give much greater fin ancial assistance. Dr. Patterson, while still head of the National Development Department's northern division, announced that he would con test the Dawson seat for the Labor Party because of the lack of sincerity of the Federal Gov ernment toward northern devel opment. Demotion This decision, he said, had fol lowed the last Federal budget, which indicated that the Gov ernment, while using northern development as election bait, would not give it any solid backing. The immediate demotion of Dr. Patterson to an assistant secretary while Sir Robert Men- zies and other Ministers attack ed him in Parliament made him something of a hero in Queens land. Until he was 18 Dr. Patter son lived on his uncle's farm at Gooburrum outside Bunda- berg. After graduation in econ omics from Queensland Univer sity, he worked in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. He spent, nine months a year investigating the beef, dairy, sugar and cotton industry, par ticularly in the Fitzroy Basin, which overlaps the Dawson elec torate. By the time he went to the USA on a Fullbright scholarship in 1957, Patterson was an auth ority on beef roads and the clearing of brigalow country. He worked out plans for these projects which were endorsed by the Federal Government. The brigalow clearing was put under way in central Queensland, much of it in the Dawson electorate, at a cost of £7,250,000. Figures in the 1963 House of Representatives election for Dawson were: Country Party 52 percent ALP 41 .5 per. cent DLP 6.5 per cent On these figures Patterson would need a swing of 8 per cent to get the seat. But with such a candidate in opposition, the Government will be really on the defensive. This time there is no DLP candidate, and so a reasonable number of their votes are likely to go to the ALP. It is also a by-election which will allow even Government supporters an opportunity to protest against the Government without bringing it down.. Apart from personalities, the electors of Queensland will be choosing between a policy, of northern development or stag nation. There could be another doc tor in the House soon. 