 Anti-Vietnam war action by SA unionists, students DELAIDE: Seamen, waterside workers, railway workers, metal workers, university students and staff members have been active in (recent dem onstration's and .meetings opposed to the Vietnam war and conscription. Their activity was either connected with or parallel to the successful central demon stration in King William Street and meeting addressed by the Opposition leader (Mr. A. Calwell) which together in volved some 3,000 people. About 80 seamen and some waterside workers demonstrat ed with placards through the streets of Port Adelaide. It was their answer to fines amounting to $109 imposed up on Seamen's Union members who advertised the central de monstration by poster and paint. A collection was taken up to pay the fines and the removal of the sign which the Court had' ordered took on a demonstra tive form. Rail shops A meeting of 300 workers at the Islington Railway Work shops carried a resolution sup porting Mr. Calwell's call for withdrawal of conscripts from Vietnam. The meeting was addressed by Mr. C. Cameron MHR for Hindmarsh and the secretary of the Gasworkers' Union (Mr. E. Crimes). A conference of metal trades unions executives and shop stewards called by the Metal Trades Federation declared its support for the central demon stration. A meeting of students at the Adelaide University, by 400 votes to 30, carried a resolution condemning conscription. They had petitioned the Students Representatives' Coun cil to hold the meeting which was addressed by a number of students and lecturers. Buckhoard On the eve of the main de monstration, a buckboard of students carrying anti-conscrip tion slogans drove through the city streets. A meeting organised by the University Department of Adult Education was held and ad dressed by a lecturer in history (Mr. J. Young) who condemn ed the US-Holt policy. At the main demonstration, a pro-war, pro-conscription group, carrying anti-communist ban ners, carried out provocation, but were treated with con tempt. Extreme rightwing members of the Baltic Community assist ed by young soldiers from Woodside, dressed in civilian clothes, took part in this pro vocation. People are asking what role the Army authorities played in organising the attendance of the young men from Woodside? 