 YEVTUSHENKO I LAST month the young Soviet poet, Yevgeny Yevtushenko, who made a triumphant H| tour of Australia earlier this year, published an appeal in verse to famous American HB novelist John Steinbeck, to add his voice to those of the numerous other American writers BB and artists who had spoken out against the Vietnam war. EBB In a note accompanying the poem, Yevtushenko wrote: H "All honest people in the world feel outraged by the new barbarous raids of the H US air force on the peaceful towns and cities of North Viotnam. No political reasoning H can excuse the bombing of innocent children. . . H "I like Americans and have many friends in the States. I know, too, that many H| of them are loyal to their national and international duty, speaking out against the H war in Vietnam. These men and women are not enemies, but patriots, of their ESS country, for the true essence of patriotism is to fight against anything that mars ths H honour of the nation. And I . . . extend a fraternal hand ... to the genuine patriots H carrying high the behests of human brotherhood left them by Walt Whitman and H Robert Frost. H| "And yet not all my friends . . . have raised their voices against the slaughter of Hfl Vietnamese children, probably believing any such Interference to be detrimental to |H national prestige. But the level of a nation's prestige is equal to the level of its H| conscience, and, as History proves, anyone remaining silent in the face of crimes injures HB the prestige of his nation. H "Because of all this, I have written a letter in verse to one of my best-loved authors, H friends and teachers — John Steinbeck. B9 "Some time ago, when meeting young Soviet writers In the editorial offices of the H magazine 'Youth', Steinbeck said to us: 'Come on, wolf-cubs, show your teeth'." H Steinbeck, who has a son with American forces in Vietnam, later replied to Yevtushenko's H poem, asking him to use his "considerable influence" with the Soviet people end H Government to stop sending "murderous merchandise" through North Vietnam to the South." At the same time, he pledged himself to "devote every resource I have to persuade H my Government to withdraw troops from the South, leaving only money and help for Hj rebuilding." M 