 BASH AND BOOB: MORE TO COME? CIVIL RIGHTS UNDER THREAT — Aftermath of LBJ JJYDNEY : An ugly pattern of police violence, jailing and fines with open threats of worse to come, has emerged following the demonstrations during the Johnson visit. These threats have been echoed bv NSW Premier Askin and other right- wing spokesmen in State and Federal Parliaments. Shaken by the strength of the demonstrations these spokesmen, described by Mr. Calwell, as "grizzly old warmongers" have decided to try to shackle even further Australia's! democratic rights. The Australian Labor Party (Victorian branch), following a special inquiry, has accused security men and plainclothes police of committing grave breaches of civil liberties dur ing President Johnson's visit to Melbourne. Twisted The committee of inquiry said this week that there ap peared to be prima face evid ence to support allegations that plain clothes-police and secur ity men acted as provocateurs, breaking banners, punching by standers and generally provok ing incidents without any regard for age or sex. The report was based on in terviews with several dozen eye witnesses and more than 100 written statements. Some people complained to the committee that screaming women had their arms twisted behind their backs, were punched ' or had their hair pulled. Most of the more serious as saults were unprovoked, the committee said. A photographer for "The Aus tralian", Mr. Michael Mulrine, 19, said he was beaten with fists and truncheons by police while he was trying to photo graph a man in the back of a car. nP fVio mncf imnnvfonf cases following the demonstra tions is that of 21-year-old John Morgan, who was sent to jail in Sydney for four months for "vagrancy" after being ar rested in the Liverpool Street demonstration on October 22. Protests are mounting against this savage sentence. By contrast,, a few days later Melbourne financier, Stanley Korman, founder of the multi- million dollar Stanhill group of companies, was sentenced to only six months for issuing a falsified company prospectus; millions of dollars in small shareholders money went west when the companies collapsed. And in Sydney last Friday a mine manager was released WITHOUT PENALTY after he had been found guilty of breaches of the Mining Regul ations Act prior to an explo sion and fire that claimed the life of four mine workers (Story page 10). Vagrancy A recently published book, Freedom in Australia (by Enid Campbell and Harry Whitmore, Sydney University Press) states: "The police frequently lay vag rancy charges against suspect ed criminals who cannot be pinned down on any other charge, or in order to detain suspects pending investigation into more serious crimes. "But this is a dishonest kind of law-enforcement in that it uses the vagrancy laws for pur poses other than those for which they were designed." The authors call for an in vestigation of the police use of the vagrancy laws as a first step to reviewing and scrap ping the present legal approach to "vagrancy". In Adelaide, an American honors post graduate student, Daniel Shaw, and Dimitris Tsoutsikes, a young Greek lab orer, were arrested with six other demonstrators on the steps of Parliament House. They were demonstrating against the Vietnam war and had intended to maintain a hunger strike during Johnson's visit. They were not released with others arrested when they would not give guarantees that they would not continue their demonstration. Picketed There has been a march of 300 through Adelaide demand ing their release, a demonstra- tion of students at Parliament House, the Liberal Club has been picketed by over 100 peo ple who later marched on Par liament House as well. Senator Gorton, Acting Min ister for Eternal Affairs, last 1 week in parliament expressed 1 the sharp anti-democratic swing in top Liberal and gov ernment circles when he said that the bad image of Australia presented by US newspapers, "could have only been present ed by a concentration of small, bearded, violent, undemocratic extreme minority who scream ed hatred until they were drowned out by the hundreds pf thousands who screamed ac clamation." He said that ". . . hundreds of thousands cheered and some hundreds shouted hatred, fought with the police and ex hibited violence in the form of demonstration WHICH MUST NOT BE PERMITTED IN THIS COUNTRY." Senator Keeffe (ALP Federal President) reminded him that in the ranks of the demonstra tors were . "the parents and other relatives of the lads who Will be conscripted and rela tives of some who have already been conscripted and are now serving in Vietnam. He asked Senator Gorton if he knew that other demonstra tors included respected clergy men, community leaders of good standing of no political group took part in the demon strations because they were opposed to Government policy on Vietnam. Senator Keeffe called on Sen ator Gorton to withdraw some of the "filthy remarks" he had made. The President of the Senate then requested that Senator Keeffe wthdraw this remark. He refused and was suspended. 