 EISENHOWER BACKS VIET A -BOMB CAMPAIGN NEW and extremely dangerous campaign for the use of nuclear weapons in Vietnam has opened in the USA with the support of ex-presi- dent Eisenhower. US brasshats are even sug gesting, as one of them did last week, that the terrible nuclear bomb which killed hundreds of thousands of BUiinnBnHnMnnnBMB Japanese in a single day, is "more humane" than other weapons. They talk crazily as though the atom bomb could be used by them in Vietnam without fear of nuclear retali ation by the USSR or China. The comment of Senator Pastore, vice-chairman of the US atomic commission, twice repeated, of "God help us!" if atomic weapons are used indicates that there are still sober Americans in high office. The British Manchester Guardian comments that "future generations will find it hard to forgive the use being made of napalm in Vietnam", but "the abhor rence in which napalm is held throughout the world has hitherto proved to be no restraint. Beyond "Nuclear weapons do still seem to the US Government to be beyond the range of the acceptable. But can we be sure of that . . . the barrier will hold? So humane a man as President Eisenhower admitted that he was ready to use nuclear weapons in Korea." In Canberra on September 28 Prime Minister Holt re fused to assure Mr. A. W. James, Labor, NSW that he would obtain a guarantee from the Americans that they would not use nuclear weapons in Vietnam without first consulting Australia. The most Holt would say was that he was sure the USA would continue to keep in the closest touch with Australia over Vietnam "as it has in the past". Last week the Soviet Gov ernment announced new aid to the Democratic Republic of Vietnam to assist it meet the requirements of the new phase of the war. The DRV Government thanked the Soviet Govern ment for its "great and sincere support" of the DRV's struggle to (defend itself against the Americans. The Hanoi official daily Nhan Dan said that the agree ment marked a new develop ment of the relations of friendship and military solid arity between the Vietnamese and the Soviet peoples. However the allies face a major obstacle in the con tinued obstruction by the Chinese Government of the flow of supplies from the USSR to Vietnam across China. Geneva The' peace cause was not advanced by new British foreign minister George Brown, who said he wanted the USSR to join i,n conven ing a. new Geneva conference. The US was to stop bomb ing Vietnam while the con ference met and was not to resume unless it failed. Nobody but Brown believes that the Vietnamese would agree to negotiate under the threat of being bombarded again if they didn't do what they were told. Brown also demanded that the north Vietnamese agree to a "phased withdrawal" from south Vietnam — a demand which perpetuates the myth that the north has been trying to take over the south and puts north Viet nam on a level with the American invaders of their country — a myth being fostered carefully by the US in their manoeuvres r,ound the de-militarised zone. In effect rebuffing Brown the British Labor Party con ference at Brighton defied the Executive and qarried a resolution urging the Govern ment to press the USA into calling off the war. 