 The world of Czecho Slovakia [?] KEVIN HARTSHORNE, a young Australian teacher, after living for five years in Czechoslovakia has written an lnterestxng and xntormative book with a fresh slant on "life from the. inside of a socialist country. I met Mr. Hartshorne in Prague in 1961 when he' was planning -the work. His intention was to' present a realistic picture of life as the or dinary people lived it in a socialist society, a picture that avoided distortion whether from a sympathetic or hostile position; an objective presentation by one who, though a foreigner, had livfirl and worked in a socialist environment for a number of years. His work ranged from teaching to factory and field work, and everywhere he examined percepti vely the life around him and re corded his findings of the experi ences, conversations, points of view of the people amongst whom he worked, many of whom became his confidants and intimates. The book is an interesting blend ' of the novel form and a record of an authentic personal experi- ence. Whilst in essence it is re portage, its lively conversatiori, effective presentation of charac ter and evocation of atmosphere enable the reader to live in a world of people and situations that give one the impression of read ing an imaginative novel, whilst simultaneously living in the real world. Many of the characters are op posed to socialism and express their political views opexxly and frankly in the proletarian language of the factory or the field; indivi dual commuxxists appear, dedicated to the task of building the new life; and other members of the . Communist Party who are criticis ed by their fellow workers for the conflict between their professed ideals and' their practice. For good measure, we are given a frarxk account of the approach to sexual relationships of some of the younger generation, and an in teresting and authentic account of the ups and downs of the author's own love story culminating in his marriage to a Czech girl. Mr. Hartshorne has presented many facets of Czech life in a socialist society honestly and vividly. I feel that one thing missing is the presentation of the collective work of the Communist Party, which, provides the dynamic for the coixstruction of the new society. This is so essential a part of the people, that in such an honest and realistic account by a com mitted socialist, its absence seems to leave a gap. Perhaps this will be filled in a later work, I understand, is on the way. On the whole, despite a few minor weaknesses in technique, a very lively and perceptive work, that breaks new ground arxd should gain a . wide readership amongst ' those interested in life in a socialist society. — W.E.G. Published by Maegibbon & Kee, London; price $4.60. Avail able from Hicks, Smith & Son, 301 Kent Street, Sydney. "A Star To Steer By" There is a "STAR TO STEER BY" if you have high ideals and are prepared to . fight for them. This is ad mirably demonstrated in the story of Captain Hugh Mulzac as told to Louis Burnham and Norval Welch. Born on Union Island in the Caribbean Sea where all the in habitants except one were of African descent, Hugh grew up without the knowledge of racism. Hugh became a seamen after having been apprenticed to a ship builder. The captain of the Aeolus was a religious man, when the ship reached1 North Carolina he was taking some crew members, including Hugh, to church. " Here it was that Hugh first learnt that colored people were not acceptable to all, for he was not allowed to enter the church. Even while a British subject he found discrimination existed on the ships, in ports other than those of the United States; in Australia in those days colored seamen were not allowed to go ashore unless the captain posted a bond of £100 sterling on each man to cover the cost of de portation, if necessary. "The Australian law seemed more offensive to me than even the customs of the United States." Mulzac says. But he also wrote that the seamen learned that the government policy was held in contempt by the Australian people. During World War 1 Hugh Mulzac sailed on four ships as- a deck officer, as a result he was able to become an American citizen for service in the US forces entitled non-citizens- to apply for citizenship. His career was not confined to the sea, for prior to World War II Negroes found it hard to obtain officers' jobs„ so as he had married he was forced to take jobs on shore. Studying hard he obtained his master's ticket, but it was not until United States entered the war that he was able to obtain a ship then was given command of the "Booker T. Washington." The idea was that only col ored men would sail under Cap tain Mulzac. As he tells- the story: "The American Revolution had been fought ini 1776, and a con- stituton written guaranteeing equality for all. "A civil War had -been fought 83 years earlier over the same issue of freedom for colored cit izens. And here we were in 1942 engaged in the greatest war in history, in which one of the major issues was the ruthless ex termination of a minority people, and demanding the fullest mobil- isation of the nation's man power. "If there was ever a moment when the real meaning of dem ocracy could and had to be dem onstrated to the peoples of the world, the moment was- now1!" The Captain won the battle and not only gained . a mixed crew ,but in all the years the "Booker T. Washington" sailed he was able to influence the men under his command that they worked amicably together. Hugh Mulzac not only served his country as captain of the "Booker T. Washington". He was a veteran of the struggle to gain equality for Negroes both in the organisations formed for this purpose and in a number of trade unions where discriminat ion was practiced. "A STAR TO STEER BY" is the life story of a man who was inspired by ideals. But more than that. It is the story of seamen during two world wars; of the depression years when jobs were almost im possible to get; of . the position of the trade unions; of a man's love for his family. Priced at only 75c, "A STAR TO STEER BY" is obtainable at New World Booksellers, 425 Pitt Street, Sydney and other progressive bookshops. J. M. 