 Paint versus prejudice jELBOURNE: "This is the maximum penalty that can be imposed for an offence of this nature, but it is certainly not the usual practice to impose maximum punishment on first offenders as has been done in the case of the Langleys." A Melbourne lawyer made tnis comment on tne judgment handed down last week in the case of brothers John and David Langley, who threw bags of paint on President Johnson's car during his October 21 visit to Melbourne. David Langley, 18, and John Langley, 21, appeared in the Prahran Court on November 10. They had just completed 14 days on remand in Pentridge Jail while the magistrate, Mr. E. J. Danaher, SM, studied pre sentence psychiatric and other reports. During their 14 days in jail, engineering student David sat for four of his exams in the jail library. Asked by the magistrate if he had anything to say before sent ence was passed, John Langley stepped forward and said: "Yes, I do have something to say. I think your action in putting my brother in jail while he was doing his exams was ex tremely reprehensible". The magistrate replied he thought the young man would have been "wiser" not to have made the statement. Mr. Danaher said that al though the brothers had al ready done everything possible in the way of compensating (to the tune of 1732 dollars) those whose clothing had been affect ed by the paint, he was still going to inflict substantial fin ancial penalties on them. This would be instead of a three- year jail sentence. Missile David Langley was fined 240 dollars and put on .18 months probation. John Langley was fined 440 dollars, put on two years probation and ordered to be placed under the care of a named psychiatrist. The fines were on the charges of wilful damage to public pro perty, and throwing a missile. Mr. Danaher expressly con gratulated Liberal Attorney- General Rylah for having initia ted a bill in Parliament, soon to become law, which will im pose jail terms for offences such as the Langleys. He specifically warned "stud ents" contemplating any such action in future to keep this in mind. The political implication and nature of the case from the outset overshadowed the actual offence. Clear political prejudice on the part of the bench was the basis upon which the langley brothers were tried, judged and sentenced. 