 WHARFIES STEAL SIX-HOUR SHOW JYDNEY : A large contingent of wharfiesj stole the show at this year's Six- Hour Day procession — the 111th on record — in Sydney. Their many amusing skits delighted a crowd of 50,000 who watched on the sidelines. One skit, "The Three Stooges" (Do Nothing, Say Nothing, Give Nothing), subjected arbi tration judges to some well deserved ridicule. "Pick a Box— Holt's Choice" (a coffin containing a "dead" conscript) expressed the labor movement's opposition to the Government's involvement in the Vietnam war. Opposition to the conscription of Australian youth for Viet nam was featured by many of the 40 unions who participated. About 4000 trade unionists marched in the procession which included 30 floats, 14 bands and four teams of march ing "girls". The girls included the newly formed marching grandmothers. The Federated Engine Driv ers and Firemen featured the "Golden Holden", a late model car sprinkled with gold bear ing the message: "$ millions for US investors — nothing for Australian workers." A Sheet Metal Workers' dis play said: "Yanks have a 'holt' on Australia." A banner asked people to join the Canberra Lobby Train to demand price and profit control. Amalgamated Engineers, some in leg irons, attacked tlje anti union penal powers of the Arbitration Act. "From penal colony to penal powers," read a banner. Six building unions declared their stand for peace and high er living standards. Postal workers demanded a five day week and equal pay, and posed the question: "Auto mation—heaven or hell?" Printers, who are celebrating their golden jubilee, advised: "When your dollar acts ornery call a Calwell." Many uniformed psychiatric nurses called for equal pay for all nurses. A banner said: "Freud would agree, equal pay for he and she." A large number of teachers demanded emergency action to solve the education crisis. The Liquor. Industries Union featured a conscription ballot as the "lottery no one wants to win." Seamen and Shipwrights de manded an overseas national shipping line. A contingent of aged pension ers demanded a pension no less than half the basic wage. 