 Which way Africa ? J WHICH WAY AFRICA By Basil Davidson. Basil Davidson, well-known as a writer on African affairs, has made what is the only up-to-date and comprehensive analysis in English of the social, economic and political motives,i myitis, ideas and beliefs whiich underly modern African nationalism. Recent events have shown an Africa on the threshhold of new ventures, an Africa in a state of flux. The author has achieved an analysis which wilt give some idea of the kind of societies which will now tend to emerge. The book also clearly shows that the African states are aware of more than their relation to themselves — they are also aware in particular of their future in relation to the outside world. 65c (74c posted). I CYBERNETICS WITHIN US By Yelena Saparina. Cybernetics is a new science concerned with the study of control and communication. Surprisingly the science is now closely connected with the study of the body. In other words, the study of the way in which the automatic nervous system operates. When the idea was first voiced that our bodies and cells are in effect cybernetic systems in which there are stored away codes carrying detailed information about the future organism and its development, a sensation ensued which spread beyond the bounds of biology. Arguments flared, and as the author put it, "swept out to the university campus and into the city streets, where they continued till midnight." Written by a Journalist with apt and humorous sketches— for the layman. 95c ($1.05 posted). AUSTRALIA By Russel Ward. Russel Word is Associate Professor of History at the Uni versity of New England. He is the author of the Australian Legend and tfditor of The Penguin Book of Australian Ballads. Chapter headings give some idea of the way in which the I subject is handled — Australia Today, Convicts and Currency 1.788-1821, New Pastures and New Attitudes 1821-1851, Diggers and Democrats 1851-1885, Utopians and Nationalists, War and Depression, War and Expansions Russel Ward has reinterpreted the past and provided a base from which he has analysed Australia's pdlitlcdl, social and economic development. 80c (87c posted). AGAINST DOGMATISM AND SECTARIANISM IN THE WORKING CLASS MOVEMENT By V. 1. Lenin. A collection of Lenin's articles and speeches in which he criticises left opportunists who have a dogmatic conception of Marxism. ... „ . . . Although written in an earlier period, the fundamental concepts advancod by Lenin are still valid today. A re-study of this material could provide us with a sounder concept of what is really Involved within the controversies which are taking place In our own press today. 50c (57a posted). LABOR MOVEMENT AT THE CROSSROADS By Laurie Aarons. Following the seventh unsuccessful Labor bid for electoral office since 1949 the press urged the ALP to move further to the Right as their only chance for power. ... This booklet, written early in 1964, set out to demonstrate that this was not the road to power for the ALP and that a united Labor Movement with a Left policy was the only alternative. Highly topical. 5c (9c posted). For quantities of 5 or more— 3e each. New World Booksellers 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 