 [?] DK. ZHIVAGO is a BIG film — 3\ hours long, wide screen, full color, magnificent and sweeping vistas of Russian countryside made in summer (Spain) arid winter (Finland) and with some impressive mass scenes in volving hundreds of people. It draws together the highest techniques of camera, sound and set construction to ensure an impact that may produce , big box office takings in this country. Actors like Rod Steiger, Alex Guinness, Omar Sharif, Tj'om Courtenay, and actresses like Julie Christie and Geraldirie Chaplin do admirable work in ther res pective main roles. But at its heart, the film is false. Boris Pasternak's controversial book of the same name provides the essential story. It is built around a sensitive doctor-poet who sought to stand aside from the elemental clash of human forces in the Russian Revolution; of his loves, his suffering, his subjective reaction to the harsh ness of what; he saw around him. This, was a time, firstly, cf a corrupt -and brutal imperial tyranny and of growing mass demand's for justice, freedom, brotherhood; then a time of courageous defiance of authority by millions of people, a revolution, a grappling by untrained people with enormous problems of gov ernment and administration; and it was an agonising defence of the revoluton . against the armies of the old order and' of no less than 14 foreign countries, before a new socialist society could be constructed. What does the film make of this, the most dramatic and important revolutionary upheaval in history? The representation of the pre- revolutionary society is impressive although hardly harsh and squalid snough. One powerful scene of dragoons riding down a peaceful mass demcnstation led by bol sheviks contrasts starkly with the scenes of luxury and! parasitism of the wealthy and effectively sums up the situation that spawned the inevitable revolution. But the main body of the Jfilm , in the revolution itself (beginning with the disintegration of the armies) and after, is consistent mainly in its presentation of acts of ugliness, ignorance and remorseless cruelty by the revol utionaries, especially the commun ists , (bolsheviks) , in a period in fact marked by the brutality of tsarist militarism and later by. the whiteguard terror ism, the film dwells on officers being bashed and shot to death. In cities of mass poverty along side wealth and privilege the new government commandeers spare living space for the poor— but the film is ccncerneri' to present these people as ignorant and apparently stupid tools of "the, party" without any human feel ings. Red guards and red armymen and partisans also receive this caricature treatment .regularly. Partisans in the forest, heroes of the defence of their country against the interventionists as they were also in World War II, somehow became dehumanised killers of angelic-looking military cadets (without the slightest ref erence to the Kolchaks and Denikins who, like Hitler in 1945, put children into unform to die for a worthless and lost cause). No doubt the violence, the harshness and brutality occurred. That could hardly be avoided m such a fundamental struggle in a country where just to live was a struggle for the majority, den ied land, security, education and democratic rights. And there are those who are re pelled ana' step aside, dissociat ing themseives from events. One can accept this but also the fact that such people are inevitably unpopular, as they were in Aus tralia in 1942. But as Arthur Ransome, an English daily press correspondent who was in Russia through the period wrote: "No one contends that the Bolsheviks are angels. I only ask that men shall look through the fog of libel that surrounds them, and ?ee the ideal for which these young men are struggling in the only way in which they can struggle. If they fail they will fail with . clean shields and clean hearts . . . . " An important part of the film is the journey from Moscow to the Urals of a trainload of "refugees from the revolution". It is a rough journey through conditions of war. But the reality of what happened in those days was much worse Mr. Rudolf Bukely, an American Red Cross worker whose diary was published in the "American Red' Cross Magazine" of April 1919, described one of the "death trains" in which the whiteguard armies exported from their native villages thousands of "red sym pathisers." "This train of death . . left Samara about six weeks ago in charge of Russian officers. It had on board at that time S,100 pris oners of all sorts," Bukely wrote in Nikolsk, Siberia, on November 18, 1918. "Since that day, 800 of these wretches have died from starvation, filth and disease. There were as near as we could count 1,325 men, women and children penned up in these awful cars yesterday . . . they had the stamp of d'eath on them." Almost all died, as no white- guard unit would let them off the train. But there is no suggestion in the film of the wave of terrorism and death let .loose by the white- guard armies. People who know nothing of the facts of those times will iri- evitably draw from the film a sense of revulsion derived from the behaviour of the "revolution-, aries." Those who have read his tory cannot but see it as a film of sophisticated anti-communism based not on what is in it but on what it omits — the bestiality of the death-heroes of tsarism and capitalism in Russia. Powerful in its use of the aits, the film is terrible in its dis tortion of the essential human force of history's greatest revol ution, and therefore in its caricat ure of humanity as a whole. How the creative, youthful, peace- oriented modern Soviet society (glimpsed at the end of the film) could be built by the anti-human "communists" d&picted' in the film is never explained. What would Pasternak have thouit of this film, had he lived? Perhaps the clue to the answer was given by his sister, Lydia Pasternak Slater, in her introd uction to his "Fifty Poems", pub lished in 1963 after his death, when she referred to . . . "... the snameless way in which unscrupulous and greedy sensation-mongers exploited and are still exploiting his name and his novel for their own end's" A. R. The real thing. Some of the Bolshevik prisoners on the Train of Death, 2000 of whom were shot, starved — or frozen to death. \ - A scene from the film "Dr. Zhivargo". . 