 Fine words on National Aborigines' Day, but... What will we give the real Australians? National Aborigines' Day, celebrated in each capital city each year, aims to draw attention to the problems of the Aboriginal people. It's a good time to remember , that the Aboriginal people have a long way to go before reach, ing their goal of equality. There are still segregated towns where authority and some of the white people be have as do the bigots who hound the Negroes in Ame rica's Deep South. There are still the fringe humpy towns without hy giene or sanitation, where lit tle children die from hook worm and other diseases that no longer kill white children. Many hundreds of miles from Sydney on the big cattle stations of the Northern Ter ritory, Aboriginal stockmen are still denied equal pay and privileges with white men. They- and city Aborigines are demanding elementary rights that must and will be be granted to all Aborigines. Then and only then will Na tional Aborigines' Da.y really be celebrated. What does the future hold for these cheerful Abor iginal youngsters in a NSW country town? Poverty, unemployment and semi-literacy on the fringe of the so-called Affluent Society? Or security, prosperity, a full education and real equality? Only strong Gov ernment action will give them the things they are entitled to in their own land. nnnnnHnnannnnan A big smile from NSW Chief Secretary E. A. Willis (above, right) for didgeridoo player Larry Biayna, before he addresses a National Abo- rignes' Day celebration in Sydney, last Friday. Mr. Willis promised the State's Aborigines a new educational scheme "aimed to ensure that no Aborigine child will be denied the op portunity to complete secon dary education because of parents' economic conditions". But the State Government will have to give the Abor igines real proof of its in tention to translate Mr. Wil lis' words into reality, as many of them are prevented from obtaining an adequate education due to disgraceful home and living conditions, typified by this humpy on the Aboriginal Reserve. 