 t c HE NCIEIC IN DANGER By a Special Correspondent I I i'3 I ASSURAiJj given by French »nn,M jr Tahiti I concerning tELning A- teste that vrejjted a8 j main story:!.- Sydney ! Morning Her lt Wednes day are Tefuj Jan official IfPrt issued ler by the French thtrn T The report, &lt;- Ik in part t>y French scientt Is issued in October, 1963, Sy to a ques tionnaire addi mo them by M. Jacques x ffpresident of the Territorial Imv of French Polynesia. f | In particular, mL in this re port refutes tha assurances, featured by tfc Wm, that the direction of tl AM 'will safe guard Australia pother people from the poi® Wl-out to he generated by | ||posipns. The Herald' ||r-up article j suggested to tl js&alian people l that the coiriin isiv/oro nothing i to worry about 3. The French v iJwait until the wind was righ J Further, byM miraculous process unkno® most other weathermen th&ffld be able to guarantee timttyld "would not change directl(a|3everal days." The article, iipanied by a 3 map showing tt area where i the dangerous is intended I to fall. It is on the: fen side of the Mururoa Islanl f.Mte, 800 miles s east of .Tahiti silout 5000 miles i from Australia The first expl ||L due around r about July 14 coping to the Herald story, Vl After that, r oJplosions will 3 he held over tt eight years 3 and will culntijjjfehf) explosion of a hydrogen HI, The French ioiities quoted » by the Hera!'. »cfc, the rest of. ' the world, WMtpht . Polynesians who live ftt ppiithe-Austra- ' lians and ' N®pnders, to put up cheerfullnytius prospect: They say tisnio danger even to the Polynel'asiihe area they _ have markediforj the fall-out | is not inhabit heii I Unfortunate: itJfe French and I the Herald, « plays their as- 1 surances with (Jticism, we had I precisely the ory from the 1 Americans bei fif lot off their I H-bomb at Bi|| 1954. 1 As the Londi lis reported on I March 31, 195® first Ameri- can hydrogen If was exploded I at Bikini on |S 1, 1954, and 1 liberated radta|pd radio-active substances v 0 contaminated with fatal am ffof radio-activd substances an M 25,000 square kilometres. :| "The 'prohi' «i|rea' set down by the U.SJ&lt; ?Ked 125 square kilometres, h sgr.- Strauss, the president of'. ||tomic Energy commission r?|p- " 'Unfortunatj Mpe wind did not conform ||N predictions and changed Bjfk the south! and thus the- gs of Rongelap and Uterik lay in the path of the fallout." These islands are 160 miles from Bikini. By contrast the nearest inhabited, island to Mururoa is Tureia, about 70 miles away. There are 10 other inhabited is lands within & radius of about 300 miles'. The Japanese fishing vessel Lucky Dragon was outside the U.S. proclaimed danger zone, about 100 miles from, Bikinii when the H-homb went off. But one man died in agony and others were seriously ill from the fallout. A book by nine English scien tists headed by Antoinette Pirie on the threat of radiation says: "The forecasts made of the direc tion the radici-acttve cloud will take after an explosion are often unreliable. "If the wlrids blow in a cer tain direction all is well. If not as at Rongelap, the inhabitants will, be injured. "Often, as in Nevada (U.S.A), he clouds seem to take the Wrong iirection. At St. George, Utah, vhich is 140 miles frbm the test ing area, the inhabitants were advised to stay inside for 25 hours after the explosion, and they were . exposed continuously for 16 daya to an atmospheric contamination which for 24 hours was, 1.260 times higher than the contamination es tablished as permissible for work ers exposed to radiation." Accidents like that helped decide the U.S. authorities to take the| tests away to the Pacific, where the people don't have any votes. The French politicans were just as careful of their own voters and just as careless of the Polynesians and other inhabitants of the Paci fic, including Australians. What makes the French confi dence even more puzzling is that according to the French experts themselves, giving their opinions on another occasion, the only stable winds blowing in the area would blow the fallout towards inhabited areas, not away from them. Replying to the questions posed, in 1963, by the President of the Territorial Assembly of French Polynesia a committee of French atomic physicists said: "There can be no question of setting off the bomb unless there is a stable wind set-up, and it is impossible to make any forecast if the winds are variable in strength and direc tion." Examining the winds that actually blow round Mururoa they find that the only "stable" winds are a high-level one which would take bomb fallout to Gam bler, Pitcairn, Easter Island and South America; and a low-level one Which would take it to Australia and New Zealand. The report' says that the only winds blowing towards the unin habited areas are winds which Cannot be used because of their instability or changeable nature. That doesn't prevent the French experts from declaring that "all direct risk due to fallout can be excluded." This latter is the story- supplied by the French authorities to the Australians journalists who lately visited Tahiti and is obligingly re layed by the Herald as authen tic. The Herald report, too, take no Recount of the contamination of the water and the fish which followed all previous tests in the Pacific. Thus Mrs. Pirie's book notes that "the U.S. navy has recently made know the fact that, after tests of nuclear weapons in the Pacific, giant .molluscs were found which were 2000 times more radioactive than the sea water in which they lived." Japanese scientists found, on: June 12, 1954, after the American H- tests, that the plankton (on: which fish feed) in the ocean was 44,000 times more radio active than sea water. The flesh of the fish they caught, 150 miles from Bikini, ,was. 295 times more, radio active than sea water. Thus even if humans themselves are not affected, directly, they can he through the fish they eat. Further, the Herald writer and his French advisers take no ac count of the radio-active poison that is shot right up into the' stratosphere (whatever the wind direction)! and spreads there to descend gradually to earth in a deadly rain. This radio-active dust settles and passes into humans' bodies when they eat vegetables or drink milk; This can affect people's repro ductive organs and cause them to procreate monsters, as happened at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The U.S. Federal Radiation Council has said: "It is virtually certain that genetic effects can be produced by even the lowest doses. Nobel prizewinning physicist Dr. Linus Pauling said in 1958: "We can estimate that each test will produce malformations in nearly 15,000 new-born children, in the course of the following year. "An equal number of new-born children will be threatened with leukaemia, cancer of the bones and other maladies due to radia tion." These are some of the facts which the French Government aided and abetted by the Holt Government and its team of tame scientists and assisted by the daily press, are trying to make Australians for get. Although the Federal Government in 1964 "requested" that ths French drop the tests (in deference to- Australian public criticisms) last month Holt helped the Frenqh by staging their air force planes through Port Moresby and even prosecuted an Australian who ex pressed his disgust by scratching a plane with a knife. An international trades union conference in Sydney last Septem ber unanimously called for action by all Pacific and Asian workers to stop the tests, and pledged sup port for any action taken. The conference was attended by union delegates from Australia, New Zealand, France, Malaysia, Singapore and New Caledonia. 