 I Delegates demand that Premier meet I is ' A \ " ti > I 4 "V hx CRISIS ' Jk?. t Z S&1 SYDNEY: More than 600 delegates from parents and citizens | and teachers organisations throughout NSW unanimously J last Saturday demanded an emergency premiers' conference to I authorise essential extra spending on education. 9 They attended the Public Education Needs conference at Svdnev 1 University. 9 The delegates also called 1 for an emergency Loan Coun- I cil meeting. 9 They came from parents and teachers' organisations as far away as Broken Hill and Tweed Heads to stress the urgency of the education crisis. One after another they arose to tell of the acute situation in their local schools — classes being held in public halls, shelter sheds, corridors, chang ing rooms and even in rooms under hall stages. Many stated that the, schools would he utterly unable to cope with conditions arising next year when 13,000 pupils, who would have been taking the leaving certificate this year under the previous syllabus, will stay on to take their sixth year under the Wyndham scheme. Mrs. D. Collier, of the P. and C. Associations, said that a dozen State High Schools had already announced they would be un able to take on any first-year pupils coming up from primary schools next year. Mrs. Collier pointed out that the Federal Government had given aid in some form to universities and technical col leges. "But they ignore the schools which are the very foundation of education," she said. The conference called unani mously for a general inquiry into school education in line with those already held by the Commonwealth into the needs of tertiary education. Canberra's blind eye £ANBERRA: Despite the massive weight of evidence to the contrary, the Federal Government still pretends that there is nothing seriously wrong with education in Australia, Mr. L. J. Reynolds (ALP, NSW) said in the House of Representatives last week. Mr. Reynolds was introducing an Opposition urgency motion on education in the House of Representatives. He said that the evidence came from State Governments, Ministers of Education, high- ranking educationalists, profes sional education bodies, parent and citizen organisations, teach- ins and student organisations. In reply, Dr. Forbes, Minister for Health, said that Mr. Rey nolds and the ALP had been "squawking away about - an education crisis ever since I have been in the House." Mr. Reynolds quoted the NSW Minister for Education (Mr. Cutler) as saying that plans lor 27 new high schools and 11 primary schools had been de ferred indefinitely. The Australian Education Council, composed of the Ministers and Directors of Education in each of the six States, had compiled a report on the needs of education for the whole of the Common wealth. The. report complained of the widespread use of makeshift and unsatisfactory accommoda tion such as corridors, shelter sheds, rented halls, houses and staff rdoms. Apart from the requirements of new enrolments, more than 1000 class rooms were needed. To accommodate additional classes that would be formed by reducing oversize classes an additional 3600 class rooms would be necessary, the report had stated, Mr. Reynolds said. He said that the Minister for Education in NSW had informed the Teachers' Federation that the expanding school popula tion had forced him to defer entirely the construction' facili ties other than class rooms. This meant no assembly halls, no gymnasiums, no new libraries, shelter sheds, playing fields, staff rooms, etc. 