 [?] More discussion about Soviet writers' case SUPPORT Laurie . Aarons statement, on behalf of the Central Committee of the Com munist Party, of op- position to the imprison ment of the Soviet writers Senyavsky and Daniel. ' He had not only a right but also a duty to make the state ment and to talk of "prin ciples". Absolute freedom for writ ers or anyone else exists no where. Under capitalism, the writer is hamstrung by mon opoly control and direct and indirect censorship. In Australia at present, how ever, there is some opportun ity for the expression of a leftwing standpoint, especially in novels. In a communist state, the writer would enjoy the great est freedom, but a communist state does not yet exist. Nevertheless, the writer in the Soviet Union enjoys, in many ways, greater basic free dom than in even the most democratic capitalist state. His prestige and social posi tion are high and greater free dom of criticism and satire is slowly developing. But there is still difficulty in obtaining publication for critical works, even those aimed at positive reforms. Communism stands for free dom of creative writing. Dur ing the three decades of Sta lin's power, this freedom was severely curtailed; legitimate literary criticism was often replaced with abuse, adminis trative reprisals and terror. After the 20th Congress, the situation changed rapidly and profoundly. And the new lib eral climate stimulated a great new upsurge of Soviet liter ature. But the process has been contradictory and uneven. For example, when Boris Pasternak' novel Dr. Zhivago was rejected by the magazine Novy Mir, he submitted it to an Italian left-wing publisher who translated it. Soon after wards, when Pasternak was given the Nobel Prize, he was. abused, threatened with exile and, under pressure, rejected the prize. Mikhail Sholokov described Pasternak as a "spiritual emigre" and accused the Nobel Prize committee of political bias, only to accept the same prize from the self-same com mittee a few years later. At the turn of the year 1962- 63, Khrushchov and Ilyichov made speeches on literature and art. They argued several concepts harmful to communist art theory: a narrowing of real ism to equate it with natural ism; a branding of formal ex periment as decadent and ab stract; an implication of for bidden subjects; an insistence that writers create" within al ready defined spheres and limits; and an attempt to resolve genuine processes of growth in the Soviet literary world with administrative measures and threats. The main writers attacked were such excellent, positive people as Yevtushenko, Ehren- burg and Nekrassov. Of course, the anti-soviet forces in the west had a field day. Not their smallest victory was to publish such works as Victor Nekrassov's "Both Sides of the Ocean", as if to say: "Now here is a fine social ist book and the communists attacked it." The recent trial in Moscow must be seen against this back ground, and in the light of the considerable achievements of Soviet foreign and domestic policy in the past 10 years. The positive trends towards restoring Socialist democracy, the initiative of the people, the achievements in science and production and the breath taking upsurge of literature and music, fair outweigh the lingering negative trends ex pressed in the trial of these two writers. The practice of Soviet writ ers publishing abroad began as a direct result of what Noel Counihan called (Tribune March 2) "a censorship men tality" in official Soviet circles, which dates back to the hey day of Stalin and is being over come only slowly. But until now such writers first submitted their work in the USSR, publishing it abroad in their own name only when it was rejected (as in the case of Dr. Zhivago and Yevtushen- ko's autobiography). I know nothing of the work or case of Daniel. But Sen yavsky had considerable stand ing as a talented man in the USSR. Whether his books publish ed in the West under the pseudonym of Tertz had been first submitted and rejected in the USSR I do not know. It is difficult to judge any thing about a man held with out bail for months and tried after abusive pre-judging in the Press. Whatever the facts behind the case, the trial and sent ences did more' harm than any critical writings by either man (which were little known in the West and, of course, quite unknown to the Soviet people) could have done. The Australian intelligentsia and especially the working class are deeply concerned with the issue of freedom; they distrust communism be cause they fear interference with their freedom by com munist parties, in power. They are aware of the pro cess going on in the commun ist movement and await the 'impending triumph- of the positive, democratic, truly marxist trend. Of all the issues involved in the battle of ideas which characterises our time, free dom is the most potent. Only if socialism clearly gives more freedom and democratic rights to the working class and intel ligentsia can it triumph over capitalism in the struggle for the minds of men. That the contradictory pro cess going on in the USSR is paralleled in the Australian Left is clear, and this is un derlined by the differences of opinion emerging around the central committee statement issued by Laurie Aarons. Let us debate the issue right through— there is more at stake than the fate of Sen yavsky and Daniel. FRANK HARDY, (Manly, NSW) 