 Humphrey and Humbug HE picture might be titled "Humphrey and Humbug — song and dance men with funny patter". Thev Dut on a erreat show in Canberra at Satur- day's press conference. Plenty of smiles. A joke or two (Humphrey wryly cracked that the PM had arranged the demonstration outside to make him "feel at home"). Plenty of praise for Australia's commitment in the bloody intervention in Vietnam. And, heaven forbid, there had been no pressure for more. Australian troops. It was a prime sample of the type of press con ference that is staged to cover up what is really going on behind the scenes. : '.v.'- A . : f " ' , Take the following facts. Averell Harriman, the most experienced "persuader" in the US Govern1- ment's employ, (as the last five Presidents have shown) mysteriously visited Australia in mid-Jan uary. This was fobbed off as an "exchange of views, and information" on Vietnam while the Government skilfully steered press attention .towards the im pending visit of British Defence Minister Healey, due at the end of January. Holt, as new PM, suddenly and surprisingly de clared that it would be dangerous to Australia's ' development if "too large" an investment went into the military sphere. After the talks with Healey, there was another press conference show, and a guarded statement by Holt that Australia's military advisers had been asked to "investigate" the possibility of the use of facilities in Australia's north-west by allied forces. Now, at the time Tribune goes to press, Britain is announcing its new defence plans. The fact that the British Navy Minister has resigned abruptly has confirmed that aircraft carriers have been axed in favor of the American Fill swing-wing bombers (Australia is buying them, too; cost, about mil lion each) . The point is that the Wilson Government would never have opted for these land-based bombers to take over from the navy unless Healey had taken back CAST-IRON GUARANTEES of major base facilities in north-west Australia when Singapore, is no longer safe. Holt's admission of this has yet to come. He believes in softening up public opinion on such an unpopular issue. ' ? Similarly, he prefaced Humphrey's visit with an other statement, during the Dawson by-election, about the danger of "too large" an expenditure on ' defence. Then, in the afterglow of Vice-President Hum phrey's public relations work in Canberra, Holt carefully admits that the sending of more Australian troops to Vietnam is "under active consideration", while leaks to the press reveal that particular army ' units are already on their pre-embarkation orders. When this master of humbug judges that the visits of Harriman, Healey and Humphrey have been publicly forgotten, he will announce the "deci sions" on sending of troops and on new foreign bases for aggression from north-west Australia. But the fact will remain that Holt has bowed — perhaps not entirely willingly — to pressure from Washington and London. 