 The "Big Lie' pays off "T"HAT millions of people should last Saturday have cast a vote reflecting a misunderstanding of the situation in the world and in Australia is . a matter for serious concern. _ V' . i i i r But when one considers the barrage or misin formation coming at the voter from all sides and especially from all the main channels of com munication on which he usually relies for his "facts"— the wonder ceases that so many were deceived. At the very least it must be qualified by ap preciation of the sturdy independence of mind and determined refusal to be brainwashed that was shown by the well over two million who voted against t;he Government. . To vote the way they did they had to reject the advice tendered to them in virtual unanimity by the political controllers of every daily news paper, and every commercial radio and TV station in Australia. Even, the Murdoch-controlled organs, including The Australian and the Sydney Daily Mirror, after an early pretence to detachment and impartiality collapsed abjectly into the arms of Mr. Holt and joined their voices to the others of his well-trained, full-throated chorus. Although the election was made to centre very largely on the question of ."communism" scarcely one newspaper, or radio or TV station carried a word of what was said by any communist candid ate in the. campaign. This is the type of "freedom" that results from the high degree of monopolisation — higher here than almost anywhere in the world — prevailing in Australian industry, including the mass-communica tions industry. TV CLAMP Even the Australian Broadcasting Commission's Four Corners' session in its election round-up featuring minority groups would not give a hear ing to a communist spokesman, though it gave full scope to a Democratic Labor Party representative and others who made the Communist Party the butt of their remarks. (Incidentally, in NSW, the Communist Party did at least as well as the DLP and proved its right, on any count, to be heard in any medium claiming to be democratic). . . As polling day drew nearer the "American alliance" became, in daily press eyes, the supreme object of Australian policy for which all prin ciples, all decency even and the lives of Australian conscripts,, must be sacrificed. But whence comes the peril to justify this alli ance? There is only, in reality, the latent fear of Asia, fostered, in Australia by half a century of white racist propaganda, and played upon by the pro- Government parties and press which gagged or muffled opposition voices demanding freedom for Asia to make its own decisions. The press gave Mr. Calwell a special variant of the treatment always meted out to Labor Leaders displeasing to the ruling powers. It concentrated not Qn his views, but on his age. Contrast this with the dailies treatment of Mr. Holt the smiling, imperturbable character who bore up so bravely under the ordeal of having a peace poster waved at him and punches rained on him which (mysteriously) never bruised him or even rumpled his hair! They certainly "turned it on" — leaving no pub licity trick unused.. And yet more than two million Australians saw through it all, many of them with the help of the communist press. It is these millions who, in a substantial minority at the. moment, will inevitably grow into a majority and determine Australia's future on the basis of her real interests and security. 