 Holt concerned at lack of support for conscription issue By a political Correspondent The Holt Government is already clearly on the defensive against the public opposition to its decision to send conscripts to fight in the dirty war in Vietnam. The Government has been forced to admit that it introduced conscription because it cannot get enough volunteers to go. As Mr. Calwell, Federal Op position leader, said last weekend "the Vietnam war is unpopular in Australia be cause practically nobody of military age wants to be in it." Mr. Calwell also made a strong call for more protests throughout Australia on con scription, thus adding his voice to many others including the Communist Party (see last week's Tribune) and leading clergymen. The upsurge of record demon strations and rallies of protest in most Australian capitals and a flood of letters to the press have reflected the rapidly widening public concern. The whole of last Wednes day's joint meeting of Liberal and Country Party MPs was taken up with discussion of the trenchant criticisms of the Gov- 5. ernment's Vietnam policy. $ It was generally admitted by I many " backbenchers that the f Government had both failed to explain its policy or win sup port for it from the Australian people. Two Victorian Liberals Messrs. Jess and Chipp at the meeting criticised the Govern ment for allowing so much of the Labor Opposition's criticism to go unanswered. Reports that Government circles are considering extend ing the vote' to younger service men are aimed&lt; at cushioning public criticism. In fact, the right to .vote once in three years would have no relation to the forcing of young men to go and fight in Vietnam. The way in which the Parli amentary Opposition has res ponded has helped make the issue of conscription for Viet nam flare into the major poli tical issue in Australia. This has convinced many senior Cab inet Ministers that they could pay the price for this policy in the loss of electoral support. They have resigned them selves to the loss of many votes in Kooyong this weekend, but in fact are more worried about a possible major landslide in the December general elections at a time when conscripts will be fighting and dying in Viet nam and the electors paying for the war in higher direct and indirect taxes. In the Labor movement, many people are already paying trib ute to the role being played in this issue inside and outside Parliament by Mr. Calwell, and such backbenchers as Dr. J.' Cairns. They are contrasting this with the behaviour of ALP deputy leader Mr. E. G. Whitlam who in the recent period, spent most of his time attacking the Fed eral ALP leadership. Political observers have drawn attention to the fact that only one Country Party member, Mr. A. A. Armstrong (NSW), took part in the discussion at the joint meeting of govern ment parties. COUNTRY PARTY CONCERN Country Party members, while publicly lining up to a man in support of the Govern ment's policy, are privately ad mitting that in their electorates there is strong resentment to the conscription of young farm ers for Vietnam. There is also resentment at a balloting system which by the throw of a marble determines that one farmer's son fights in Vietnam, while another stays to help on the farm. The Government is also under fire from many daily press proprietors for not convincing the public why Australian troops should he fighting in Vietnam. Yet these newspapers can do not better. For example, last Sunday's Sydney Telegraph could only say that "we must stand with the United States in its own responsibili ties and involvements." For the first time in memory, a press statement was issued after the usual weekly joint meeting of Federal government MPs. In the statement, Mr. Holt said he had been authorised to say that members of the Gov- i ernment parties had reaffirmed their unanimous support for Government's decision on parti cipation in the Vietnam war I and the sending of conscripts. Last Thursday night Mr. Holt not only took the unusual step of participating in the debate but also admitted that the Gov ernment did not have the sup- : poi£ of the people. c Tfe Government is confident, said Mr. Holt "that as the pub- c becomes more fully inform- ed as to what is involved it will give strong backing to the Gov ernment." Speaking for the Democratic Labor Party, Senator McManus last week said that while they would vote with the Govern ment against the censure mot ion, this did not mean that they were giving the Govern ment a blank check on con scription. The DLP has also been forced to take into account the recent gallup poll which showed that sixty one per cent of their voters were opposed to con scription. To prevent any further seri ous erosion of public confid ence in the Government's policy on Vietnam, the Liberals are planning a public education plan. This will' include new pamph lets—including questions and answers on conscription— and a campaign to discourage the use of the words "conscript" and "conscription". To many Australians, say the Liberals, conscription means compulsion for service in wars that are not of Australian con cern. The Melbourne Catholic "Ad vocate's" bitter attack on con scription in two editorials also sent the Government into a panic. As the Advocate is the semi official organ of the Melbourne Catholic Archdiocese, it is in conceivable that these editorials could have appeared without considerable support from Cath olic laymen and important Catholic dignitaries. 