 WEE WAAt AUSTRALIA'S 'PEEP SOUTH' Aborigines hunted like animals from Yank cotton farms Story by Henry McCarthy, photos by Noel Hazard. JYDNEY : Now that the seasonal work in the cotton has finished, Aboriginal families have been ordered by police and council officials to tear down their bag humpies and move on — or be driven off like cattle. When the cotton season? began some Aborigines were camped about a mile from the town, now they are several miles out. They were given until 10 a.m. last Wednesday to move not less than 12 miles out, or be driven off. The licensee of the Imperial Hotl at Wee Waa who served them with liquor through a small window while they were workihg the cotton now refuses to serve them. He has lent himself willingly or otherwise- to the vicious cam paign to move them on. US owned Wee Waa, about 550 miles from Sydney is in the Namoi Region, one of the richest wheat-growing and wool-produc ing areas in NSW. Commercial production of cot ton began in the area in 1961-62. It has since grown into a huge development, mainly owned by Americans. Locals sarcastically refer to Wee Waa as "Little America". Hundreds of Aboriginal fami lies come from surrounding towns to work the cotton. Like the white workers they are paid from 90 cents to $1 an hour. During the school holi days coloured children work alongside their parents in the fields. This rate of pay may sound reasonable enough, but there is no limit on hours or days worked in a week— there are no penalty rates for time over 40 hours. "Smokos", a long accepted right of farm and field work ers, do not exist. A word of advice given to us at Gunnedah, when we asked for directions is worth noting. "Hide your union card" "If you're going up there . a Job mate, keep your '"hon card out of sight." Often after. 10 hours or long er in the fields, the Aborigines (unlike most of the white work ers, who are locals or boardl locally) have no home to return to. We could find none that stay ed in the hotels in Wee Waa four miles away. Most of them live in sparse patches of scrub on the fringe of the cotton fields. Their "accommodation' is bag humpies and tents made of flour bags, bought from the local baker. Some just sleep oh the ground near ramshackle vehicles. No sanitation There is no sanitation and no water supply, except for the river and the canals that run into the cotton. Many of the children and some of the adults have been taken to hospital with what has been diagnoised as some kind of obscure kidney com plaint. Those affected have usually been drinking water from the canals. Crop-dusting planes spray the cotton with insecticide and pil ots cannot avoid polluting the canals. A young Aboriginal worker, William Morgan, lost his eye brows and some of his hair after being caught in a burst of spray from one of the planes. "If it will scorch the nair off a man, what will it do to a child's stomach?" one of the Aborigines said. The countryside around Wee Waa is still in the grip of a three-year drought, temperatures rise over the 100 mark, the earth is baked dry, a dust haze hangs in the sky. These are, .ideal conditions for the flies that swarm over the food and the Aborigines. The 'adults seem to accept them with a stoic resignation, con tinuously swishing away with a small branch as they talk. Travel from miles away Mrs. K. Boney stood in the shade of a lean-to beside her flour-bag-roofed tent. She told us she considered it very wrong that no decent amenities were provided by the cotton farm ers. "After all we travel here from miles away to work their cotton and they are making plenty of money. "Why can't they provide us with decent huts with waier and sanitary facilities?" While the plantation owners (some of them not unlike Amer ican TV wild-west stars in 10- gallon Stetsons) rip up and down the roads in late model cars, the Aborigines are with out transport from their camps to the town— unless they have their own which is rare, or they can hitch-hike. When they need supplies (and this is often) the trip to town and back is usually by taxi. The fare varies from about $1.20 to over $4 according to distance. A couple of weeks back a delegation of members of the Federal Government Members' National Development Commit tee made a 48-hour air and lahd tour of the cotton industry in the Wee Waa district. Federal aid — > - but not for Aborigines By plane they picked up the Namoi River at Manilla and fol lowed it to the Keepit Dam, source of water for the cotton fields. Senator M. F. Scott, the chair man of the Committee, said at an official luncheon at Gunne dah" after the tour that they were "very impressed with the huge development." He hinted that the Federal Government might assist the cotton industry by way of a loan or grant to extend irriga tion works; if the request came from the NSW Government. The Senator made a long, glowing speech about the cot ton industry and the initiative of those who had pioneered it. He urged cotton plantation owners to approach the NSW Government to develop exten sive irrigation works in the Namoi Region. However, he never mentioned the shocking conditions of the Aboriginal workers whose labor has helped to make the flour ishing industry what it is. But, then neither he nor his colleagues would be able to see the flour-bag tents, the flies and the rusted iron or the sick chil dren from a couple of thousand feet up. And then, the camps were somehow by-passed during the trip by car. In August 1963, the Country Party member for Barwon, NSW, (Mr. G. Crawford) sought a Royal Commission into the granting of cotton growing leases in the Narrabri district. Narrabri on the Namoi River is about 20 miles from Wee Waa. Mr. Crawford claimed that the then NSW Government h£id departed from its land laws and water rights in granting leases to three Americans, who he said, were acting as dummies for a big US company. He said the company was J. G. Boswell and Co., and they had secured a licence to irrigate 753)4 acres of cotton. This was equal to about one- sixth of the area available for cotton, growing from the Keepit Dam, he said. Wafer for cotton but not cattle In the area where cotton can be grown in the Namoi Region, the annual rainfall is 22" an nually. This is useless for the culture of cotton, therefore cotton grow ing in the region is confined to areas that can be irrigated. The Keepit Dam on the Namoi is the only large-scale water storage dam in toe region. The dam can only cope with minor floods, it was authorised for construction in 1937 at a cost of over $22 million. Farmers are allowed to pump water from the river below toe dam on payment of an annual licence fee. During drought the water from toe dam is restricted and is released at intervals The Water Conservation and Irriga tion Commission tells them how much they can pump. They can not use it to grow cotton. But angry local farmers say that this is not the case when water is needed for the Amer ican cotton growers. While creek beds are dry for miles around the Namoi is re leased to flow into the cotton field canals. Near an American-owned cot ton farm at Wee Waa we saw a : mechanical pump on me river with six pipes of at least 12 inch diameter sloshing thousands of gallons of water an hour into the cotton fields. Inquiries as to why some re quests by local farmers for the increased water for dying stock have been rejected and as to who grants permission for the dam gates to be opened, have so far been unsatisfactorily answered. Nearly dry The Keepit Dam is at present only 16 per cent full and news paper reports of last week say that it will cease releasing ir rigation water within a month unless there is heavy rairi. Yet, not two weeks ago we stood on the bank of the Namoi in Gunnedah and watched two kids diving and swimming in the fast flowing stream. Half a mile further on driv ing through a parched paddock, we passed toe body of a cow that had died of thirst near a dried up soak. Almost 100 miles further north we bogged to toe ankles in water from toe Namoi while photographing a cotton field. It can be solved The Snowy Mountains Author ity is fast doing itself out of a job as the scheme nears com- pletition. What will become of toe workers, highly competent sci entists and hydrologists, skilled in toe construction of dams and water storage? What will be come of toe millions of dollars worth of machines and equip-, ment? All that is needed is Govern ment action AND FINANCE for a giant water conservation scheme that will rid Australia of toe worst effect of our nat ional disaster— drought. Aboriginal men, women and even children working for United States cotton farmers near Wee Waa, in north-western NSW, live under inhuman conditions, possibly worse than those of Negroes employed in the cotton fields of America's segregated Deep South. One of many American owned pumping stations on the Namoi River. Mrs. Boney in her "dining room" Mrs. S. West and Mrs. R. Wallace with their children outside one of the flour-bag tents on the fringe of a Wee Waa American owned cotton field. 