 [?] A burning question yHAT would you do if you were conscripted tot fight in the Vietnam war A distinguished Australian, Mr. Reg Pollard, a Victorian Federal MHR and former Cabinet Minis ter has been considering this question for a very long time. He recently told Federal Parlia-, ment that if he was conscripted for the horrible conflict in Vietnam he would burn his draft card and take the consequences. Looking around the public gal lery he said he saw young men who, if the war continued, would be called up for this filthy con flict. Of course Mr. Pollard knows he is too old to be conscripted but he certainly made his attitude to the war in Vietnam very, very clear. Book banners 1"HE Mt. Isa Mail, before it was taken over by Asher Joel's new paper the North West Star, became the dis tributing agent in that city for Betty Collins' book "The Copper Crucible''. "The Copper Crucible" takes the side of the miners and reveals the grasping nature of the Mt. Isa Mines Co. A week after Asher Joel took over all unsold copies of the book were sent back to the publishers, Jacaranda Press. To add a postscript. Since Asher Joel's recent speech in the NSW Upper House which was a blat ant defence of the big overseas mining interests, particularly that of the Mt. Isa Mines Co. he is becoming more and more known as the "Member" for this •com pany. KO punch AN interesting point of argument in NSW politi cal circles at the moment is whether Leon Ash,ton Punch, the Country Party member of Gloucester, will become a greater historical figure than Moses. It is true Moses parted the Red Sea so that his people could escape from the oncoming Egyptians. But Leon Asher Punch, glory be his name, last week single-handed ended the drought in NSW. The day before he left for an overseas trip he moved for. the winding up of the NSW Parlia mentary Drought Committee. The story behind it is that nobody on the Committee knew of the intention to abolish it. In fact the Committee was due to meet on the day it was abolished. We believe that the Committee was abolished because the Gov ernment was afraid of some of the evidence that expert scientific witnesses wanted to give would have made things a bit sticky for the Government. Anyhow glory to Punch, the champion drought beater. Grubstake take |N Perth the granting of rights to Western Mining Corporation to enter the Cen tral Australian Aboriginal Reserve, near Warburton Range mission, to explore for copper is yet another in cidence of Aborigines rights being filched. On Wednesday of last week Western Mining Corporation's team left Kalgoorlie with six trucks, towing four living units and a mobile chemical laboratory to set up camp. The living units are air-conditioned. Questioned in Parliament by M.L.A. Moir about the safe guarding of the various rights of natives on this reserve, Minister for Native Welfare Lewis stated that previous experience with the company had established that it war. well disposed toward native welfare and that the Government was satisfied with the terms offered in this instance. But the offer of $10 grubstake a week to "selected" aborigines and a promise of an undisclosed financial reward if they discover any worthwhile deposits seem hardly proof of the company being "well disposed towards welfare." Natives had been mining the area since 1961 and the ore had .been of good grade. So good in fact that under an agreement with only one aboriginal lease-holder the company had realised $53 500 in less than 12 months. Vietnam invasion TRAILING even stronger activity by peace supporters the Viet nam war may enter its most dangerous phase— land invasion of North Vietnam. "There is no doubt that support for a combined South Vietnamese- US invasion of North Vietnam is growing among American military officers," cabled Melbourne Her ald correspondent, Richard Hughes last week. 