 | Victorian unions' | ! ultimatum to ! I" I | Premier j Bolte | j must j i decide ! j within j |14 days MELBOURNE: The Mel bourne Trades Hall Council Disputes Com mittee, meeting last Thurs day. decided to give the Victorian Premier (Sir Henry Bolte) a period of 14 days to reconsider his refusal of union claims for an. extra week of apnual leave for the State's 90,000 instrumentality workers. A reply was demanded from the Goyernrrient by the date of the next meeting of the dis putes cpmmittee (February 8). The committee's decision said: "If, at the end of this per iod, the Government has failed to provide, a satisfactory form ula for settlement of the dis pute, we are left with no al ternative but to use all our available resources to win our just claim." "Responsibility" The decision said the Govern ment "had a responsibility to settle the dispute, as was done in NSW". Past experience has shown that Premier Bolte is a master at dodging and twisting tactics, unless he is confronted with decisive action by the unions. Unionists were- angered late last year when the Premier stated that the unions were "not game to go on strike" after they had decided against a stoppage just prior to the Xmas break. The view is widely held that Bolte deliberately delayed his reply to the unions until a few days before the holidays. The;, claim for the extra week of leave, and payment accord ing to roster for shift workers, is one of the best substantiated demands ever submitted by the trade union movement. Productivity of State Govern ment employees is rising, and an extra week of leave would merely restore the relative leave position of instrumentality workers to that of 1964, when for the first time three weeks annual leave was made general for Australian workers. Concessions to monopoly It has also been submitted that since the Government is in a position to make conces sions to private industries (such as cheap power to the US alu minium monopoly ALCOA) it should also be able to make a concession to its own employ ees. Any application for the in creased leave through Wages Board or Arbitration Commis sion channels, as advocated by Premier Bolte, is barely prac ticable. The 90,000 workers in volved are employed under more than 22 federal awards, 18 wages board determinations, and a number of industrial agreements. 