 -t The Communists and | Italy's political crisis | j |N January of this year the Italian "centre-left" Moro Government fell. The alliance of Ji the Christian Democrats, Social Democrats and the majority Socialists led by Nenni had |i resulted in a debacle. ;;; ' The "Italian Miracle" has ended, 1,000,000 are unemployed and millions more are working part time. Southern Italy and Sicily are languishing in their age- old social and economic back wardness. j Some 7,000,000 Italians are il literate, whilst teachers are un- j employed. All kindergarten and I primary education are under I church monopoly. | The immediate cause of the j fall of the Moro Government was j the Education Bill by which the | State, for the first time, at- '&lt;! tempted to establish public i schools at the kindergarten and j primary level. | This brought to a head the I ' profound conflicts within the government parties. m Domination ;C| by monopolies Wp However the crisis had much M deeper roots. g| The basic question was the v' jX| growing domination of the Ital- :;£!| ian economic life by the big monopolies, both in industry ;| and land ownership, impressed ; J most sharply in the merger of ;:l the two giant firms of Edison i i and Montecatini. ,v The profits and wealth of the alu vyllObollvlj glUU ;V;| ing whilst, as Italian Commun al ist Party Secretary Luigi Longo "'M reported to the Congress, "the 'p$ existence forced upon the great masses of the people by mono- || poly domination is hard and £1 poor" resulting among other things, in mass migration. Ill in all of the coalition parties, ! including the Christian Demo crats, an opposition left-wing has developed, which will no longer accept the above situa tion. Simultaneously, opposition grew to the subordination of the Moro Government to the Atlantic Pact and blind support for United States' aggressive policies in Vietnam and else where. In all three coalition parties, a left wing appeared opposing capitulation to imperialism and H monopoly, abroad and at home. I The resignation of Foreign I Minister Fanfani was the first I open indication of the depth of I the split; it was followed short- p Jy by the collapse of the Moro i Government. H All reformist parties in Eur- 1 llave come up against the same basic problem. The growth of the power of domestic and foreign monopoly has confront- ed tnem witn cnticai decisions. Either they insist on wide ranging reforms of the economic structure, and on a policy of peace, or they accept the domin ation of monopoly with its pol icies of economic , restrictions on the people and the development of foreign policies acceptable to the USA. The British Labor Party, traditional party of reform, is demonstrating that it has ceased to be either a party of reform, or a party of peace, since it supports, in the main, US ag gression in Vietnam. THE COMMUNIST PARTY In Italy the process has gone a stage further. The Social Democratic and Socialist par ties have become mere append ages of the Christian Democrats, whose dominant rightwing is pledged to promote the interests of the monopolies. In practice the Social Demo cratic and Socialist parties found themselves unable to secure even minor reforms. Fearing the critical problems In ' Italian society they were power less. The Italian Communist Party with its 1,700,000' members and its 8,000,000 voters is the only political force in Italy capable of leading the nation out of the morass. Luigi Longo in his statement to the congress called for a new unity of all the left forces, both lay and clerical, including the Christian Democratic left. Such a unity requires, he said, a continuation and extension of the dialogue between commun ists, socialists and catholics, a dialogue made possible by the major change in Church policy, carried out by Pope John XXIII and the peace moves of Pope Paul VI. The policy around which such unity is possible is based on the active defence of peace, plus the democratic reorganisation and modernisation of Italian life. This includes wide reaching educational reform, industrial isation find land reform in Southern Italy, full employment and an extension of State con trol over investment and the policies of private monopoly— in short," non Socialist but ad vanced democratic reforms". The Communists also take in to account the future relation ships between State and State. In the words of Longo to the Congress: "We consider that the protection of religious peace can be concrete aid to th' development of Socialist soci ety, for it can favour the loyal and fruitful participation of ail who believe in the establish ment of a society free from exploitation. It stands to reason that we are for an absolutely lay state. We are against the clerical state, as we are against State atheism. "We think that since the Soci alist state is the expression of the working class in general . . . a Socialist Democracy will not fail to create a new moral and cultural climate which is bound to have profound influence on habits and behaviour . . . We not only propose to catholics an agreement on an immediate programme: we would like to discuss wider questions includ- ing the process of reaching a Socialist society". It is clear that for Italy, where almost the whole of the religious community is catholic, and which is the seat of the Vatican, the question of dial ogue between catholics and communists is an important aspect of the revolutionary struggle: but it is also clear that in all countries, the dial ogue between Christians and Communists is an important issue. Working class action The development of "advanc ed reforms" depends not only upon parliamentary measures, but basically upon the participa tion of the working class and small farmers in actions to curb the power of the monopolies at the factory and farm levels, The ICP Congress discussions revealed the tremendous activ ities of the organised working class in the struggle against monopoly interests. Describing the unity of par liamentary and mass struggle, Luigi Longo's report stated: "When we fight to affect not only profit levels, but also how profits are used, investments, options and the freedom of decisions of the big monopoly groups, we are already posing a problem of power. "The bigger the struggle of the broad popular masses for profound changes . . '. the more the awareness will grow of the need for Socialist solution.' In his next article, Mr. Gollan will describe how Communists are participating more in local government and through this form bringing about important changes in Italian social life. 1 MR. W. GOLLAN who S I recently visited Cuba as an | I observer at the tri-contin- j I ental Conference was sub- f I sequently the Australian | I delegate to the Congress of | | the Communist Party of Italy. j I Following, is the first of 1 I two articles, written by 1 I him, on the political situ- j I ation in Italy. j 