 The man who never died From "Joe Hill". Music by Earl Robinson, words by Alfred Hayes. I dreamed I saw Joe Hill last night Alive as you and me . Says /, "But Joe , you 9 re ten years dead. 99 "I never died ,99 says he. "I never died," says he. THE CASE OF JOE HILL, by Phillip S. Foner. The Story of the Trial, the Mass Defence Cam paign, and the Execution of the Famous I.W.W. Poet, Songwriter and Organiser. International Pub lishers, first edition, New York, 127 pages. $1.45. By WILL FORD. QN this 50th anniversary of the frame-up and execu tion on Nov. 19, 1915 of Joe Hill, the I.W.W. troubadour, Philip S. Foner makes another important contribution to the history of the labour move ment with his latest book, "The Case of Joe Hill." The scope of the book encom passes a sketch of the slaying of a grocer and bis son by two masked men on the night of Jan- 10, 1914, in Salt Lake City, the arrest and trial of Joe Hill for first degree murder, the mass defence cam paign in his behalf, and the reper cussions of his execution by a fir ing squad. In conclusion, Foner finds that Joe Hill was convicted on suspicion and circumstantial evidence by Utah police, who had failed to solve a string of previous murders and seized upon the chance to convict a dangerous union organ iser. They were ably abetted by the vested interests from the cop per industry and Mormon Church, a great power in Utah. As many before and after him, Joe Hill was tried in an atmosphere of whipped-up hysteria and hatred for the IWW, the Industrial Work ers of the World, then abusedly called the "I Won't Work Wob- blies", an invective which later gave way to "Red Bolshevik". ft was a period when American monopoly capital had recuperated from its growing pains and was looking to the World War in Europe as an opportunity to garner super profits. But back of this capitalist- inspired war fervor was the mount ing fear of a rising, militant work ing class. CJnder these conditions a guilty verdict was a foregone conclusion as soon as the court-appointed defence lawyers were named and the jury selected. Rulings from the bench continually favored the pro secution, and Joe Hill had to rise in open court to dismiss his at torneys. Thus, like other accused IAKAW n rrifnl-Ar VIA Vil or? o Wr/1 IGMUI a&iuavuxg) ivouuiMAvu « uw w condemned in a cat's court. The death sentence was expected. He chose the firing squad rather than hanging because he wanted to "die like a true blue rebel." Thous ands viewed his body at a memo rial service in Chicago. Cremation follewed and his ashes were strewn over the 48 States. ? XA/HILE Joe Hill was only one of the many who gave their lives for freedom of the working class, he soon became a legendary hero of the militant wing of the labor movement. His biting songs with their grim humor still are sung today on the picket lines and in other arenas of class struggle, for he had drawn the fire of hatred from the same vested interests and exploiters of labor who still plan the speed-ups, union busting campaigns and frame-ups that have marked the era of capitalism. Joe Hill came to America from Sweden. He anglicised his name from Joel Hagglund to Joseph Hill- strom, and became known as Joe Hill. Like a young Lochinvar, he rose to fame out of the west. An itinerant laborer, he f re cently "rode the rods" in travel ling by train from job to job, from harvest field to copper mine. But he was gifted with a poetic talent despite the lack of a literary and musical education. With the shield of proletarian justice in his mind and the piercing barbs of satire and iconoclastic songs on his lips, he rode into the hearts of militant workers every where. He was the author of such working class songs as '"'Casey Jones — Union Scab", "The Preacher and the Slave" better known as 'Pie-in-the-Sky", and "Rebel Girl", dedicated to Elizabeth Gurley Flynn. Many of his songs appeared in rne junwe vea aong .book.- oi the IWW, which sold for five cents, the price of a glass of beer at the time. Oldtimers today still remember the thought-stirring martyrdom of this working class troubadour. For them Foner's book will revive some pleasant memories of that heated class struggle of. a half century ago when the IWW Wobblies rose to challenge the exploiting mono polists. ? "J"HE I.W.W. was organized in 1905 as a reaction against the conservative policies and craft union structure of the American Federation of Labour which failed to reach the migratory, lumber, farm and unskilled workers. Based on rev olutionary industrial unionism with a slogan of "One Big Union," the I.W.W. practised sabotage and was scathingly denounced in the press. For the younger generation, the Joe Hill story is perhaps best known for the song "Joe Hill", by Earl Robinson and Alfred Hayes. For some it may recall the frame-up and execution of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg and the imprisonment of Morton Sobell. Others may find resemblance in the assassination of President Kennedy and the murder of his alleged slayer while police looked on. The frame-up of Joe Hill ranks with those of the Molly Maguires, the Haymarket martyrs, Tom Mooney, Sacco and Vanzetti, the Rosenbergs, Sobell and the numer ous victims of McCarthyism. From press, pulpit and platform, the Wobblies were denounced with heat and passion. European news papers soon picked up the case, and the Swedish Ambassador in Washington brought the case to the attention of his government in a futile effort to protect a native son. Many notables also became in volved in the case. President Wood- row Wilson urged the Governor of Utah to grant a stay of execution. It was granted. Eugene V. Debs, Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, Bill Haywood, Jane Addams, Helen Keller and many other joined In the mass defence campaign to save his life. ? /""NE weakness in his de- fence probably cost Joe Hill his life. On the night of the grocery store murder, he had been shot in what he claimed was a quarrel over a woman. He had his wound dressed by a doctor who re ported it to the police, and Joe Hill was arrested on suspicion. Questionable testimony was pre sented at the trial showing that a shot had been fired from the slain grocer's revolver. Joe Hill was svounded by a bullet that passed through his body, but no bullet was found in the store to link him with the crime. Up to the end Joe Hill refused to furnish details of who shot him and why although the Board of Pardons offered him his freedom if he would explain his wound. This same board consisted of members of the State Supreme Court which earlier had rejected his appeal. Thus, in fact, they passed judgment on their own legal ruling. Up to his execution Joe Hill maintained his innocence, but he steadfastly refused to reveal de tails as to his wound. ? ""pHE Case Of Joe Hill" is a scholar's work of pains taking research into the various aspects of the trial, now largely beclouded by time, lost records, and efforts by reactionary writers to cast doubt on the innocence of the I.W.W. troubadour. Foner carries the reader through a maze of judicial judo, legal twist ing, manufacture of evidence, joust ing and gymnastics of the bar, altered testimony, court-appointed defence counsel, and bench rulings favorable to the prosecution. L The workers on the SP Line to strike sent out a call, But Casey Jones, the engineer, he wouldn't strike at all. His boiler it was leaking, and its drivers on the bum, And his engine and its bearings they were all out of plumb. CHORUS: Casey Jones kept his junk pile running; Casey Jones was working double time; Casey Jones got a wooden medal For being good and faithful on the SP line. 4. The angels got together and they said it wasn't fair For Casey Jones to go around a- scabbing everywhere. The Angels' Union No. 23, they sure was there, And they promptly fired Casey Down the Golden Stair. CHORUS: Gasey Jones went to Hell allying. "Casey Jones!" the Devil said. "Oh, Fine! Casey Jones, get busy shoveling sulphur — Thatte what yon get for scabbing on the SF Line!" THE TELEGRAM sent by Joe Hill to Elizabeth Gurley Flynn the night before he was executed. It reads, "Composed new song last week with music dedicated to the dove of peace its coining and now goodbye Gurley dear, I have lived like a rebel and I shall die like a rebel. — Joe Hill. 