 THE BOSS GRABS MORE AND MORE J YDNEY : "On the Government's own official figures employers take over 43 per cent of the value of production produced by the Australian workers," Mr. W. J. Brown told Tribune in an ex clusive interview last week. Mr. Brown is the Commun-. ists Party candidate for East Sydney in the Federal elections on November 26 and the Party's national election campaign director. He said that in 1951-52 Aus tralian manufacturers took 36 per cent of the value of pro duction after meeting plant ex penses. ' In 1963-64 they were taking 43 per cent, "and while I have no figures for 1965-66 it most certainly would have increas ed," he added. Mr. Brown gave these other examples of how the people had fared under the Liberal- Country Party Government. Menzies' election gimmick 17 years ago had been to "put value back into the pound" At first creeping and now soaring price rises had the pound at its lowest ever purchasing value. 9 Basic wage and margins rates had far less purchasing power today that when the Liberals came to power. The level of exploitation of workers is up and the level of remuneration is down. Overtime with husband and wife both working, is the only way that the great majority of families get by. The 40-hour week -for a living wage is a farce. A survey recently made by two economics professors showed that 249 Sydney famil ies ranging from white-collar workers to laborers gave two general indications: (1) Any family of four with an income of less than $64 a week are struggling and will run into debt if forced to ab sent themselves from work for a short time. (2) The going i,s tougher for the younger families and newly- weds. The Sydney Morning Herald has admitted that the purchas ing power of the people has seriously declined. NafionaHse "The Communist Party has just one point in common with the Liberals. "Our policy too, is to put value back into the dollar, but the difference is that where as the Liberals used this slogan as a cruel hoax, we say it can and must be done, "Mr. Brown said. "Whereas Government policy is to back monopoly, block the workers' demands and waste billions of dollars on the Viet nam war of intervention, ours j,s to nationalise selected mon opolies, heavily tax others, end the Vietnam war and back the workers." "We stand for strict price control, without a penny cut in wages. While we support ad equate defence of Australia, we also support peace and trade with our Asian neighbours. "The $1000 million wasted on waging war and preparing for others should be drastically cut and the money ploughed into the social and economic needs of the people. "While conscription emerges as a key issue in the elections, the question of declining living standards is a burning question affecting the widest sections of the Australian people," Mr. Brown said. H. Stein, 168 Day St., Sydney. 