 US land grabbing a national scandal' Big pastoral leases to foreign monopolies CANBERRA: The handing ever 'of 1,724 square miles of Northern Territory land to an American company was a grave national scandal, Mr. Clyde Cameron, MHR (Lab. SA) said in Federal parliament recently. Last week the Financial Review reported that American in quiries for NT pastoral leases are at present averaging one a week. Mr. Cameron said that 20 per cent of the total area of pastoral leases in the North ern Territory is controlled by overseas interests and that the area they control com prises something like 60,000 square miles of the best country. He opened his address by quoting the Adelaide Adver- tiser (September 9) : "There was surprise this week when it was reported from Darwin that two Americans had been able to win by ballot the leasehold over a big Northern Territory pastoral property." The three blocks they won, he said, range in area from 1500 to 1700 square miles and are capable of being developed to a erazine caDacitv in eood vears of up to 15,000 head per block. There was something like 60 applicants for these three blocks, most of whom were Aus tralians or Australian compan ies. However, said Mr. Cameron, about two-thirds were rejected by the Land Board, leaving only 20 who were permitted to enter the ballot. Rejected "I do not know the names of ' the other 19 who were left in the ballot, but I do know that this American company was kept in the ballot while Australians witfc the qualifica tions were being rejected," Mr. Cameron said. Mr. Cameron then gave an example of one of the appli cants rejected by the Board. He said: . "Mr. Milton is an Australian who was born at Charters Tow ers. He has spent all his life in the pastoral industry in north Queensland, except for six years that he spent in the dairy industry in the Nambour district. I Je was reared on Allendale cattle station, near Ingham. Later he bought Zig Zag station, north-west of Townsville. He was able to meet the requirement of finding $40,000 for financing the devel opment of this property. "Notwithstanding these quali fications Mr. Milton was ex cluded from the ballot on the ground of 'insufficient exper ience'. That was the phrase used by the Land Board. Yanks from Montana "Well, if two Yanks from Montana who do not intend to live here for more than three months of the year can qualify as having, the necessary exper ience while this man who was reared in the cattle industry in Queensland is told that he has insufficient relevant exper ience, I want to know what is meant by the term 'insufficient relevant experience'." 