 Independence AND THE SPIRIT OF JANUARY 26 By W. A. WOOD ALTHOUGH Australia Day is now officially ap proved and blessed as such, the fight to have it established has been long and hard. From the very beginning the development of an Australian national sentiment was re sisted in Whitehall and by the local ruling class. Remnants of this opposition still per sist. To this day Australian governors and governors-gen eral are appointed by the Queen of England. Decisions of the highest Australian courts can be upset by the British Privy Council. There is stUl no national anthem, ruling circles still sticking slavishly to God Save the Queen and insisting on its use even on occasions where the English don't. And till 1946 there was no officially recognised Australian National Day. ? THE very name ot Australia, first suggested in 1804, and used by Macquarie in 1817, was rejected by the imperial rulers till 1 849, when at last they stopped talking about 4,New Holland". Much of Australia's history, as presented in schools, is written as though our indepen dent; democratic institutions were graciously conferred on us by Whitehall as soon" as we were "ready". / Actually nothing, was. granted without stypqg, ..Utenfr mands being presented by the Australians. And, even more obviously than with other countries, it has been the toiling people — convicts, small farmers, work ers and others— who have most resolutely raised the national flag. The beginning From the very beginning, this was so. The military men who came with the first fleet hated the place and tried to get "home" as soon as possible. But the convicts .tended to see Australia as their home. Released, they stayed and set about making it a nation. It was no accident that the first Australia Day (then An niversary Day) celebrations should have been chaired by ex-convict Isaac Nichols — on January 27, 1817. (The real anniversary, Janu ary 26. was a Sunday that year). Defiantly, Nichols and his colleagues thought the arrival of the First Fleet convicts was an event as well worth honor ing as the birthdays of the British kings and royal dukes which till then had been the only occasion of official holi days. From then on the Anniversary Day Dinners became the tradi tional occasions for raising democratic and national de mands, which eventally had to be yielded. Chairing the Anniversary Sub scription Dinner in 1821 was ex-convict William' Redfern, a former Royal Navy surgeon, transported here for his sym pathy with the Nore "mutin eers". His deputy was ex-convict Simeon Lord, and ex-convict James Meehan, an Irish revolu tionary-democrat, was a stew ard. Added to the "loyal" toasts at these dinners were toasts to "the land we live in", "the Cur rency Lads and Lasses" and "A House of Assembly" (to re place the British Governor's autocracy). Trial by jury The dinner of 1827 gave way to a meeting to demand Trial by Jury. The meeting of 1833 asserted and vindicated the right of public assembly by demonstra tively Ignoring the Sheriff, sup posed to supervise all public meetings. The campaigns associated with Anniversary Day yielded fruit in the grant of trial by Jury in 1828 and a part-elected Legislative Council in 1842. It is not the Macarthurs or other big-employer types we primarily have to thank for these advances. Historian C. H. Currey notes that those who rallied rounds the January 26 tradition were mainly "a section of the native born, their forebears Who bad come to Australia in bondage and those who, whatever their legal status or station in life, subscribed to Macquarie's views on the emancipist question." . that convicts who had served their sentences should be treated on a par with the rest of the population.) Responsible government (1885) also didn't descend from the clouds but was granted only after demonstrations to the British authorities that other wise it would be taken by force. Militant action, mainly by the people of Melbourne and Syd ney in the 1840's had frustrated plans by the Brtish authori ties to return the "colonies" to their prison-farm status. The Eureka rising was typical of what faced the imperial authorities if demands for in dependence were delayed or withheld. The London Times (as quoted by historian R. D. Walshe) warned that "stern necessity will shiver to atoms the laws by which we have sought to fetter the colonies ... and will give them, whether we. wish it or not, the fullest powers of self-government. "It only remains with us to say whether this shall be grace fully, conceded, or wrested from us by tumult and viol ence." ? THE voices pf the people, reinforced by this background hint of "tumult and violence", not only won constitu tions for the Australian states but strongly in fluenced their nature. These voices were heard in full volume when the British- influenced N.S.W. Legislative Council tried to foist rule by a local oligarchy of wealth on the people. A speech by W. R. Piddington, as reported by the Sydney Morning Herald of 1853: "Colonists! Will you submit to be robbed of your rights? (Shouts of No). "A Committee of the Legisla tive Council has passed a New Constitution for the colony by' which it is proposed to create a colonial nobility, with here ditary privileges (tremendous groans) — - to construct an Up per House of Legislature in which the people will have no voice (Great disapprobation) . . . Colonists! Speak now or for ever hold your peace (Loud Cheering)." By loud cheering, or tremen dous groans, as the occasion required, the Australian people imposed their will for progress on those who were blocking it. Federation It was they, the people, who foroed on reluctant leaders the next great step forward — Federation. While ruling state policicians remained entangled in local jealousies, militant republicans and socialists energetically pushed the demand for a united, independent, Australian nation. "Why on earth do we want closer connection with Eng land?" asked Henry Lawson . . . "The loyal talk of patriot ism, Old England Mother Land, Etc. Patriotism? After Egypt, Burma, Sudan, etc. Bah! It sickens one . . . We are Aus tralians — we know no other land." William Lane, George Black and other Labor movement pioneers were also, in the be ginning, militant republican nationalists. The cry for an Australian nation was taken up by many leading poets of the nineties. The politicians had to take note. They feared that if they ignored the cry, they would get Federation in a form too mili tant for their tastes. They were forced to sink parochialism. By 1901, Federa tion was a fact. Today we face not merely a "Mother Country" which wants to put back on our shores (to aid in future wars) the mili tary garrisons which left in 1870. We also have acquired an "uncle" country which has al- xeay taken a bite out of our soil at Exmouth Gulf and is de- manding more of our money and manopwer for his aggres sive plans in Asia. To both demands we must reply in the spirit of January 26. We want to turn our back on the imperialisms of the . past, not rebuild them to en chain ourselves and others. If we like we can reply in the words of militant writer Joseph Furphy, in Such is Life: "We are in_ this Australia, this nationality that is creeping to the vege of being, for the progressive people that is just plucking aside the curtain that veils its fate. Behind us lies the Fast, with its crashing empires, its fall ing thrones, its dotard races; before us lies the Future into which Australia is plunging, that Australia that burns with the feverish energy of youth." The last task that should be given a nation is to prop up an old imperialism or a falling throne. The idea can only call forth from today's Australians one of those "tremendous groans" which their forefathers used with such devasting effect in days of old. 