 liLiUUI JJlfljya dJLEJILJL QNE of the growing list of metal and construction jobs sacking workers in the period following the Federal budget is Emu Engineering, on Sydney's northside. One of, the 27 boilermakers affec ted there rang the union to check whether the firm was channelling work off to some associate firm. Inquiries revealed, that Emu is a 100% subsidiary of the Ha waiian Dredging Co. which is a subsidiary of Dillingham Engin eering Corporation of the USA. When the inquiring boilermaker was told all this, he said: "We've been working for the Yankee dollar, eh? If I'd known that I'd have left the s long ago!" If it's, not in the Herald... |_|ERE is a story we guarantee you won't read in the Sydney Morning Herald. Girls employed in the clerical section at John Fairfax Ltd. Syd ney, are being conned and inti midated into being trained as a potential strike breaking force. They are taken away from their normal duties for six weeks at a time and trained to operate new- type equipment at a special train ing college in the firm's building in Hunter Street. They are warned to keep secret what they are doing above all not to talk about it to the linotype operators. If the girls ask whether they aren't being trained as strike breakers, they are told they can't be strike breakers as they are not in a union. Ifs strongly suggested to them that as automated processes will eventually replace typists, it won't harm them to learn a new trade. Just can't win jS the resignation of Mr. Peter Morris the Australian pastoral manager of Vesteys a straw in the wind ? Mr. Morris was not only the manager of Vesteys, the British and world meat monopoly who operate seven huge cattle stations in the Northern Territory includ ing Wave Hill, but also the Presi dent of the Northern Territory Pastoral Lessees' Association. Vesteys have been the hard core The Yank $ again of pastoralists holding out against decent conditions and equal pay for Aboriginal stockmen. While Mr. Morris is not giving out any public reasons for his resignation it's known that he feels that he is the meat in the . sandwich. If the Aborigines win then he gets it in the neck from Vesteys, and while the battle goes on he gets it in the neck from the Abori gines and the trade union move ment. A man in that position can't win. More light on Mormons TTF to the day Johnson visited b" Sydney, one Tribune staff man had believed that Mormons were just another American re ligious sect with a traditional hankering for more than one wife. On the big day, he was amazed to see the following banner be hind the Mormon youth choir on the Hyde Park lawns. ' "Mormon youth of Sydney salute militant youth of Djakarta. Let's all stand against Communist treason." It was also printed in Indon esian. He asked the young people holding the banner: "Arc you political?" — "No." "If you are a religious group then what is the significance of the highly political banner?" — "Wo support what the young people of Indonesia did against communism". "Do you advocate the use of mass murder against commun ists in Australia along the lines used in Indonesia?"— "i suppose so, if became necessary." Now it becomes clearer why the Stato authorities gave this outfit a special position beside the demonstrators calculated to pro voke incidents. Jobs and the army T ABOE leader Calwell told Parliament last Friday that tho Holt Government certainly intended to extend conscription "because without conscription Australia cannot sustain the Vietnam commitment for anv length of time." This statement by Mr. Calwell is borne out by recruiting figures which show that despite an ex- ! pensive recruiting advertising campaign, any gains are cancelled ouii by terminations of service Mr. Calwell pointed out that the proportion of conscripts in the Australian Vietnam foTce was : far higher than in the US forces, while Britain's large forces east of Suez were entirely volunteer Mr. Stokes (Lib. Vic): "They do not have full employment in Britain." Mr. Calwell: "Ah, so we can get volunteers in Australia if we put on mass unemployment. That is what is being suggested on the other side of the House." 