 New Guinea— I a challenge to tMri l ® national consciendM W. A. WOOD . reviews JIM COOPER'S new pamphlet, " THE CHALLENGE OF NEW GUINEA" ( Current Book Distributors, Sydney ) . 25c. /""HAD can have freedom; Trinidad and Tobago qualify; the Maldive Islands cart be a sovereign State and so can Western Samoa and the Bahamas (population i no f\c\n\ But the 2,000,000 people of New Guinea are so peculiar, so back ward, so divided and so enamored of their imperial masters that the# neither need nor deserve what everybody else in the world is at least demanding — national independence. That, basically, is the official story as it is wheeled up by the Holt Government to the United Nations as it was by the Menzies Government, year after year. The United Nations is swal lowing it, if after all, with in creasing reluctance. And when they learn the facts, as set forth very impressively in a new pamphlet, the Australian people will reject it altogether. |HE pamphlet, The Chal lenge of New Guinea, by Jim Cooper, sets out the Communist Party viewpoint and program on New Guinea. Mr. Cooper shows that what is really behind the Government's refusal of freedom to New Guinea is not logic or science but the voice of the huge millionaire con cerns which have for decades battened on cheap New Guinea labor. Burns Philp, which started with $600,000 in 1883, now has $18 million in paid-up capital and assets &lt;. worth $90 millions. "W. R. Capenter had only $100,000 in 1914. Now it has more than 12 millions in capital and assets worth more than $44 millions. Where did it all come from? Mostly out of the unpaid labor of New Guj.neans, indentured at $1 s. month. Just lately, says Mr. Cooper, the Port Moresby Workers' Assoc iation won an award of $7 a week — quite an advance. Naturally, with ' those wages being paid, the balance sheets of Burns Philp, Carpenter and other favored exploiters have looked much healthier than have most New Guineans under the Aus tralian occupation. Mr. Cooper quotes Dr. Scragg, Director of Health in the Territory, as stating that life-expectancy there is 35 to 40. Infant mortality ranges from 100 to 500 per 1000 births. Thirty per cent of child ren die before their fifth birth day compared to 2i per cent in Australia. CDUCATM i&Mfiot much better: A :le more than a quarter £& cent) of school-agesic heng are at school, selCdnly 3.1 per cent1 K L Secondary . "The Nev/fiGIil University has vet to appear- hthis; after 60 years of the!" raliati presence ir. New Guin$ 3ani. i (The report' i Amending est- ablishmenfcvokj University was or. Minister' 'tk's desk for five months before he said any thing about it.) Thanks to pressure from inside New Guinea, from Australia and the UN, spending on both health and education has improved since 1962. Bu'; the administration still shows more concern for investors and exploiters than for the people, who will have a sharp struggle to keep their land and develop their co-operatives in face of the rapacious demands and compet ition of foreigners. The history of the Cargo Cult and the story of later, better organised struggles of the people show that the Administration will find it harder than ever to con vince the world that these people don't want freedom. Its bluff was called by the Foot Commission of the United Nations which visited New Guinea in 1962 and called for independence by 1964. Menzies refused this, but had to allow the establishment of the present mainly-elective Assembly, within, which moves towards in dependence continue. jhe Communist program for New Guinea is an extensive one, as Mr. Cooper shows. But its first item is its most important: Transfer of powers of Government to the House of Assembly in preparation for the complete and early independence of Papua and New Guinea. Mr. Cooper's facts are unans werable. Until they are noted and appropriate action taken in con sequence, Australia will continue to share with Portugal and Spain (alone among the old-style col onial powers) the shame of main taining her domination over a substantial population and ter ritory. The pamphlet is attractively printed and illustrated. (Availiuble from New World Book sellers (tnd other progressiva book shops.) 