 I ... ' : : ' ' ; . . > Flaw in unusual TV show - LT week, Sydney's TV Channel 7 showed its much - publicised hour - long documentary session on the Communist Party of Aus- tralia. Certainly the station and its Public Affairs Director, Mr. Peter Westaway, won credit for initia- ' tive in tackling such a controver sial and important Australian poli tical subject. A good deal of the visual mater ial was effective, despite a certain roughness of continuity and factual data, not to mention, the title "Dead Men on Leave" (an alleged quotation from Lenin which no one can trace). Most noteworthy were the brief interviews on why members had joined the party, some of the sequ ences in meetings, statements by general secretary L. Aarons, and glimpses of the Tribune Ball. There was no shortage of auth entic material, since the party had given full cooperation. - It was a pity, however, that such exclusive material was not handled with the objectivity of comment that has often marked documentary sessions on this and some other channels. A repeated anti-communist tone and innuendo indicated that even the professional standing of Mr. Westaway and his associates is in-, sufficient to withstand the political bias of those who employ them. This week's follow-up session, evidently designed to give a field day to professional anti-commun ists, will be reviewed next week. A dose of the facts JN sharp contradiction to PM Holt's speech last week was the factual report of Senator R. Turnbull (Ind. Tas. ) on his recent overseas trip. Speaking at Launcestoh on March 3, he said that commun ism in South-East Asia was a fact of life Australia had to face up to and learn to live with. Even if all S.E. Asia turned communist, it was not necessarily . a threat to Australia, he said.1 He was "more convinced than ever" that Australia was foolish to become involved in the Viet nam war. "Nobody I spoke to could teil me how Australia would get pro tection out of our involvement in Vietnam", he said. The Senator said public opinion in Britain was very much against the US stand, and more and more US citizens were unhappy about it. The more the Australian people are given the plain facts, the sooner will the Holt Government's anti-Australian foreign policy be rejected decisively. 'Innocent' generals ""|HOUSANDS of words have been spilt since last September to pour scorn on -the suggestion made at the time by Indonesia's' com munists and others thiat certain rightwing Army gen erals were plotting to take over the Government dnd end Soekarno's leadership. In the crisis during and after . September 30, some generals were killed and this was used as an excuse by the army leaders for the wholesale murder of hundreds of thousands of communists and other democrats who had . long served the struggle for national: independence and democracy. They were alleged to have con spired against the regime, And now, strange to. say, the rightwing generals are reported, to have seized power after all. Menace in Rightwing "pHE Indonesian Rightwing is the most intensely nationalistic force in the ... country, and nothing could be more serious, from Aus tralia 's point of view, than its consolidation as the real ruling force. When the Japanese occupied In donesia in the (.last war they did everything possible to inflame ''greater Indonesia" nationalism at the expense of neighboring coun tries. And General Suharto and many other senior officers were trained in the Japanese-sponsored Indonesian army. It. is too early to make firm predictions. But it's a matter of history that the massacre of the Left successively in Italy, Japan and Hitler-Germany was welcom ed in Australia by the same agen cies (and for the same reasons) which now hail the slaughter in Indonesia as somehow "favorable" to Australia. Before leading trade unionist and communist Njono was execut- . ed last week in Djakarta, the Queensland Trades & Labor Coun cil cabled yet another protest, and demanded restoration of trade union democracy. The Australian working class movement will continue to support its Indonesian brothers in their struggle for independence and democracy. A clown at the opera MEW SOUTH WALES Liberal Premier Askin must be wishing his Cabinet had not tried to make political capital out of the Opera House Project. The main financial drain on any big project under capitalist society is in profit and waste. On the Opera House, this- is all the more so because the "cost-plus" system is the basis of the major contractors' operations. Since all this is sacred to the Liberals, the . decision was made (as. Tribune noted last week) to make chief architect J-: 'Dtzbjvit&e . scapegoat. , As a result, for the first time . on record, something like, a mass movement among architects and associated professional people and students has taken shape against the government on the vfiry issue of making the archi tect the scapegoat. Utzon himself — a somewhat un popular "grand seigneur" around the job itself — is not the issue. r> The opera house problems of cost and procedure are in part associated with the former Cahifl Labor Government: hence the early nickname for the project-? "Cahill's Mahal". But there has been nothing if) equal the crass ignorance of men like Askin who, at a function oft Tuesday, the day of the mass, protest meeting . in Sydney (see Page 3) referred- to "our toy oh Benelong Point''. "Is that the best solution you can com£ up with . . ASBESTOS DRAFT CARDS?' 