 Can present society cope with the TECHNICAL REVOLUTION? WHEN the first edition of Dr. S. Lilley's book "Men, Machines and History" was issued in August, 1 946 there were many question marks over Eastern Europe and China. The colonial empires were still pretty much intact and the present technological revolution was in its infancy— nuclear energy was a fear some thing confined to "the bomb", automation was not being taken very seriously, computers were to be just "toys for a few egg-heads", electronics excited some interest, whilst space-research and rocketry were for Brick Bradfords and obs cure Russian writers like Tsiol- kovsky. The social ideas of men, unre lated to the level of technology, appeared to many to be the over riding and almost exclusive force of world history and change. In the second and revised edi tion of "Men, Machines and His tory", issued in July 1965, Dr. Lilley extends old material and introduces much that is new in chapters on "Nuclear Power in Action", "Com- puters in Modern Late , Automa tion Comes of Age" and "The Con quest of Space". He does so in a searching look at both parallel and conflicting trends within capitalist and socialist societies. His perspective of world history could illuminate many of the ap parent conflicts within today's thrust forward of both technology and political ideas. "Men, Machines and History" is a study of change, from the time men began actively working on their en vironment—making the earth a more fruitful and liveable place. The author presents men's history within two main technological revo lutions. "The beginnings of tool- making and the mastery of fire— which could well be said to form the greatest technological revolution of all" and which encompassed early agriculture, metallurgy, the plough, the sailing ship, irrigation and the building of cities he sees coming to a close in about 2,500 B.C. "The second began modestly in the Middle Ages and has been growing in speed and volume ever since and is, apparently, still at a very early stage in its life, with much more to come tnan we have experienced." The several thousand years be tween those two periods for the then advanced areas of Europe and Asia, in which the new methods and re lationships had manured, Dr. Lilley sees as a period when existing soc ial groups could not meet the chal- lenge of the new technologies and, through them, transform their exist ing social relationships. "Each society in youth encour ages the advance of technology, but as the technological level rises, the society fails to keep pace with it, until there comes the breaking point at which the old society is transformed into one that is again fit to push technology to greater heights . . . pithily we might say that — As technology advances, so also must society change,, other wise there will be trouble." Dr. Lilley is at pains to point out that his study of men, machines and history is confined to "only one line of social evolution— that which led to the development of the Euro pean culture which was eventually to spread over the whole world. In different conditions elsewhere other forms of society developed." He points out, also> that whilst these other forms could not be dis cussed within his present book he "knows of no case in which the pattern of historical change was es sentially different from those . . . considered. "China, for example, developed ahead of Europe in the medieval period, but reached a point at which society settled down to a fixed pattern and progress ceased." In historical development, until now, he implies social man reaches "a situation in which a particular social structure became so rigidly established that further changes be came impossible. ". . . technological development is a powerful force that moulds the shape of history ... in the . . . profound sense that new technologies have from time to time altered the whole character of society." 