 Crisis in South Vietnam i B1G scale anti-Ameri can, anti-government demonstrations in South | Vietnam haye shattered I he Holt Government's claim to be "defending democracy" by con scripting, youth into the Vietnam war. The Saigon puppet regime has now declared a new | civil war against the inhabi- | tants and even officials in I some of its own main cities. I On Monday is was announc- | cd that the Ky Government of South Vietnam would treat ithe second largest city, Da | Nang, as a "rebel city" and Stake military action against it las though it were held by the j|| National liberation Front f("Viet Gong"). | Just before that, the Ky Gov- fernment used force to disperse thousands of Buddhist demon strators who had marched : through the city with anti- American slogans in the largest /city and capital, Saigon. In Hue, the third largest city, the Government had also lost control to the extent of being unable to free one of its leading generals, placed under res traint by demonstrators. At Dalat, another large town, an anti-American demonstration was averted, apparently at the last moment. All this was reported and admitted by Australian daily papers which still are demand ing the use of Australian con scripts to back the Ky Govern ment. As most of the South Viet namese countryside was al ready in National Liberation Front hands, the city demon strations meant that the Ky Government was almost totally bereft of support. It had been denounced by the Buddhists, who constitute most of the people, and the Roman Catholics, the second biggest group. The demonstrations were no mere sudden flare-ups, but had I been continuing, with increas- ing intensity, for over three weeks. In these circumstances the use of Australian troops to back Ky could only mean that Australia was entering into a partnership of suppression with the Ky government, aimed against democrats in Vietnam and in Australia (see story at right.) As recently as last Thursday Prime Minister Holt claimed his policy was aimed: — "To free the 15 million people of South Vietnam from the threat of oppression and terror, and help establish con ditions for democratic Govern ment." But not even Mr. Holt will now, presumably, claim that those trying to suppress demo cratic demonstrations in the South Vietnamese cities are anybody except the Ky Govern ment police and troops. Those spreading "oppression and terror" — by means of B52 bombers, napalm, gas and flamethrowers — have been the U.S.A. and its puppet govern ments from Diem to Ky. The terror is now spreading from the countryside to the cities. "To leave no doubt that Australia would honor its treaty commitments." No treaty which any Austra lian Government would dare to sign would ever "commit" Aus tralia to maintain by force an unpopular government against a democratic revolt by its own supporters. Most of the demonstrators in South Vietnam are admitted to be Buddhists, Roman Catho lics and others not affiliated to any political party. Their precise aim is to "modernise" south Vietnam by abolishing the Ky dictatorship to allow of at least some "social progress." The past week's events in South Vietnam can be expect ed to reinforce public deter mination in Australia to oppose Holt's policies and demand that the Vietnamese be left in peace, to settle their own affairs. 