 ISome essential reading for you, Mr. Hasluck "pHE Vietnam war is different from most im perialist wars in that its worst atrocities have been documented by the aggressors themselves. There can no longer be any dispute about the American crimes; American correspondents and newspapers wno have no motive for telling untruths on. this point have told the story in plain terms. And now some of their reports have been gathered together in a pampdlet by Eric Nor den, an American writer and republished in Australia by the Vietnam Action Committee (61 Holdsworth St., Woollahra, Sydney). It is a pamphlet which will at once sicken and enrage the reader with facts, checked and re-checked, which it presents. I What it also should do is fill him with an urge to broad cast its contents far and wide. In particular one might be sent to each of the Liberal MHRs who in parliament last week complained about the publication of horror pictures of the Vietnam war. Whether the Americans' and their puppets' crimes are pictured or not they still go on. "Many a news correspondent has seen the hands whacked off prisoners with machetes. Prisoners are sometimes castrated or blinded. In more than one case a Vietcong suspect has been towed after interrogation behind an armored personnel carrier across the rice fields. "This always results in death in one of its most painful forms. "Vietnamese troops also take their share of enemy heads." Will the squeamish Liberal MHRs tell us that this sort of thing is quite all right as long as it is not photographed for the Australian press? The writer is American Associated press correspondent and Pulitzer Prizewinner Malcolm Browne writing in his book The New Face of War. If Liberals don't like that quote, how about this one from David Halberstam, another American Pulitzer Prize winner and New York Times writer who told in his book The Making ol" a Quagmire how some Vietnamese prisoners I were rude to their US captors. "The Marines simply lined up the seventeen guerillas and shot them down in cold blood", says Halberstam. Most impressive is the documentation concerning the American use of poison gas in the war. Norden quotes the Geneva protocol solemly outlawing such war — then quotes admissions that the Americans are not only waging it but preparing to intensify it. Not only teargas and poison sprays for crops but even more deadly "nerve gas" may I be used in future. I u The VAC, which is selling this pamplet for 25 cents, has I helped all peace supporters by making this deadly docu- | mentation so readily and cheaply available. In Peace in Vietnam, A New Approach in Southeast Asia, the American Friends Service Committee gives a straight forward account of how the war started. It says that, 6 for neace. the Americans must "de-escalate" the war and | recognise the National Liberation Front — Observer. 