 [?] Better be dead than.... Tm emergency measures taken by the Govern ment of Fiji last week to de fend' the island community against aggression in the shape of Dr. J. Cairns MHR (and subversion by a Mr. Alan Hamilton) may have been puzzling to simple Aus tralians accustomed to the doctor's courteous cut-and- thrust on TV. Fortunately, however, we have the explanation from the indefa tigable B. A. Santamaria, whose TV commentary can' be relied on to transform plain politics into hair-raising conspiracy once a week without fail. "It is current communist stra tegy to create political situations which would deny island bases to US forces," he explained, or words to that effect. The Fiji Government, in banning Cairns from speaking at meetings that had been organised to discuss the French nuclear bomb tests, was dead right, said Santa. It saw Fiji's Atomic Explosion Protest Committee as an insidious com munist conspiracy like the earlier Buka Island anti-tax uprising. Santa, perhaps mindful of the law of libel, graciously conceded that the doctor "conceivably had no knowledge of these earlier events." Which makes Dr. Cairns a pret ty formidable character— even in his ignorance, he is capable of denying an island base to the USA which is so far managing to extend its bases and garrisons in SE Asia in the face of almost all the Viet namese people and of world opin ion. It's . to be hoped that neither the Governor of Fiji nor Santa maria have to learn the truth the ' hard way — that radioactive fall out doesn't distinguish between a National Civic Catastrophe and a card-carrying governor. Puzzle of the primate OMETHING very peculiar is going on about the sudden resignation of Arch bishop Gough, Anglican Primate of Australia. The "Daily Mirror" (Sydney) has published a story that openly challenged the official statement that the resignation was due to "health grounds". Consistent reports in Sydney suggest that the daily press, is "sitting" on the real story. Last Saturday's big front-page spread of a very dull interview with Gough in the Sydney Morning Herald had all the earmarks of a cover-up. One thing is clear: Archbishop Gough aroused the anger of many people by openly supporting the Government's Vietnam war policy and conscription at a time when even his own church was becoming deeply divided on the issue. Australians will want the. facts about his resignation. Can't have it both ways pRIME Minister Holt's sec urity wallopers must have had a fit when Deputy Labor Leader E. G. Whitlam, speaking at an anti-con scription meeting at Cabra- matta (Sydney) recently said : "He believed that eventually the North Vietnam President, Ho Chi Minh, would head a united Viet nam government which would be independently communist, along the line of Yugoslavia/' (Auct, I lian, 23/5/66). ira" | This was much better sense than 1 the other remark by Mr. Whitw I that "both sides are guilty" t£ was quickly set at a loss bv a member of the audience who read out the terms of the 1954 Geneva Agreement and then challenged the " speaker to repeat his statement ' I Long memories I at the Hill DROKEN Hill people are I still talking about the small Anzac Day march, and dawn service in the Hill last April. They all know the reason for it. The story begins when the local press reported that Mr. R. inwood i V.C. wpuld be one of the leaders of 1 the march. 1 Way back in 1918, on November 1 14, Sgt. R. Inwood was reported ® in the Barrier Daily Truth as mak- 1 ing the following statement at a "patriotic meeting", speaking of local trade unionists:— "I would like to be at one end of the street with a machine gun > and h'ave them at the other end I would drive the mongrels out and make them dance some as they went." i After the meeting, workers guarded the Trades Hall 24 hours t a day for a week. | Not long after, Inwood himself I was run put of the town by the workers of Broken Hill. ' All this was known by the RSL 1 executive yet they still made him their guest of honour this year. 4 The result— a very small march and dawn service, and the dubious guest of honor received the cold b shoulder where ever he went; m m 