 Demonstrators J jailed in SA DELAIDE : A week of intense activity by peace fighters, democrats and opponents of conscrip tion has followed the arrest of anti-Vietnam war protesters and in support of those jailed and on hunger strike. Daniel Shaw, an American i honors post graduate student at Adelaide University and Di- mitris Tsoutsikos, a young Greek laborer were arrested with six other young demon strators on the steps of Parlia ment House. They were de monstrating against the visit of President Johnson, the Vietnam war and conscription. They intended to maintain a hunger strike for the period of Johnson's visit. The demonstrators were ar rested, on October 21, by the police on the initiative of the Liberal President of South Aus tralia's undemocratic Legisla tive Council, Mr. L. H. Densley. They were charged with loit- tering under the undemocratic sections of the Lotteries and Gaming Act which has been condemned by the Labor Move ment and which the Labor Par ty is pledged to repeal. . The demonstrators, except Shaw and Tsoutsikos, were re leased on a bond of their own surety that they would not con tinue the demonstration. Those two would give no such under taking and were gaoled until their trial on November 2, and their hunger strike continued. 300 march Demonstrations for their re lease began immediately with a march through the City of 300 on Saturday October 22 fol lowed by a meeting in Victoria Square which unanimously call ed for "the release of those gaoled. On the Monday night a well attended meeting of representa tives of students, humanists, trade union, peace and other organisations requested a depu tation to the Premier, Mr. F. Walsh. This was refused and a telegram from 17 organisations was sent to all State and Fed eral MPs condemning this gross violation of civil liberties, and asking for a withdrawal of the charges and the release of those imprisoned. . On Wednesday a group of student members of Amnesty International demonstrated on the steps of Parliament House with the same demand. On Thursday evening about 100 demonstrators picketed the Liberal Club building and then marched to the steps of Parlia ment House. The, Police Commissioner ar rived and entered Parliament but no attempt was made to remove the demonstrators. On Friday the police decided to bring the hearing of Daniel Shaw's case forward. Dimitris Tsoutsikos, accepting legal ad vice, had been released two days earlier. In the Court the magistrate, Mr. Wilson, said that there was no doubt that the defendant was guilty of loitering and if he pleaded "guilty his stay in gaol would be accepted as pen alty without further costs. Shaw decided to plead not guilty and was ably defended by Mr. Elliott Q.C. Mr. Elliott said that loitering involved the terms "without sufficient and lawful reason". He said the defendant had not broken the law and that there was sufficient reason, was shown by the large body of opinion in Australia which opposed' the war in Vietnam which was a deadly serious business in which people were being killed and burned. He said that the Labor Party Opposition was opposed to the war and this showed there was sufficient reason. The Court's decision was ad journed until Monday morning. Daniel Shaw refused bail for the period over the week-end and was returned to gaol. On Monday last he was con victed without, penalty. A letter of protest has been signed by 285 Adelaide Universi ty students and academic staff and sent to the President of the Legislative Council, Mr. Dens ley. 