 [?] If Harold went all the way with sport . . . PORTING records show that Australian sportsmen and women I certainly do a lot for the prestige of this country. | But just what does the Australian government do for sport? Very little. A couple of news items over the last week or so underline the bitter truth that though the Govern ment digs freely into its pocket for "defence" ex penditure, when it comes to sport it hasn't even a copper left. It's nothing short of scandalous when North Sydney Council has to jack up its fees for the 'N.S.W. Amateur Swim ming Association's use of' the local Olympic pool for its carnivals. And because the A.S.A. has to watch every penny of its finance it has had to find a cheaper venue for its carnivals— the an cient and inferior Drum- moyne pool. The ASA's only sources of finance are from its carnivals and membership fees. It has found it neces sary to raise its annual junior membership fee from 20 to 30 cents for this season, equal to that of senior club membership. As total N.S.W. ASA membership is approx imately 36,000 so there's no prize for working out ( how a cheque for $10,000 from the Federal purse would help, and by today's . standards this amount is peanuts. It's true that in some parts of the country sport- I ing facilities are being built, but in nowhere near S sufficient quantity and I quality. g Insignificance I The likes of the new En- S ping athletic track and the I proposed $100,000 surf 1 pavilion for Dee Whv I N.S.W. pale into insigni- I ficance in comparison to I the sporting centre the fl French government is i building in the Pyrenees f for the training of Olym- pic athletes. | At a cost of $A9, 000,000 g the centre includes run- fl ning tracks, football fields, 1 tennis, volley and hand- | ball courts, swimming 1 pools, a lake for rowing, 1 gymnasiums, a rifle range 1 and ski run among its 1 many facilities. g Prestige Although this great French sporting venture can be interpreted by many as an endeavour by the French government to raise the prestige of French , sport in the next Olympics, f in view of its poor results I in the past, prestige is also 1 obtained for a country's economy by its ability to provide first class sport ing and other cultural fa cilities. What we need is greater governmental attention at every level to the needs of sport. For example, application of the Communist demand that 10% of Federal Revenue be allocated to councils, would relieve the g councils of the necessity to | I raise finance at the ex- j I pense of sport, as was the | I case with the North Syd- g 1 ney swimming pool. g Winner of this year's Trade Union Youth Safe Driving Com- petion, Robert Mayes, seated at the wheel of his first prize, a 1966 Holden Sedan. Assistant secretary of the NSW Labor Council, Mr. R. Marsh, hands him the car keys. Robert is a member of the Federated Clerks' Union. Willi II IIHIIHIIII Jlbil 