 B B C'S MERCILESS FAREWELL TO MING By a Political Correspondent IRONICALLY it was left to the staid British Broadcasting Cor- poration, by few shafts of satire, to puncture the great Menzies myth built up by the Australian daily press over the past week. Not only the anti-Labor daily papers, but all the ' other media of mass com munications in anti-Labor i control joined an orgy of grovelling which, to every , Australian with a drop of democratic blood in his veins, was nauseating to a j degree. The BBC satirist came up with quotations from Menzies' past speeches which though brief, had the effect of show ing that on all the main issue's he had been concerned with during his 16 years of office, Menzies' leadership had been oatastrophically wrong. It was the efforts of other Australians, notably the work ers, that averted the conse quences of Menzies' leadership and frustrated his policies. Pro-nazi The main task Menzies had to tackle when he took office in 1939 was the organisation of Australia, along with her future allies, to defeat the Nazi-Japanese threat to her security. But Menzies couldn't even start on this because he had already committed himself to the verbal defence of the future enemy and the disarm ing of Australian anti-fascist sentiment. In 1938 he had aided the Japanese fascists, then invad ing China, by forcing the load ing of Australian pig-iron by striking Australian , water- siders, getting the label of Pig Iron Bob. How could Menzies have led the nation in an anti-nazi. war when, as correctly quoted by the BBC, he said: "An effort should be made to appreciate the Nazi-German viewpoint. I think there is a great deal to be said for Ger many " rearming. Germany's intentions are entirely defen sive." Sacked That appraisal of the future butcher of Europe's intentions was given in Menzies' speeches on August 9, 1938, and Decem ber 12, 1938. Mr. W. Mahoney, Labor MHR, told a shocked house on April 22, 1940, how Menzies 1 had said to him, "I have a 1 great admiration for the nazi 1 organisation of Germany." i Mr. Mahoney added: "At , heart he is a nazi." Churchill, for all his faults, was called to the helm in Britain's hour of peril. I I With Menzies it was exactly the opposite. In 1941 he was ignomlniously sacked by his own side in politics which did not dare let him back anywhere near the seat of power till 1949, when all danger had passed. The main hand in this, was of course, taken by the Labor movement which acted to instal the Curtin Labor Government (October, 1941) and reverse Menzies' pro-fascist, anti- worker, and anti-Soviet policies just two months before Pearl Harbor. When Menzies regained power in 1949, with the help of a cynical promise to "put value in the pound" — a piece of audacious lying that has been a prime target for cynical gibes ever since — it was in no sense as savior of the nation but as the man who was going to ban the Com munist party. Pushing all legal advisers aside, the brilliant brain which had won all the prizes in the Melbourne University law school personally drafted the Communist Party Dissolution Bill, acclaimed by the Liberal- leaning dailies as a master piece — until eight out of nine High Court judges said it was illegal. Botched That was only the first of the many botched jobs of Men zies' 16 years. The BBC mentioned only a few — including his failure to terrify President Nasser into yielding the Suez Canal and his miserable effort to keep Ver- woerd in the Commonwealth. The Petrov fiasco, the spy- scare without spies, might also have been mentioned, and the world ridicule which follow ed his challenge to Indian Prime Minister Nehru in the U.N. assembly. What may have helped to finish Menzies was a failure in the department of his activi- ties he thought was his great est — the signing of the ANZUS alliance with 'America. More openly than most, the Sydney Morning Herald has attacked his failure to sell his alliance to the Australian public and more especially to arouse enthusiasm for Ameri ca's Vietnam war. Too openly callous to human suffering, he couldn't pre tend, as Johnson can, to be racked with anguish over the "need" to slaughter millions of Vietnamese. "Your president cried today," Johnson can say without a blush. But Menzies has never been seen to cry over anyone but a departing vice-regal Lord. COLLECTOR'S ITEM: This picture shows Menzies at the nearest he ever came to a socialist country — inspecting an exhibit at the Polish display in the Sydney Trade Fair. 