 Lay teachers in Domain pay protest YDNEY : Lay teachers at Roman Catholic ! schools held a meeting in the Sydney ! Domain last Sunday to protest about their low salaries. j This was the first public protest meeting j ever called by these lay teachers. j It follows the first set scale of salaries approved j recently by the Education Commission of the I Catholic hierarchy in Sydney, | Male teachers' salaries : under the newly-announced ! scale, teaching in boys' ( schools, range from £18 a 2 week in the first year to £28 I after 11 years' service for non- I . graduate, and £25 first year j for graduates to £35 after 11 j years' service. ! Female teachers commence from £13 in the first year to j a maximum of £27 after 12 j years' service. ! "Social justice" The meeting was called by the Secretary of the Inde pendent Teachers' Association, Mr. N. J. Nicholson, and As sistant Secretary Mr. P. Jack- man. This body is the successor to the Institute of Catholic Teachers. j During the meeting lay teachers held banners which read: "Inadequate wages make for inadequate teachers," "Social justice for teachers," "Justice for all, including Catholic teachers." Mr. Jackman said that as many as 400 lay teachers at Catholic schools had attended meetings of their association last year. The meeting passed resolu tions calling for: Representation for teachers on the Catholic Education and Finance commissions which have set the inadequate scale of salaries. The formation or joining of a union to bargain for con ditions and salaries. After the meeting 40 lay teachers signed the resolutions which will be forwarded to the Finance and Education com missions and to Cardinal Gil roy. Replying to an interjection that the organisers of the. meeting would "get into trouble" because they had called a public protest meet ing, Mr. Jackman said that the inadequate salaries, had been 1 publicly printed in the Catholic | Weekly and they were also i protesting in a public way. j "Moreover, we are now in j the era following the Ecumeni- cal Council meeting, which I Pope John described as open j ing a window and allowing ! fresh ai,r to blow into the church," he said. i 1 Wants a "say" ! Mr. Nicholson, in calling also f for the parents and religious 2 orders to be represented on the 1 Education ;and Finance Com- 1 missions, said: "It is time the j laity had a say." | Mr. Jackman said that the | movement for salary justice | must grow because lay teachers f are reaching to about 50 per j cent, of all teachers at Catho- ! lie schools. j As well as sending the 'reso- 1 lutions of the meeting to the 2 authorities, the next step will !be to circularise all lay teachers in Roman Catholic j schools to attend a hall j meeting. Part of the large crowd at the public meeting of Catholic- school teachers at the Sydney Domain. 