 MAN OF MANY PARTS By Jim Stevens alf Durston is a man of many parts. By day a carpenter — by light a leading violinist n the Wollongong Sym phony Orchestra. And the three to four hours violin practice each night is fitted between his duties as the honorary district secret ary of the Building Workers' Industrial Union. - - Alf was attending last week's BWIU State Conference in Sydney when I sought him out for an interview. At the age of 63, he is an energetic trade unionist with a passionate love for Beet hoven, Brahms, the working people and world peace. After recovering from the initial surprise at being singled out for an interview, he told how, as a young lad of 15, a leading violinist from the Electric Theatre at Plymouth took him under his wing. Sacked "To have a real love for music is to have a genuine love for mankind," he said. And this love for mankind is why Alf opposed fascism in Germany and Spain and distributed leaflets warning British workers of the dan ger. This was during the 1930's and in 1937 he, along with three others, was sacked from the Devonport Naval Dockyard as being "a danger to the State and the armed forces." He was blacklisted for any job in the area. "The leader of Plymouth City Council, Lord Astor and Lady Astor, MP, made sure we were blackballed", he said. > r "These people were tied up with the fascists. \ "Lady Astor gave her house in Lockyer Street, Plymouth, to the British Fascist Party. "It was situated just near where Drake played his famous game of bowls, and to the monument honouring the dead from the First World War," he said. He recalled meeting Paul Robeson while working on the Unity Theatre in London. Active This theatre was built with voluntary labor during the evenings and Robeson, who performed at the opening, was one of the volunteers pushing a wheel barrow. "We were attacked by fascists during this period, Alf said. It is little wonder he be came active in the peace movement when he came to Australia 15 years ago. ttr tells of his introduction to the Australian peace move ment when ex-Senator Bi .Morrow addressed a building project in Canberra dunng 1952. "Beautiful music and other achievements of mankind could be destroyed by a nuclear war. "I. get very emotional about this," he said. He has advocated, at the Workers' Club and elsewhere, the need to encourage young people to develop their musical talents. His eyes sparkle when he tells of the successes the 1 months" old orchestra is hav ing in Wollongong. Music is certainly true love but it hasn't lifted his feet off the ground. "At the moment we are having a big struggle _agains unemployment in the district , he said. Alf Durston 