 BROWN: "NOT JUST ANOTHER PARTY" QOMMUNIST Party of Australia candidates enter the 1966 Federal elections with a policy for defeat of the Holt Gov ernment, for an end to the war in Vietnam and a distinctive program for immediate improvement in Australia's flagging living standards. National leader of the Com munist Party's Federal election team, Mr. W. A. Brown, said this at the Central Committee in Sydney last weekend. Outlining the Communist Party's "people first" policy, Mr. Brown stressed that Com munist Party speakers in the election campaign need to show that "we are not just another party putting forward a similar list of election pro mises to that of the Labor Party or any other party." "We have a number of points of policy in common with progressive points in ALP policy. This is very good and unity should be devel oped to the maximum on these points", Mr. Brown said. However, it was essential to bring out clearly in all Communist Party election campaigning how Communist policy contained important features for the advance of the Australian people that were entirely distinctive. These distinctive features included: A clear-cut call for with drawal of all foreign troops from Vietnam in accord with the 1954 Geneva Agreement and recognition of the right of all nations to self- determination as a key feature of a new, inde- pendent Australian for eign policy. A clear statement that rising living costs are not only due to profit eering by Australian and foreign big business but that worsening living standards are directly linked with the rising cost of the war in Viet nam. © A direct demand for immediate measures to curb monopoly and to establish public control in place of private con trol in regard to both Australian and foreign monopolies. A clear program show ing that Federal finance for urgent public needs can be found by 1) Step ping up tax on big busi ness profit and 2) Cut ting down on the crip pling $1,000 million mili tary budget. Mr. Brown said that the suggestion to reduce military expenditures would probably meet some protest on the grounds of the need to ensure Australia's security. "But, as we need to show in our election policy state ments, we Australian Com munists a-re also seriously con cerned with Australian secur ity and the way it is being damaged, not defended, un- der Liberal Government poli cies. "Holt's policy of 'all the way with LBJ' and the Govern ment's negative, aggressive line of 'no alternative to force in relation to national libera tion struggles offer Australia nothing but deeper commit ment to war in Asia and a steady, dangerous drift to nu clear war itself. "By adopting a new, inde- ' pendent Australian foreign policy for aid, trade and friendship with Asia and all countries a new course can be set that will open the way for the present billion dollar arms spending to be reduced while really ' guaranteeing Austra lia's security." A basically distinctive feat ure of Communist Party elec tion policy is the need to im plement the Australian labor movement's common goal of socialism, contin u e d Mr. Brown. "While recognising social ism is not an immediate issue, a fundamental aspect of our campaign will be to show that the rejal path to an Australia of 'wealth for toil' for all lies along the path of curbing, controlling and fin ally socialising the Australian and foreign firms which now exploit the nation and its people for private gain", he said. 