 Hi WON'T . I pOLICE are dragging away the young man who has given the Holt Goverhmelnt one or its biggest pre-elec tion head-aches. He's Bill White, 21-year-old school teacher, of Gladesville, Sydney, He's done what old soldiers all say jou can't do —buck the Army. He's still bucking it— though police dragged him off on Tuesday as Tribune went to press. Since 9 a.m. last Friday, the modest White family cot tage has had national and in ternational attention as a focal point of the growing Australian struggle of cons cience against conscription of youth into the Vietnam war. When Bill failed in an earl ier court iapplication for ex emption from the conscript call-up, on grounds of consci entious objection, he refused to obey his call-up notice. He became, to his surprise, a public figure. The State Education Department sacked him, despite serious teacher shortage. A Bill White Defence Committee grew up, based on fellow-teachers. Glen Tomas- etti, of Melbourne, wrote, sang and recorded the chal lenging Bill White Song. Last Thursday a special Federal Court in Sydney heard his plea of guilty for refusing to comply with the notice and ordered him into the author ity of an Army officer. Outside the court, he was ordered to report to Watson depot at 9 a.m. Friday— as Pte. W. White, No. 2785508. "I refuse to comply with that order," he said. Then an extraordinary thing happened. Demonstrators — including young people and mothers in particular — who had supported him at the court followed him home and tacked up makeshift banners on his front fence. The many slogans were somehow summed up with the one printed on the spot by a high-school girl— "Bill's job is teaching, not killing." By around zero hour— 9 a.m. Friday— there were 50 people on vigil outside the White home. Prime Minister Holt, on TV, declared that there could be "no Government interference" with the application of the law. But the Law kept away — and as every hour ticked by, the challenge to the mil itary and state machine began to eat away at the Govern ment's prestige. The vigilantes waited for the Army but the Army didn't flag. There were young work ers, students, mothers from "Save Our Sons", unionists, church people, citizens of var ious political parties and views— united in determina tion that Bill White would not stand alone and would not be arrested without wit nesses. Rosters were organised, bedding arrived as day be came night. The White family and relatives with children poured in to support; there was endless tea-brewing. Through the weekend, round the clock, and into this week the anti-conscription vigilantes came and went and carried on. Folk song con certs enlivened the quiet sub urban street. Bill White explained his posi- tion again and again— to TV cameras, pressmen, and any one else who asked. "I believe this war is im moral. When they come to (Continued on Page 12) BILL WHITE STORY (Continued from Page 1) take me I will passively re sist. I am determined not to comply with the conscript order." He also admitted it was a big strain: "But I've had hundreds of letters, and the support of these people out side is wonderful." The Army and the Govern ment emerged from a week end of considering the situa tion. On Monday a long ideo gram in military officialese was delivered at Gladesvillo and was publicly read out by Bill, to the accompaniment of ironic cheers. Its essence: Bill White is facing severe penalties if he doesn't comply with orders Bill White'' made a charac teristic reply by wire: "Unable to compromise with conscience — will con tinue to disobey." On Tuesday, the crowd of supporters swelled. Several union officials called or wir ed to wish him well. At 4 p.m. two carloads of police arrived. They entered the house and dragged Bill White bodily out More than 30 demonstrators surged round shouting an grily. Police shoving knocked several women over. A radio reporter's tape recorder was broken. Bill was heard saying: "I hope this will help show the Australian people what con scription really means." When Bill was put in a police car, several young men lay down in front of the wheels; thrown aside by pol ice, they returned and lay down. Police had to reverse their cars to get away. Mrs. Whiie, Bill's mother, finally broke down and was taken inside. A spokesman of the demon strators said: "Now they've taken him, it's the job of all of us to work all the harder to get him out." FOOTNOTE: The Bill White Defence Committee called for z demonstration outside Holt's Rockdale (Sydney) meeting Wednesday. 