 Will speak for living standards C YDNEY : A delegation of waterside workers from Coffs Harbour on the NSW North Coast have already been registered to attend the Living Stand ards Conference to be held in Sydney on July 30. A mass meeting of building workers on the Woolworths' job in Sydney this week elected four delegates to attend the conference. Similar meetings have, or are being organised in fact ories, workshops and jobs throughout the State to elect representatives. The conference has been organised by the NSW Labor Council to allow for public discussion and action on the pressing problems of housing, education, social services and an Australian economic policy. Mr. R. Marsh (Labor Coun cil assistant secretary) told a press conference last week besides unions and workshops, invitations to participate have been sent to Apex, and Rotary Clubs, welfare associations, parents and citizens associat ions, chambers' of commerce, farmers' organisations and educationalists. He said it was anticipated that 2500 will attend the con ference which will highlight the fact that living standards in Australia are not what they should be, particularly for people on fixed incomes. The organising secretary of the conference, Mr. T. Mawd- sley, said the decline in social services : is shown by the fact that the maternity allowance should be $100 today to main tain its value when first intro duced. Mr. J. Kenny (ACTU Senior Vice President) will deliver a special paper on an Australian economic policy. Other papers to be delivered at the morning sessions are; HOUSING, Mr. B. McFarlane, Research Fellow in Economics, Australian National University; EDUCATION, Mr. H. Schoen- he'.mer, Senior Lecturer, Mon- ash University; SOCIAL SER VICES, Dr. G. W. Ford, Sen ior Lecturer in Industrial Relations, University of NSW. The general session of the conference, under the chair manship of Labor Council pre sident Mr. F. Bowen, will be held i,u the Sydney Town Hall commencing at 2 pm. A local organisation, asso ciation, club or workshop can be represented by four dele gates and a state or national organisation by 10 at a cost of 50 cents per delegate. 