 For parents and children A BOOK FOR PARENTS By A. S. Makarenko. For parents who are concerned about their own children and future of young people in general. Makarenko himself suggested "perhaps this .book Is too daring" — according to him some parents can "act fast like all producers of shoddy goods: the latter are offered to society as the proper artiele". This approach is backed up by examples from real life.— 7/6 (8/1 1 posted). THE ROAD TO LIFE — A TRILOGY By A. S. Makarenko. A most fascinotingj trilogy.; The aufthor fln Ihe 'pro dels of working out methods of rehabilitating children and adoles cents displays the utmost sense of reality, sensitivity to the needs of the young and a humorous determination to achieve an aim— of educating and bringing to full stature a group of young delinquents. 15/- (1 7/8 posted). DESCRIPTIVE GEOMETRY By Chahly,, Fundamental to the study of engineering, this book includes the following sub-headings: Types of Protections, The Point, The Straight Line, Planes, The Transformation of Protections, Representations of Geometrical Bodies, The Developments of Surfaces, Intersection of Planes and Surfaces, Intersection of Lines and Surfaces, Intersection of Surfaces, Axonemetric Protection, and, Curved Lines and Curved Surfaces. 16/6 (17/11 posted). BRIEF COURSE IN ANALYTIC GEOMETRY By N. Yefimov. Of use in Forms 3 and 6. The following chapters ere suitable for Level II (both full and short course): Elementary Problems of Plane Analytic Geometry, Division of a Line Segment in a Given Ratio, the Concept of the Esuation of o Curve, The Straight Line As the Curve of the First Order, Discussion of the Shape of the Parabola. The following deal with subjects suitable for the full course at Level II SoHd Analytic Geometry, The Equation of a Surface and the Equations of a Curve, Problems of Inter section of Three Surfaces, The Plane in its Various Rela tionships, etc. 16/6 (17/8 posted). PROBLEMS IN ANALYTIC GEOMETRY By D. Kletenik Some chapters are of us in Forms 5 and 6, for Levels I, 11 and also the full course. 13/6 (14/8 posted). DESCRIPTIVE GEOMETRY with 3-D Figures. Emphasis on Lines and Solids. Detailed treatment. Very effective presentation. Suitable for 4th and possibly 5th form. But only as supplementary reading, reference book in library or teachers' personal use. Includes specially col-' ored sighters whieh enable detailed drawings to be teen in correct perspective. 35/- (36/8 posted). NEW WORLD BOOKSELLERS 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 