 ' 5 . Askin yields on schools but not enough by far ARGE public meetings of teachers and parents in both Sydney and Woliongong last week called for urgent funds to ensure the proper education of children in public schools. Over 600 parents and teach- ers at the Caringbah High School in Sydney called on the Premier (Mr. Askin) to do all in his power to get more federal funds for education. A resolution drew attention to the serious deficiencies in schools and sought extra class rooms, more science labora tories and senior studies blocks in high schools. The meeting called for more trained teachers at schools. Another 400 teachers and citi zens at the Woliongong Town Hall condemned the attempts by the Education Department to gag teachers, from making public statements about the critical situation in NSW schools. Biggest ever A spokesman for the NSW Teachers Federation (Mr. D. Broadfoot) said this week that "never before in the history of his organisation had there been the sort of movement that now exists demanding government attention to the crisis in educa tion." "The movement had been spurred on by the decision of the NSW Government last Nov ember not to proceed at the moment to build the 27 new high sohQOis as planned by the previous government," he said. This week the Askin govern ment changed their tune as result of a very strong public movement which has been specially active in government held electorates. ,, pIi.ca observers believe s reason why most of the six new high schools to be built- in a "crash program" will be in sitting Liberal and Country Party electorates. The proposed new high school m East Orange is in the elec torate of Mr. Cutler, the Min ister for Education. Mr. Broadfoot said that state ments by the Minister for Pub lic Works. (Mr. Hughes) and the Minister for Education (Mr. Cutler), about plans to spend an extra $llm. next year for new high schools, and addition al class rooms in other schools, indicated that "at last they re cognise that a crisis in educa tion exists.'' "But this is not nearly enough, as we need as a min imum 27 new high schools and other urgent buildings, which would mean an addition al expenditure of at least $50 million above what is already provided for next year," he said. Canberra The President and Secretary of the federation (Mr. S. Lewis and Mr. I. Lancaster) will be in Canberra next week to lobby Premiers attending the Premiers' conference. They will be urging the Premiers to make a demand on the Commonwealth Govern ment to make a special cash grant above the normal to assist the states in their pressing ed ucational requirements. The Council of the NSW Teachers' Federation has called on all its members to defend their rights to speak freely to the public about the needs of the schools. Recently two teachers from the Port Kembla High School and Berkeley High School, in the Woliongong area, were "carpeted" for publicly criticis ing conditions at their schools "Repeal" The Woliongong meeting call ed on the State Government to repeal the regulations denying this right. In view of the Government's election promises to establish an Education Commission, the meeting called for this to be done without delay. Both Federal and State Gov ernments were called on to provide adequate funds for education. Deputations will press this demand with Federal and State Members of parlia ment. 