 Literature and economics VHMfciilllijlMJllltfiiwauMwiiiiuMBWwnniiiMB—MiMiMiiMj || — HOW AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE GREW Enid Moodie Heddle and Iris Millington. On Australian literature from our convict days to modern times. The story of our writers and poets is refreshingly - written — delightfully illustrated with colorful line-drawings. Invaluable for those parents who would like to introduce their sub-teen and older children to Australian literature — ideal for the school library. $1.95 ($2.05 posted). SONGS OF A SENTIMENTAL BLOKE C. J. Dennis. The author needs no introduction to Australian readers and this book, which is as 'far as possible a replica of the original edition of 1915, is a delight. The black and white illustrations by Hal Gye are wickedly hilarious. $1.50 ($1.60 posted). LET NOON BE FAIR Williard Motley (author of "Knock On Any Door"). Las Casas, a little fishing village in Mexico, was once unspoilt — a superb beach backed by deserted hills, a church — a cluster of huts — no one starved. Then came the artists, schoolteachers, those who wished to escape from it all, and in their wake the profit seekers. The village became a tourist resort. This is the story of its plunder, the selfishness and lust of man for power — a novel with an angry and significant message for humanity. $3.75 ($3.97 posted). CAPITALIST ECONOMY S. Vygodsky. An outline of economic problems of capitalism treated historically. Emphasis is laid on the economy of present-day imperialism and on its weaker position in the economic competition with socalism. 80c (90c posted). THEORIES OF REGULATED CAPITALISM Edited by I. G. Blyumln. Four articles, which deal with — basic propositions underlying theories of "Regulated Capitalism" — the way in which Ame rican economists attempt to check inflation — monetary and financial questions in today's Britain — and the essence of guided capitalism within the economy of France. 40c (50c posted). TWENTIETH-CENTURY CAPITALISM Y. Varga. By the eminent Soviet economist, an expert in the field of modern capitalism. Although small, the book is a rich .and vivid result of his long research on the capitalist economy. 28c (35c posted). New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607, I ' 