 I MRU LtOI ' Iff "IRE REUISI" "First Citizen" has contributed this frankly critical review of the. latest issue of the progressive literary quarterly, "The Realist". Comments from other readers on the ideas raised in this article would be welcomed. THE . REALIST, No. 22, (Autumn, 1966), 30 cents. The fact that The Realist is the only Australian literary . journal in which all short stories and articles are writ ten from an obviously leftist point of view underlines the two main points 1 want to make about it. Firsty, and more simply, it is clearly a journal which deserves to be encouraged, for the values and attitudes for which it stands, and which it attempts to make operative in short stories and literary criticism, are fundamental to any left of centre position. Hence, of the four short stories in this issue, two (those by F. B. Vickers and Joan Williams) deal centrally with the problem of the aborigine in present Aus tralian life, while the other two (by Maude Kavanagh and Jim Hawkins) are concerned with the position of the worker in indus trial society. Similarly, the best article in this issue, that by Hilton Barton on The Bulletin in the 1890's, shows how "the Bushman's Bible", by initially directing its appeal "toward the ordinary citizen — the common people", was able to bring about "the 'Golden Nineties' of Australian literature — the period that saw The Bulletin at the height of its popularity and in fluence and witnessed the efflore scence of a distinctive national literature." The point is an interesting one, and the parallel with The Bulletin itself, even if not implied, is cer tainly there to be made. For, according to the cover, the "Realist Writers' Groups of Aus tralia seek to carry on and de velop the democratic Australian literary tradition, to win and en courage aspiring writers". And while "the democratic Aus tralian literary tradition", in so far as it is part of "a distinctive national literature", is certainly something which deserves to be encouraged, one cannot help feel ing doubtful as to whether The Realist is going about fts self- appointed task in the best possible manner. For, after all, the emphasis in its credo, at least as far as crea tive writing is concerned, should surely fall on the "literary tradi tion", the work of art; rather than, as in the case in the four stories in this issue, or an exag gerated "democratic Australian" bias. Of course one doesn't want to deny that the short story (or any other literary form) can legiti mately and successfully be used as a vehicle for lefist thought — the poetry of Yevtushenko, to cite only( one example, would show such a position to be untenable. 3 r But what one does want to in sist on (and here The Bulletin of the 1890's can be adduced to sup- port my case) is that simple doc trinaire writing (writing that is, which depends solely upon the reader's expected preconceived attitudes and beliefs for its ef fect) can no more be regarded as a successful work of literature than, say, those religious tracts left in telephone-booths and doc tor's waiting-rooms, waiting to warn the reader, in anecdotal form ("He was a handsome lad . . ."), of the dangers of fast women and heavy drink. For what the especial quality ot those Bulletin writers cited as Hil ton Barton was, cannot be mea sured solely in terms of the sorts, of democratic views they promul gated: what made Henry Lawson a good writer then is what makes him a good writer even for us today — the fact that he didn't just rely on a group of precon ceived attitudes, but constantly sought to interpret, to throw fresh light upon, society, and men and women in society, for his readers. And if social realism as a liter ary force is to mean anything, then surely it must mean this. Much the same sort of things can be said about the other main article in this issue of The Realist, "The Poetry of Judith Wright" by the editor, Ray Williams. Again one can point to the almost disarming honesty (I nearly wrote simplicity) with which Williams, like some of his short story writ ers, goes about his task. Yet surely he wants things too much his own way: he seems al most intent on rewriting the poems: "The Bullocky", for instance, is a fine descriptive poem, but the bullocky's place in our social order has been taken by the long-distance truck driver. There are no poems about truck drivers in "Five Senses'. In fact work ing people of any kind do not figure largely ... This is social realism run riot, democratically Australian cer tainly, but forgetting any con cept of a literary tradition — a tradition in which the em phasis must surely be placed on the craft (or genius) of the writer, not on what hiS social or political interests don't happen to be. And, in the same vein, let us have left-wing literary journals in Australia (indeed, there's a crying need for them), and let us support those (such as The Realist) which we are already lucky enough to have. But, at the same time, let us also resist the temptation to make a literary journal designed "to win and encourage aspiring writers" anything less than liter ary. If there is any one over-riding lesson that can be learned from the history of The Bulletin it must be this. Illustration by Tane in the current Realist. 