 Have you heard a Tolai choir? I fl Denis Kevans writes: "There have been two statements recently on the conditions in New Guinea. One was by the Soviet delegate to the UN, and the other by a New Guinea doctor of medicine. The latter was complaining about the rate of pay. My main aim in this poem is to contrast the attitude to the "fuzzywuzzy angels" today with the almost religious adoration of their service and sacrifice during World War II. All the incidents described in this poem are based on facts collected over a few years. . . " Have you heard a Tolai choir Singing God without a name? As you humped your pack up higher, Higher to the killing game? And the fuzzywuzzy angels, T o the aussies they were true, When we fought the jungle ranges I1 or the people who shot through. .. We will drink our doubles in the club, They can have their kava In the stormwater channel. Our children xoill call them 'boys', And teach them snakes and ladders. We will pay them Peanuts for our copra dividends, Trick them with arithmetic, and give Their hundred Gods one proper name — The gentle Christ. We xoill give them hymn titles , In exchange for their land titles. They xoill learn that Only yesterday, the tails God Gave them dropped into the dawn, and, Pale , gloxoing, dull identities came Creeping forth to wash the carbide From their souls. We will say: "You houses of dignified dirt! You. tentative temples of the Most High! Here in this mace, and there in that crown Come gold-tipped wings for you all! Take them and fly!" And. if, perchance , on Anzac Day, you want A drink in the mess with your old cobbers, The bugle's strains will grow As faint as the fart of a field-mouse : "Out! C hem's chat! Out! Bung Of the bulged-out Bourses of the world! Your musk is as the drain. . ." And if, perchance, as Mr. Flogblack Says himself, Sir: "While only aiming, Sir, At a flying-fox, Sir, that was slipping And slurping at my fields of February Fruits, Sir, I put the point Of ?ny little bullet in the butt Of a bloody boong!" — "Odds! It's pure chance! No charge! Case dismissed!" "O thank you, Sir. It's terribly hot Today, Sir. Can I run you home, sir, Sir. . Have you heard a Tolai choir Singing God without a name? As you humped your pack up higher, Higher to the killing game? And the fuzzywuzzy angels, To the aussies they were true, When we fought the jungle ranges, for the people who shot through. — Denis Kevans. 