 Strike against dust menace Miners ordered back to work OLLONGONG : The 300 Kemira miners on the NSW South Coast, on strike since June 22 because they refuse to work; in high concntrations of coal and rock dust, were this week ordered to return to work by the Commonwealth Arbitration court. Violation of this order, sought by the steel monopoly (Australian Iron and Steel), can carry heavy fines against the Miners' Federation. Earlier, the High Court up held a three months' no-strike order imposed on the Kemira men by Judge Gallagher of the Coal Tribunal. This wealthy company's con- tempi, xur miners neaicn ana life, is a national scandal. Last Friday Tribune inter viewed the men whose welfare is at stake at the Kemira mine. They are complaining against being forced to work on the dusty side of a machine which has been introduced into the mine. Alter it Albert Grennan, an operator of this machine, said he had given evidence that by a slight modification it could be suc cessfully operated without causing a dust hazard. "A similar machine, introduc ed into the South Bulli pit (not owned by the AI and S), was successfully altered. "Fitters at this pit said the alteration only took one week and now the operator and other workers are out of the dust," he said. Albert, 14 years a miner, has three boys aged 16, 15 and nine years. "They will never go into a pit if I can help it," he said. Lindsay Cruickshanks, a sup ports operator, said he follows this machine and receives the full blast of the dust. He has been in the pit 20 months and is the father of two hoys aged five and 21 years. Would it be impudent to ask whether the company and the courts have given any thought as to what would happen to these little boys if their father is dusted? WSvac1 bflf»lfSnn 1 The miners' wives are fully backing their menfolk in this struggle. Some, like Mrs. Edna Baker, "cannot imagine why the com pany would want to force the men to work in these condi tions." Mrs, Neysa Stace, the presi dent of the recently formed women's auxiliary, frankly stat ed "that the company only seems interested in profits." Her grandfather died of dust at Cobar and her husband, Arthur, has been five years at Kemira. They have four young children. "I don't like to see the strike because we are out of pocket- but the men have no alterna tive," she said. Lodge president, Jim Dillon added that if the company gets away with this, other machines will be introduced into their mines and operated under similar conditions. The miners were receiving their strike pay when inter viewed. Over the past two weeks the payments have been increased due to growing public support. The lodge executive, handling the payout, said that Port Kembla wharfies had alone contributed about $2000. Included among other sup porters of the strikers are the Wollongong University staff, most engineering works in the district, seamen, steelworkers, building and transport work ers, school cleaners, nurses and dairy farmers. Mr. Lindsay Cruickshanks and his little son David. 