 I TRIBUNE I SUBSCRIPTION RATfc IBB Day Stmt, Sydnty. NSW. Annual $3.90 (39/-) %£&lt; in A Aimlha SUB #17/41 Speak out on Indonesia! 'J'-HE further the Indonesian Government moves to the Right, the more evidently does it find favor with international reaction and imperialism, including the Holt Government and its supporters. An Indonesian Government invitation to Holt to visit Jakarta is warmly welcomed (in marked con trast with recent practice) . Liberal MHR Rev. Dr. Malcolm Mackay talks of the "new hope" in Djakarta and wants .to extend Australian aid to Indonesian schools. For this professing Christian, "new hope" has been inspired by the cold-blooded butchery of per haps 300,000 Indonesian patriots and denxocrats, one of history's' most appalling crimes. The estimate of 300,00,0 killed by Indonesian - ' terrorist gangs, mainly .Moslem extremists ; encour aged by the ruling generals, was given last week by Los Angeles Times reporter Robert Elegant after a visit to Indonesia. Months ago, Sukarno admitted to 87,000. Whatever the exact figure, it represents a mas sacre against which anyone susceptible of human feelings in any degree feels constrained to raise his voice. What is more, the massacre is continuing and extending ever further into the ranks of patriotic Indonesians. ' ? Last week's, news of raids on the headquarters of (he Indonesian Nationalist Party and of physical menaces to the Soviet .embasSv. where an exhibition had to be closed because of armed threats, indicates that the target is democracy and socialism in any form. Already destroyed or beheaded are the trade unions— basic democratic institutions of the workers in any country— the progressive women's and youth organisations and those associated with them in any way. The extermination mania is being let loose against all of the very forces which took the lead in the heroic independence struggle against Dutch and Japanese imperialism. The complacency or openly-expr.essed joy with which Liberal leaders today watch the extermination of Australia's real friends in Indonesia should alert the Australian workers as to what is going on. The Holt Government's present cultivation of the Djakarta regime is in line with its consistent support of. the most anti-democratic types of regime — in South Vietnam, Malaysia, Taiwan, South Africa. , Australia needs peaceful relations with all coun tries, especially in south-east Asia, but this does not require the condoning of the slaughter of democracy. Shaking hands with murder and gloating over the results of a bloodbath does not help, but hinders, Australia s necessary friendship with the people of Indonesia. Now is the time for that friendship to be restated and confirmed by means of strong protests from Australian organisations and individuals to the Indonesian Government, with demands that the slaughter be halted and the industrial, political and othef democratic rights of all Indonesians be re spected. Some of these wharfles, seen on Sydney's May Day, . took industrial action in 1946 to help Indonesia's fight for independence and democracy. 