 Australian Left Review, No. 1 New magazine with a purpose Reviewed by Alec Robertson VA/HAT is the . relation of conflicting forces in the Labor Party today? . . . Why has Australia's capitalist economy continued to ad vance without a profound economic crisis? . . . What is the view of Soviet democracy in the outside world? . . . What can be done to mini mise drought ? These are only a few of the challenging questions that are pos ed by contributors to Number One issue of the Australian Left Review, which was published last week. The production of a magazine that makes a serious attempt to analyse the modern Australian and international reality, to support and propagate a consistent marxist view and at the same time to en courage frank discussion, even controversy, around the results- all this is a formidable task. To achieve even the minimum economic paid circulation of sev eral thousands for such a magazine, when produced, involves complex problems of distribution and sell ing — as the sponsors of the variety of "small" magazines engaged in the contest of serious ideology in Australia today know only too well. Yet it must be done. Australian society today, while experiencing a period of relative prosperity, is nevertheless undergoing enormous and rapid changes, in economic and technical development, and the understanding of its shortcomings, in the patterns of ownership and of the workforce, in cultural stand ards and tastes, in educational and physical needs, and in class and sectional attitudes to the tradition al and the new. It is also faced with the irrational and dangerous commitment of the. country to military collision with historic popular movements in neighbour ing Asian countries. , Capable and articulate people of many ideological viewpoints are. today studying and publicly dis cussing these problems. Those of the political Right— and they are many and. vocal — are today more sophisticated than ever in the sow ing of public confusion, in the in terests of defending the essential status quo of monopoly capitalism. Those of the Left have a -very great task ahead, to assist the majority of Australians to discover and follow a line of democratic and socialist solution of these problems. That is why, over many months, . communists in Australia have dis cussed the development of a new magazine. This was to take the place of the Communist Review, which having performed historic service to the revolutionary sec tion of the working class over years, was seen to have become inadequate in concept and form. The first fruit , of this discussion is the Australian Left Review, "a. marxist journal of information, analysis and discussion in econo mics, politics, trade unionism, his tory, philosophy, science and art, for the promotion of socialist ideas." This first issue (June-July) of what will be a two-monthly pub lication gives promise of a policy of direct public grappling with major political and theoretical issues of our time. The struggle within the labor movement, the wages question, conscription, the drought, aspects of the functioning of communist parties in Australia and in the Soviet Union, an exam ination of capitalist development in Australia— these are matters raised in major articles in the magazine. A number of significant books are reviewed. The editorial notes indicate that contributions and letters are being sought. Certainly, there are ample turning points for controversy in the first issue that promise a lively letters section as from the next issue. For example, B. Taft advances a number of clear-cut propositions as changes in the economic cycle in Australia and internationally;, he restates, but does not elucidate, the urgency of the need for social ism in western countries. John Sendy sets out to challenge complacency among members and critics of the Communist Party . with a frank advocacy of the deepening of the existing freedom to debate and to disagree, inside the party, in the interests of "great er unity,- vitality and theoretical clarification." R. Dixon, CPA president, exam ines' the proceedings of the 23rd Congress of the CPSU (which he attended), highlighting new forms of socialist economic organisation, some new trends in the difficult problem of the international com munist movement, and also raising for consideration the "serious doubt and misunderstanding about Soviet democracy" among the peo ple in Australia. The search for political aims that will win the active support of the holders of the many and varied views in opposition ' to con scription for the Vietnam war is raised as a vital -problem by Mrs. M. Robertson. In these and other articles there is already some evidence of a more exacting standard of investigation and of substantiation of argument and this is a process that will be expected to continue. No doubt there is much room for discussion of how a magazine can best open its pages to record fruitful interchange and clash of views while ensuring that the basic marxist groundswell rolls through. There may be some who think it is impossible. At least it should be clear that this is an; argument ' best pursued not in the abstract but around concrete examples; and that the appearance of the Australian Left Review greatly facilitates this. The form of the new magazine, while a vast improvement on that of its predecessor, nevertheless suffers from a number of obvious weaknesses, including unsatisfac tory paper, a certain monotony of presentation and a lack of "fin ish" in general design. There is an intolerably high incidence of "literal" and punctuation errors. These may be seen as teething troubles that undoubtedly are re ceiving attention, yet they too raise questions of taste and standards which cannot be properly answered without widespread critical dis cussion. Australian Left Review is a wel come promise of big things to come. Tie rou : A HEARTENING departure from w art f abstract and meaningless experim L which we are accustomed in Sydney pit William Baxter's exhibition of sculptures at the Macquarie Galleries. | Baxter expresses his strong kffl sharply delineated representations rje4ffi form, and boldly reacts to subjee tlie m taboo by most artists and critics su u of Vietnam. | iensp Tf rv not' 111 the stern representational iharn ph ' as he uses flattened planes and; the on®dps and expressive distortion to show on more nw 1x1 chains and on the other the fine nippB t and hPeful promise of life as in his febovs) 3 mother playing with her child! P?ses an exciting challenge to art- Isirbin y lts acknowledgement of the dis- till retRinc f of modern society where tyranny | retains a foothold.— H. McC. 