 China hand's resignations signs opposition in Dept. By our Diplomatic Correspondent >| RESIGNATION of Mr. S. A. Fitzgerald from the Department of External j! Affairs in protest against the Holt Government's pro-US line on China |J confirms that this line was opposed by a large and influential section of the j Department. j The resignation took place six weeks ago, just at the time the Government was announcing its decision to give diplomatic re cognition to the Chiang Kai- shek clique in Formosa. At the time external affairs minister Hasluck boasted irres ponsibly that China "would hate it like hell". Now it seems that those who really "hated it like hell" in cluded responsible Australians inside his own ministry whose opinion was being flouted. Mr. Fitzgerald, when he re signed, was the No. 3 officer in the External Affairs Depart ment's East Asia section. With Mr. Gregory Clark, who left earlier for the same reason, he was one of the few officers on the staff who could actually speak Chinese, and till this week had not been replaced. In resigning, Mr. Fitzgerald explained that his main reason was disagreement with the Gov ernment's China policy. Chilly He believed the policy was based on misconceptions about China and her intentions. China was "not so aggressive and expansionist as the Holt Government asserted." Mr. Fitzgerald's statement coincided with the republica tion by the Sydney Sun (July I 14) of an article about China seas," it writes. j by the United States News and "The image of vast hordes of World Report. armed Chinese pouring across This semi-official paper blows the borders to invade India df apart the myth about the Chin- intimidate south east Asia cjr ese "menace" and "thrust to take on Soviet Russia in |4 south" on which Holt bases his modern war is held to be much whole Chnia-Vietnam policy. 1 overdrawn." |l "China cannot readily trans- Irony of Holt's position fe port and supply large forces that an increasing body of Up outside the country's borders opinion is swinging against the and is in no position even to stand he has taken primarily think of ventures across the to please the US. j! 