 NEW TAX RISES, HIGHER PRICES LIKELY SOON? By a special correspondent British move exposes Holt Govt policy HE British Government's Budget announcement last week of major restrictions on the flow of British capital to Australia highlights the basically dangerous situation of the Australian economy. It will almost certainly lead to a tougher Budget in Aus tralia in August and possibly other Federal action to off set the increasing difficulties for Australia's balance of international payments. Simultaneously with last week's British announcement came one from Canberra that Australia's overseas trade bal ance for the month of April showed a deficit of $18.4 million. This was the 21st successive month to show an adverse trade balance. Australia's international trade deficit for the nine months so far of the current financial year is $700 'million. This is $174 million worse than for the corresponding period of the previous year. No other facts are required to show that the Menzies and Holt Governments have utterly failed to solve Australia's trade problems, which in the long run must be the basic question in our international economic relations. Selling Australia in pieces Because of this, over a long period the Government has followed the self-defeating policy of relying on foreign capital investment in Australia and on overseas borrowings, to compen sate for the outflow due to trade deficits. Unfortunately for Australia, this policy leads to a constantly rising outflow in terms of dividends, interest and repay ment, as well as involving what Trade Minister McEwen has called "selling Australia piece by piece." The inherent dangers in this policy were shown last year when the United States Govern ment began to restrict the flow of US capital abroad. Although this affected other countries more than Australia, the Men zies Government showed signs of panic. Last week US Treasury Sec retary H. H. Fowler warned the US Chamber of Commerce of a "whole series of disastrous consequence s that would weaken US positions all round the world" if they did not hold down overseas investment now. Britain's own problem is also in the balance of international payments, and is largely due to continuing heavy expenditure on overseas military, naval and air establishments. Britain, with its major over seas military commitments in West Germany and others in the Mediterranean and the Middle East, is also spending £300 million sterling a year for war. purposes in South-East Asia alone. By cutting her capital outflow, some of the British (as well as the Austra lian) military burdens, are to be loaded on to Australians. What is the British mover In the last full year for which statistics are available — 1964— Br-.tish investment in Australia was $158 million. The new moves are estimated to reduce UK capital inflow over the next two years by at least $200 million. British companies are now to be asked to postpone, if pos sible, all present plans for investment in "developed" ster- ling area countries (Australia i.s the main one).. and to submit new projects to Bank of Eng land for approval. 