 THIS WAS THE I WEEK THAT WAS MELBOURNE is still feeling the effects of one of its most E active weeks of demonstrations against the Vietnam war. f ® About 150 students attend ed a Youth Campaign Against Conscription vigil outside the Prime Minister's home in Toorak on the night of May 25. This vigil followed news of the death of the first Vietnam con script, Pte. Noack. The vigil continued until 5 a.m. and was given impetus at 1 a.m. by the arrival of a taxi. Out sprang Glen Tomasetti, popular Mel bourne folksinger, saying "I want to sing". She had come to serenade Mr. Holt. To warm cheers, she stood on Mr. Holt's fence outside his bedroom win dow and sang a song she had composed only a few minutes before, "Concerning a Con script's Death in Vietnam". The build-up of opposition gathered momentum and con tinued for four consecutive days. About 30 women of the Save Our Sons Movement held a 30- minute vigil outside the Mel bourne Town Hall on May 26. A young serviceman passing by went and bought a bunch of flowers and presented them to Mrs. McLean, Secretary of SOS. Parliament House was picket ed by 20 high school students on the night of Friday, May 27. This all-night "private picket" was organised by pupils at Camberwell High School. A young lad heading the picket bore a placard which read "I don't want a 20th birth day." Thirty-five organisations, in cluding unions, church, Jewish and Greek groups, University and Peace committees, placed a large advertisement in the Melbourne Herald on May 27, expressing concern for a peace ful solution to the Vietnamese conflict. March Culmination of these anti-war activities was the stirring march through Melbourne's city streets on Saturday morning, May 28, called by the Vietnam Day Com mittee. "I have a one in two chance of going to Vietnam", said a young conscript who joined the march. When asked why he was marching he replied: "Although it is against military law to take part in political demon strations, I am against the Viet nam war and conscription. I thought the numbers of the demonstrations needed swell ing." "What do your fellow recruits think about conscription?" lie was asked. "About 60-80 p.c. are accus tomed to the idea of being sent . to Vietnam and will go with out fuss if ordered. Most of the others are not against conscrip tion as such but they are against overseas service", the young conscript stated. "I per sonally will go to jail rather, than go to Vietnam", he said. Two thousand Melbourne peo ple rallied to the call of the Vietnam Day Committee. An unexpected turn in events was the last-minute . permission granted by the police for the marchers to proceed down the centre of the major city streets, The great variety of placards reflected the opinions of the people of all ages and all be- i liefs who were marching. A | Minister of the Church held I high his banner "They are our | Brothers whom we Kill." I A boy of nine carried a I placard which he had made | himself, and which read "Dad, j save me from the lottery of death." Young mothers said "Burn draft cards not children". A teenage girl wanted it known that "I am a no-go girl". Other slogans said "I want to grow up, not blow up", and "In a democracy we choose what we die for." Assembling at Post Office Square in Elizabeth St. after the march, the- audience warmly cheered Mr. Trevor Ashton, Sec retary, Youth Campaign Against Conscription who summed up the feelings of most of the young people present when he said "Private Noack has died for reasons that are utterly futile, and this is on the cons ciences of all of us". An impressive moment was the minute's silence observed by the crowd for Private Noack. The demonstrators adopted a resolution which demanded the withdrawal of all Australian troops from Vietnam, and call ed for i the Australian Govern ment to support negotiations between all the parties con cerned, including the National Liberation Front. Addressing the rally from the steps of the Federal Members' rooms, Mr. Calwell, Leader of the Opposition, pledged his complete support for the resol ution. He told the people "Keep these demonstrations going, we want more and more of them." 