 US build up in Vietnam: Aussies next C YDNEY : The huge new build-up of US forces in Vietnam, taking it near the Korean war level, reflects at once the desperate position of the occupierb in South Vietnam and their determination to extend the war despite the risk. It can be taken for granted that the Australian commit ment of .troops will be in creased correspondingly, as already agreed in secret by Prime Minister Holt, as soon as the elections are over — if he wins. The numbers of US troops needed to subjugate tbe 15 mil lion people of South Vietnam have been estimated variously this week e.t 400,000 (by the US Defence Department) , 500,000 (by Republican spokesman Nixon) and 750,000 (by "some responsible military leaders" in Saigon, quoted by the Sydney Sun last Monday). Added to those must be the half million or more South Vietnam Government puppets being armed and paid by the Americans. No quick victory Yet even this huge build-up, it is admitted, will not suffice to bring quick victory over Na tional Liberation Front guerillas officially estimated by the US to number not more than 200,000. "Unlike Mr. Nixon, many military men do not feel that even a large influx of troops can lead to any quick victory", says the Sun report. "Some military officers feel the United States will have to face some kind of troop commit ment in Vietnam for 15 or 20 years". What is obvious from such a statement is thr-t the 200,000 gutrillas must have the support of the local people of South Vietnam. Otherwise they could not survive (without tanks or aircraft) against such a num- erous and heavily armed oppo sition. Observers also point out that this huge influx of US troops, linked with the talk of a 20-year occupation, is in line with Pre sident Johnson's "Asian Doc trine" speech of July 12, when he asserted the US' "right", as a Pacific power, to exert its influence in Asia. While intensifying its war on the southern patriots, the US invaders are also moving to wards a direct land assault on the Northern Vietnamese in the Democratic Republic of Viet nam. Open war Another Sydney Sun report from Saigon on August. 2 sa.id "the Vietnam conflict ha grown in the past month to look increasingly like open war with North Vietnam. "America was quick to dis avow talk by South Vietnam's Premier Ky about invading the north, but the conflict has Continued on Paere 12 Vietnam build up Continued from Page 1 moved towards a more direct confrontation with the Com munist state". Such "disavowals" prompt US Newsweek magazine writer Emmot John Hughes to plead: "Let us be spared any more strategic reviews of the war so authoritatively proclaimed one month only to be rudely re versed the next. "In May, the Secretary of the Air Force deplored any notion of bombing the Hanoi-Hai phong area on the basis of the very clear . . . decision of the I Commander-in-Chief that such action would avail little and risk much. "By July the bombing was under way — to celebrate two months hailed by the President as a period of steady military progress. "To any citizen there was not much 'very clear' about the strategic process by which such progress transformed needless folly into military necessity." The same process could, of course, any day transform the "needless folly" of invading North Vietnam, or using nu clear weapons, or some other desperate act of escalation into a "military necessity". 