 Double pay in ! I Double I Bay | gYDNEY: In Double Bay shopping centre on Saturday morning ; 91 signatures were obtained to the Labor Council of NSW Prices Petition, in If hours. One woman, when ask ed to sign the petition, said . . "yes, it is about: time something like this was done, they call this place 'Double Pay', every thing is dearer here than anywhere else, food is dear enough without add ing prices on." The Petition was well re ceived and welcomed — even the Local Publican signed it and told his customers stand ing around outside the Saloon to sign also, t People of lower and higher income brackets agreed it was time something was done about controlling the spate of price rises over recent months, and in particular since decimal currency introduction. A woman wearing a diamond ring was elated with the idea of the petition and some action on price control — signed it and insisted her son and daughtei-in-law do likewise! Other highlights of the peti tioning were: — The American woman who wished-, to sign the Petition because, as she put it, "I believe this is right" . . . . "But if I sign it, it will not be a good thing for me, for each time I go to the Immigration Dept. they ask me if I have signed any thing like this." The woman who said she did not know if she should sign or not, when asked was she happy about the cost of living she thought for a moment . .. . "No I am not, of course I should sign this," she said. The young man when ap proached who said, "No it doesn't affect me," when asked, if he wasn't affected by the price increases when he went for a haircut, to buy his clothes, to have his shoes mended — silently signed the Petition and went on his way ... no doubt thinking, maybe for the first time, that he was personally affected by price increases after all! The woman who agreed that the basic wage needed to be brought into line with existing prices, then control prices, didn't need to go home and ask hubby if she should sign the Petition. Footnote: Tribune's local cor respondent adds: "While some locals call this area "Double- Pay" ... I would call it "Trouble Bay" for there sure is trouble brewing for someone ... the locals are pretty steamed up with exorbitant prices, the monopoly, grip of Woolworth's store and the mov ing in of G. J. Coles who stak ed a claim in Knox Street on an area where homes once existed — "Trouble Bay" has a few Trouble-Shooters in it now." 