 SU's FORTY-NINER ASEUROPE RELAXES MEW diplomatic victories abroad and economic success at home will mark the 49th anniversary of the Socialist Soviet Union next Monday, Nov.7. Anouncement of Premier Kosygin's visit to France next December signifies that for France and most of Western Europe the bogey of "Communist aggression" has been banished. it nas nea to Australia which still resounds with the clamour about the fear of a "Communist invasion" which only a few years dominated the capitalist press of West ern Europe, especially France. France was selected in 1949 for the headquarters of the North Atlantic Treaty Organ isation because of its key posi tion, politically and geographi- cally, in the anti-Soviet mili tary planning of those days. Now in the very week that France invites the Soviet Premier to visit her (with the President and Communist Party general secretary to fol low) the NATO political, head quarters is ousted from French soil. The consistent peace policy of the Soviet Union, as Mr. L. Brezhnev, secretary of the Communist Party of the Sov iet Union recently emphasis ed, was responsible for the break-up of NATO. Exchanges Other evidence of this break-up was the proliferation of east- west exchanges which followed De Gaulle's Moscow visit in May. One of the most important results of this riddling of the old "Iron Curtain" was West German social-democrat lead er Bandits sensational journ ey through the "Berlin Wall" for long and friendly talks with the Soviet ambassador to the GDR. Frenzied protests by West German Chancellor Erhardt were a prelude to a severe crisis in the Erhardt cabinet. Four Free Democrat ministers last week resigned over an economic question, opening up the possibility of a Social Democrat and Free Democrat coalition to replace Erhardt. In this atmosphere the NATO militarists, thrown out of France, have been hard' put to it to find quarters else where. ft has even been rumored that US troops are soon to be stationed in Australia where the Holt Government strives to keep alive the old Red Bogey slogans that once got a hearing in Europe. Success of the first nine months of the current five year plan will be another big item for celebration in the USSR on Monday. A TASS message says that Soviet industry fulfilled the plan for the first nine months of this year for gross produc tion and most major items of production ahead of schedule, according to the Central Sta tistical Board of the USSR. As compared with the cor responding period of last year secondary industrial output went up 8.3 per cent. Enterprises working in the new conditions according to the economic reforrrf overful filled their increased plans. As compared with the first nine months , of last year they increased "realisation of pro duction" by more than 11 per cent, profits by over 20 per cent and labor productivity by 8 per cent. Profits of Soviet industry as a whole went up 10 per cent and labor produc tivity five per cent. The greatest gain, 12 per cent, has been made in the output of the chemical, machine-building and metal- working industries and the production of recreational and household goods. Light industry has increased its output by 9 per cent com pared with the same nine months of last year. Triumph Production plans for some items have been uriderfulfUl- ed, including electric locomo tives, radio sets and refriger ators. All this is a triumph for the new socialist economic management methods intro duced this year and gradually being extended to cover the whole economy. This also largely explains the all-time record grain crop to be harvested this year— 160 to 165 million tons. There is considerable growth also in non-grain crops such as sugar beet, sun flower and cotton. Livestock farming is progressing rapid ly. 