 MASSACRE ESTIMATE RISES TO MILLION: KILLINGS CONTINUE — University survey ORE than one million people died in the massacres triggered by the attemp ted coup in Indonesia last October, says Frank Palmos in a despatch from Jakarta to the Brisbane Courier-Mail on August 5. This is the highest figure yet fixed for those slain in a bloodbath far surpassing anything done by Hitler and Mussolini. The killing continues, warns Palmos. His cable forms a grim background to the agreement concluded last week between the Indonesian regime res ponsible for it and the reac tionary Malaysian Govern ment. Palmos says of the estim ate of a million slain by the reactionary generals and other feudalists: "This staggering, almost unbelievable, figure is given in a preface to a composite re port done by more than 100 trained researchers put into the field last November. Bandung and Jakarta uni versities supplied the gradu ates for the research work. It is likely that the report Will never be published, says Palmos, but its outlines are known. Java The team concluded their work in Central and East Java— which was treated as one area — three weeks ago. They conclude that "at least 800,000" people were killed in these two provinces. The preface says that early estimates for Bali are close to 85,000. For Sumatra "some thing approaching that fig ure." For other islands "hicVi _ tolls". The final total, over-all would be "no less than one million". But the researchers also warn: "Even the East and Central Java figures cannot be considered final, for killing continues". They suggest that some rightwing groups have start ed attacking each other. "Now there are clashes be tween certain groups various ly affiliated with certain par ties who were armed and trained last year to help crush elements involved in the Oc tober coup" they say. In the Communist "triangle stronghold" of Bojolali, Kla- ten and Solo nearly a third of the population is dead or missing. The report also admits that a high proportion of those killed were not Communists or even "suspected" of left views. According to Palmos it says investigations revealed the "regrettable" toll of non-Com munist people being killed. Palmos writes: "It is be lieved that 20 per cent of those killed were 'suspects', members' families, people settling old scores, mistaken identities and a large number killed by the FKI (Communist Party) in retaliation. "There have been many re ports of Nationalist and Mos lem Party youth killing their own members who had been infiltrated into PKI ranks as informers." The report also leaves no doubt that the massacres were the work of the Army. . For this, General Suharto must be held responsible. Palmos says: "Most of the killing was done by militant youth groups, often appointed by military or village author ities. "Youths were armed and encouraged by these 'authori- ties' and in the 'triangle' area given drill and weapons train ing. "Once the killing was start ed the youths were uncontrol lable. "Scores of 'champion kill ers' were found. One boy in terviewed killed 135, then 'lost count'.' "Killing was invariably done late at night, far away from the victims' villages." Systematic A typical part of the report tells of Central and East Java where it says that the army elite corps of paratroopers (RPKAD) with three bat talions began the systematic killing or jailing of PKI lead-: ers. Says Palmos: "The para troopers armed the National ist and Moslem party youths, gave many thousands drill and weapon training, to assist in wiping out the PKI. These groups, with local military assistance, did the killing." An article in the London New Statesman by Bridget Mellor emphasises that ar rests and killings continue. "Those reported as being directly involved in the coup (some are Communists but many are not) are being tried by military tribunal, and re ports indicate that those tried are found guilty and shot" she says. "Despite official assurances, some detainees are being sum marily executed." STRONG-MAN SUHARTO Something to smile about 