 SP0STS-- League supporter punts for other codes Jack Mundey, well-known Sydney trade union official, has written to Tribune suggesting that, as it is a national weekly, coverage of the different codes of football in the various states be undertaken this season. Though I am a firm Rugby League support er, I believe there is room for soccer, rules, union and league to co exist," he writes. "In fact while the southern states see the dominance of Australian Rules, the northern two have Rugby League as the main winter sport, with Soccer in all states enjoying increasing sup port. "Rugby Union has its base in the wealthy GPS and the many other sports followers to its games, especially when international matches are played here. "Last season Tribune readers were dished up long reports of Sydney Rugby League club matches ( often by hopelessly one-eyed corre spondents) and I felt these reports would have been of little interest to readers in other States. "If there had been a balance, say, of a report of the main games of the dif ferent codes in the different States it would have been much more appreciated." As a practical contribution Jack enclosed the following article: Big season for R. League (By Jack Mundey) The British Rugby League and Rugby Uni.on teams have been selected to tour Australia this season. The Rugby League selectors have come under fire of northern England's sports columnists —Rugby League is mainly confined- to northern coun ties — because of their failure to select more experienced . players. Only two of the tourists have visited Australia pre viously. .The withdrawal of mercurial half-back Alex Murphy will be a disappoint ment, as Murphy is con sidered by many to be the most brilliant attacking half Rugby League has seen. Murphy was selected as a centre for the tour, but withdrew because of busi ness reasons. Crowds have fallen sharply at Rugby League matches in England this season, and re ports say the standard of play has also slipped. However, a touring team has one advantage, because it is continuously living , and playing together, and this is a factor in developing much-needed team spirit. This, together with the great records of wins over Australia, must give the Englishmen a chance, for there wouldn't be one honest Rugby League supporter who'd claim that England has ever sent a weak team to this country. I believe the play-the-ball rule to be a brake on win ning more supporters. Reports from England say that the opposing side has given up striking for the ball in the play-the-ball and cited one match in which one side had the ball for almost half an hour of the 40 minutes in the second half. If on the other hand the player marking the tackled player strikes for the ball in the play-the-ball, the most likely result is scrambling play, a knock-on, and so a scrum. We see this so often in Australia. How about really en couraging faster movement of the ball, by having a tackled player caught in pos session surrendering the ball to the opposing player? This rule would discourage being caught in possession, would discourage barging and the negative play we see so often when a team has a few points' lead and time is running out. It would make the game much faster and would give a lighter side or a side that had been out-hooked in the f scrums a chance to obtain 1 possession of the ball in open play. "What do . other Rugby League supporters think of this proposal? FOOTNOTE: This column will welcome contributions on all football codes from the various States. Not too old at 30 J JN sport, to be 30 years I young is sometimes far | more conducive to success j than to be 20 years old. 1 A number of sporting results recently seem to bear this out. Last week in London, the veteran tennis player Pancho Gonzales won the Wembley professional tennis cham pionship, beating world champion Rod Laver 6-3, 5-7, 12-10. Although showing signs of weariness in. the third set, Gonzales fought on to take the match after a two-hour battle. Gonzales first won I this title 16 years ago. I On the other hand, just last week a comparative youngster announced his retirement from cycling at the age of 24. He was the Australian Tokyo Olympic Games cycling team captain, Vic Browne. Browne made the announce ment only a few hours after a brilliant performance in a special 130-mile games test race. He was considered a near certainty for the Com monwealth Games. Browne's father, explaining the retirement of -his son, said that he felt :that his son was losing interest fol lowing the death' of a close friend in a road race last year and an accident to another friend while train ing. The above two examples emphasise the fact that for an athlete to be able to maintain top performances his mental approach to his tasks must be in perfect harmony with his top physi cal condition. ; — Dawn Fraser continued to break world records at an age when the average swimmer has long been in retirement. 