 Sween them out in '66 Spotlight on Tasmania The apple island needs develonment By MAX BOUND Communist candidate for Denison (Tastnania) . Jf ASMANIA'S most urgent need at the present time is for all-round in- dustrial development. In particular, a Government-built and controlled ship-building — as well as steel — industry would bring big benefits to the economy of the whole State. The Communist Party is for the establishment of a ship building industry at Margate. Confirmation that the area is suitable for the employment 'Of the most modern . ship building techniques underline . that the establishment of the industry would be of real value to Tasmania. The urgent need for a Nat ional overseas shipping line and modern ships to carry this' trade is now widely ac cepted. Overseas shipping in terests collect tremendous pro fits at Australia's expense, and seriously worsen Aus tralia's oversea trade balances. They get more from Tasman- ian apples than the orchard- ists who grow and prepare the fruit for the market. Developing of ship building should not be- left to the whim of overseas or local big bus iness interests. Nor should the possibility of an industry of such big developmental potential to Tasmania be sac rificed on the altar of the push and pull of big business interests on Governments. (The Federal Government has rejected the Margate shipbuilding proposal.) There is ample evidence that Federal and/or State Government have the ability and means if they use them to develop industry. The State Government has devel oped the hydro power in dustry, the Federal and State Governments established Bell .Bay Aluminium, and then handed it over to private en terprise. Australian engineers and workers have played the decisive part in the develop ment of modern Australian industry, including the pro duction of the Holden motor car. As Mr. Calwell stated (Mer cury 19/10/66) "All initial cap ital for the production of Hoi- dens was provided in Aus tralia. $2 million from the Bank of Adelaide and $4 million from the Common wealth Government." The Gov ernment of the day was the Chifley Labor Govern ment. In the Second World War when Australia was threat ened by Japanese militarism, the people of our country re sponded in a big way to the call for Government bonds. There should be no diffi culty to even outdo this re sponse in today's conditions, to raise capital for a project that would make a big con tribution to the whole state and for that mattter, national economy. In this state, dur ing the second world war, a few skilled tradesmen and professional engineers trained big numbers of Tasmanians with little previous experience in industry. Complicated, highly skilled processes, in cluding precision tool making, were carried out in this state. A great deal is said these days about the question of so-called "know-how". Few would deny' the need to take advantage of modern tech niques. The few examples al ready quoted show that it is not necessary to sell our birthright to foreign or local big business concerns, to acquire know-how. Australian workers, engin eers and other highly skilled people, have proven their ability to keep pace with the best in the fields of product ion they have entered. The know-how that has been brought here is largely the know-how to make use of Australian money, engin eering brains and skilled wor kers to take out big profits. Australian Communists wage a consistent struggle to ad vance the interests of Aus- - tralia's people at the expense of the big monopolies; we fight for curbing and con trolling both Australian and foreign monopolies, and eventually placing them under the rightful ownership of the Australian people; we fight to replace subordination to American policies with an independent Australian policy for peace and friendship with Asia and all countries. MAX BOUND 