 Two quiet men who ask for dignity— and support By HENRY McCARTHY "Pd like to see my children go to schnnl" -pWO Aboriginal men of quiet courage and simple dignity who are leaders and fighters for the equality of their people were last week winning the deep respect and support of hundreds of Sydney workers. One of the men is Captain Major, 51, stockman and rough rider tall wiry and tough. He was dressed in blue shirt and trousers, riding boots, a broad brimmed hat and wind jacket. The other is Dexter Daniels, 25, organiser for the North Australian Workers' Union (he's now on leave from the union) and secretary of the Northern Territory Council for Aboriginal Rights. The contrast between him and Captain Major is a sharp one. He is short, his casual dress no different to that of any other young city man. But here the contrast ends. These two men have all and everything in common that has to do with the equality and rights of their people. And first, is their demand for equal pay with white workers on the far-flung cat- tle stations of the Northern Territory. When in March this year the Commonwealth Arbitra tion Commission, giving its decision in the Northern Ter ritory Cattle Industry Award case, decided that Aboriginal stockman would not receive equal wages until 1968, Cap tain Major was the first to take action. He led his people, about 80 all told, including men women and children as well as stock men, off Newcastle Waters station. They have since been join ed by Aboriginal stockmen and workers from the giant Vestey's station, Wave Hill. Others are ready to walk off when given the word by their leaders and that could be when they get enough sup port and finance from the workers in Sydney, Mel bourne, Brisbane and other cities. And that's why Captain Major and Dexter Daniels are here ( as the guests of Actors' Equity. If a meeting they both ad dressed at the Australia Square building project in the heart of Sydney last week is any yard-stick of the kind of support they will get Continued Column 5 from workers, then success in their struggle is assured. About 300 workers here levied themselves $2 to begin with and $1 for the duration of the Aborigines' strike. They were obviously deeply moved as Captain and Dexter told them in moving simple language of the cruelties and privations that their people suffered at the hands of the cattle-kings. Dexter told them— "I am just like you, I feel the same and I want to live the same. "I am going to fight for the rights and equality of my people so that they can live the same and I am going to do it with people like Cap tain Major— people of my own color, but we need the help of people like you. "The Government has done nothing for us. This has got to be changed. We don't live in houses like you. We live in humpies that sometimes we have to crawl into. Our kids get no proper schooling. We live on salt beef and damper. We are the last generation of my people and it's up to us to do all we can, but we need your help." Silence When he stopped speaking there was silence from the workers for a minute that was more expressive that the burst of applause. The silence returned as Captain Major rose to his feet. He pointed to his arm and said, "You can see I have a black skin, but I have a white heart. What I want is a fair go for my people. "I have never been to school. I have learned to spell my own name. I can speak English and my own language, that is all the educa tion I have. "When I was 17 years old I ran a stock camp for Vestey's. My wages were bread and salt beef. At the end of the season they would give me two or three days rations and kick me off the station to look after myself. -j. rememoer once, wnen jl was a young lad, I returned from a long trip with a mob of cattle and asked for my wages. They gave me a bag of lollies." Captain Major said that many of the Aborigine work- ers and stockmen were rob bed of their wages Up till recently the 'station owners had shown a nrofit on P.eriti0.ns and cftld endow- ment that had been paid to them. Very little and in most cases none of it ever was paid to the Aborigines. When asked by a worker if there was any validity in the claim by station owners that- white workers were more skilled, Dexter caused a roar of laughter when he answer ed, "We're a lot better. After all it's us who find the white stockmen when they get lost " Second-class Asked by another worker if the Aborigines in the Terri tory generally were treated as second class citizens Dex ter replied, "we are not' treat ed as citizens at all." After a series of friendly questions from the meeting one of the workers demand ed to know "what the B . . about' questions were "You've heard what these blokes have said, only Six I " .1 dollars a week— if they get it— and we want to ask them questions! "What we have to do is decide how much to give them. We give money to the Colombo Plan and Indonesia, lets clean up our own back yard first." At the Annual meeting of the Australian Aboriginal Fellowship Society last Friday night Dexter Daniels and Captain Major were guest speakers. Captain brought many of the audience close to tears, perhaps there were some who did cry as he spoke simply of his life. Interviewed by the press earlier when he arrived at Sydney airport Captain Major was asked what he would do with the increased wages if he got it. "I would like to have a a bed and a chair in a house. a My bed is made of bullock 1 hide. I would like to buy \ some books for the Aboriginal children. "I would like to see them go to school. I would like to go to school myself." Even Sydney's hardboiled reporters did some hard thinking for a while over that reply. CAPTAIN MAJOR SPEAKING TO WORKERS ON AUSTRALIA SQUARE PROJECT A message straight from the heart . . . 