 Deadly men ASSOCIATED with Mr. Benson on the so-called "Defend" Australia Committee are men whose policy would totally destroy Australia a few hours or even minutes after it was implemented. They are the "dangerous men" of the Liberal Party and the Democratic Labor Party who, as Mr. A. D. Fraser pointed out last week, favor a sudden, secret attack and an undeclared war on the Chinese People's Republic (see page 4) . As Mr. Fraser said, they have gone as far as they dared towards openly advocating this in Parliament. The result for Australia could be her instant involvement in a nuclear world war, including a devastating retaliatory attack on Australia herself. Most notorious of them are Senators Gair and McManus, (DLP) and Sir W. Kent Hughes and Mr. J. Jess (Liberal) . The News. Weekly, of Melbourne, frequently expounds the violent, warmongering policies of the DLP which are in conflict with those of the Labor movement on every point. Sir W. Kent Hughes has for years campaigned for a "hard line" against China, , reflected in the recent decision of the Holt Government to appoint an Ambassador to Taiwan. Another member of the Committee, Mr. Geoffrey Fairbairn, a lecturer of the Australian National University, has been prominent as a platform speaker supporting the Vietnam war. After the ALP named the "Defend Australia Com mittee" as a body to which ALP members might not belong, Mr. L. Short resigned from it. Mr. S. Benson, Labor MHR for Batman, in Victoria, re fused. Last week the chairman" of the Committee, Mr. P. Frankel, said its next public activity would be to "organise an appeal for equipping a boys' military academy in Vietnam". He did not explain how this activity, apparently aimed to train Vietnamese boys to kill other Viet namese, could help in the defence of Australia. ? US massacres ,3 /RECENT repeated United States military "errors" in South Vietnam have more clearly exposed the true character of the Vietnam war. Hundreds of civilians— mostly women and children — have been killed and wounded by bombs and napalm in strikes ordered by jittery ground com manders. It is. found to be a mistake, an apology is made, money is offered the survivors to keep them quiet, and then another "incident" follows. American planes have bombed their own ships and napalmed their own troops, raided Cambodian villages and tried to brazen out this murder of innocent people even though the International Con- ? trol Commission was on the spot, r When these "incidents" happen almost daily who t will believe solemnly-repeated official hand-outs that | raids on the North are made with "pin-point accur- / acy" on military targets? These sickening massacres do more than reveal I the US Command as liars and bunglers. £ They show that the war is now a full-scale war y of invasion against a hostile people. Every peasant is a probable enemy. South Vietnamese troops cannot be trusted. Anything that moves is the "Vietcong". Bombs rain down first; any check is made after, v This is inevitable in an unjust war fought by foreign invaders against a whole people. In fact, the true explanation for this rash of "mistakes" lies in growing military reverses and heavier losses for the Americans. All the brave talk, the military censorship, the unverified — because unverifiable — reports of "victories" and "huge Viet cong casualties", can no longer hide the glaring truth. The mighty US military machine cannot win the ? war. It is taking a mauling from smaller forces who lack modern technology, because it is fighting a whole people, so a new escalation of the war is rumored. It is time for Australians to protest against the Pentagon's secret plans to enlarge the war into one of annihilation of all Vietnam. 