 QUERIES MINE VENTILATION gULLI: The general manager of Hi Flow Fans (Mr. J. F. Wasson) last week told the inquiry into the Bulli Colliery disaster that the ventilation in that colliery could not be relied upon and that it was the first time he had seen such a set up. The inquiry is being con ducted by Judge Goran to determine the reasons fioar the fatal fire of November 9 in which four miners were killed. Mr. Wasson, a witness called by the company (Australian Iron and Steel) , made the statement about (he ventil ation) under crcs-examinaticn. Earlidr the lunder-manager of the mine (Mr. J. Puddle) said under cross examination that inflammable gas had been detected in the mine over ia month before the fatal fire. Change made in method The colliery manager (Mr. D. J. Stone) who spent almost a week giving evidence be fore the inquiry was followed by Mr. Puddle. It was revealed by the evi dence that in pillar extract ion in the disaster section it had been customary to pro vide for bleeder headings to ensure lany gas from the gcaf passing into the return. (The goaf is a worked out area where gases accumulate, bleeder headings being tubes or tunnels used to take away this gas into the exhaust ventilation.,- However, at a crucial stage a change was made in the method of extraction, which imieant that there was no bleeder heading, Mr. Puddle accepting responsibility, and declaring, that it had been done to enable quick extract ion owing to roof difficulties, in the interests of safety and production — as he described it "ventilation could make some concession to roof con trol". Mr. Stone said: "In my opinion the method of ven- filati'.n adopted was adequate to deal with concentrations of gas which could be expected to occur and which, according to the deputies' report, did occur. Questioned by Miners' Fed eration general president (Mr. W. Parkinson) Mr. Stone said he -was not consulted about the change in the ventilation system, but did not think he would' have disagreed with it. Judge 'Goran: "It did not merely alter the ventilation system, but did not think he to the extent where it tended to frustrate the ventilation system. Is that so?" Mr. Stone: "It frustrated the system we had adopted, yes." Mr Parkinson: "And we . could say also that it resulted in the death of four of our members". (Objected to by Mr. R. G. Reynolds, QC for the company.) During the early part of the proceedings, Ml. Reynolds QC submitted that the func tions of' the judge were such that he could not determine- disputed facts or make any findings on culpability. His Honor rejected the sub mission and declared it part of his duty to intake a finding upon circumstances such as systems of working etc. and failure or otherwise cf res ponsible persons to carry out their duties. The inquiry is expected1 to conclude this week. 