 &lt; Hill iiiiiMiM JJjjEp ' IjfJ ' jfcl L | War career of Gunner Harold Holt HERE is the good oil on the military career of the new Prime Minister, Harold Holt. It was detailed by a Melbourne, building worker, Mr. Desmond Victor O'Connor, who was VX- 19998 in the 2/12 Field Artillery Regiment, 2nd AIF. Last week he called at the office of the Mel bourne Guardian and said: "I can remember vividly that Gunner Holt was a member of my regiment at Puckapunyal for about five weeks in 1940, only to be re called by Prime Minister Menzies a few days before we sailed for the Middle East. He then became a Minister. "The fellows were pretty hostile on him at the time. "The regiment from which Gun ner Holt was so unceremoniously withdrawn saw service practically through the siege of Tobruk and later in New Guinea. "That Holt should have spared himself war service and now acts to ensure that today's youngsters have no such choice is utterly hypocritical and cruel," he said. Mr. O'Connor also protested personally against the policy of allying Australia with "a fascist regime, the unpopular, unstable regime in South Vietnam." Signs of intimidation . (sJATIONAL service trainees have been writing home to parents ' in Sydney claim ing that the Minister for the Army (Mr. Frazer) on a recent visit to Jheir camp . attempted .to inflame them v,.-. -y ' , . . ' against the anti-conscription demonstrations. Such methods could be part of an elaborate political police plan to use men in uniform as one of various attempts to intimidate anti- conscription and anti-war activists. After all, some troops were in flamed to such action in World' War I. But there are ways of calling the bluff of the political police. We understand that Mr. Barry Robinson, secretary of the Sydney Youth Campaign Against Conscrip tion, who is to face charges con nected with draft card burning, was recently (rting by the police for an interview. At his insistence, they agreed that the press could attend the interview. But ten minutes before the ap pointed time, the police rang to cancel it! And now, rail fares . . . "pHE New South Wales Liberal Government's image is tarnishing as its real policy emerges on prices, profits, rents — and politicans' salaries. Among its "achievements" have been: raising of bus fares during decimal conversion, refusal to con trol prices, lifting restrictions on insurance charges, and steps to wards eliminating all rent controls. Last week Opposition Leader Renshaw claimed that the Railway Department was already working out details of increased rail fares. When completed, it would in crease fares for some trips between suburbs, and increase the cost of weekly train tickets, he said. Despite the denial by Transport Minister Morris we have it on very good authority that Mr. Renshaw was right on the ball. A policeman's lot is not ... yUSTRALI AN political life is getting terribly com plicated for the police these days. The Nowra News reports that rumors of a demonstration at the opening of a swimming pool at Greenwell Point and Subsequent events sparked off something of a panic among the authorities . in the district recently. The NSW Minister for Conserva tion (Mr. J. G. Beale) arrived to open the pool as the rumor spread that demonstrators would be there armed with placards demanding better education facilities. Five police, in uniform and plain clothes (the weather was too cold for swimming trunks) were dis patched to the danger zone. The Shoalhaven Education Needs Committee was under suspicion | and members were questioned hi J the police. y They denied any knowledge of demonstration. Local Comicillor! Mr. J. E. Hatton said later that'? he was suspected of being one of - the leaders, even though he wa-J in Sydney at the time. | It all-provided some laughs 2 "around Nowra, but behind the in- 1 cident lies the growing use bv '1 governments of police for purposes1' of restricting exercise of democra tic rights— a trend that should be l resisted by every means whenever ' it is uncovered. ;j High school 1 girls protest £VEN the very young are right on to the Askinjj regime! High school students! in Sydney last week dem-l onstrated against being de- ! prived of their sports after-! noon and rightly put the! blame on the State Govern-1 ment. J Refusing to go back to classes! for some time after lunch last! Tuesday, they paraded, with ban-- ners: "We want sport", and "What about Askin's election promises for free transport". Sports afternoons have been cancelled for 10,000 Sydney high school students, because the Gov ernment won't provide conductors to collect fares on school sports buses. Mr. S. Lewis, President of the N.S.W., Teachers' Federation, said that the Government, by failing to provide transport officers to do a transport department job or to provide free buses, were respon sible for depriving students of their sport, w:' It was' the action of the Govern ment that provoked the girls at purwood High School to demon strate, he said. First moon recital T one point during the 23rd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, the Inter nationale (stirring song of the international communist and wprking class movement) rang through the great relayed all the way from Luna 1 0 in its moon orbit. 