 A UTOMA TION: TEMPO QUICKENING AUSTRALIAN LEFT REVIEW No. 4, 1966 Dec. -J an) 30c. "-pODAY'S great speed of technological change is, in itself, a new factor of importance for the unionist, says one contributor to an im portant collection of statements on automation and the trade unions, featured in the Decem ber - January issue of - Australian Left Review. This well-produced issue, No. 4, of the relatively new marxist journal, gives sub stantial space to these state ments, which are in fact re prints of contributions to a recent seminar on automa tion held in Sydney by com munist trade union activists. The contributor quoted above (P.R., from a public service union) was stressing the urgency for union think ing to catch up with events in technological change. He says "As then we move into another phase of automation, it might be ar gued that those who failed to adjust their thinking and tactics to the immediate pro blems of automation from the middle 1950 's have now missed, in some respects, a full historical period of tech nological change and have not been conditioned by that ex perience for the more com- plex and wide-ranging pro blems of the next phase". ? Mr. Richard Dixon, presi dent of the Communist. Party, in ifin; introduction to the group of articles, criticises the Australian Council of Trade Unions seminar on automa tion held last October for what he describes as . "seek ing solutions within the pre sent structure of trade union thinking, methods and or ganisation." The contributions pub lished help to spell out the sort of policies required by the trade unions to meet the challenge of automation. The Comment sections in clude a concise summary of conclusions drawn from the Federal elections result. Discussing whether social ism means only one party, Eric Aarons answers "no" and explains why Australian com munists in the past held dog.- matic views about this ques tion. There had been a tendency, Mr. Aarons says, to take the Russian experience as iden tical with marxism as a uni versal truth applicable every where. A leading Australian psy chiatrist takes issue with an article on Freud contributed by H.eraclitus in No. 2 of the Left Review. A particularly interesting article is that by Roy Nelson, "Cities for the Future", in which he criticises existing attitudes to transport and town planning and suggests a new approach toward the solution of these pressing pro blems. Other articles providing variety and substance include: Art and the Battle of Ideas, by Ralph Gibson; Agriculture and Socialist Construction, by Jurgen Kuczynski; and a col orful profile of Ted Dickin son, an Australian leader of the Industrial Workers of the World who was killed in Spain, written by Jim Mc Neill, long-time communist and Spanish war veteran.— H.S. 