 SNIGGERS FOR SISTER GEORGE 1HE Melbourne Union Rep's production of "The Killing of Sister George", by English play- wright Frank Marcus, opened the Old Tote's Interstate Theatre Season . last week with some very mixed acting and some rather sick ideas. Marcus' play is a minor rarity of drama in that it has an all- female cast — admittedly only of four, but still ironically approp riate, since one of its major themes is lesbianism. True, it scores quite a few Satirical laughs off domestic jf)radio epics of the "Blue Hills" o ' variety that drag on and on for years, but even this angle, like the lesbianism, is so heavily laboured that by the third act it is hard to stifle a continual yawn. Sister George herself is a character in a BBC housewives' serial, whose creators suddenly decide to try to brighten up the . show., by writing her out of it. For actress June Buckbridge, who has played Sister George for six tortuous years, the character's demise means the loss of the major part of her own identity. To complicate matters further, the BBC production chief, Mrs. Mercy, who comes to warn June of the impending axing of Sister George, adds insult to injury by stealing June's living "companion" Alice — a feckless 34-year-old who acts like a naive teenager and whom she installs in her London flat as a "private secretary", leaving June with neither radio- role nor girl-friend. As sister George, Bunny Brooke extracts the maximum of sym pathy for the middle-aged female . trarisvestite in a closely observed performance, competently aided by Elspeth Ballantyne as her room-mate. But it is a false pathos which they and producer George Ogilvie often lend the play, which does not offer any searching analysis of the problem of lesbianism, but approaches it in rather a snigger ing and weak-wristed way itself. Jennifer Claire comes off worse in her battle with the artificially written part of the BBC executive and playwright Marcus must also share the blame for Margaret Miller's failure as the ludicrous fortune-teller from next door. The other two offerings in the Interstate Season hold out more promise. The Perth National Theatre will be presenting Altona', Jean-Paul Sartre's attack on resurgent West German militarism, on August 9, followed two weeks later by the South Australian Theatre Company's production of "The Night of the Ding Dong", by Adelaide play wright Ralph Peterson, which will be warmly remembered for its Sydney New Theatre production some six years ago. — R. M. 1 Patti Assange as Courage and Norm Slater as the Cook in a scene from Bertolt Brecht's "Mother Courage and Her Children", which concludes its season at Sydney's New Theatre, St. Peter's Lane, off William St., in two weeks' time. 