 The man from our Neutral North HARRY STEIN interviews His Excellency Tim Ngoun, Ambassador of the Royal Kingdom of Cambodia in Australia. | MET His Excellency Tim | Ngoun, Cambodia's new | Ambassador to Australia, the day General de Gaulle landed in his country. j It was- during his visit to Cambodia that General De | Gaulle made a strong plea for : the United States to withdraw its troops from Vietnam and to j end the war. i tim Ngoun, like most Cam- | bodians, is small and slight, and ! the Ambassador combines this i with charm and a rather gentle 1 manner. L As we talked in the guest room at the Cambodian Embassy in Canberra he explained that Aus tralia was his first diplomatic post. He was formerly the Governor of Battambang, anj important rice centre on the border of Thailand. Tim Ngoun firmly believes that his country's policy of neutrality has kept Cambodia out of the ma.in stream of war and wants to see much greater international recognition of their neutral pol icy. Of course Cambodia hasn't been left unscathed by war and as Prince Norodim Sihanouk, the head of state, recently wrote in the magazine Kambuja:— "The Cambodians would have been grateful to the Americans for the aid they used to fur-, nish, if the Americans had not seen fit to attach humiliating conditions to its provision, and C.I.A. had refrained from hatch ing plots against our national regime, and our eternal enemies in Bangkok and Saigon had not been provided with unwavering American support in their armed incursions into our national ter ritory against a people ill- equipped to resist them." Neutrality was not only the basis of Cambodia's foreign pol icy, said the Ambassador, but it was an actual law of the land passed by the people's congress. The law of neutrality, intro duced on November 4, 1957, states: The Kingdom of Cambodia is a neutral country. It abstains from any military or ideological alliance with foreign countries. It will not undertake ag gression against any foreign country. In case Cambodia suffers foreign aggression, it reserves the right to assume its own de fence by forms of arms, appeal to the United. Nations or appeal to a friendly power. "J"HE Ambassador is look ing forward to seeing the beginnings of trade ex changes between Australia aind Cambodia. Cambodia is gradually develop ing its economy, which is com prised of State-controlled, State and privately-owned enterprises. It is giving first priority to education, and in the last 10 years the number of primary schools has been doubled. Cambodia's ninth university will be opened next year in Bat tambang. Since 1957 Cambodia has doubled the production of medi cine and their hospital system is now being extended to the pro vinces. Tim Ngoun is hoping during his term of office here to see many more Australians visiting his country, for he believes that Cambodia and its policy are not very well understood by the Aus tralian people. For our part, we believe that the Federal Government could learn a great deal of the real situation in South East Asia if it was to invite Cambodia's col orful head of State, Prinee Noro dim Sihanouk, to visit Australia. H. E. Tim Ngoun \ w -rnmrn ... .&lt;«» Cambodian Head of State Prince Norodom Sihanouk swings a hammer on a rural self-help scheme. 