 US losing its grip in S. Viet. From RUPERT LOCKWOOD 1 jAOSCOW : The South Vietnam rebellion against American domination has forced more and more western commentators to use the same language as the Vietnam workers' party organ nnan isang — tnat cne uoerauon rront nas the support of the vast majority and the Americans 1 should open negotiations with it immediately. The South Vietnam Catholic minority and rightwing Buddhists have joined the more militant Buddhists in demanding freedom from American terror and for an elected civilian government. Slogans of the united Buddhists, Catholics and rightwing resistance forces in Saigon, Hue, Da Nang and elsewhere closely re semble those of the Liber ation Front, thus underlin ing that the Front's pro gram always reflected the national Vietnamese inter ests and is now the dec lared policy of. all but a handful of frightened and impotent American puppets. It is clearer than ever that there is no effective organisation in South Viet nam with which peace can I be negotiated except the Liberation Front. The Washington Post's diplomatic correspondent admits that the South Viet nam situation has got out of American control. The remarkable situation has arisen that today only American and other foreign invaders are fighting the Liberation Front, because the South Vietnamese forces have either deserted to the guerillas or are poised to fight each .other with vast American forces guarding their doomed puppets from the rebel maj ority. Additional American forces are to be landed but these cannot save puppet number nine, Ky, in the ninth year of Washington's Saigon pup pet parade. Even some right wingers who do not want an elected civilian government have passed to an anti-American position because they real- £ifj ise that until the invaders l| are forced out chaos will reign. Democratic and national ist forces say openly that without American with drawal there can be no democratic elections, no genuine civilian government, no constitution and no stable peace. M A further complication for p| Washington is the declar- l|| ation of the 23rd Congress of the Communist Party of . the Soviet Union that the 'V Americans would now en counter "continuously in creasing support to Viet- , nam by the Soviet Union and its other socialist friends and brothers". ! RUPERT LOCKWOOD 