 Letters to the Editor Lesson of 1916 fight against conscription | CAN only rely on my memory for the events of the 1916 anti-con scription struggle. I was of military age at the time and not very politically conscious. Like many others I was in fluenced by feelings of patriotism and the spirit of ad venture . to voluntarily enlist. But, as in the present situa-. tion in respect to the war in Vietnam, there was a lack of explanation as to what the war ' was about and gross exaggera tions and misrepresentations on conscription and likely duration of the war. These falsehoods were quickly exposed by the anti- conscriptionists. Like the present fight against conscription, various group ings in the labor and demo cratic movement — trade unions, Labor Party, Indus trial Workers of the World, socialist groups, intellectuals, and church leaders, took up a more or less independent anti- conscription attitude. Experience in struggle, how ever, soon caused a merging of forces into one movement, particularly when it became necessary to defend anti-con scription meetings against at tacks. Opinions differed on many issues, including the question of whether Australia should be in the war or not. These differences did not prevent unity in action against conscription and for the pre servation of democratic liber ties. If the lesson of the 1916 struggle against conscription can be repeated, I believe it will be in the form of all forces against conscription finding a common platform for united action; that the de fence of democratic rights will become a foremost issue in the struggle; that thousands of people (including the youth) will be drawn into political action that will result in re placement of the Holt Govern ment by one that will work for the settlement of the Viet nam war by a return to the 1954 Geneva Agreements. Under this Agreement all foreign forces will be with drawn and Australia will live with Asian countries in friendly and peaceful relations. M. P. Ryan, New Lambton (NSW). 