 I August 3. 1966. V VILE Ml. ISA MAIL pHIS article, f.; the author of "The Cm Crucible"— a novel about Isa— describes the demise,, the "Mt. Isa man", which;; IS ) finally been taken overnby new rival— the "North-West ' f r"' — allegedly financed By;; m sa Mines. The "Mail'lv air one of the huge Murdoch ,4wspaper chain, "ui was respet tb py tne miners because of th, nit treatment it had given tli i; during their struggles witt the Mines— par ticularly durin jist. year's bitter lock-out. The "Nortl tat Star" has certainly pro t,, much more favourably dis sd towards the Company. No is! it apparently short of funt >rlts publishers, Carpentaria : wspapers Pty. Ltd., have rep, eclly spent more than &lt; a: new building and $40,000, m a new Swiss Duplex Its tnaggpfrector is Mr. Asher JodcSSbr of the N.S.W. Legislativtsmdii and former advertising tolsuitant to Mt. Isa Mines. . Mr. Joel hu joiade no secret of his alfiWj p'the Company. He is reports o have told a dinner of '13 m the town's leading citiiti |to launch the "Star:" "Let |fe be no mis- iiMflAMolnHflniff lharn nm otn » #1 as publishers -'The Star' . . . As far as U J 'concerned we look to suppr iifrom Mt. Isa ; Mines." yHE "Mt. Isa Mail" is . dead. The offices where its reporters used to belt out the local news with bias towards the people, flavour democratic, have been left to the sifting dust. In its shore life as a daily I the Mail, which for most of its existence was bi-weekly, gave the people of the Isa for the first time a' paper they could trust to publish their views without censure, their trade union news on the front page, and which would find its news stories in the problems of this far north west, isolated, hot and dusty town. It was front page news when the Trades and Labor Council elected as its treasurer, for the first time, a woman — Colleen Bullen, president of the Women's Auxiliary of the T.L.C. and delegate of the Miscellaneous Workers' Union. It ran a cam paign for better roads, publishing photographs of horror stretches, rocky and unpaved, and blam- ||j ing them for the high accident H rate. It investigated housing, II called the situation 'The Shame ||j of Mt. Isa', publicised cases of HI extortionate rent, the plight of H r. family living in a tent. It printed photos of places where effluent seeped into streets and back yards, put the case for a filtration plant for the town's drinking water, fear lessly made a front page story out of a case of alleged police bashing witnessed by one of its reporters. I was in Mt. Isa in May the day the new newspaper, the North West Stai', was launched. It was delivered free to every home in Mt. Isa and though a morning paper, for the first few days hit town in the afternoon. On the first night, it was torn up, in the bar at the Top Pub, into appropriately-sized pieces and handed out to passers by. On the next night two hundred copies were ceremoniously burned in the street. The people of Mt. Isa didn't like the new paper, with its first issue devot ing its front page to Premier Niklin, the second issue featur ing Mr. Foote, General Manager of Mt. Isa Mines. They told me it was a Com pany paper, and it certainly looked like it— with its beauti ful glass and brick building, air- conditioning, shining new office furniture, the most modern and expensive printing machines and equipment. A large and improb able investment in a town boasting a daily circulation of about 6000 of which the "Mail", in a certified count of actual sales, claimed well over two- thirds, 'even when the other paper is given away free'. The people of Mt. Isa are used to struggle, and they never desert a friend. If there was going to be a newspaper war they woifflbe-in it, buying the 'Mail' andji'oring the 'Star'. DUT Mt.Jljis a company town. ! is a place where for m e; than twenty years anyB Vr» who has raised his-v ce against in justice and ! iheen elected to lead a'4&lt; pute between Mt. Isa M« i!and its em ployees has' ton victimised and run out1 K-town. It used to ! so iron-fisted a company n that when sacked or 'ref « reinstatement' by 8 ; "'could not get another j : 8 Place where food and hous f are almost un believably ! ® 'This meant, until 1965.'® the only thing B worker to ' ' Position could do was le8 he, town while he still had-'! ugh money for the fare out1' himself and his family- In l965i!f S! 0f the !ast dispute there ime a change. Because of t given from ' all over A® jj; because of the levies; Jettons, the donations n't h the wharves, in the niiuj Mhe jobs all over this £107,839/8/7 ( $214,678 86)-, «ent to the Queensland . and Labor Council, 1 3,tin to the money don8 n the town in most £eneJ uantities by those who s|ad Work. iiiii Betty Collins u ites an obituary for the loser imi newspaper war The Women's Auxiliary of the Mt. Isa T.L.C. had the respon sibility of handling the money, at trestle tables set up in the Workers' Club we helped to build. £27 a week was handed to the locked-out unionists and their families — and in many cases this was just enough for food, not for rent or home payments. And they were able to keep up this pay to the Forty Four who were refused reinstatement when the dispute ended. DECAUSE of their own staunchness and the generosity of the Australian working people, the long history of running its lead ers out of town has been halted. And the town had a daily paper that was progressive and fair, and one, incidentally, that : gave objective coverage to the world outside the Isa — the ; world of Vietnam and conscrip tion, of politics, of L.B.J, and j Wilson, of Holt and Dr. Cairns, j It wasn't parochial but threw | ,bright light on the world be- j .yond the spinifex. I It wasn't perfect — few news- I papers are. But I met the men I and women who worked on it, I they were enthusiastic ana tney n were trying. And the people of I Mi. Isa love a trier. I I hear that the reporters H didn't know the paper was to be B taken over. I am told that they I went on a five-day drunk. Now fl they are scattered to the four B winds, back on the big city fl dailies where you don't expose fl 'the other paper', where you fl don't report that the Colleen fl Bullens of this world have gone B to hospital with malaria (and B wish her well), where T.L.C. fl decisions go on the back page, fl where you don't antagonise the fl Establishment. fl They have had their brief fl flowering, and I hope they fl never forget it — or the people, fl warm and friendly, who took fl them too close to their hearts, fl For they may not pass this way fl again. fl In this country, insidiously, fl dangerously, the Almighty Dollar fl is increasingly taking over the H successful enterprise, not those H needing developing. The take- fl over, the cash offer beyond the fl dreams of avarice, is thrusting fl us back to colonialism. E American Smelting and Refin- fl ing Co. (A.S.A.R.C.O.) owns 54% fl of Mt. Isa Mines. It is not hard fl to guess that dollars have killed fl the 'Mt. Isa Mail.' With its closed fl in population, its inflexible fl company and its company news- fl paper, perhaps Mt. Isa is a fl symbol of what will be Australia fl in another twenty years if some- fl thing is not done to stop the fl colonising of American capital, fl In Mt. Isa the locals are saying fl "The price must have been right," fl — a sad. obituary indeed to a fl promising paper killed in its fl youth. fl fl| Asher Joel Rupert Murdoch 