 MHMSWI- DE GAULLE TRIP BRINGS BIG THAW RECOGNITION that De Gaulle's visit to Moscow this year has had a big impact oil Europe is beheved to have motivated President John son's speech inviting Soviet leaders to visit the USA. After the French president went to Moscow, foreign min ister Couve de Murville tour ed other eastern European republics to develop contacts and make important trade deals. In Paris this week Bul garian premier Zhivkov is an honored guest of the Govern ment. The West Germans are send ing a trade mission to Mos cow. In the new atmosphere thus created the US adminis tration found it expedient to join in with a gesture of east- west friendship. Vietnam The general secretary of the Communist Party of the So viet Union, Mr. Brezhnev, replied with a reminder that the US' Vietnam war was a ' bar to friendly relations. In a speech in the Krem lin welcoming visiting Polish Government leaders, Mr. Brezhnev said that the War saw powers' consistent peace line was undermining the foundations of the aggressive Nato bloc, which was totter ing and had developed "deep cracks". In western Europe the opin ion was growing that the NATO system was a danger ous anachronism aimed to keep the cold war going. But, despite the US presi dent's speech, there was no evidence that Washington had drawn logical conclusions from recent world changes. The US leaders seemed to have "a strange and persist ent delusion" that they could have friendly relations with European socialist countries and still carry on aggression against Vietnam, said Brezh nev. Obstacle The USSR had already said that if the USA wanted mutu ally profitable relations with the USSR ("and we would like this in principle") it must remove the main obstacle— the Vietnam war. Soviet Premier Gomulka also denounced the Vietnam war at the meeting. Brezhnev said that the USSR had always devoted great attention to the non- proliferation of nuclear weap ons. "We welcome the certain amount of progress that has been lately made on this question and we shall try to conclude a treaty which will meet the interests of all peo ple and states, both nuclear and non-nuclear, - a treaty which would definitely im pede the further growth of the nucelar war danger," he added. 