 W age rulings have robbed workers of $ millions Call for "mightiest ever" campaign By the Industrial Roundsman J YDNEY : Abolition of the system of quarterly adjustments of the basic wage has robbed workers millions of dollars in wages. Each adult male worker in Sydney covered by the Federal basic wage has lost about $574 since 1953! ifk"' when the basic wage was frozen. h v In Adelaide both Federal . and State Award workers lost $654. vv Melbourne workers covered f by the Melbourne Basic Wage \. and Federal Awards lost $1276. V; In Hobart the loss for Federal - Award workers is $1304, in Peerth $1360 and m Brisbane $762. Female workers, juniors and apprentices also suffered a percentage of these losses. Pamphlet These facts are included in a pamphlet published by the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths' Society of Australia. This pamphlet, the "1966 Wages Fight," has been issued - to arm trade . unionists in their campaign in support of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' basic wage and margins claims. The unions are seeking a $4.30 increase in the capital cities' average basic wage and a $5.90 increase in a tradesman's margin. These claims will be argued before the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission com mencing on March 1. The pamphlet points out that if the full claim is granted it would still only give a basic wage of $35.10. This is well below $44, which the union considers as the minimum wage needed to sup port a family. Food costs A low-cost food budget for a man, wife and two children prepared by the NSW Depart ment of Health in 1960 would cost $16.29 at today's prices in Sydney. For a family of five, the size required to increase the popu lation, this -budget would cost ,$19.42. The Commonwealth Statisti cian fixes food as 32.18 per cent, of the family expenditure in his Consumer Price Index, which is approximately one- third. On the above food costs for a family of five, the total family income would need to be $58.60 to accord with the Statistictian's own percen tages. "In these circumstances our $44 proposal was by no means exaggerated," the union said. The union further points out that the Statistician fixes food plus housing at 42.07 per cent, in .his Consumer Price Index. "If we assume that the average of rent and repayments on housing is no more than $10 per week and add this to the $19.42 food costs, then the total of $39.42 equals 42.07 per cept. of the total weekly cost. "The full weekly cost would in these circumstances be $70." The union said it supports the method of fixing the basic wage in accordance with family needs. "We do not deny that the court has constantly rejected 'needs' as a basis for wage assessment. "But despite this constant rejection by the court, ACTU Congresses, including 1965, have constantly reaffirmed 'needs' as the main factor in asessing the basic wage." The trade union movement has never determined its ap proach to assessment of either basic wage, margins or its policy on equal pay on the basis of what is acceptable to the judlges, the pamphlet said. "Score off" Opponents of union claims for wage rises seek to "scare off" workers by shouting about wage rises "causing price in creases and inflation." "Quarterly adjustments were abolished at the end of 1953. But prices continued to rise without interruption in all cities," the pamphlet points out. Using General Motors-Holden and Broken Hill Pty. Ltd. as examples, it is shown that labor costs of producing a car and a ton of steel have progres sively declined, while the prices of cars and steel have progres sively risen. "The money to meet the unions' claim can and must come out of profits. ACTU campaign "Neither the unions' claims nor effective price control will be conceded by the employers or governments. "The campaign called for by the ACTU Congress is impera tive and must be the mightiest ever." 