 The Irish Rising and some lessons for Australians By -- E. A. Bacon APRlL 24 is the 50th an- r\ r , niversary ot the pro clamation of a sovereign, independent Irish Republic, followed a few hours later by the Easter Rising. By the afternoon of April 29 the Rising had ended in uncon ditional surrender to the British forces. By the end of May, when 15 main leaders had been shot after British courts-martial, over 70 sentenced to life imprisonment and thousands deported without trial, the Rising might well have seemed a futile failure to a super ficial observer. Yet, even before their execution, the leaders were national heroes, and by December, 1918, in . a British general election, marked by constant intimidation, censor ship, raids and arrests, conducted under the eyes of British soldiers and police, the people had voted for a Republic. Sinn Fein, the nationalist move ment which had been reorganised in 1917 with working-class support and with "the international recog nition of Ireland as an independent Irish Republic" as its aim, won 73 of the 105 seats contested, gaining over two-thixds of the total vote. Forty-seven of its successful candidates were in British jails. In January, 1919, the elected Republican Deputies met, formed an Irish Parliament (Dail Eireann) and issued a Declaration of Inde pendence. ? |T is not the purpose of this article to deal with the subsequent history of Ireland, through the British invasion and reign of terror to the truce, through the tragic Civil War to the partitioning into North and South and the con tinuing struggle for complete independence and reunifica tion. The questions here are: Was the rising of Easter, 1916, ah isolated event, a desperate attempt by a few idealists to stage a coup d'etat? Or was it a genuine expression of the desires of the Irish people? In Switzerland Lenin, destined the following year to lead the successful Russian Revolution, sharply criticised those who dis- missed the Rising at "a putsch" and "without much social backing." The Irish rebellion, said Lenin, must be "the touchstone of theoretical views on the, national question." The centuries-old Irish national movement had manifested itself, he said, in the Rebellion . . . "in street fighting, conducted by a section of the urban petty-bour geoisie and a section of the workers, after a, long period of mass agitation, demonstrations, suppression of newspapers, etc. "Whoever calls such a rebellion a 'putsch'," said Lenin, "is either a hardened reactionary or a doc trinaire hopelessly incapable of > envisaging a social revolution as a living phenomenon." He then went on to describe brilliantly the nature of modern social revolution, with all its many and diverse elements of discontent, merging in a single stream against oppression, which the working class must learn to lead. ? pTOK all who want seriously to understand the sources and direction of the world wide struggles for national liberation which have charac terized so much of recent history and are still going on or developing, the centuries- old Irish struggle has many lessons. When today, US "hawks" or Australian "Liberal" leaders pre tend that the movements of oppressed peoples for liberation are simply "Communist plots" and that their leaderships, such as the National Front for Libera tion in Vietnam (the so-called "Vietcong"), do not represent the people; or when they complain about the "savage" methods of war used by a poverty-stricken people against a powerfully-armed, wealthy invader, it is useful to look at what happened in Ireland long before a world Communist move ment came into being. Nationalism, the determination to be a free, self-governing people on its own soil, despite all odds, was the driving force in Irish history from the earlier English invasions, through the many risings which preceded Easter, 1916, to the Easter Rising itself , and since. But nationalism alone, in the modern world, can lead to many blind alleys. It can be used by demagogic scoundrels to further their own ends or even .to betray the legitimate national aspirations of a people. So it was in Ireland. It was the Irish Marxist, James Connolly, born of a Catholic North Ireland family, who, on being recognised as a leader of the Irish workers, showed them and many other Irishmen the deep connection be tween tbe aims of the modern working class movement and the national rights of a people. "The Labor Movement in Ire land," he wrote in "The Irish Worker" on October 31, 1914, "stands for the ownership of all things Irish by the Irish; it there fore fights against all things cal culated to weaken the hold of the Irish upon Ireland as it fights for all things calculated to strengthen the grasp of the Irish people upon Ireland and all things Irish. . . . "The Irish working class as a class can only hope to rise with Ireland. "Equally true is i,t that Ireland cannot- rise to Freedom except upon the shoulders of a working class knowing its rights and daring to take "them." There is a lesson for Austra lians in this. Connolly, as- a Marxist, was an internationalist. He taught again and again that the Irish workers had no quarrel with the British or other workers, only with their oppressors. He was also a nationalist, but he did not include all Irishmen .in his friendship. "We are out for Ireland for the Irish", -he wrote in the "Worker's Republic" on April 8, 1916, "But who are the Irish? Not the rack-renting, slum own ing landlord; not the sweating, profit-grinding capitalist; not the sleek and oily lawyer; not the ' prostitute pressmen — the hired liars of the enemy. Not these are the Irish upon whom the future depends . . ." But he welcomed into the com pany of fighters for Irish freedom all sincere patriots, irrespective of their class positions. He told his daughter Nora; "It is a mistake, when trying to con- ' vert people, to look for something . to differ upon to show how smart you are. You should always seek for some point on which you can agree; then when the point is established and agreed upon by both, the path to agreement on vital points will become smooth and easy." In this spirit he carried out a brilliant dialogue with the Irish . Nationalists, was welcomed into their circles and together with them, led the best sons and daughters of Ireland in a Rising which, failinig in its immediate aims, yet kindled a torch for Irelairid, and for all oppressed peoples, which is still burning. 