 Big campaign foreshadowed Low wage decision will spark action SYDNEY: Strong and wide-spread condemnation by the labor movement of the recent basic wage decision ($2 of the $10.20 claimed) foreshadows an intensified campaign around the Australian Council of Trade Unions wage demands. Already the NSW Labor Council and several trade unions have asked the ACTU to call a Federal Unions' Conference to plan action against the wage decision. The $2 is less than the price rises since 1964 and the Leader of the Opposi tion (Mr. Arthur Calwell) said when it was announced that "the workers were worse off. The decision of the Commission was unanim ous and Mr. Justice Gallagher opposed the unions' views and support ed the "capacity to pay" formula and in the judge ment said that "real Economic capacity to pay must always remain the dominant consideration. The $2 dollars awarded barely restores the level of award wages to the pur- chasing power of 1 964 when the basic wage was increased by $2. Productivity up but workers get nothing Since then there has been a decline in the real value of the basic wage of 7i per cent. This was accepted by the Commis sion. To restore the basic wage to its 1964 value £2.30 was needed. Then why only $2? Productivity increased be tween 1962-3 and 1964-5 by 5.7 per cent. The workers share of this was nothing. Yet the majority of judges accepted the unions' "prices plus production" approach. They "accepted" it, and gave nothing for productivity. In fact the principles are so flex ible and hedged in with qual ifications that they can be applied in a great variety of ways. Mr, Justice Wright for instance, while accepting the principle, stated: "I believe that the commission, as an in strument of pubilc adminis tration must have due regard for the consequences of its transcending function of pres cribing just terms for , settle ment of industrial disputes. To do otherwise would, in my view be reckless and irresponsible. Such consequences are, to my mind, one of the multitude of considerations which we must bear in mind, and I have had regard to all those prognost icated on behalf of parties and intervenors." A gesture — - not worth a cent These sorts of qualifications make the unions' victory on tho principle a bit hollow, as this judgement demonstrated. The workers not only got nothing for increased produc tivity, they got no compensation for past injustices. Mr. Jus tice Wright, the Presiding Judge acknowledged this: "I have a firm belief that the general level of salaries and wages prescribed by the com mission over the past 10 years could justifiably have been fix ed at higher levels." Another good principle, a fine gesture — but not a cent for it! Yet this means mil lions for the wealthy, who retain it. In accepting the employ ers' total wage concept and by introducing a general investi gation of margins on a work value basis the commission has opened the way to the long- term objective of the employ ers. Their intentions are to so alter the wage structure of the country that it will give the majority of workers lower real wages. One of their main aims is to eliminate over-award nav- ments. In their strategy the work value investigations are to be used to create divisions among I the Australian workers. The : unions will need to meet these well thought-out plans of the employers with positive plans of their own. Already this has commen ced by open statements that "both the basic wage and the marginal grants should be ab sorbed by current over-award payments" (Financial Review, July 11, 1966). The decision is accom panied by a powerful campaign by our "free press" to justify a whole spate of price increases and to set out to convince the workers, and particularly theii wives, that there is no point in struggling for higher wages as it will only lead to higher prices. Yet the people who write this sort of thing know better. The whole experience of the last 15 years has proved that prices go up anyway and that the workers must keep up with price increases by increasing their wages. When wages don't go up, prices rise just the same, as they did during the last two years when the basic wage was frozen. In fact they went up more rapidly during these two years than at other times. 