 Dialogue between Catholics, Communists An experiment in dialogue between Catholics and Communists was carried out in Melbourne recently. The gathering of about 40 people, comprising Catholics, members of the Communist Party, and a number of people of other beliefs, . was held at a private home in Kew. Main speaker was Father R. J. Kearney, a diocesan priest and a tutor in philo sophy at Melbourne University. His subject was Catholic Philo sophy and Social Action. Fr. Kearney said that the idea that Catholics should passively accept the existence of poverty and war in the world was a misconstruction of Catholic doctrine. Speaking of the "sin of pre sumption"., he said this con sisted in "praying for some thing and then sitting back and expecting God to do it all." The measure of the value of a Christian's life, said Fr. Kearney, was how much effort he put into helping his fellow man. An often spirited but gener ally friendly discussion follow ed which,, while it did not change any of the basic as sumptions of either side, ended in general agreement that com mon action on particular issues between Catholics, Communists and people of all beliefs was something to be desired. In connection with the Viet nam war, Fr. Kearney said he supported Australia's commit ment to the war, but opposed the Government's policy of conscripting youth to fight in it. Mr. John Sendy, Victorian President of the Communist Party, explained in answer to a question the Communist- Party's attitude to the use of violence. He said that Communists were obliged to adopt one or another attitude to violence, de pending ,. on precise political and social conditions. It was a distortion of Marxism to suggest that Com munists in contemporary Aus tralia hold an identical attitude on this question to that held by say, the Russian or Chinese communists at the time of their revolutions, carried out in con ditions where no machinery whatsoever existed for the expression of the democratic will. The gathering arose from dis cussions between Catholic and communist workers at Preston Tramway Workshops. Active in making arrange ments for it were a Catholic worker, Mr. Dick Barclay, and a Communist, Mr. John Arrow- smith. Mr. Arrowsmith acted as chairman. 