 "They burn, crush and dust you, and don't care!" WOLLONGONG: About 800 striking miners, together with many wives, widows and mothers, marched through the main street of Wollongong last Wednesday, demonstrating against the dangerous mining practices of Australian Iron and Steel. The demonstration was held during last week's 24-hour strike by thousands of mineworkers from all mines cn the NSW South Coast to press the demand that this company be prosecuted over the Bum mine tragedy. The AI and S company is a major subsidiary of the Broken Hill Pty. steel and coal monopoly, the richest company in Austra lia, which last July announc ed - an Australian record profit of over $39 million. . The Southern Board of Management of the Miners' Federation called the stop page and led protest demon strations to the company's offices, the Department of Mines and the local Coal Authority. Already the miners' action has had some effect, on the N.S.W. Minister for Mines (Mr. Lewis), who had earlier refused to prosecute the Al and S after the findings of Justice Goran into the Bulli Mine disaster. Now the Minister said legal advice might be sought about the possibili- / ties of prosecutions and he has agreed to meet the ex ecutive of the miners' southern board of manage ment to discuss Judge Goran's report. The Judge made trenchant indictments of the company for disregard of essential safety measures at the Old Bulli mine, where four men lost, their lives in a gas ex plosion and fire last Novem ber. The AI and S company also owns the Corrimal colliery, where two men were buried alive on April 12. Experienced miners said these men should not have been working in the unsafe conditions where they were killed. On this occasion, while most mineworkers were on holidays, inexperienced men were put to work on a job requiring the knowledge of skilled miners. A recent meeting of the Miners' Central Council, when discussing these trage dies, called for nationalisa tion of the industry. Central Council said this would ensure that the wel fare of miners was put be- . fore profits. Judge Goran, when announc ing his findings at the Old Bulli Court on April 27 after an inquiry into the disaster, said that the management has adopted a "cavalier at titude" to the problem of gas. Judge Goran said that the management had "ignored the fundamental principles of ventilation" and "tolerated nMMaHnHHBHnMBBBMI concentrations of noxious gas which drew complaints from the workmen." The company's method of dealing with this gas was a "mere improvisation for which no justification coulcl be found in mining practice and which was dangerous in the extreme," he said. "I must issue a warning that the tragedy which oc curred on the morning of November 9, 1965, at Bulli colliery can be repeated and at this and other collieries- with possibily far more dis astrous results unless the. lessons learned at this In quiry become rooted in the minds of all men who work in mines, both management and employees," he added. To add insult to injury and flying in the face of the Judge's findings, this com pany is now arrogantly de manding that miners work in concentrations of stone and coal dust at its Kemira Mine. The miners here have been on strike since last Friday week in protest against the company's attitude. These are the reasons why almost a thousand men at (heir mass strike meeting last week at Rest Park, Wollongong, demanded disci plinary action against the A.I. and S. management at Bulli and a satisfactory solution to the Kemira and Corrimal disputes. The men declared that failing satisfaction within five working days the miners' board will meet to consider extending its industrial ac tion and that all mining union members be asked to join with the federation. As one miner told the meet ing: "This company doesn't care whether they burn, crush or dust you. "I, like most here, am frightened; it's our lives that are at stake!" And this warning was made by a young miner while standing beside a memorial for the 96 miners killed in the 1902 Mount Kembla disaster. Others tell how militants were sent to work in remote sections of this company's mines to get them away from the work face so they cannot keep an eye on the methods being used. No other industry has seen so much death and suf-' fering caused mainly by greed for profits. Old timers tell of how they had to identify the crushed bodies of brothers and fathers. In these modern times it's not too much to expect that a worker's safety should not be a matter to be forced by strike action. But even as late as last week end A.I. and S. refused to meet a deputation from the men. This attitude rightly deserv ed the loud boos from 800 angry miners who marched to the company's offices. An inspector from the local Mines Department told a deputation that he would see that the matters were raised with the Minister. The same deputation . later saw Mr. J. Dobb of the local Coal Authority. He was reminded that it was his report to Justice Gallagher on which penal powers were imposed against miners at ttoalcliff. He was asked if he was now prepared to take the same action against the A.I. and S. The miners are demand ing replies to all these mat ters and won't let up until justice is done! FOOTNOTE: The member for Cunningham, Mr. R. F. Connors last week in parlia ment called on the Federal I Minister for National develop- 1 ment to intervene over the | safety issue in the N.S.W. I coal mines. 1 He pointed out that legisla tion gives the minister through the Joint Coal Board certain powers to control safe working. Part of the crowd of 800 miners who marched to and demonstrated outside the AI & S offices in Wollongong. 