 1 im ' . .. m j- r E- n in „ vi JELLO Tribune Juniors, I In the mail this week came a letter from a boy to tell us what he is going to do in his holidays. Nothing strange about this? Well, yes there is, the boy is Ivo Fusek from Prague, Czechoslovakia!! Here is a picture of Ivo (with goggles) and his brother Martin. This is what Ivo has written: "Every year I spend three weeks of any summer holidays in a pioneer camp which be longs to the hospital where my father works. The camp is in the Bohemian- Moravian Highlands, the mountains dividing Bohemia from Moravia. We go there by bus. The camp stands on a hill and is enclosed by a forest and meadows. It con sists of a building normally - serving as a recreation cot tage, three Swedish log-cabins and about 30 tents. The cottage has rooms for the girLs, a dining-room, bathrooms, a film-projection room, etc. The first log-cabin is a sur gery and there is a room for patients there, the second cab-, in contains offices and in the third cabin live the youngest children up to 8 years of age. Boys live in tents. We have six groups, each having 20 to 25 boys and a leader. In addition to that we have a camp leader, a first leader and an administrator. We go for trips, into the forest, to the river to swim, or to a swimming-pool, we play games and go in for sports. When the weather is bad, we play round games and some times go to see a film in the evening. Each group has to do some dtuies on a certain day of the week. Some children help in the kitchen, others keep guard. I like to stay in the camp very much. This year it will be my third stay there. I have already made many friends among the boys who go there. How many of the Junior Tribune readers spent their May holidays camping? How many intend to spend some of their Xmas holidays camping? Follow Ivo's example and tell Us about your plans. This young man is David Bowen of Fairy Meadow on the NSW South Coast. He is nine years old and plays soc cer fox the Fern Hill Junior Soccer Club. Besides going to school, playing soccer and a whole lot of other things, David de livers Tribunes to neighbours for his. father. 