 Four men die I Seven months pass ... I By Tribune's Industrial Roundsman Seven months after four miners were killed in Bulli colliery, on the New South Wales Coast, there has still been no move to prosecute the colliery owners, the wealthy Australian Iron and Steel company. The miners died on Nov ember 9 last year. Their four widows and six chil- I dren are being told that I their husbands and fathers I were "victims of a fire" I and died "accidentally." I Few workers have any 1 illusions that when a huge 8 steel monopoly is involved, I laws made for mere mor- 1 tals usually don't apply. I But the Bulli story is a I bit red hot! I Isn't there anyone in the I NSW Mines Department or added that to have adopt ed the correct method of ventilation would have on occasions meant that pro duction would have to cease and the men be with drawn. In plain Australian this meant that safety prin ciples were ignored in the interests of coal produc tion. This fact alone is suffi cient to condemn private ownership in the industry and to justify the demand for nationalisation, making a management responsible to Parliament and the pub lic: Following that inquiry the NSW Minister for And well he might add: fl "It's our lives that are at B stake!" fl Evidently this company fl is so sure of its favoured B position that it did not B even wait for a "respect- fl able-' time lapse after the fl Bulli tragedy before it car- 8 ried on as usual. fl . Only the other week; a fl stoppage occurred at Cor- fl rimal over the suspension B of men for insisting on ad- B ditional roof support .in the B dangerous section where B two men were earlier fl crushed to death. fl During that dispute the fl Mines Department Chief B Inspector (Mr. Anderson) fl made press statements in B support of the manage- fl xiieui. n The Corrimal miners said fl "The attitude they adopt- fl ed bears out our conten- 8 tion that the Mines Depart- fl ment are not big enough B to buck the big mono- fl polies." Again a fortnight ago the District Inspector of Col lieries, Mr. Longworth, defended the management of the Bulli mine. At the earlier inquiry held by Judge Goran, Mr. Longworth stated that prior to becoming District Inspector, he had held ' managerial positions in cluding that of colliery manager at Nebo and as sistant under-manager at Bulli, both AI and S mines. Miners' Federation gen eral president Mr. W. Par kinson, said this week that the union is determined to force the issue over the Bulli tragedy to ensure that employers are com pelled to provide proper safety equipment and ob serve safe working prac tices. We might add that the Minister, who has complete jurisdiction following Judge Goran's findings is now trying to pass the buck back to the Judge. If the Minister (a nephew of BHP's late Chief, Es- sington Lewis) and the Mines Department Officials are not prepared to face up to their responsibilities they should be replaced. 