 I Wiwhymdt m:-P: White Xmas ? IHV cannot fc&e a»d Mew Year gj pauses in military operations in Vietnam be extended to young Bill White, Australian con scientious objector to conscription for Vietnam? Ij 1 His fiancee,. Miss Clare i A Seale, made this sugges- tion in a Tribune inter view last week. | "In fact," said Miss P Seale, "why couldn't the \ Christmas spirit prevail I on the Federal Govern- f ment to take action to give j| Bill full exemption as a | conscientious objector?" jj Bil1 White, a 21-year-old ;j school teacher, has been nil' confined at Holsworthy- is L military corrective estab- j lishment following his re- | fusal to obey a Federal | |; 8 court direction to report to the Army for his con- III script service. i 1 Sn courf EvW On Monday of this week I I (a new application by Bill I | White for exemption came | IB before the Special Federal II Court before Mr. Rogers, i | Mr. J. Smale (for the | Commonwealth Govern- y| ment) told the Court he I I saw no reason why the new application could not I j be heard that day. I He wanted to make it clear that the Government had confidence in Mr. Rogers to hear the appli cation and did not want legal points arising from recent High Court judg- n ments to prevent the j | hearing. j When Mr. Rogers said \\ he had already heard an !) appeal by Mr. White and | it might be better if this j? application was heard by E sa P another magistrate, Mr. J. P. Hamilton (for White) asked for a short adjourn ment. When the court resumed Mr. Hamilton said he was now instructed to ask for an adjournment to an early date. Mr. Rogers said the case could be heard on Friday, December 23, at 10 am at Central Court and that in the interests I of the application and justice it should be heard by another magistrate. Legal observers believe that the statements on be half of the Commonwealth Government opens the way for new applications to be made by others whose pleas as conscien tious objectors have been heard by Mr. Rogers. Bill White appeared , in sports shirt and slacks. After the short hearing he was taken back to Hols worthy where, in line with his personal convictions, he has refused to drill, salute or clean weapons. A statement by the Bill White Defence Committee says that by December 7 he already had 22 charges | against him and had lost library privileges and his mattress. Bill was using four of his blankets as a mat tress. It is understood that he is wearing working uni form after being told he could choose to put it on or be forced to put it on. || | Bill White and fiancee Chare SearJe outsit." c noun in Syci- l i nay his week. | 