 As A1P conferences gather ... New attempts to disunite Labor By a Political Correspondent Recently consolidated unity in the Australian Labor Party, on foreign policy and leadership issues, became the target of a new hostile attack last week, timed to influence the party's important State conferences next week end in Now South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. Major, organs of the daily press, breaking the silence that had followed their earlier fail ure to upset the Calwell parlia mentary leadership, swung into action in a new attempt to fan disunity. The issue, once again, was "state aid" to private schools and once again Mr. E. G. Whit- lam, Deputy Federal leader, was involved in what amounted to a widely publicised attack on the ALP Federal leadership. "The Australian", which con sistently backed Whitlam against the Federal leaders, said blunt ly on its front page on June 2: "The ALP is again threatened with an interstate split over party policy on state aid for churfch schools:" The Sydney Morning Herald also featured the issue, each of these papers giving about a full page to it. The excuse for all this was the result of the deliberations of the 12-man ALP national ad visory committee on education. This committee took a decision on proposals for a national education policy which were endorsed on Tuesday of last week by the ALP Federal Ex ecutive,' to be the basis of dis cussion at the party's special Federal conference on educa tion scheduled for Brisbane on July 28. "The Australian" even went so far as to give instructions: "Advocates of the minority re port will have to lobby each state's delegates (to the special conference) for their support." (2/6/66). A very serious aspect of the matter in the view of Labor men is that this naked press attempt to stir up new discord in the pre-federal-election per iod appears to have been activ ely organised by Mr. Whitlam. Acting swiftly after the Fed eral Executive decision on the Tuesday, he had duplicated and circulated the lengthy document of the "minority" during the day on Wednesday not only to all Federal MPs but, more im portantly, to the main daily newspapers. It is understood that the Fed eral Executive never even re ceived the "minority report" and, in any case, only the Fed eral Secretary (Mr. Wyndham) is empowered to issue state ments on its meetings. But last week Mr. Whitlam (who had attended the execu tive without participating) once again acted so as to place him self above the party's constitu tional leadership, despite his earlier guarantees (when threat ened with disciplinary action) to respect the leading bodies' decisions fully. The main feature of the min ority report (given much more space than the official report itself) was that, once again, the issue of "state aid" is thrust into the .foreground as a poli tical football. Indeed, this is to some extent a weakness of the committee's report itself. The real issue of universal concern in Australia — the over- all crisis in public education with its urgent requirements of massive finance to meet the teacher, building and other problems — is NOT the central feature of either report. As the press presented things, the most important facts were subordinated— namely, that the advisory , committee had unan imously agreed on Labor Gov ernment measures to: ensure adequate teacher training; assist and share, in production of school equipment and mater ial; review scholarships with the aim of free higher educa tion; and conduct TV education services. The minority report sharply attacks the recommendations on the ground that, after a proposed. Commonwealth in quiry into education has pro duced a result, the Federal ALP would have to examine the find ings before a Labor Govern ment would act on them — i.e. the minority takes up once again the banner of "parliamen tarians' independence". Secondly it attacks the en dorsement of "existing benefits" for private schools as meaning different policies for the ALP in different states. These are, of course, policy matters to be thrashed out in the ALP; most Australians would be pardoned for think ing that was the reason a spe cial conference was called for July. Why air them publicly now? The only conclusion that can be drawn is . that last week's "crisis" publicly was deliberate ly staged to sharpen conflicts in the three state conferences this weekend and to divert attention away from the biggest 'issue for the labor movement and the nation— extending the opposition to the Vietnam war. The clearcut Federal policy recently enunciated on Viet- nam-ropposition to Australian troop' involvement, especially of conscripts, and the pledge to bring all troops out as quickly as possible— is the subject of such wide , united labor move ment support that extreme right- wing efforts to change it are unlikely to get far. What is much more to the point, however, is what ' the conferences are going to-:' DO about , the policy. ' On this point, the . following report' from a Hobart corres pondent on the recent Tasman- ian state conference of the ALP is a valuable pointer. W.IM.I.II II — — — MR. WHITLAM. 