 t | A First-hand report on Rhodesia: i "Those 'munis' — I ; 1 I hate the swine' 1 j From ROGER MILLISS f | -|-HEY'RE got all j they're gonna get," | the wizened little old | man said. "From now j on there s gonna be 1 two Africas — white j and black." / We were standing on the I verandah of a rambling hotel | on the Tanzanian-Zambian | border. Below us on the | Great North Road 400 yards 1 away a fleet of Tanzanian | Government trucks — on one I of which we'd hitched a lift ! from Mbeya, 80 miles back j — were waiting to go through !the border check-point with their load of oil-lift fuel for j Zambia. , ; | The old man had knocked | around Africa for 50 years, | he told us. He'd done a bit j of everything— seaman, pros- i pector, railman, farmer and S now hotelkeeper in the back- I blocks of Tanzania. He'd i j seen a lot of changes in his j time— and none of them he liked. Smith and Verwoerd iwere his heroes, Kaunda, Nyerere and Nkrumah his villains— while poor old Har- I old Wilson was "nothing but ,f f a Communist". V c . "You go to Rhodesia, son," j. J he said in parting. "It's a a 2 great place." 5-1 ' n- "pHE Bulawayo train &lt; I pulled in at Living- ;; ' stone, on the Zambian I side of the mighty , I Zambesi River just be- I fore Victoria Falls. A t I group of Zambian s I Customs officers, their j dark skins off-set by I their immaculate white j uniforms, go through j the train completing I formalities before the 1 train crosses into 1 Rhodesia. | "You'll like Rhodesia," the I white conductor said. "It's I a fine country— best in the world. Plenty of sun, mon ey's good, none of these blacks running things like here," nodding towards the Zambian official who's dust, passed. He comes from Rhodesia, been there 15 years, came out from England but ''would never go back. What does he think of UDI? "Great thing, and they'll never take it off us." Are the Europeans behind Smith? "One. hundred per cent. It's a great place." ? S this is the great country itself. The' white man's dream — where salaries are fifty per cent higher than the ruling rate in Eng land, where taxation is almost invisible, and where the number of swimming pools per head of (white) popu lation is the biggest in the world. This is the country where 200,000 Europeans, i,n their . determination to preserve civilised standards : at all costs, elect 50 members of Parliament, graciously per- ;r!rpitting a few thousand privi leged Africans to vote for 15 other seats. . Where the whites have carved out for themselves the .best 42 per cent of the land, while in a crazy sort of equality another 42 per cent —the worst— has been set aside for the four million "natives". On the way to Bulawayo, ragged kiddies run frantic ally from carriage to car riage beside the train, crying: "Gimme, baas, gimme." ? QF the many pro ducts of Rhodesia's rich soil, the most plentiful by far is un doubtedly "rhubarb". IT gushes forth in bushels galore from the press, over radio and TV, and out of the ever open mouths of its European citizens. Loyalty to the Queen, the ignorance of the African, the nobility of the white man, the heroism of Smith,, the treachery of Wilson, the chaos reigning in the black states, the glory and stabil ity of Rhodesia and above all "We Shall Win" are the most common themes being plug ged. A screaming pro-Smith rag called "The Citizen" ("We Fight for Rhodesia")' pours out an incredible stream of jingoism and racialism. It prints a page of chauv inistic doggerel of about the same standard as the pat riotic jingles written by Red Cross ladies during the First World War. One of them ends magnificently: "Our forefathers came right from 1066 And we're all nauseated with political tricks We pray that 'God Save the Queen" is no myth In any case, we can say God Save Ian Smith." We are solemnly informed by the Bulawayo Chronicle that the population of the city stands at 38,000. It then adds that there are also ap proximately 180,000 "Africans and Coloureds", who appar ently fall within the cate gory of un-people. The Chronicle is full of reports from the law courts involving Africans. Mostly they are referred to only by their Christian names — usu ally derived from obscure characters of the Old Testa ment or deliberately insulting nick-names — their tribal names evidently being con sidered too uncivilised for mention. Jester is fined £15, or three months, for cultivat- ing land within 100ft of a public stream. Ezekia is jailed for six months for stealing . bedclothes worth £26, because, as he says, he was "hungry and had no money". Mitsho Sibanda is given three months hard labor for having on his per son three stones — not even using them! Then there's the case of the European charged with raping a pregnant African woman. The magistrate dis charges him: the prosecution has failed to prove its case, he says. Then he fines the man £5 for being in pos session of indecent litera ture. ? RHODESIA'S Europ eans aggressively try to justify them selves. Charlie is the station master ' at a rail town where we're held up for five days trying to get into Mozambique. An otherwise kindly and gener ous family man, Charlie is four-square behind "Smithy" and honestly believes that the vast majority of the Africans love him just as much. "You take it from me," he says, "these nationalists a1"© just a handful of agitat ors. No support at all. The natives are behind their chiefs — they're the ones Wil son should've seen, and they're right behind Smith. "This bloke Nkomo," he goes on, "he's only got Standard One education (i.e. first year of Primary School). Everybody knows it. "You take it from me. He hasn't got — pardon the ex pression — the brain . of a louse." We don't bother to tell him that in actual fact Mr. Nkomo, leader of ZAPU, has won a B.A. de gree from Fort Hare Uni versity in South Africa. "We want to help the nat ive," Charlie tells us. "We want to bring him. up to our level. But he's . . . well, he's still premature. We want to educate him up to our standards." But his friend Joe, a fore man in charge of repairs who drives a Mercedes and has put his three children through University, doesn't quite agree. "It's education and the missions that've spoilt the munts," he grumbles. (A term equivalent to "Kaffir" or "nigger".) ? THEN there's Bert and Dave. , Bert's a Belfast, man who came out to Rhodesia after the war and would never go back. Rhodesia means big money, a house, a car, se curity, tons of sun and holi days in the white man's playground of jLourenco Marques. He tells us of his boyhood in Belfast follow ing his father's cart around hawking clothes. Dave's different; 26, he's been in Rhodesia since he was five, a tough young bloke with a blond crew- cut. He pays his house-boy the princely sum of £4/10/- a month. Bert's the reasonable type. "The munt's all right — but you've got to keep him in his place. Give him educa- j 1 tion, a job, a home— he's all \ 'j right. We want time, that's ! | all, 75 years. Rhodesia's the j II finest country in the world." \ j Dave, who is a welfare of- j l ficer in the Railways Afri- I ! can Affairs department, f ll says: "There's only one thing | | a munt understands — and ! f j that's this" (holding up a j ll ham of a fist). "Don't talk I I to me about munts— I hate ' !-! the swine." IN ? j QN our last night in J Rhpdesia, we're in- ! vited over to the club- I house at the barracks I ' at Vila Salazar by a j ' group of young Rho- j j desian border police j and customs officers i in Vila Salazar. As we j relax, in easy chairs j beside, the swimming j pool, the night is ! pleasantly warm, the i sky bristling with l thousands of stars, and the beer abundant from I the well-stocked bar. j Vila Salazar, in the re- j mote south-east of Rhodesia j on the Mozambique frontier s and courteously named in ! honour of the Portuguese | dictator, is the rail centre for j nearby Gokudziwingza, the = detention camp harbouring j Joshua Nkomo and some 200 ) other ZAPU restrictees. j The conversation is a j wearisome repetition of the words of Charlie, Joe, Bert, | Dave and a score of other j people we've met along the ! way . . . the munts, civil- | j,sed standards, chaos in : Zambia, good old Smithy, f and the munts again. Wil- j son, they maintain, in all | seriousness, is a "pseudo- j , Communist". Ginger, a lit- I / tie red-head in his early f & twenties,' Sums up the mood i of the company: "We love ! Rhodesia and we'll fight to I || the death to defend it." \ !f 1 1 |T would all be funny | if it weren't so j tragic. j | A crowd of ordinary young j !| blokes who have lost the S |ii major part of their human- | ity through the parasitic life j they lead and the brain- ? washing and rhubarb they've I been subjected to, all of | 1 them rationalising away the | ' crime they're part and par- a s eel of. ll And like kids with match- | es, ignorant of the powder- j ' keg they're sitting on. S ' The high birth-rate in Salisbury is evident everywhere. The town is full of pregnant white women and babies, looked after by African nannies. 