 A MASTER OF DIGNITY fl short story by , mLPH KELLY ALfHGH centred on Japan and Korea 15fs|jago this Ralph Kelly short story deafM the attitude and policy towards Asis$fe)le which is bringing Australia into eijtdeeper danger today. ROD BROUGHT his platoon down from the mountains where they had been training . for the past week, marched them steadily through the foothills and allowed them to spread out in ragged formation across the familiar rice fields of Hara Mura. The men moved tirelessly, their web pouches sagging with the weight of spent cartridge cases which they had saved to sell collectively to the scrap dealer in Kure. About them the Japanese farming .people were planting rice. Shy, colorful people of all ages, bent knee deep in the oozy paddys, pausing to exchange a smile and a soft greeting with the bawdy Australian soldiers. It was generosity, or perhaps devilment, that led to one soldier throwing a handful of cartridge cases among the Japanese, and the younger ones fought gleefully in the mud for the precious brass. The old land which gave the life- giving rice to the people in ex change for their diligent toil, had been unable to yield metals of any sort, and brass was worth more than its weight in rice. The game spread among the soldiers and soon they had a troupe of children scurrying be hind them as they marched, scuttling for the scattered brass and stuffing it into their knotted handkerchiefs. Rod watched the game as it went on and on across the coun try. His mouth set in a firm line as he watched a young girl about 16 chasing through the mud with extra zeal, her voice pleading through the children's laughter as she pounced on the brass; "Dozo, dozo, dozo." "Jo-san!" . His voice barked across the warm mud to bring the entire group to a halt, sold iers and children staring at the tall sergeant who had shouted to the girl in Japanese. She lifted her eyes and stared questioningly. "Ittewa," he commanded. As she shyly approached he took a wallet from his pocket and withdrew a note. He rapped a command in curt Japanese and she held her palm out to him. As he placed the note in her hand, he stared down into the small face and after a few mom ents his voice softened around a short sentence. She lowered he eyes to the mud, called softly to the children, and they moved back across the ricefields. Rod signalled the platoon for ward and they mounted the hills and up on the mountain road where they swung out in column to march for Hiro, and night leave for the whole company. The marches along the moun tain roads always pleased Rod; the fir-green heights had a simple dignity as they swept down to the patchwork of rice fields and small villages. Further south they would ' ..overlook the Inland Sea with its fleet of tiny wooden boats work ing the shallows; and fringing the shore, the small fishing villages with their shy people tending their nets and vegetable plots, And he knew that he loved this country. The knowledge had come to him slowly. After the surrender, he had found the memory of Civvy Street and his squalid back-alley existence not worth returning to, and joined the Occupation Force. He had watched tiie bomb- flattened cities grow up again out of their own ashes, had seen the people change from scuttling de bris dwellers into friendly, hard working humans, picking up the shreds of their dignity. And he felt a personal pride when the Peace was finally made official. The people were still not wealthy, but the very simplicity of their lives determined that that' life! should be made to mean something: The rice farmers ploughing the tubs of pungent excrement back into the land, the fishermen trolling the near fish- ed-out shallows, the noisy hawk- ers the children, color, happiness in the Shinto festivals where the people invoked Divine blessing on their harvests and telling their gods that life was good and death was bad. They had two festivals a year for children, one for boys because boys were important, and one for girls because girls were important too. The aged were treated with exquisite courtesy, for although no longer able to work, they also were important. AND y Iwas Tame. Tame wlofdlfcome to him out of th'2:rfields to share his life. St M 40 ' TttefflPP&:Kreah War"" had brougWikb'an instructor, and he hise&' her that she only wantiyfe- with him be cause of lergfiant's stripes. And yet tW tf#l into absurd ity when 'tatemplated life in. their sn#l|pverlooking the canal— the |||coals glowing red in twgg between them on the flofelNvet flame of hot sake vlph his bell, and peace— the jtpand love which Tame had ®d into his. life seemed to |||p saved for all eternity as|fhpensation for the squalorPewar Erskine- ville, with ipojiloyment, alley fights, iieflJW'Svand broken iamft i'feto for tie hate-iMnnlled jungles that dratfPPI00 of yellow and white f8ta«onous impar tiality. Kg it— despite victory anew® fanfare and treaties-hi?&|ped from his life by thi|SV0w be ex changed be tiny Shinto temf fjm : i( IT waff0 have the march showered' shaved an |#M carefully in clean pTore taking a beer in!p?fs- The Proached and «?noke with.' $18e evasiveness. «CO wants' #>«. Rod. Right away." ;gl The ||;01ficer called for him N If 5 he knocked l| and he saluted stiffly and waited for the other to speak. Hatless, the officer nodded his acknow ledgment. "Stand easy, sergeant." He took a paper from his desk and surveyed it was obvious dis taste for some time before raising his eyes to Rod. "Sergeant, I see that you have made application to marry a Jap anese." "Yes, sir." The CO stared at him for a long time and sighed deeply. "You surprise me, Red; and dis appoint me. You disappoint me very much. Of course, I knew about this — this woman; but I didn think you would lower your self to . . . this." Rod flushed. "I might men tion, sir, that we are already mar ried — Shinto." "Shinto!" The officer's disgust was obvious. "The Australian. Gov ernment does not recognise pagan religious ties, sergeant— and nei ther do I." He gazed again at the paper with distaste, sighed again and for a time there was silence. Finally the CO said; "Rod, you must 'know how I feel about these Asian marriages. You know that I drafted Sgt. Williams back to Australia because of a similar ap plication to yours earlier this year? I had a letter from him recently, Rod; a good letter. He has been promoted to WO and has married a girl from Brisbane— an Austra lian girl. "You know, too, that I "drafted your friend Cpl. Perry to Korea for the same reason " Rod spoke harshly: "Yes, sir. Cpl. Perry died of wounds two days ago." The CO's eyes hardened and he nodded slowly. "That's right, Rod. I read the casualty lists, too. Other men have died as well; we saw a lot of men die in the islands; and a lot of men are going, to go on dying because of the Asian people. That's what I want to talk to you about — as a soldier. You're a good NCO, Rod, too good to throw yourself away. I won't let it happen. "I want you to consider what is happening in Asia at present, what has happened in the past, and try to visualise the future in this part of the world for the Australian and American people. "We, you and I, fought against the Japanese. We beat them. We drove them back to their, own country— now don't interrupt me — I want you to think. We not only drove them back but we consolidated our victory in the correct manner; we followed them up to impress upon them that they would stay beaten— forever! "The conduct of war is useless unless we consolidate our victor ies. That is basic. It is some thing that General MacArthur saw when he recently sought to extend the Korean campaign. His decision was correct and his Government's decision — that of the politicians— was incorrect; our present reverses there have al ready proved that. It is a decision which both the American and Australian people will someday re gret. "Now I can see that you don't understand what bearing this has on your own case. I want you, firstly, to consider that we have Australian troops in Korea. Also, that the Korean people are an extension of Japanese influence in this part of the world. Did you know that Japanese, a lang uage which I believe you speak quite well, is a secondary lang uage to all Koreans? "You are training men to kill these Koreans, sergeant; to put them down and consolidate the victory so that they will stay down —forever! "But that is only part of the story; Asian psychology is not restricted to one or two countries. Pagan and barbaric culture is common to the entire Asian con tinent. It has been contained, over the years, by a forceful administration of British, Dutch and French influence; and this "part of the world has seen peace and progress— until the Japanese war. "Our victory in that war has been incorrectly consolidated, Rod. We beat them, flattened them, atom-bombed them, humil iated them — and the rest of Asia took warning. MacArthur came here and his presence was the best influence Asia has seen in our lifetime. But what has hap- ened? Soft-bellied politicians have relieved MacArthur and are treating the Japanese as equals instead of Asians — and you are doing the same! God, man! This is what I have been trying to teach you all! I don't mind you sleeping with the bitches, but I am not having Asians taken back to Australia! "Look what isi happening in the world! The Chinese communists are challenging the US for lead ership in the pacific; in Indo china the French, are battling to contain the insurgents as the Bri tish axe doing in Malaya. I might mention that we also have ad visers in Malaya at the moment, and there is talk of sending a battalion after we have secured the victory in Korea." The officer pauses, self-con scious that he had been speaking wtith unaccustomed emotion. He made a show of tidying the pap ers on his desk and spoke brisk ly: "We have soldiered together a long time, sergeant, and I have always ensured that my jNCO's understand me perfectly. Under stand this: you are not marrying this women." Rod's control threatened to slip from him as he clenched his fists into vicious knots by his side and his voice shook slightly: "I re spectfully remind you sir, that I can request a parade before the GOC." "Oh, yes. Yes, of course." The CO's voice was soft, almost gentle. "But there will be no need; your application will go through the correct channels; slowly, I fear." His eyes bored into Rod's. "You will be leaving for Australia to morrow, sergeant. That's all." His hand was on' the door knob when the CO's voice arrested him; low, taut, insistent; "Rod." "Sir?" "For God's sake, man — try and have a bit of dignity." "AND you will be a long time in Australia?" Tame's question was contemplative rather than interrogative as she walked slowly by his side, the twilight darkening the waters of the canal. "Perhaps a year," he answered; "not much longer." She sighed slightly. "You are sure you want to do this " "Yes. My mind is made up." "It is hard for me to under stand, Rod ... after all thfc time in the army . . . you really don't care about going to jail?" He halted to take her hand and gaze upward to the hill across the canal and the first pale star over its crest. "Not now," he said quietly; and after a moment: "It's a matter of dignity." "So?" He smiled slightly as he re membered the small girl at Hara Mura clutching the cartridge cases in her hands as 'she listened to his soit command: "Go back to planting your rice — and keep your dignity." He turned suddenly: "Tame. Let's walk home . . . time is grow ing short." 