 Anti-U.S. trend evident, but — WEST GERMANY IN MELTING POT By the Foreign Editor yHE mixed, cautious reaction of European commentators to the new West German coalition Government reflects the mixture of positive and negative factors — of hopes and fears — in the situation thus created. The fears spring mainly from the strength of the rightwing in the new Christian-Democrat and Social Democrat coalition. Chancellor Kiesinger himself was a devoted Nazi in the Hit ler days and his nomination to succeed Erhard was backed by those who in the past have played the role of extreme re action — Strauss, the former War Minister; Adenauer, the revenge-seeking former Chan cellor whose foreign policy was based on a European line-up against the USSR; and Ger- stenmaier, former Speaker in the Chamber and close col laborator in the past with Adenauer. Shocked To find such a man at the head of affairs when the new 'Na2hr--oi"gamscd — ' 'Na tional Democratic Party" are making rapid headway in the country — as shown in te Hesse and Bavaria elections — shocked all anti-fascists who remember, how Hitler came to power. Offsetting this, however, is the undeniable fact that in re cent months and even years the pro-French, anti-United States "Gaullist" trend in the Adenauer-Strauss group's poli tical stance has come more and more to the front. Although Adenauer took West Germany into " the US-backed"- NATO pact, he regarded his visit to Paris to sign a solemn agreement for mutual collab oration with De Gaulle as his i crowning achievement. This was at a time when De Gaulle was already shaping an anti-American course and pre paring to defy American wishes by vetoing Britain's entry into the common market. Later he left NATO. Contrast By contrast, Dr. Erhard, the ' Federal Economics Minister, supported the pro-American J "Atlantic line" by pushing for Britain's entry and his ousting of Adenauer in 1963 was taken as a victory for this line. It is therefore all the more significant that in his speech of resignation last week Erhard referred to the anti-Atlantic forces which had defeated him, showing that this was the real issue at stake in the recent crisis. In following their "anti-At lantic" course, the pro-Aden auer forces found themselves moving on parallel lines with the Social Democrats, headed by Willi Brandt. Solution Since his defeat in the last West German general election when he was following an anti- Soviet policy almost identical with his opponents, Brandt has noticeably altered this policy and made it clear that he is now seeking some sort of solu tion of the problem of the division of Germany. With this in mind he has been conducting talks with the leaders of the Socialist Unity Party of the German Democra tic Republic and the Soviet Ambassador to the GDR. Defy ing Bonn, he has also, as Mayor of West Berlin, nego tiated some agreements on pro- -with—East Berlin. Now Brandt is to be not only Deputy Chancellor but also Foreign Minister in the new Government. Some observers see in Brandt's partnership with Kie singer "another socialist sell out". But others suggest it is not so simple. Thus Time magazine — never unduly pessimistic as to US prospects — says that the coali tion "will almost certainly make some changes'.' in foreign policy. Under Brandt's influence, it adds, the government "can be expected to launch new init iatives towards the east, aimed at relaxing tensions with the USSR and trying to forge new economic and cultural links with East Germany. Gaullists "As a concession to the in fluential Gaullists among the Christian Democrats, the new Government will also probably attempt to repair its bridges with France, a move that would imply considerably more inde pendence of the USA". Voting within the Social De mocratic Parliamentary Party showed a strong minority which apparently does not accept this view and objects to a coalition with Kiesinger and Strauss. But the existence of this strong Left minority is a. posi tive—feature of the -situation, especially in view of the legal suppression of the Communist Party. Whatever they personally want, the West German leaders cannot ignore the powerful im pact made on all Europeans, West Germans included, by De Gaulle's visit to Moscow in May and his statements in ef fect that for France the cold war is over. This has been un derlined further by Kosygin's return visit to Paris, where De Gaulle, ignoring NATO, has -called for an all-Europe pact of peace, a concept taking in socialist and non-socialist states, but excluding the USA. 