 luLlLJlJiiL .?» $ Askin's sack of presents \JJ ITH Christmas rapidly approaching, the NSW Government is busy making it a "Happy" Christmas for the people. To kick off they gave a present that Father Christmas hadn't even heard of — heavy increases in parking fines that will reap in an extra $2£ million a year. Then the Department of Main Roads dismissed another 33 men from the Sydney-Newcastle Ex pressway project. The engineer of the project told the men there was plenty of work but no funds. The Deputy Leader of the Oppos ition, Mr. F. Hills, was so unchar itable as to comment: "So, while it scoops $2i million of new im- posts on motorists into the pool, it cannot find a mere $300,000 which is all that is needed to keep the 33 men in work on the vital Sydney-Newcastle Expressway pro ject. "If this is the Askin Govern ment's idea of a Merry Christ mas for its employees, Heaven preserve the workers from its ideas for a Happy New Year." Further as the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. J. Renshaw) re vealed this v/eek, the Govern ment had already agreed to sub stantially increase the rent of Housing Commission houses "after the next election. The increases will range from about 75c a week up to $1.50 and would apply to almost every Housing Commission tenant. Mr. Renshaw said that he un derstood the Government was also preparing a new policy on rents that would allow for increases in all classes of rentals. After April, with a majority in the Upper House, the Government will he in a position to amend the Landlords & Tenants Act to increase, rents and to eliminate. . the clause /that' now provides for landlords to arrange alternate accommodation for protected tenants. Faceless men of Qantas 'HO are the faceless men on the Qantas board of directors who have taken such a flat-footed anti-union stand in the airline strike? They are men in the big brass and not an ex-unionist among them. Chairman of the Board Sir Roland Wilson, KBE, was secre tary to the Federal Treasury and a. top financial advisor to Men- zies. Vice-chairman R. R. Law-Smith, CBE; directs companies with assets totalling at least $275 million, in cluding Broken Hill Pty., Com monwealth Industrial Gases, Na tional Bank of Australasia and Massey-Ferguson Holdings. A "new boy" on the Board is T. J. N. Foley, head of the mam moth British Tobacco organisation in Australia, also a director of the Bank of NSW, Dodge Con solidated Industries Lt.d, Shelleys Drinks and others— involving as sets totalling far above $100 mil lion- Another "new boy" is K. C. Wil kinson, mainly based otherwise on Humes Ltd. and its New Zealand and Far East subsidiaries- — with assets totalling $15 million. Sir James Kirby, CBE, is with J. N. Kirby Manufacturing (now 80 per cent American owned) and International Products, Australia New Guinea Holdings, Reinsurance Co. of Australia- And he is noted for his directorships in H. G. Pal- : mer (Consolidated) and the Mu- !('p tual Life and Citizens company. Director J- M. Fotheringham is , based on Huttons, the ham outfit worth $4.2 million. That makes a few things abo&t ||f|tj the Qantas strike clearer. |;/jf Goodbye, n Mr. Chipp? "THE new Minister for the Navy and Tourism, Mr. L. Chipp, considers himself as an expert on industrial matters. ji He is chairman of the Federal Parliamentary Liberal Industrial » V,t Committee. It's no secret that he has also been the go-between for the Federal / Government, the BHP 1 and the Stevedoring Industry Authority during the Woodward waterfront inquiry. $|||l The BHP bitterly opposed per- manency for waterside workers ||||| and the SIA wanted control of waterfront labor. The reputation of the SIA is jSp zero in the industry for its bung- ' ling and autocratic handling of waterfront problems. As parties to the conference have agreed on permanency for .« waterside workers and for reduc- ing the role of the SIA in control of waterfront labor, the wharfies v' \ are saying it's goodbye Mr. Chipp. j 