 Courage and compassion KURA Cornel Lumiere. (With an introduction by Lt.-Col. Charles G. W. Anderson, VC, MC.) The story of sixty 'thousand Allied prisoners-of-war who slaved to build a railway link between Burma and Thailand in the midst of World War II. More than twenty thousand of them died in one year. The author is compelled to convey the brutality of the Japanese Army, but through his main character (Erik, the interpreter) also conveys a sense of human courage and compassion. $5.25 ($5.44 posted). ROMANCE AROUND US A. Merkulov. A collection of short stories about the romantic exploits of test pilots, of four Soviet soldiers who were adrift in the Pacific for 49 days, of Mikhail Gerasimov, sculptor and anthropologist, of Ivan Kozlov, the old writer and member of the underground revolutionary movement. 50c (60c posted). MAXIM GORKY — LETTERS Students of the life and work of Maxim Gorky will welcome this collection of more than 100 of his letters written between 1889 and 1936. Includes letters to G. B. Shaw, H. G. Wells, Romain Rolland, Alexi Tolstoi, Boris Pasternak and Isaac Bebel. $1.20 ($1.33 posted). MEN, MACHINES & HISTORY Samuel Lilley. 336 pages. Cloth. 48 plates. The author surveys the history of technology and the social effects of scientific discovery and invention from the beginnings of agriculture about 8,000 BC to the Space Age. In a clear, concise exposition, he describes and analyses developments in such new fields as nuclear power, . computers, automation and the conquest of space. He explores the social effects of these new techniques, the policy problems that arise from them and the benefits than can accrue to mankind with rational use of these techniques. $7.50 ($7.69 posted). WILDERNESS SURVEY V. Chivilikhin. The dramatic story of three Soviet surveyors tracing the route of a prospective railway in the backwoods of the Eastern S'ayans in South Siberia. Based on the diary of the leader of the expedition and found a year after the tragic deaths of the survey party. 50c (60c posted). New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607. 