 THE EXPERIMENT AT JANE ST. BY OUR THEATRE CRITIC I WAS abii see only two of the ' offerings in the recent son of Aus tralian pky1 'the Jane. St. Theatre in Sydney sub urb of ton. These \ver'eBd Milgate's "A Refined Loolt Existence" and Thomas ® r's "Halloran's Little Boat" But even1/ tne menu was sufficient f f the venture's value and s( Both Milgate's and Keneallp 's are important additions f, kalian drama, and by ® 'orthodoxy and competence most likely helped to ' a new level. The seasbj oduced further evidence c'.' 'Sn standard of our acting" almost amazing phenomeno":, of the rel atively si# J0 support for theatre and. "toted opportun ities availe"1 actors in this country. ... In these" big money for anyone "Wes and fear of ulcers. 's hardly the sort of ProI„ , to attract any young m8"., lty "nless he's orepared - half his life perched n' azor's edge of ingut the $ exPeriment put the stamp p n a number of1 talented and obviously dedi cated young actors, such as Anthony Thurbon, Anne Bannon, Peter Whitford, Ross Thompson and Martin Harris (who, incid entally, started his career with Sydney's " New Theatre)— most of them graduates of the National Institute of Dramatic Art (NIDA) at the University of New South Wales. ? "pHE only doubt about the Jane St. season is the extent . of the impression it made on the public generally. The theatre itself must be one of the most inaccessible play houses ever established in Sydney. Seating only about a hundred people, it is a converted church- hall in the backest of the back- streets of Kensington and though possessing an undeniable intimate charm, its location means that virtually only the most regular— and motorised— of theatre dev otees would make the trek. One cannot imagine a working- class family from Granville or Bankstown, not initiated into theatre-going ritual, making the effort in time, inconvenience or expense. The Jane St. season was spon sored by the University of New South Wales Drama Foundation and the .Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation of Lisbon, and, being under the management of the Old Tote Theatre, was linked at least spiritually with the Eliza bethan Theatre Trust. The Trust has indignantly re jected the heavy criticism which has been levelled at it in recent months, but the fact i,s that after eleven years of its existence we still have no popularly-based national theatre. Its activities have undergone a continual shrinking in scope, from the white elephant of the Elizabethan at Newtown to the Palace in Pitt St. to the Old Tote at the University of New South Wales, which holds only a handful more than the Jane St. It also performs valuable work with the Young Elizabethan com panies touring the schools with Shakespeare and helps run NIDA. And, of course, it stages opera and ballet seasons which, not al together unavoidably, lose monu mental amounts of money despite their popularity. Robin Lovejoy has said that the aim of the Jane St. season was to try out new Australian plays before small audiences, and that f next year! it is hoped to repeat the venture on a larger scale. Admirable as this approach is, is it sufficient in itself? It is difficult to escape the impression that, as p, result of the failure — sometimes through its own management — of its previous ventures, the Trust sees the development of theatre in Australia as depending on at best a semi-elite. The remote location of the Old Tote and Jane St. and the social strata from which their audiences are invariably drawn only help to re-inforce this suspicion. To fulfil its declared purpose O)! creating a truly national theatre, the Trust must reach out to the thousands of people to whom, theatre still means an evening a year at Her Majesty's and the Trust itself just another diversion for those with room at the top. This requires a permanent home in the centre of the city — a moderately - sized economical theatre which would be the focal point of its work. And it could, well afford to take a hard, look at its own organis ation — to branch outwards by involving representatives of trade unions and. other public organise ations who might start to give it the broader base it so urgently needs. 