 "Never more sickened " CALWELL SLAMS PM'S "UNADULTERATED SYCOPHANCY" Fact and fantasy on New Guinea YDNEY : Federal Labor Leader Ca-lwell vigor ously attacked Prime Min ister Holt's cringing attitude over the latest US bombings in Vietnam in the Town Hall on Sunday night. , This was his first public appearance since the Mosman shooting last month. Fifteen hundred people gave him a tremendous reception as soon as he appeared. They cheered, stamped and threw streamers. Demanding a return to inde pendent Australian policies, Mr. Calwell said: "We believe Aus tralia's foreign policy should be independent, defensible and all-Australian. "I was never more sickened than when I read "the nonsense uttered by Mr. Holt — 'AH the way with LBJ'. "Whom does he think he is foolg? "No nation can pledge itself to the complete support of any other country whether it is con sulted or not. "That's not the spirit of na tionalism — it is unadulterated sycophancy". Mr. Calwell said he had heard, a radio report that Mr. Holt was visiting US business men to discuss more US invest ment in Australia, "it is a question of cause and effect," he said. "There is too much foreign investment here already — we are being sold out to the US, British and Japanese mono poly capitalists. "We want an independent Australian policy also for our industries so we can control our own national resources. "We are not going to be the economic slaves of America., Britain or Japan." Mr. Calwell said that we could not abdicate our respon sibilities as the Holt Govern- ment had done by allowing the Johnson Government to deter mine what was right or, wrong in Vietnam. In a vigorous attack on the Johnson Administration, Mr. Calwell said: "What Johnson is doing to day he promised he would not do. "Goldwater urged that North promised there would be no bombing. "The Johnson Government has adopted the policy of Gold- water. These policies, supported by the Holt Government, must do us harm." Mr. Calwell called for the defeat of the Holt Government I in the next elections and a return to the days when we had an Australian foreign pol icy—in the days of Curtin, 1 Chifley and Evatt. Mr. Calwell addressing the Town Hall meeting. THE dosing days of the mid-year session of the New Guinea Asembly were marred by a hate campaign against commun ism conducted mainly by Europeans. Mr. John Pasquarelli sees communists in the Public Ser vice and Mr. D. Barrett openly alleges that Mr. Gaudi Mirau's speech was written by a"- com munist and was similar to a Tribune article, and by innuendo he connects the present writer with preparation of the speech. This allegation is too silly to warrant rebuttal. In a Sydney Morning Herald editorial (19/6/66) fulsome praise was given to Mr. Mirau, describing his speech as "ad mirable in its moderation and precision". In his speech Mr. Mirau called for consultations with the House of Assembly when deci sions on defence installations are being made. He said: "The people of the Territory are represented by this House, but this House has not been consulted concerning these de cisions by the Australian Gov ernment. Our formal position should he made clear. "It is well known that Aus tralia is spending tens of mil- lions of dollars in Army and Navy bases in Manus, Wewak and Daru. This money is not being spent unless Australia expects to hand on to these military bases. "Australia is taking part in the war in Vietnam and may increase its commitments there. "This involves a whole set of political consequences for us in other people's minds. " On top of this, Australia is our neighbour. Malaysia is an other country altogether. We have to live with Asia for our selves. "Where is this Australian action going to lead us? if Australia makes enemies, and we stay close to Australia, we will have the same enemies, Do we want the same enemies as Australia? "These bases have been put at Manus, Wewak and Daru without asking the members of 1 this House, yet they could be I used to attack our next door i neighbors. 1 "Australia is not living as 1 close to Indonesia as we are. fg We are the ones who should If decide whether to be friends or i enemies of Indonesia. But it is m Australia deciding this for us 1 today." I! This is Mr. Mirau's speech as || reported in the South Pacific Post (June 10). He clearly states the nosition. as: mac h\s right. .. i Members who joined in the A« attack on Mr. Mirau did not fcf ? raise their prestige in the eyes / of the electors, nor did they ' 5 ennanue uie atauuiug uj. uie House of Assembly. Mr. Pasquarelli's allegations concerning communists in the \ Public Service is probably as || irresponsible as many of his 1 other statements. However he Jf may try to extricate himself i from a difficult situation at the 1 expense of some members of 1 the service. But the prize for irresponsi- 1 bility should go to Mr. Barrett, f who not only implied that the | present writer was author of | Mr. Mirau's speech but even I stated that Jim Cooper was "a close relative of another Cooper who had been checked by se curity officers some years ago". This is an unprincipled in vention, revealing that this per son in a responsible position had not even investigated the matter. New Guinea has been unfor tunate in its selection of Euro- pean representatives in House of Assembly. Jim Cooper (Sydney). 