 moat | The man who's not welcome |N Melbourne last | Sunday night Dr. I J. Cairns MP (Lab., 1 Vic. ) said that the 1 timing of the invita- I . tion to President 1 Johnson by the Fed eral Cover nment "allows it to appear that the visit may be intended to influence the election". But what is the real standing, in America and elsewhere, of this Presi dent who is being foisted on Australia by the Holt Government in a pre-elec- ' tion circus. | "All the President wants | to do is fight, fight, fight 1 kill, kill, kill — thinking he's 1 doing some good." B I In these words a young g American girl student quot ed in a Newsweek public opinion survey referred to President Lyndon Johnson. ? \TEWSWEEK, the big US international news-mag azine', was seeking the reason why President Johnson's popularity, .'ac cording to , the public opinion polls had so badly slumped. The latest poll, quoted by Newsweek on Septem ber 26", put public approval of his conduct of the Viet nam warat "a record low — 42 per cent." TN a despatch to the Lon don Spectator from Washington in . July Mur ray Kempton said that watching President John- . son these days "is very much like observing the progress of a disease ... He impresses marvellously as a confidence man; he only depresses as a bully." The Spectator corres pondent! said that before the November US congression al elections Johnson "will be desperate and com mence to do desperate things." ? "TJE will be 58 this month and his popularity is declining"— Sydney Daily Mirror's correspo n d e n t cabling from Washingtoh last August. ? TpARL Bertrand Russell, 1 noted British philoso- I pher, wrote to the people 8 Continued on Page 12 | He is not welcome! | Continued from Page 1 I of Vietnam on May 24, | 1966 ... ) "As I speak, American i bombs are falling on hos- S pitals and schools and j helpless women and chil- 1 dren are dying. I know | that napalm and fragment- | ation bombs and enormous | half-ton explosives are sat- 2 urating the beautiful coun- ! try. | "Along with others I am | preparing a war crimes | tribunal to bring justice to | those responsible for these | crimes. Johnson, .McNam- ! ara and- Rusk stand con- | demned before the world." I ? I 'J'RIBUNE'S Moscow cor- i respondent, Rupert | Lockwood, cabled this S week that Russell had I now written h letter in the j New York Times vigor- ously defending the pro- j posed War Crimes Tribun- j al to investigate American S war crimes in Vietnam. I "We are people com- S pelled by conscience to I form a tribunal because I we have witnessed the S crimes against the people j of Vietnam and wish to I examine exhaustively their I full meaning, with a view j to assessing the responsi- ! bility of those who have J committed them." | Citing a New York Times ! despatch that American | officials were pleased with j the chemical defoliation ! and crop destruction, Rus- j sell declared that he pos- j sessed evidence of "the S toxic _ character of the | chemicals and their extra- ordinary effects on human ? beings which include para- I lysis, blindness, convul- i sions, hallucination and in- I ability to fall asleep." ! 