 [?] NOW SEAMEN GET LOYALTY LECTURES SYDNEY: British seamen are hostile on Labor Prime Minis ter Wilson for his open support of wealthy shipowners. This is how crew mem bers of the British ship "Queensbury" summed up the situation during a ship- side interview with Trib une last Thursday in Syd ney. Earlier the 27 crew mem bers walked off the ship to join their striking mates at home. They cancelled their plans to join the strike following an ultimatum from Wilson that the funds of the un- 8 ion, the National Union of Seamen, would be frozen if British seamen in Australia went on strike. Secretary, Bill Hogarth, had advised the union's representative in Sydney, Mr. Yates, of this threat against their funds. And this is why crew members of the Queens- bury, the "Australind" and the 'Tort Hobart" cancel led their plans to strike. Deprive The Queensbury bosun, Ron Arthur said "because of 27 men in Australia joining the strike, Wilson was prepared to deprive 26,000 men at home .of their strike pay." Leaning over the deck- rail, Ron and six of his mates gave vent to their feelings about the justice of the strike. They explained that AB's only get £59/7/6 a month for a 56-hour week. Their demand is for a 40-hour working week at sea and in port and for a 2/11 a week pay rise. This, they said, would give a top rated AB after five years service only £14 a week for 40 hours work. AB George Millington . pointed out that the last strike by British seamen was in 1911. "You cannot say we haven't been > patient," he said. AB Cyril Gregory said it makes him sick to hear the Prime Minister and news papers talking about "sea men's duty, loyalty etc." He said that during the last war 39,000 British sea- men lost their lives in the line of their duty. "Now we are being told the strike is a communist plot. "There are no commun ists or members of any other political party on this ship. "But what is true is that British seamen vcited for the present Labor ' Govern ment, including Wilson," he said. The bosun said "Tell your readers that we won't forget the Sydney whar fies. ' "When we decided to go on strike they offered to accommodate and feed us. We will always remember this support," he said. Australian wharfies have good reason to sympathise with the British seamen. The Waterside Workers' Federation has for years played a leading role in exposing how the British shipping companies have been bleeding the Austra lian economy dry. British conference lines, with a near-monopoly of Australia's imports and ex- ports, have charged what the "traffic will bear" to the detriment of Austra lian primary producers, ex porters and consumers. It is in the interests of these companies that the Australian Government at tacks the WWF for seeking improved wages and condi tions. It is these companies that increased their freight earnings in Australia from £200 million in 1955 to £430 million in 1963, while during the same period the wharfies' wages bill fell by £2 million. The British seamen also know the companies can well afford their modest demands, Mr. Vernon Miner (NUS Assistant Research Officer) says: Supported "We supported the wage freeze of the Labour Gov ernment 1945-51. In March 1951 a seaman was earn- . ing the same wage as was negotiated in February 1943. During this time the shipowner rode the 'gravy train'. The profits were so large they were embar rassing. Consequently large reserve funds were accu mulated which were never accounted for, either to the public or to the Govern- ment. These reserve funds were used by the various companies to enable them to give free issues of | shares to their sharehold- I ers." I "Anyone owning 1,000 shares in the P. & O. in 1950 would have received a 50 per cent free issue in 1951 and another 100 per cent in 1954. A further 100 per cent free issue in 1955 made his total 6,000 shares. Then a lapse of eight years before another 10 per cent free issue in 1963, follow ed by 331/3 per cent free issue in 1964 making now a total of 8,800 shares for the price of the original 1,000." The NUS representative in Sydney, Mr. Yates, last week expressed anger at claims by "some Sydney newspapers of high wages being received by UK sea men. "A seaman would have to work about 80 hours a week to make an average of £20 a week." "I'm surprised and dis appointed at the attitude of Wilson. "I would have expected him to attack the shipown ers for refusing to pay a decent living wage to sea men who are responsible for the high profits they obtain," he said. | British seamen line the side of the freighter Qiueensbury talking to a Tribune reporter. 