 [?] The courage and skill of Graham Russell (By the Challenger) Every sports fan loves a fryer and generally acclaims such with: "You've got to hand it to him, he's got guts". When a sportsman has some physical disability, then the above applies doubly so. But when he is also a member of an under privileged and exploited class, then you've really got to hand it to him. Sueh was the case re cently at the Taree High School athletic carnival when one of the outstand ing athletes was a deaf and dumb Aborigine boy. The boy, 14-year-old Gra ham Russell won the 100 and 220 yards sprints and came second in the 880 yards. Young Russell's perform ance is all the more out- standing when it is con sidered how his affliction handicaps him at the start of the sprinting events, when a fast start is need ed. While other runners look straight ahead, young Rus sell has to look at the starter in order to judge the start. Graham's times the less, have the experts raving. To Rex Mossop Recently the Sydney TV personality, Mr. Rex Mos sop made a political re mark on his program and he was sent the following letter which Tribune was asked to publish in part. Dear Sir, Last Sunday together , with three young boys | (ages ranging from 12 to 1 I 15) who share my interest 1 f in your program X settled I down to watch what 1 I | thought was the usual I 1 healthy combat that takes 1 J place in competition on A| the field of sport. l| However this was not to 1| be as you saw fit to make P a most pointed political h remark which condoned the present vicious combat taking place in Vietnam. I was not aware of your interest or personal poli- I tical feelings on this ques- I tion Mr. Mossop, until 1 your utterance. It is quite B easy to become emotional I when the subject one is f making statements about | is the killing that is tak- I ing place in the dirty war | in Vietnam. 1 No doubt the fact that 1 you knew and had work- | ed with one of the young men who had been killed had much to do with your emotional outburst. This however does not give you licence to become irra tional and make accusa tions that you would find most difficult to substanti ate under challenge as to the merit of this young man's death— morally, poli tically or otherwise. You saw fit to use the word "friendship" as a theme for your indigna tion against people and political parties who dis agree with you as to the merits of the Vietnam war. In the sporting world many outstanding events have been taking place. We had the world Soc cer Series in England and according to the re ports received they made a magnificent spectacle and have done much to cement friendship among players and spectators alike in this competition on the playing g fields whence they met. g Out of this combat the g victors entertained the los- g ers. A far cry from Viec- nam is it not? Yours faithfully. M. Clune. Tribune regrets that an omission was made in last week's Sport Comment. The article on football "What do you think?" was by Mr. Ron Mackerras. 