 Refer to yourselves as Australians Aborigines fight racism DARWIN: "Australians not 'Boongs' or 'Blackfellows'/' was the headline of a daily newspaper here last Monday. This referred to one of the 11 points in the program adopted unanimously by 200 Aborigines at a meeting called by the Northern Ter ritory Council for Aborigine Rights on Sunday. Point 1 in the program says that the present living stand ards of the majority of active workers in the Northern Terri tory are a disgrace to Australia and a clear breach of the Charter of Human Rights. Point 2 said that the full award wages be introduced on pastoral properties this year and not in three years time as decided by the Arbitration Court. point 3 that slow worker pro visions of the recent Arbitration Court findings be abandoned. Just a catch Referring to Point 3, Mr. Davis Daniels, the secretary of the Council, said: "This is just a catch. There are slow work ers among Europeans, too, in all kinds of industries but no provision for slow workers for them." point 4 in the program de manded that social service pay ments be paid direct to Abo rigines and that the illegal practice of payment to station managers, welfare settlements and mission officers, be aband oned. The program referred to housing, education and medical facilities, and Point 9 demand ed "that the use of abusive and offensive terms of racial pre judice be made a criminal of fence". Mr. Paddy Carroll, secretary of the North Australian Work ers' Union, addressed the meet ing and said that the trade union movement was behind the drive to have full award wages applied in the pastoral industry at once. He then said: "I urge you to refer to your selves as Australians and forget this black fellow, white fellow talk." Fight for rights An Aborigine, Mr. "Holder" Adams interrupted Mr. Carroll, saying: "What do you mean, Paddy? We meet as aboriginal native people to fight for our rights." Mr. Carroll concluded by say ing: "I urge you to keep right behind Phillip Roberts, Davis Daniels and others who have rtnne sur.h « crood iob." Guest speaker Mr. Dick Ward, former leader of the Legisla tive Council and believed to be the likely Labor candidate for the Northern Territory, said that a new branch of the Soc ial Services Department had been opened in Darwin and Aborigines should demand from it direct payment of child en dowment and other social ser vice payments. Australian author Mr. Frank Hardy said he would contact people in the South who are anxious to support the Abori gines in their battle for full and equal rights. Elections At the end of the meeting elections were held and it was interesting to note that the famous actor of a few years ago, Mr. Robert Tudawalli, was elected Vice-President of the Council. An Aboriginal woman, Doris Daniels, was elected to the commiteee, Davis Daniels was elected secretary and Dex ter Daniels was elected presi dent. Phillip Roberts, acknowledged leader of the Aborigines in Darwin and the central char acter of the ABC film "I the Aboriginal", played a leading part in the organisation of the meeting. He is being transferred out of Darwin, but guaranteed con tinuous work in the interest of his people. He closed the meeting by saying: "We will wait for equal pay until after the conference in Sydney, hut if we don't get I guarantees this year we will act | immediately, if necess a r y alone." 