 What's Rusk coming for? CEATO military advisers are now meeting behind closed and guarded doors in Canberra. They are preparing military proposals for a meet ing of the foreign ministers of eight Seato countries, that will open in Parliament House, Can berra, next Monday (June 27). Dean Rusk, United States Secretary of State, will head his country's delegation at the second meeting. Australia is a natural venue for the meeting, since the "South East Asia Treaty Organisation" is an American and western military alliance (Thai land, the Philippines and an unwilling, Pakistan are the only Asian members) . As to Rusk, in recent times every visit to Aus tralia of a high representative of the US government has been connected with the sending of troops to Vietnam. The visit of America's number one roving am bassador Averell Harriman in mid-January was fobbed off as an exchange of views and informa tion in Vietnam. Yet aj few weeks later, on Feb. 20, US Defence Secretary McNamara told the Senate Armed Ser vices Committee that the US had put pressure on Australia to send troops to Vietnam. When US Vice-President Hubert Humphrey visit- . ed Australia last February he denied that he had put any pressure .on Australia for, troops to Viet- . . No sooner had he left than the Holt glovernment announced the decision to send a trebled task force of 4,500 to Vietnam, including 30% con scripts. The head of the "Australian" press bureau in . Canberra, Anthony Curtis (June 30) wrote that "political and diplomatic sources believe that Holt is preparing to make a small addition to Army and . RAAF units already in action against the Viet Cong in line with planned American force in creases." Under these circumstances, Rusk is not welcome here. Let Rusk stay in HIS homeland and let all Australian troops stay in THEIRS. ? Warning in Sarawak 'J'HE open intervention last week of Malaysian Premier Tunku Abdul Rahman in Sarawak (North Borneo) showed that the break-up of Malaysia, started by the defection of Singapore last year, is continuing. RaWmani ordered the Sarawak Chief Minister, , Da to Stephen Kalong Ningkan, to make way for a ; Rahman nominee, Tawi Sli. Malaysia, dominated by the Malaysian feudalists of whom Rahman is one, was a neo-colonialist creation from the start. Brunei, one of its intended component states, took itself out by revolt in 1962. Singapore left last year, leaving only tiny Sarawak and Sabah linked with the Malays in Malaysia. '' With Rahman waving the big stick last week, many observers thought Sarawak would be the next to go. Last week in the Bau district of Sarawak, two Australian soldiers were wounded in fighting, not Indonesians, but what were described as "communist terrorists" (Sydney f'Herald", 17/6/66). This' is called dealing with Sarawak's "grave security prob lem" — i.e. suppressing those fighting for freedom from Malaysia-style domination. That use of Australian troops poses grave questions as to Australia's future relations with these people. It is a powerful argument for the recall of these troops and the rights to self-determination of all the peoples of this area to be respected. 