 Unknown words in the cattle country COMPO FOR ABORIGINES From a Correspondent in Darwin \ A NY 4 worker in „ Aus tralia, who, in the course of his' work or dur ing the time of his trave) to and from work, is in jured; is entitled to com pensation under the pro visions of the Worker's Compensation Act. The Aborigines in the North ern Territory are also entitled to compensation under this Act and although a settlement may take some years under present day circumstances, Aborigines actually have been known to receive compensa tion. Ten years ago, however, this was not the case, . arid some Aborigines in ' the Northern Territory, injured over, ten years ago, have had no re course to this hard fought for workers' rights. Here's a case: jlCK Rangiari is a man whom I would assess to Be 34 'years of age. Mick has had no schooling so he can't read or write. He doesn't know for sure what his age is. He can remember the war though — he told me of convoys travelling through Katherine. Like all the Aboriginal lads around Wave Hill, Mick was learning to ride a horse at an age when our kids would be going to kindergarten. This is in fact the beginning of an Aborigine's "education" on a pastoral property where there is no school. Mick went to work for the local policeman when he was old enough and his unpaid (he got no wages) duties in cluded going to Wave Hill. Station, 10 miles from the Police Station, to collect the mail and pick up some fresh- beef each week on horseback. About halfway on the return journey one day, Mick's horse which wasn't very quiet, bucked and fell on top. of hirri. The result was what ' looked to me like a broken pelvis. The policeman was in Dar win at the time so of course, Mick " wasn't missed. He lay where he had fallen for all that day and all the night. He was in terrible pain the whole time and during the next morning, he was also very thirsty and hungry. \ He says he's \not sure, but he thinks he crawled about three miles toward Wave Hill before ari old Aboriginal- man and a . couple of Aboriginal women came along with a billycan of water. The Aborigines went back to the Station and told the Manager, who came and pick ed him up in a vehicle. Mick then recalls that he was laid up at the station foir about a month with no doctor or sister in attendance, „ until the flying doctor, Dr. Fenton, came from Katherine and picked him up in a plane. He was then taken from Kather ine to Darwin by the N.T. Medical Services. For one rain and one cold weather (a year) he lay in Darwin Hospital before he was discharged and sent - to the Bagot Reserve where , he: was given a job cutting grass" and given a little money. 