 75th anniversary of May Day illlilllM CYDNEY: This year is the 75th anniversary of the first recorded May Day in Australia. The Sydney May Day Committee wiu mgn- light the anniversary in this year's activities. The original inarch of the shearers through the little Queensland town of Barcal- dine in 1891 is an event tha£ is an inseparable part of the May Day march today. Some of the things they marched for were achieved as a result of their militant struggle and sacrifice. Some of the things ithey inarched for then, workers continue to march for today; The spirit of 1891 is the spirit of 1968 and were the 1340 who originally marched in the 1891 demonstration alive today, they would swell the number of the 1966 de monstration. This is. because the aspira tions of ithe working people today for peace, democratic rights and socialism are the natural development of the aims of the marchers at Barcaldine. In fact, the aims of May niiiiiiiilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli Day marchers of that period were progressive, even on present-day standards. Massive struggles in the United States of America directly gave birth to May Day in 1884 as an> interna tional working class day. Some 18 years before, in 1866, the Convention of the newly-formed Labor Union of America, which would he the equivalent of our ACTU, passed this resolution: "The first and great ne cessity of the present to free labor of this country from capitalist slavery is the pas sing of a law by which eight hours shall be the normal working day in all States in the American Union. We are resolved to put forth all our strength until this glorious result is attained." To further demonstrate the interconnection of earlier May Day aims and present- day aims, the resolution IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUlllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll adopted at the 1893 Congress of the International at Zur ich said: "The demonstration on May 1 for the 8-hour working day, must serve at the same time as a demonstration of the determined will of the working class to destroy class distinctions through social change and thus enter on the road, the only road, leading to peace for all peoples to international peace-" When this resolution was passed, May 1 had already been decided as a day on which the international work ing class could link in com mon cause throughout the world and demonstrate their demands upon the streets. The meeting where this important step forward took place was held in Paris in 1889. The great gathering of socialist and trade union leaders was inspired by the American workers' struggle llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllHlllllllllllllllinilllllllllllllillllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllt for an 8-hour working day. The Resolution quoted fouri years later, demonstrates &lt;the maturity of the movement at that time. The detailed history of Australia's May Day has yet to be fully compiled. Much work has already been 'done by people like Steve Purdy, Len Fox and others who have done considerable research on the subject and have al ready issued pamphlets and nqtes on the early May Day movement. Historical booklet The Sydney May Day Com mittee hopes to make avail able this year a souvenir commemorative booklet in corporating the research done to date and research at pre sent being undertaken. It isl hoped the booklet will go a long way further to- MINIIimiMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllimill ward the goal of a compre hensive study of May Day in Australia. The Australian population today is tfacing a serious erosion of wage standards. The wages of workers have virtually been frozen. Over this period the prices of commodities, particularly of basic commodities, have increased alarmingly. The unions' 1966 struggle for an increase in the basic wage and for an increase in the margins determined by separate hearings is now of the utmost importance. This year's May Day marchers will provide a me- diums whereby the demands associated with these factors can be demonstrated pub licly. There will also be displayed demands against the war In Vietnam, the fight against conscription, the struggle for equal rights for women, for equality for our Aboriginal population, etc. All this is truly in the spirit of 1891. PHOTO: This pretty lass is Miss Pamela James, a May Queen candidate for 1966. Pamela was nominated by the Sydney Trade Union Club. 