 Women and conscription JjUFTY years ago very few women took part in pub lic life or worked in industry. It is therefore all the more to the credit of those who took part in the anti-conscrip tion fight and the peace move ment, that they came out so courageously. Despite the fact that I was a school girl at the time of the first referendum against conscription, I recall a num- mer of these women. Vida Goldstein, Cecilia John, Jennie ' Baines, Adela Pankhurst, my mother — Jane Aarons, and many others. I remember a march up Bourke Street in which only women and children took part, silently marching along toward Federal Parliament House, when mounted police used their horses to force the marchers into the gutter and on to the footpath. Many of the women who took part in the anti-conscrip tion campaign were, or later became, members of the Vic torian Socialist Party. Some of them in the very early days joined the Communist Party. My parents were in busi ness in a Melbourne suburb, Sandringham. They had a con fectionery shop and cafe. At the end of the street was a convalescent home for return ed soldiers. Hearing of the part my family was playing in the fight against conscrip tion the' soldiers organised a group to smash the shop win dows. I recall also my brother Sam returning home after the demonstration from the meet ing in the Guild Hall with his head split and bleeding from blows from a police baton. The pioneering spirit of the Australian people — regarded these days as somewhat of a myth— was indeed evident during this first major fight against a Government's at tempt to conscript Australian youth for war. Today those men, women and young people who are organising opposition to the war in Vietnam and conscrip tion can recall with pride the stand taken during the 1914-18 war. Perhaps because of the current 50th anniversary of the defeat of the first refer endum against conscription they may gain inspiration to intensify today's ... struggle flpninsf. n vilp nnri lininsf-. war June Mills, Sydney. 