 IiiBlSi®li|5iti A FAREWELL TO COX By a Financial Correspondent UARD on the heels of the crashes of Reid Murray, Australian Factors, Chevron Sydney and the H. G. Palmer group, comes the collapse of Cox Brothers (Australia) Ltd. The company which is said to have an excess of about $18 million of book assets is to give tne .tsriusn group, Jtaiii Australia Pty. Ltd., a 60 per cent ordinary share holding for $2 million. Cox Brothers will receive $2 million in new ordinary capital from Britain if ordinary and preference shareholders and debenture holders agree to a write-down of $23.8 million in the face value of their securi ties. Unlike the other crashes the debenture holders will not be completely skinned. The present ordinary share holders and preference share holders will have about 40 per cent equity holding in the new company. More than 21,000 of the 124,000 holders have less than $1000 invested. " The holders are scattered all over Australia, with the major ity in Western Australia. Far enough away to prevent a uni fied voice on any issue, let "alone opposing the Board. e'v The debenture register shows | that the average holding is less than $1000 in lace value and that the biggest holding is no more than $50,000. Spectacular It is ironical that in the 1950's and early 1960's cox Brothel's engaged in some spec, tacular take-overs, is now being swallowed itself. The take-overs included Foy & Gibson Ltd., Sydney Snows and a number of other big department stores in country towns and cities throughout Australia. In all they operated 90 stores. With Ralli now holding about 60 per cent of the issued cap ital of the company it will become a subsidiary of a world wide banking and trading group. Shareholders of the former company will have about a 40 per cent holding in the new company, and this will pre serve- for the company the ad vantages of the very consider able accumulated tax losses. But out of the trials, tri bulations and losses incurred I by the share and debenture I holders, Ralli's will make a handsome profit. The British Government's re strictions on the export of cap ital requires that the earnings of any permitted capital in vestment overseas should be high enough to offset the full investment in two to three years, that is to yield an aver age return of 33 to 50 per cent annually. Ralli's would be required to give concrete evidence to . the Bank of England to secure the permit to export the capital. It is stated that Sir Isaac Wolfson, who controls Great Universal Stores Ltd. of London and is an influential share holder in Ralli's, is a friend of Sir Frank Richardson, Chairman and Managing Dir ector of Cox Bros., and this deal has been negotiated on the basis of this long-standing re lationship. If this type of deal is the result of personal friendly re lationships between capitalist tycoons, the working class can be glad that they are spared such relationships. 