 Two faces of " Justice " Salary grab for MLA's ; meagre increases for Public servants Sydney: The small salary increases for N.S.W. Pub lic servants, announced just prior to Christmas, received a hostile reception from union leaders THE State Public Service r Board's decision to in crease salaries by 6/- a week for men and 4/6 for women has been condemned by the N.S.W. Public Service Associa tion, the N.S.W. Teachers' Federation, the Professional Officers' Association and the N.S.W. Police Association. These associations have called for an urgent deputation the Premier (Mr. Askin) and are also planning further protest action. In contrast to the miserable treat ment of public servants, State Mem bers of Parliament are now seeking handsome salary increases. Up 47 pc State MLA's now receive a basic salary of £2650 and an electoral allowance ranging from £750 to £1050. Their new salaries could exceed £5000 — a £1600 increase or 47 per cent. The Premier's salary is expected to rise irom xnoou tu sumewneic ucai £10,000 — over 25 per cent increase. Ministers' salaries, now from £5350 to £5650, are also expected to exceed £7000 — almost a 24 per cent, increase. Public servants in N.S.W. were not even granted the 1£ per cent mar ginal increase granted by the Com monwealth Arbitration Commission in June last year which the State Industrial Commission recently de cided to extend to State Awards. Mr. S. Lewis (president of the NSW Teachers' Federation) said even a H per cent increase would have been totally inadequate but the PSB was not even prepared to grant this. Had this small increase been ap plied, teachers would have received from £18 to £54 a year increase as against £15/12/- now offered by the Board, Mr. Lewis said. Mr. L. Solomons (president of the N.S.W. Public Service Association) said his association will be making strong protests. "The proposed salary increases for MLA's and the speed in which these will be decided contrasts to the treatment of public servants," he said. "Delays of up to two years are common on claims made by the asso ciation. "We also say the 1£ per cent would have been unsatisfactory as it does not compensate for lost purchasing power," Mr. Solomons said. 