 Indonesian CP very much alive i LTHOUGH the Indonesian Communist Party has been banned and formally dissolved, it is still alive, a leading general of the murder-regime has admitted. He is Major-General Amir Machmud, Fifth' Regional Military Commander of the Jakarta area. General Machmud's admis sion . is reported by the Indonesian Newsletter issued by the Indonesian Embassy in Canberra. Machmud said the continued existence of the Communist Party was obvious from the fact that or.iy 31 out of the 86 members of the central oommittee had been arrested. Two of the others were abroad, Machmud said. This confirms similar admis sions in a remarkably out spoken editorial in the Sydney Morning Herald, which is usually well-informed on this question. The Herald contradicts the impression given by most Australian daily papers, in cluding itself, in their news columns that President Suk arno and the Indonesian Left are finished. "The Communists and their allies in the Nationalist Party, despite the fearful vengeance wreaked on them . . . have taken heart and taken stock and. found that they are neither powerless nor leader- less" says , the Herald. It adds that pro-Sukarno demonstrations in Bandung, Jokjakarta and other central eastern Java cities confirm that "elements of the armed forces are, from Suharto's point 9f view, unreliable. "It is apparent that the President commands quite substantial support among the Marine Corps, the Air Force and the parliamentary gen darmerie; it is equally appar ent from the shifting around of generals, that this support extends to the senior ranks." The article says the Gov ernment's "laborious" cam paign to discredit Sukarno is not likely to bring dividends and ;i,ts efforts to . prove his complicity in - the September 30 affairs of last year are "clumsy and could ' easily backfire." The Herald, alarmed, calls on the Suharto government to "act decisively and remove Sukarno from the political scene." ing down still more viciously or. all opposition, whether from the Africans or the white people like some of those at University College, Salisbury." . It is significant that the most outspoken African Premiers on the Rhodesian question are the two "mod erate" leaders Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia and Su. Alkart Margay of Sierra Leone. Mr. Kaunda points out that the new Smith . decisions mean . he will have a South African apartheid regime next door. Of course imperialist prop aganda is trying to back the Holt-Wilson position by sug gesting the Smith regime could not be overthrown with out a major war. The Rhodesian whites total about 215,000, as compared with 4,000,000 Africans. In a showdown they could put no more than 38,000 troops into the field to face the British. "British paratroops could take Salisbury in half an hour" one observer com mented. Even if South Africa came into it,, the 3 million whites (Africans total 12 millions) don't constitute a first class military power. Force, or even an all inclusive oil blockade, would settle their hash: But this could not be done effectively without the help of the big imperialist powers which are much more inte- ested in the threat to imper ialism in Vietnam than in the threat to human rights in Africa. 