 BOOK REVIEW "MEN. MACHINES AND HISTORY" Reviewed by COLLANTI ill IIIII1IIIII1IW The author takes the reader through a fascinating examination of the problems of nuclear energy, automation, computers, space re search and world production. Their perspectives are sharply focussed on the U.S. and the U.S.S.R., on the older order of capitalism in its most favorable area geographically and in time and on the newer orders of socialism and communism. He reveals the essential differ ences in the approaches of the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. to the key prob lems of technological change — how and why automation and computer technology proceed as they do, one way in America and another in Russia; the manner in which the United States' military "needs" have distorted its space-research programme into aerial and photo graphic spying and hazards for the world and, particularly, for their own astronauts, whilst automation has become the dream of the great trusts and military adventurers and the nightmare threat for so many American workers. A'ftfer an impressive array of facts, Dr. Lilley answers the great question of this second half of the twentieth century: What type of society is needed to promote tecehnologiical progress, but at the same time keep mankind from destroying himself and per haps decimating the areas of the world he has already made more habitable? "The society needed to create civilisation from the inventions of the barbarians is quite different from that required to create an industrial civilisation from the inventions of medieval workers. At a certain stage, the organisa tion and institutions of a youthful society are well adapted to encour age further progress of the tech nology it then possesses. As that progress continues the technological level gradually rises. Eventually it reaches a point at which a dif ferent form of social organisation is required to facilitate further advances. But the society has its privileged classes — its Pharaohs and nobles and priests, or its slave-owners, its feudal lords and powerful craft Guilds, or its rich capitalists. These classes stand to lose by the required social transformation— for their power and wealth will be transferred to others— and they have in hand the power to resist change. Thus, while technology advances and comes to require new social conditions for yet further advance, society tends to remain static or at best to make slow and inadequate concessions to change. The discrepancy between the social conditions required for pro gress and those that actually exist becomes greater and greater, until at least a breaking point is reached and the society is transformed to further the technology of its time." Within his historical framework of technological change, Dr. Lilley shows that technological and social advance at the speed really needed by men and society requires social ownership of the means of produc tion, the abolition of classes, the eradication of war and a great turn to the problems of the under developed countries. A combination of all of those factors opens the way for a rapid advance by all men to a society , oi abundance. "Men, Machines and History" strips away many of the semantic trappings with which United States capitalism has been covering the facts of its own millions of hungry, its unemployed, its inadequately housed and educated and its in justices and inhumanities abroad. Some scientists may contend, as many now appear to do, that in the study of technological change and history a Second Industrial Revolution must now be recognised and that the first, which commenced in the Middle Ages and gained clear shape with the rise of the factory system, came towards an ending in about 1950. This unusually thought provoking book can be relied on to lead the politically conscious to look harder at the developing use of nuclear energy, electronics, automation and computer science and consider the . question:— How can you tolerate the glaring imperfections of capitalist owner ship and control? 