 THE POEMS OF YEVTUSHENKO Had Sun Books published Yevtushenko's poems before he visited Australia, they would have been a topic of interest to a relative few. But the timing of the appearance of these two slim volumes just AFTER his extraordin arily successful visit was a masterly coup by an infant publishing house. This is so because thousands of Australians must now be reading these poems, not just with liter ary curiosity but with a personal knowledge of the fire, the power and the deep sincerity of the poet who spoke some of them to thous ands of people at concerts here. One volume, the smaller, con tains 26 short poems of a fairly personal character, serious and challenging (like Colosseum")' ironic ("The City of Yes and the City of No") lyrical ("Sleep, My Beloved") and unroarious ("Jolly Ballad"). There is the shocking realism of "Picture of Childhood" — witnessing a man being beaten up by a mob — and the lesson en graved in the heart of the child: "And if a hundred are beating somebody . up, howling in a frenzy— even if for a good cause — I will never make one hundred and one!" Yevtushemco is an insatiable divi ner of right and wrong and an advocate of struggle for right; a poet of compassion for those bearing some suffering; a poet of honesty (". , , don't let me deceive people") and, without any ambiguity, a patriot. To Yevtushenko, patriotism and poetry are inseparable, and he writes proudly . . In Russia . . . the poet is his country's image, and the visionary symbol of the future." This is his opening of "Bratsk Station", a sequence of 35 poems comprising the most important work he has published so far, Around the fact of the construc tion of this vast socialist project, Yevtushenko has woven the pat tern of the history of his people, of their revolution, and his own ideal and viewpoint, representative of a young generation. There is no iack of bold criticism of those who have stood or stand in the way of the aims and spirit of the men and women who made the Revolution with Lenin. Such criticism may upset some, but it is clearly the criticism of one who identifies himself with the Bolshe viks. "You must remember them all, who cleared the land, Those who built, those who were heroes without any fuss, who didn't save a penny for themselves. You must remember the breed of Commissars who never lied to the people, and you must never lie, my boy, never!" One Sydneyite said recently in April, after having been to a Yev tushenko concert: "Wonderful per formance, but such a power of acting and speech is frightening, when you are captured even with out understanding the words." It is true, Yevtushenko is an exceptional artist on stage. He combines the vocal range and dramatic power of the great Shakespearean actors, with the calculated tones of a singer and the linguistics of a master, poet, while behind are the overtones of traditional, even cathedral, chant ing. There is a controlled intensity of emotion that makes each' mem ber of the audience feel person ally addressed. But above all it is that Yev tushenko has something very pro found and positive to say, so worth while saying that he has long studied and perfected how to com bine many arts so as to achieve his impact, no matter what coun try he is in. "The essence of a patriot is to lise in the name of freedom," he says, in a phrase very apt to the discussions current today in Aus tralia on the subject of "patriot ism", Yevtushenko has come and gone. "You realise that if I recite so heartily, it means I really like you and Australia very much indeed," he told his enthusiastic Sydney audience of over 2,000. Not only did Australians admire him and respond to his sincerity and realism, but they registered. . something of the man's challenge to action ... "There are still too many slaves in the world, — and not all the overseers have. vanished yet, but hate is always powerless if love, instead of contemplating, fights." [?] Hie City of Yes and The City of No and other poems (60 cents). Bratsk Station (90 cents). Published by. Sun Books, Mel bourne, Available at New World Booksellers, 425 Pitt Street, Sydney and all book stores. Hi % 4 V M A 'IV, in, 1 ' /n.r &lt;H YEVTUSHENKO 