 Policy aims behind attack on leaders HIDDEN FACTS IN A.LP. STRUGGLE 1 Unity call I 1 from Qld. J Ji NUMBER of significant facts have 3 been obscured in the sensational daily I press publicity of the present serious struggle in the Australian Labor Party. I One is the fact that the most recent statement on I the ALP by rightwing extremist B. A. Santamaria (News-Weekly, January 12) revealed how closely he k was in touch with the thinking of those ALP forces who have now launched a major attack on the party's elected J leadership. t Santamaria approvingly predicted a split this year in the ALP. / ' He even blueprinted the process he hoped for, stating | that when the conflict exploded the rightwing would f have to tackle "changing the leadership and by using | its present Caucus majority to defy Federal conference $ and executive alike." I Santamaria also said: "It is only the DLP which can ,J guarantee the political future of the same Right." '4 In the same article, Mr. Santamaria repeated his aim || of a "bi-partisan" approach by the two main parties || towards the goal of arming Australia "to the hilt" and HI full subordination to American foreign policy in South- !j East Asia. 4 This could only mean changing ALP foreign policy >"' to that of the Liberal Party. Role of dally press j m yf Fact Two is that all main daily newspapers, speak- H ing for the most powerful anti-Labor interests in Aus- | tralia, have been unusually united in support for the j| anti-leadership course taken by Mr. E. G. Whitlam. m Fact Three is that Mr. Whitlam, deputy parlia- mentary leader, has openly (in daily press and on TV) defied the constitutional leading body of his own party, |J choosing his moment in the middle of a crucial by- || election and facing a Federal election, ja With the help of the press, he, with Mr. Alan Fraser || a"d others, created a "crisis" and admitted on Monday ;|| night on Channel 7 (Sydney) he was working to seize II the Federal leadership. |1 In the face of these facts, members and affiliated ||| unions of the ALP have been moving to defend the fjgjl llnity of their party around its adopted policies. m The Queensland Inner Executive on Monday, for ij example, is reported to have issued a call urging H| members to "abide loyally by the rules and constitution f! ALP . . . members are advised not to determine || t'ler reaction based upon newspaper reports given by fij Persons desirous of wrecking the Labor Party." jg Queensland president (Senator Keeffe) was reported ll to have said that the ALP "will not split" on the State II aid issue; and that "I feel that all sensible members fu ALP and its supporters will not be swayed by H the outbursts of some." tt Slate aid pretext ffl r '' ig| . Last Friday, Mr. Whitlam, followed by Mr. Fraser, if publicly defied the Federal Executive of the ALP, m Meeting the issue of State aid to private schools as the H pretext. . . III Less publicity was given by the press to Sunday s II broadcast statement of the Federal leader, Mr. Calwell, || who said that the reports in the press had distorted H Proceedings at last week's Federal Executive; that the i executive had begun steps to work out a scheme of | . lrect ad to all students (one proposal is one dollar 1 a Wee to all primary school 'children) ; and that the I . Continued Page 12. STRUGGLE IN A.L.P. Continued from Page 1. constitutional legality of the Federal Government's present forms of aid to private schools would be. exam ined. Instead, some daily newspapers spread reports that unnamed "senior ALP officials" were making a new attack on Galwell, by alleging he had distorted the executive decisions. If is understood that, in fact, Mr. Calwell's state ments were absolutely correct accounts of what had happened. v' Significantly, Whitlam in his renewed attacks on the leadership on Monday, relegated "State aid" to the background and concentrated on personal attacks on the members of the Federal Executive; and an attempt to pit the Parliamentary Party against the Federal Execu tive, on the alleged ground of "humiliation of MPs". Whitlam also demanded reorganisation of the party, along lines already advocated by the Federal secretary, Mr. C. Wyndham, who was reported in Sydney on Monday in private conference with State Labor Leader Renshaw, his deputy P. Hills, and NSW party secretary Colbourne. In July of last year, Mr. Whitlam drew very strong criticism from the trade union movement when he said through the press and TV that "trade unions should not he allowed affiliation with the ALP if they were not' prepared to respond to party discipline . . .", and also attacked. ALP union officials who worked for unity of their members as "men without honor or courage", only interested in job holding. Editorial: Page 2 