 'FORCE ONLY WAY' TO SOLVE RHODESIA jONDON: Force was the only way in which the Smith racist regime in Rho desia could be effectively , loppiea, tne Communist "Morning Star" said last week. Describing Mr. Wilson's "six principles"— on which the ttmp Tiger settlement terms were 1 based— as a "betrayal" of the \ African people of Rhodesia, the "Star" said they "still provided i for the continuation of white racialist rule". | No deadline had been set for I the transition to African major- ) ity rule and no real guarantee i that the gaoled African leaders would be released. If Smith had accepted the j Wilson proposals, the "Star" | said, "white settler rule could | have continued for the indefin- I ite future." I "It would have been utterly | impossible for an African I majority to have been elected to the Legislative Assembly for a great many years ahead." i' I-. Appeasement i Asking why Smith had turned down proposals which would have given him so much, the "Star" stated that it was "be- j cause he was encouraged by ap peasement—as previous dicta tors have been — to believe that i he could get still more". Mr. Wilson had told Smith that he would not rule out the j use, of force in the event "of a second U.D.I." (Unilateral Dec- ictracion- or. Independence > , the "Star" adds. "Why then should he rule out force to end the first U.D.I.?" it asks. It recalled that Mr. Wilson had pledged at the last Com monwealth Prime Ministers' Conference in July that if Smith | rejected his "final" offer, all previous proposals would be \ withdrawn and Britain would ? insist on majority rule before independence. "The most effective and prac- f tical way to fulfil this pledge is by the use of force, in co-oper- f ation with the African States. I. "This is the course which Mr. I Wilson must take. It is the ! course that can put a speedy | end to the Smith regime, help I the Africans to liberate them- I selves from Smith's bondage and bring about a situation in I which majority rule can be in- | troduced with the minimum of I further delay," the "Star" con- I eludes. Meanwhile, Britain is making desperate attempts at the Un ited Nations to head off de- 1 mands by the African states for I direct action against Smith. I It has reluctantly agreed to add oil to the list of proposed I economic sanctions against Rhodesia, hoping that this con cession will counter mounting pressure for the use of force. 