 $ etters lid- the ll &lt;Mw Anti-Soviet campaign on television £ANNED television films are bringing into the homes of Aus tralian viewers one of the most subtle propaganda campaign ever under taken by the US to under mine Australian-Soviet relations. The past viewing year in. all television States of Australia produced a rash of pro-Ameri can "goody" films and anti- Russian "baddies". Every American service !rom the police to the FBI and lcluding the Navy, Airforce nd Army forces, have a week- f series depicting Yanks as the ail-American male-who- ,an-do-no-wrong" and who is the answer to every Austra lian maiden's prayer". Examples of these TV ijhows, which are screened lightly in some states are "I : led Three Lives", the story /&lt;f an American citizen who : 'upposedly joins the Com munist Party to reveal its secrets to the FBI and who naively calls people "com rade", the "Men of Annapolis", |he story of a US military college where young men are praised for being brainwashed and taught to act like the stormtroopers of the Hitler- ibilitar ised-Ge rmany . Even the paddies turn out to be goodies in the end. f In "The Man Called X" a super US secret service agent (who has a classic profile) is failed as a hero for such "dar ing" exploits as ensuring that qon-aligned nations support America and using "not very Subtle" propaganda to turn tjie peoples of all nations against Russia (whose every Consul and embassy caretaker in the film is a potential high ranking spy and bloodthirsty killer). American police, who recent ly beat up and often killed negroes who only sought equality, are shown in "The Naked City" to be sentimental humane lovers and guardians of society. At work, in pubs and on buses I have heard people dis cuss several of these pro grammes and; similarly rele gate them to the Alice in. Wonderland or Walt Disney realm of fiction. I think, it is important that, as peace-loving people in Aus tralia strive -to end the .war in Vietnam and . other US inter vention campaigns) a "pro- grams-for-peace" front should' be set up to try to stop these bloodthirsty pro-cold-war tele vision series from, entering the homes of Australian citizens, This campaign by the Amer ican celluloid vcity of Holly wood to make the enemies of peace out as heroes could quite easily be stopped by any sensible and mature organisa tion which lobbied the support of TV stations and television advertisers alike. Viewer, Adelaide. 