 Australian addresses CPSU Congress From RUPERT LOCK WOOD, Tribune's special representative at the CPSU 23rd Congress. OSCOW: The Australian Communist Party chairman, Mr. R. Dixon, speak ing at the 23rd Congress of the Communist Partv of the Soviet Union stressed the urgency of uniting the international com munist movement, all socialist countries and peace supporters to halt aggression in Viet nam and quench the flames of war. "Our party believes that it is essential to build this solidarity in support of the Vietnam people's heroic struggle for independence. "The war policy of the. Aus tralian Government against the national liberation move ments of Asia has imposed growing burdens on the Aus tralian people. "Monopoly profits, increasing war expenditure and rising prices are undermining the security and living standards of the people. "As a result, a powerful strike movement has developed .embracing industrial and white collar workers. There is a marked growth of unity among workers. "The Communist Party has waged a consistent struggle for peace. "Nowhere is this more im portant than in the long strug gle we have waged and are still waging for withdrawal of Un ited States and Australian troops from Vietnam and for a peace that will ensure inde- : pendence for Vietnam and all i south east Asian peoples. "There is a sustained and j broad-struggle against the dirty : war in Vietnam and powerful j torces of the people are in volved. "The. Australian Labor Party and the trade union movement condemn the war and demand withdrawal of Australian troops. "Intellectuals, church leaders, students, youth organisations and women have come into the struggle and new forces are emerging every day to oppose the Government's decision to send conscripted soldiers to Vietnam. "The most important feature of the situation in Australia is that all main organisations of the working class move ment oppose the Govern ment's policy and demand withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam. I Communist unity "The fight for peace is devel oping at various levels and for - a variety of objectives. But all these trends are moving into a single stream of opposition to ruling class war policy. This movement objectively is part of the world struggle against imperialism." Dealing with the vital unity i issue Mr. Dixon said:— "We are convinced that the ; US imperialists have taken ad- ' vantage of the division in the : socialist camp in escalating the : war in Vietnam. "Our party welcomed the initiative taken by the CPSU to establish the solidarity of soci- r a list countries and to render : political and material support lo the Vietnam people. i- "To hinder this solidarity in present conditions is in con- :: flict with the fundamental ! needs and interests of all peo- . pies, of the socialist countries, of the national liberation move- - ments and of all who stand for peace. . "The unity of the world com- munist movement on the prin- ; cipled basis of Marxism-Lenin- ' ism and the decisions of the 1957 and 1960 Moscow confer- t ences is essential in the strug- % £le for peace and socialism. I "We support the principle £ that all parties are independ ent and equal and we are against interference in the in- r ternal affairs of other par- ties. "Those who violate these great principles and denounce all who defend them as revisionist interfered in our internal affairs and tried to split the party. "We met this challenge and defeated it. Today the tiny group of splitters is isolated from the advanced workers and intellectuals in Australia and is of no political consequence. "The Communist Party of Australia however is firmly un ited and is stronger politically and numerically and has closer ties with the people than before the attempt to divide our ranks. "Our party welcomes the positive proposals and meas ures of the CPSU at restoring unity of the world communist movement. We declare our sol idarity with the CPSU. We are resolved to continue working together with our brother par ties for world communist un ity. Mr Dixon in conveying fra ternal greetings from the Aus tralian party said:— "We rejoice with you in your outstanding achievements, in the economic and cultural devel opment of the Soviet Union, the improvements in living stand ards, and the inspiring perspec tives of the new five year plan. "We are confident that the 23rd Congress will lead to new and mighty victories for social ism and peace." 