 MEET JACK KELLY: £ Fifty years of vision .. .. HARRY STEIN interviews J. H. KELLY, author of the controversial A.B.S. publica tion. "The Struggle for the North". AFTER interviewing J. H. Kelly, I'm convinced that his life story is as in teresting as his controversial book, "Struggle for the North". Jack Kelly is a sprightly, young 72 years, with at least two more books to go. Next year will see him off again to Queensland, the Northern Ter ritory and the Kimberleys, this time by jeep, for an up-to-date survey of Northern Australia's- eco nomy. Jack Kelly's adventure with the land goes back to the Murrum- bidgee Irrigation Area as a soldier settler after the first world war. Although the MIA is today a flourishing area, Jack Kelly says that the early soldiers settlement scheme was hastily and ill-con ceived, leading to many settlers being forced to walk off their farms. He learnt a great deal about land settlement and utilisation at the time as the head of a settlers' organisation. In 1925 Kelly was elected to the ' Mirrool (Griffith) executive board of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, which in 1927 was given statutory powers. He was first and only chairman of a statutory exe cutive board administering the MIA. In 1927 he convinced the then NSW Minister for Agriculture, the late Mr. H. V. Thorby, of their need for full local government and became the first president- of a shire council in an irrigation area, the Wade Shire Council at Grif fith. "It is hard to realise," Jack Kelly said, "that up to 1933 the MIA was a depressed area. That year there was a series of investi gations into the soldier settlers scheme by the NSW Government, in the course of which the lease holders' organisation, of which he wias the leader, convinced the Gov ernment it should lift the burden of debt and reduce rents to an economic level. "From that point," he says, "can be traced the development of the MIA to what it is today, the most productive area of its kind in Aus tralia." In 1919 he had joined the Pro gressive Party, which shortly after became the Country Party. In 1930 Jack Kelly stood— un successfully— as a country Party candidate for the Murrumbidgee electorate. IN the winter of 1938 calamity threatened the MIA with a fall in the run off into the Burrunjuck dam and progressively the water level declined to a point . where it looked as though the dam would have to be closed early in 1939, If it had not been for an un expected break it would have led to the death of the area altogether. "It was during this crisis," said Mr. Kelly, "that R. F. Harnett, a surveyor who had served his cad- etship in the Snowy Mountain area, proposed to me a scheme to divert the water of the Snowy River into the MIA by the building of a dam at 'the junction of the Snowy and Eucumbene Rivers. "But I told him there was a big hump dividing the rivers. "I expected you to say that", Harnett replied, adding that the proposal had first been put for ward in 1884 by Surveyor-General Adams to prevent the Murrum bidgee River, then an important waterway right up to Narrandera, from degenerating into a chain -of waterholes in drought time as had happened in the early 80's. "The proposal was to drive a tunnel 27 miles through the Divid ing Range to convey conserved Snowy River waters to the head waters of the Murrumbidgee. "It was then investigated by a Royal Commission, shown to be a physically feasible scheme, but was proclaimed financially impos sible. "Harnett showed me a map of the Snowy Mountains area and pinpointed the proposed diversion, and also showed that the Snowy waters could be diverted to the Murray River and within that complex there could be establish ed a number of hydro-electric power stations," Kelly said. "In short this subsequently be came the Snowy Mountains scheme. "I called together the Murrum bidgee Irrigation Large Area Hold ers' Association, of which I was secretary, which decided to call a major convention to consider Harnett's scheme." THE Convention was held in Griffith on January 1 4, 1 939 during a NSW record heat wave,. The proposed diversion scheme was supported by John Curtin, then Leader of the Federal' Labor Opposition. The Wagga Daily Advertiser on January 16 in reporting the Con vention wrote:— "The next resolu tion was moved by R. F. Harnett —that this conference suggests to the NSW Government for inves tigation the provision of increased storage for immediate supply by tapping the Snowy River water from the junction of the Eucum bene and Snowy Rivers, and that this Convention agrees to cooper ate with the Irrigation Commis sion in all measures to be under taken by it for increased storage." The Advertiser went on to re port that "J. H. Kelly moved and it was agreed that there should be a nation-wide water conserva tion and hydro-electricity authority in the form of a council of Com monwealth and State Ministers on the lines of the Australian Agricul tural Council. The object of the Council was to make a thorough Australia-wide survey of water resources and utilisation of waters to the best advantage in a con tinent which has the world's low est annual average run-off." The drought broke on February 28, 1939, which became a bumper year, so that most of the enthus iasm for the diversion of the Snowy waters evaporated," Mr. Kelly said. IN 1940 he joined the RAAF and in the follow ing year stood as a Country Party candidate in the State elections. His idea of standing again for Parliament was to challenge the NSW Labor Party, then in opposi tion and led by Sir William Mc- Kell, to do something about the diversion of the Snowy waters. The Labor Party was elected to the Government benches in May, 1941 and accepted the challenge. They established a committee to investigate the proposals to divert the Snowy water and this led to the beginning of the present Snowy River mountain scheme. Mr. Ben Chifley, the then Prime Minister of Australia, came into the picture in 1945-46 and his Gov ernment launched the present scheme which was commenced in 1949. After a period in the RAAF he joined the army as a staff officer. During this period he met Mr. Chifley for the first time. He dis cussed with Mr. Chifley the prob lems of the proposed post-war soldier settlement schemes. Mr. Chifley was also keenly in terested in the Snowy River scheme and had read all the var ious proposals about it, including the resolution of the Griffith con ference in 1939. Mr. Kelly left the Country Party in 1941 and joined the Australian Labor Party in 1950. Today he is the senior vice president of the Canberra ALP branch. On January 2, 1945 he joined the Ministry of Post War Construc tion at Mr. Chifley 's invitation and spent three years in work connected with the war service land settlement scheme. Early in 1948 he undertook an economic survey of the beef cattle industry in Northern Australia for the Bureau of Agricultural Econ omics, then under Mr. Reg Pollard as (Labor) Minister for Com merce and Agriculture. He concluded this work when he retired in 1964 and then set about writing "Struggle for the North". |T was his work on the beef cattle industry in the North that gave him the idea of undertaking a penetrating study of the economy in the remote regions of North Aus tralia and measures that should be taken for sound economic development. It is not generally known that at the age of 12 years Kelly was a trapper in the Wallsend, NSW, coalmine, then owned by the Aus tralian Agricultural Company. He was practically self-educated up to matriculation standard. His association with rural in dustry has ranged over nearly 60 years of a great variety of experi ences and after he completes a . more academic study of Northern Australia's economy he intends to write his autobiography. We will certainly be looking for ward to reading the full story of his fascinating life. 1 /. H. Kelly 4 B 