 siuuKnnnmn»mnmnmmimt»»tn:niffl;nmnm:»m»nnnnnnn»»ntn»»nn»mn»»»nn»n I Need for improvement j 1 in N'casfle transport I: NEWCASTLE: Since his appointment by the Askin Liberal I: |i Government, the Minister for Transport (Mr. M. Morris, ij I: M.L.A.) has been besieged with demands from the people of the ii \ Newcastle-Lake Macquarie area for improved public transport, ii j He has met many deputations and made numerous inspections, but after I':' some early promises the problems remained unsolved. || He therefore set up a | Newcastle and District 1 1 Transport Survey Com- I ; mittee under the chair- : manship of . Aid. P. J. : Purdue (former Lord t : Mayor of Newcastle) , S : with representatives of ti transport departments as j: the other members, and . £: Professor Ren wick, of the Hunter Valley Research : Foundation, as vice-chair- 3 man. F || Last Wednesday the | : Transport Survey Com- 1 1 mittee held public ses- g sions at which submis- £: sions were made by inter- £ : ested organisations. XX I The Chamber of Com merce proposed the es tablishment of a terminal at Hamilton, necessitat ing' city travellers to catch two buses. This was a Newcastle wartime mea sure that was (abolished soon afterwards because it greatly inconvenienced the travelling public. The Motor Omnibus Proprietors' Association g sought the allocation of | : services in the outlying | : and fringe areas to private 1 1 bus lines, as well as an I ; amendment to the legisla- f: tion to enable such oper- | ators to be given seven fj years security. They also I called for the setting up of a Transport Regulation Board. Mr. C. Horan, Newcastle organiser of the Bus Em ployees' Union, outlined a series of residential areas requiring bus transport. The high schools, too, should be provided with direct transport. He also called for the standardisa tion of timetables as is done in other States so that buses would leave on the hour and half -hour. The secretary of the Newcastle-Lake Macquarie Transport Advisory Com mittee, Mr. J. Kreckler (to which mass organisa tions are affiliated) called for a survey of the needs of all schools in the dis trict. On behalf of the North umberland Council of Progress Associations, sec retary Mr. M. P. Ryan re ferred to the chaos of public and private trans port causing the huge road toll. He called for the fur ther development of pub lic transport and for its electrification in the New castle district. The Newcastle and Northern District Com mittee of the Communist Party, through Mr. M. P. Copley, also made submis sions which were received with much interest by the members of the Survey Committee. It was pointed out that the present chaotic posi tion of transport in Aus tralia was of national con cern as it was seriously affecting the economy of ' the country. The advent of the mot or car had eroded the pub lic transport system; had :: resulted in the expendi ture on roads rising from 15 per cent of all public works expenditure 10 years ago to 25 per cent :: today, whereas expendi ture on water conserva tion has been at a mini- :: mum; had, because of in creasing fees, taxes, in surance and costs of maintenance, placed in tolerable burdens on work ers. The District Committee of the Communist Party called for — Public ownership of all means of community transport. Electrification, as much as possible, of this transport. ® Increased use of rail transport. Cheap fares. Finance from the Commonwealth Govern ment, as the main rev enue collector, in the na- : tional interest. 