 Here's why ACTION is essential to win wage increases By the Industrial Correspondent. "When do I get a quid?" And that, the Financial Review recently conceded is what "the wage earner might well ask" in the course of the manoeuvrings and legal actions over the constitution of the Arbitration Com- mission Bench to hear current main wage claims. The manoeuvrings have ended, the Bench is named, the employers' High Court legal action has failed, the date for commencing the hearing (March 8) and the procedure to be followed have been announced. "When do I get a quid?" Now many workers are really asking: "When do I get a quid?" Of course, much more than "a quid" is involved in the claims, and workers are in need of much more than a quid. As though to answer the above question, authoritative trade union bodies have called on workers to act in support of their claims. ' Calls for campaign The ACTU has called for a campaign of the whole trade union movement. The 400-strong demonstration by workers in Melbourne last Tuesday when the wage case, due to open before the Arbi tration Commission, was di verted by the employers to the High Court, was an ex cellent first response to the ACTU call. NSW Labor Council has called for "direct approaches to employers seeking payment of the full trade union claim immediately" and for "such approaches to be supported by activity ... in each indus try." A National Conference of the Metal Trades Federation has made a call for similar action (see Page 3). This conference was repre sentative of the unions in whose name the current de mands — both basic wage and margins — are being made. These calls for activity in support of the claims are a recognition of the need to combine advocacy of the claims before the Commission with vigorous campaigning outside of it. The unions' advocate, ACTU Research Officer R. Hawke, will undoubtedly press the claims capably and vigorous ly, but will be opposed by the combined forces of . the em ployers plus the Federal Gov ernment. They will seek to use to their advantage the current "pause" in the nation's eco nomy and the effect on the economy of further commit ments in the dirty war in Vietnam. So substantial support for Mr. Hawke's advocacy will need to be made obvious. If the unions' claims were granted in full, they would do no more than: Restore the purchasing power of the basic wage to its June 1964 level. Add $2 as compensation for increased productiv ity over the past two years. Prevent further erosion of the purchasing power of the wage by restor ing the system of quart erly adustments to meet price rises, and Restore the purchasing power and relativity of the margins to their 1947 level, i.e. the level of 19 years ago. But to achieve even these limited and thoroughly justi fiable aims, a substantial wage increase is needed. For example, the base rate tradesman's wage would have to be increased by a total of $10.20 (£5/2/-). No Arbitrational tribunal has1 ever granted such an increase. 