 f „ „ =Z= JLJELLO, Junior Tribune Readers, I am sure that you'll agree with me that this is a very nice time of the year — it's school holiday time. For some of you the exams are over — some still have to come — best of luck to all of you. With holiday time I hope that you will find time to write in to me and send in your ideas and some stories about what you have been doing. CHILDREN'S DAY Received a really fine poster from Ruth Gregory (16). of Balmain, NSW. Ruth's poster is in orange and brown, and is a very happy poster. Did you send in your poster or card ideas? If you didn't have time before the .holidays, you might like to have a try now. 2. A poster using no more than two colours (8iin x 13in). 2. A greeting card with a little verse show ing your ideas of friendship between children. ... MORE ART An older reader from West. Australia has written in to tell us that the Hungarian Peace Council have asked for our drawings (any style on paper) for an international child ren's exhibition. The age limit is 18. Entries should be forwarded by June 15. Address: The President, Hungarian Peace Council, V. Belgrade Rakpart 24, Hungary. Sorry the time is so short, but our friends overseas just do not give us any time. (Thanks, Mr Clements.) P.S.: If you do send an entry, send it away in a cardboard roll to protect it! DO YOU KNOW ??? 01. some of the more frightening science fiction shows we sometimes see or hear of plants that gobble up spacemen for supper, which sounds a bit odd, but did yon know there ARE certain plants on our earth that do eat insects? There's the Venus fly trap, the sundew, the / butterwort, bladderwort, American side-sad dle and pitcher plants. The bladderwort has no roots and relies on the insects it catches to supply the nourishment for it to live. These living fly catchers look like ordinary plants to the flies, and they can, wander back and fro over the leaves until they touch the little fine trip wires and the two petals or leaves come together and the fringed spines lock. Have a happy holiday, and remember all the safety rules when you are hiking, fish ing, swimming or just having' fun! — Dinewan. 