 ON THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE :f EARLY PREMIERS' TALKS URGED : EXTRA FINANCE URGENT Rv our Industrial Rmindsman JYDNEY : NSW Labor Council has called on State Premier Askin to press for a Premiers' Conference immediately, instead of next February, to obtain federal finanr for the States' essential community services. The Council also called on the Australian Council of Trade Unions to convey their support and request for such a conference to Prime Minister Holt and Opposition Leader, Mr. Calwell will be asked to' back the demand in Parliament. The NSW Teachers' Federation, which sponsored the move at Labor Council last Thursday night drew attention to the following statement by the Federal Treasurer in his recent Budget Speech: "To build up our population, to develop our resources, to enlarge our industrial capacity, to increase our exports ' to improve our standards of education and health — all these ' are highly important not merely for the welfare of the nation but for its security." Council said that in contrast with this affirmation of principle, the finances made available to the State Governments by the Federal Government are quite inadequate to cater for the community services essential to "the welfare of the nation" and its "security" provided by the State Governments. A survey by the Teachers' Federation showed that 45 per cent of all first, second and third form classes would have more than 40 pupils next year, compared with 12 per cent this year. ' This survey was, based on . replies to questionnaires sent to all secondary schools in NSW. Enrolments in the State's primary and secondary schools next year will increase by 26,000 compared with 13,000 this year. About 13,000 of these will be in the new sixth form and the cost of educating them will be equivalent to the cost of educat ing 52,000 primary school children! The federation said that a substantial allocation of loan funds would have to be made immediately to provide adequate school accommodation next year. "Unless this is done, the NSW Education Department would have to partition school assembly halls into temporary class rooms," teachers say. 