 ! TIRED REPUBLICANS "FIRST A. II EN" reviews «AUSTR&lt; A AND THE MONARl Y'\ edited by Geoffrey I ton (Sun Books, Syd \. $1.00. And certainljpne of the articles run the lin#-the Royal Com monwealth: SP#- But perha»hese facts, which at; "rst B,w' uusni seem a strength, 'sflwhat cause the book to ho: a disappointment. For in few Places does one get Pession that the writers rd Ipre about what ihev are ? i." much of the time-® jjpem to be just throwing u.?r 1 1 r6W|nents which they ere tir |of reiterating. The ertl® Donald Horne and Don Won especially err in this sllplc journalese based on jT?n1 ted general izations nSJi heard many times bef0IiLm&lt;: even includes numerou5 w3 from his own booh C()un&lt;ry- jronicflMjl" too, what is in many "est article in the colleotieffi the only one not on the tS,Jbk Marshall's "Tire Mona'fo Great Britain". It manageS fnv®y the sense of spectacle Byplay whlch makes the,fy such an in tegral Pa | British way o>: life. (And which no doubt helps balance the British budget as well). And as far as Britain is concerned, isn't it the spectacle and tho mystique that is Royalty? The doctrine of the Royal Family is not based upon what sort of people they are (who knows that?), hut upon this sorts of values and attitudes they repres ent to the British nation: pomp and ceremony, family togetherness, a touch of waggishness and non conformity. A sort of bourgeois ideal. And if we in Australia are to oppose the present situation by which Queen Elizabeth is our queen, then here are the grounds wo have to oppose it on. And one of the oddest things about Australia and the Monarchy is that only one contributor hits this nail on the head: Richard Walsh when he writes that for Australia "the Monarchy is grotesque . . . because it seems such a betrayal of everything we believe in", and tha'; it "is an insult to our social values". Britain can keep her symbolic monarch if she wants too, but isn't the Queen of Australia not just an anachronism but a denial of the whole Australian way of life? (Available from New World Book- lelleff and other bookihopi.) 