 182 WOUNDED, BUD? TERRIBLY SORRY! "|"HE mere report that "Vietcong" are in a village is sufficient in US eyes to warrant its total destruction with the killing and wounding of its inhabitants. This is clear from the na- ture of the "apology" offered uy uo sources ior cne comb ing in error of a "friendly" village in the Mekong delta of South Vietnam. At least 15 were killed and 182 injured when the village, Truong Thanh, was totally destroyed by US aircraft on August 9- Responding to the uproar, President Johnson asked whe ther were "Vietcong" in the village and whether a US plane had been fired on. He was told "Yes". He did not ask whether the alleged presence of guer illas is normally considered by the US military to warrant the slaughter and maiming of 200 innocent men, women and children and destruction of their village. The answer would have been "Yes" to that, too. Only when they slay de fenceless civilians in the "wrong" village do the US generals see any need to apologise. When they do it in the "right" village it is part of the war. Another apology will be needed for the second "mis take" which followed within 24 hours of the first, an at tack on an American coast guard ship with the death of . two Americans. There are not the first such errors by the US military but they are probably the worst— and will have the worst effect on US allied troops' morale in the field. How little these crimes or "errors" are aiding the US is shown by a South Vietnam Liberation Press agency re port, It says that over 115 ham lets were liberated from US control between early June and mid-July. The disasters of last week could not have come at a worse time for the warmong ering US President, who is suffering a new slide in pub lic esteem — after a brief lift for it among the "hawks" with his bombing of Hanoi in June. "Vietnam has dragged down his dream of a Great j Society", writes the Sydney j Daily Mirror's New York cor- j respondent. j "The millions have poured ! into a tiny cesspool 8000 miles \ away. . . He will be 58 this j month and his popularity is I declining." j The Sydney Morning Her- old's special correspondent in I Washington sends a report that independent surveys by j the Christian Science Monitor ; and Life magazine show the same trend. 