 Thin fare at Karlovy Vary yHis is a thin year for cinema all over the world, judging from the films entered in the com,- 1 petition at Karlovy Vary. 1 In this respect, however, Kar lovy Vary was no different from other festivals in 1966. It brought nothing of special interest, no discoveries, and only served to confirm the existence of a crisis. With a few exceptions, the films shown- were on a respectable I level, but not one was outstand- I ing' I Consequently there was nothing I for the international jury head- I ed by Professor A. M. Brousil to do except to decide not to give the Grand Prix at all and to award three first prizes. . One of these went to the Yugo slav picture, Three, directed by Alexander Petrovich. The second was given to the Hungarian film Cool Days, directed by Andras Kovacs, and the third to a Cze choslovak picture, the work of Karel Kachyna, Carriage to Vien na. The prizes were given in this order, so the highest honour was actually Yugoslavia's. Three is composed of three short films joined by a common theme of tragic death in war. Cool Days provides horrifying evidence of crimes committed against Serbian and Jewish min- orities, and is another attempt to solve the problem of what makes man lend himself to ac tion which defies all accepted standards of human conduct. In Carriage to Vienna, the mental processes of a village girl who decides to kill two German soldiers in revenge for the murder of her husband are ex amined. During the Festival, which last ed for twelve days between July 12 and 18, 23 countries entered 24 feature films and several dozen more were shown on other occasions. The most notable characteristic of the entire pro gramme was the many films entered which, like the prize- Winners recapitulated social struggles of the past, and parti cularly of the Second World War. On the credit side was the fact that most of them attempted to show these war problems in con nection with the times in which we now live. It was clear that old concepts had been discard ed, and that no one is interested in showing that all the victors were heroes and all the vanquish ed criminals. The films had in common an aversion to war and thus were appeals not to let it happen again. Yugoslav director Alex ander Petrovich commented: "The Karlovy Vary Festival is the first to present so many films expressing the completely humanist approach of modern man to war". / yiTH all respect to this high purpose, it must be noted that the mono- thematic character of the Festival was tiring for the public. Asked what criteria were used in selecting the films for the Festival, Alois Plednak, the dir ector of Czechoslovak film, said: "We tried to pick works which we thought were worthwhile and which represent new values in the countries of their origin. "Our selection commission went to London, Moscow, Paris, Berlin, Rome and other cities. In addition, the majority' of the films had official approval, and it is very difficult for the spon sors of -a festival — even if they would like to express other views— not to reflect official opinion, which chooses this way of indicating what it considers most interesting in its own film culture. "Indeed, Czechoslovakia be haves the same way. It considers its ' participation in international festivals not only a cultural but to a considerable degree a poli tical matter as well." , The level of Festival does not say much for this system of selection, however, and a num ber of other highly-placed in dividuals in Czechoslovak Film indicated that the next one will be on quite a different basis. Criticism was also directed at the "open forum" which attract ed actors, directors, film critics and other interested parties from all the leading film-making coun tries. The subject chose, "Film as Art and Entertainment", was judged to broad to elicit useful debate; in fact the result was a series of monologues leading olf in all directions. In general, a Festival which had little to celebrate. (Reprinted from Prague Newsletter) A scene from the Czech film "Carriage to Vienna" 