 | The artist, the writer l and the lafcor movement " Close the gap," says Communist Party leader The gap between the working class movement and the creative writers and artists should be closed, Mr. L. Aarons, general secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, said in his report to the recent meeting of the party's central committee: The great issues of our day . affect creative writers and artists," he said, "It is impossible for most writers and artists to ignore the conditions in which they write, therefore they are af- , fected by the issues of war and peace, the sinister threat of nuclear war and crimes against humanity like US ag gression in Vietnam. "Nor can they remain aloof from the trends to spiritual poverty of life in capitalist society, both its consequences for life and morals and the debasement of culture by the mass media, caused by the search for quick and easy pro fits, and also an ideological motivation. SERIOUS ART "Most writers and artists seek to penetrate beneath the surface and depict reality artistically. "There are, of course, those who retreat from reality and turn the edge of their scorn for modern values against humanity as a whole; there are . still others who debase their talents in search of mon ey and are unashamed of writ- ting sensational potboilers, or exploiting the gimmicks of modern art. ' "The serious writer and art- ist, however, scorn such per version of talent. The com plexity of reality and its aesthetic reflections, produce many different responses. "We can note such variety in Australian literature and art, which produced the searchings for new forms in literature — as well as the flowing of conscious realist writing; in art we note the development of abstract art as well as the striving towards realism. TWO ASPECTS "Yet some of those who per haps do not consciously adopt a realist position can be striv ing for a criticism of capital ist society. "Patrick White sees himself as trying to show the rotten ness of present-day society; Clifton Pugh's portrait of R. A. Henderson, the newspaper magnate, can be interpreted as critically realist. "The Australian artists and writers in London who oppos ed Australian intervention in Vietnam took a bold stand; they included John Solson, a noted abstract artist. "The revolutionary ' stand point.. '.should be to close the gap between the working class movement and the creative artist. There are two main aspects here: — "The struggle for real op portunities for writers and artists and sympathy and help for the serious artists' efforts; and the demand for Australian programs on TV, the develop ment of book publishing, the commissioning of artists and sculptors for artistic decora tion of public buildings and places; and "The fight against cor ruption of public taste by US and other decadence and emptiness — are the most im portant political ways for achieving this. "The labor movement may also help by commissioning artists to beautify its own buildings, as the Communist Party has done at its head quarters in Sydney. The move ment should help writers in their efforts to take literature to the people. NEW FORMS "The main obstacles here are still narrowness and mechanical 5 concepts, which extend beyond an attitude that all art must be directly poli tical and can only be realist if it starts from a Communist stand. "Marx considered Balzac the greatest writer of his times, though he was a royalist reac tionary, because his artist's integrity enabled him to probe social reality truthfully, prod ucing in his readers a reaction opposite to Balzac's political views. "Similarly, we should not be suspicious and hostile to new forms and innovations, for all serious creative artists try to picture reality anew and in accordance with the spirit of their times. SEEK TRUTH "We should adopt a con structively critical view, and deepen our knowledge so we can engage in a vital dialogue with all who seek truth about man and society. "It might be salutary to re flect that the main political critic of new art, architecture and literature is Sir Robert Menzies, who once sought to establish an Australian Royal Academy to combat 'new art'. "We stand for ; artistic free dom; we oppose monopoly control, censorship and de basement of culture; we are also against administrative control of art." 