 W.G. Generals' power bid yHE recent bid for more power by high-ranking I West German militarists Generals Panitski, Trettner and Pape sent a shudder through Europe and should well cause concern in Australia. H Despite US Marine general W Wallace Greene's warning.., last I Ayieek;i "that r"'a "Communist I victory" in ; Asia would, i threaten Australia, all Aus- I tralian wars have been fought | against fascist and imperial ly ist regimes, a The loss of 90,000 Australian | lives in two world , wars has been due not to Asian "Com- I munists" but to German militarist putschists like those involved in the recent, attempt to force the resignation of the civilian Defence Minister von Hassel. One of them, General Heinz Trettner, actually. ' was a nazi; one of Hitler's air force leaders who, as an officer of the Nazi Kondor Legion in Spain, planned the massacre of Guernica during the Span ish Civil War. Power He and his close supporter, General Pape, joined Panitski in a joint resignation which, whatever the surface issues, was really aimed at winning more power for the generals in the government. Popular reaction decided the issue in favor of the min ister. As US Newsweek mag azine reported 'With Trettner 'S open attack on von Hassel, popular sus picion of the military, deep- rooted in Germany ever since the horrors of Hitler's regime, flared to life." Revulsion against the gen erals helped Hassel ride out the storm. . That . Hassel was not in principle opposed to the gen- j erals ideas was shown by his | choice of successors to Pan- I ltski and Trettner — Generals j de Maiziere and Steirihoff. Both have records of service Hitler's army. " The generals moved against a background of rising chau- \ ymism and revanchism in West Germany which is caus ing particular alarm in .neigh- ! boring countries — notably Roland. 1 Soviet New Times Polish K writer Marian Podkowinski I notes that the West German I Government itself backs the I ists' demands for the I mi frontiers> which would I SI Germany taking a large I part present-day Poland, Podkowinski recalls that Hitler declared, in his day that these frontiers were un acceptable and started World War II accordingly. Irksome to. the generals . and other West German milit arists is that the German Democratic Republic has just been commemorating the fifth anniversary of the erection of the Berlin, Wall. It has now become clear that the erection of this bar ricade to West German mil itarism was a means of checking, the onset of the crisis that appeared so men acing in 1961. 