 The circus in retrospect — »i—wnnmnnmT?TiffmWtHTHIinPHfflHmTB?rTlllllllliillll uili j n vhfl i'll ill i ii li ii i hi i i mil pi ii innoniiiiiPinuBh«iBiwii'inpiiimpinwniiii ARE THE SKIDS GOING UNDER CHILD HAROLD? |-g AROLD Holt might have won Lyndon B. Johnson's favors, but his ninth rate performance as Prime Minister is sending many in his own party up the wall. Last Thursday he took 7-g- minutes to make a weak reply to a question which JVlenzies would have dismissed in 30 seconds. Mr. K. Beazley MHR (WiA) had as'ked whether the request of the South Vietnamese Government to the Australian Government for troops could be published. Holt's rating is now so low that there are moves within the NSW Liberal Party to re place him with Fairhall, the present Minister for Develop ment, if the Government is returned. A senior member of the NSW Liberal Party spoke quite free ly about this at Canberra after the recent Federal Liberal Party Council Meeting. He also stress ed the difficulty of getting rid of a Prime Minister in office, but felt it still had to be done. Fearing to go into the elec- ; tions for the first time without ; their father image (Sir Rob- | ert) the Government opened ' the taxpayers purses for the | LB J circus, heralding the new father image of' Lyndon John son. LBJ not only gave out in- : scribed, ballpoint pens and spoke to street crowds as . though he himself was standing I in an Australian election, but ' from Melbourne on beean to i campaign openly for Harold r Holt. In other words, LBJ was ; going all the way with Harold. Abuse j Johnson left a bad impres ts sion on Labor men. Authentic I reports that have filtered ?' through concerning the discus sion between LBJ and a group , pf Labor Party parliamentarians : in Canberra. When it was suggested at the discussion that there was seri ous discontent in his own De mocratic party over his Viet nam policy and that his party, would suffer election setbacks over the same policy, LBJ re plied: "I don't care if Ful- b right (Chairman of Foreign , Relations Committee of the Senate) and Mansfield (Demo cratic Senate Leader) are de feated. I can work with Dirk- sen (Republican)," When somebody pointed out that Harold Wilson, the British Prime Minister, and Lester Pearson, Canadian Prime Min ister, were not all the way with his Vietnam policy, Johnson started up a tirade of. personal abuse against the Canadian and British P.M.s. This revealed the real LBJ, totally different from the home spun Texan who "would love" to live here, there and every place visited if he's ever ban ished from America. During the Johnson visit Australia witnessed the great est advertising campaign it had ever seen. The product — LBJ! "Confidential" Press photographers were al lowed two minutes to photo graph LBJ and his party be fore his discussion with the Australian Cabinet. After two minutes, Presidential Press Sec retary Moyer ordered them all out. except the President's per- 'onal photographer who re mained to snap LBJ during what was supposed to be a con fidential meeting. The press did not mention that, apart from White House affairs, LBJ kept a firm grip on his personal income. On one side of his telephone were but tons to press for the White! House departments; on the other side were buttons to con nect him with any section of his Texas ranch. Lobster There was nothing too good for the American and Austra lian pressmen covering the President's tour. It was im portant that they bought the product wholesale and sold it retail to the American and Aus tralian population. In Melbourne at the " Presi dential banquet, the press ate their lobster in aspic and drank from pure crystal glasses. At the press centre at the Can berra Rex on the night LBJ arrived, US Ambassador Ed. Clarke insisted on footing the bill. We are glad to record that pressmen that night drank over 2000 cans of beer plus a large quantity of Scotch, ate moun tains of sandwiches and in the early morning breakfasted on prime steaks. Many remained until the early hours of the morning because rumours were floating around that LBJ might visit the press centre. But LBJ, not at all anxious to meet up with the large de monstration eager to confront him, stopped on to celebrate at the Prime Minister's Lodge. The press men never saw the President that night; neither did the demonstrators. He slunk in through a back en trance. There were no free drinks at the Canberra Rex on the Fri day night, which made one press man so indignant that he telephoned the President's press secretary. Bill Moyers, in mid-air to complain. Churehwomen While LBJ was dining and drinking at the PM's Lodge, a group of elderly churehwomen amongst the demonstrators held up photos of the Queen and occasionally burst into "God Save the Queen." When I walked over to see the demonstrators, one of the ladies showed me the other side of the photo which said: "Bring the troops home from Vietnam!" In fact, during the tour, one often heard the phrase: "Well, they didn't do this even for the Queen." I believe that alongside the many who felt Australia's image was besmirched by the fawning on LBJ, these elderly ladies represent a backlash that will be revealed in election results at the end of the month. In some ways it was concern for the long ties with Britain, but it was also an expression of the need to preserve an in dependent Australia. 