 [?] Advice from an ex -conscript on the Vietnam war "|"HE Army public re lations experts are obviously going to great lengths to persuade to- day s conscripts to em brace an army career, and get ready to go to Vietnam. Some of the boys maiy be confused by the fact that their fathers and niany other Aus tralians rotted in Changi, died on the Kokoda trail and sweated in the Borneo jungles. Maybe they still think that Vietnam is the same kind of war. We have to find the way to show these lads that they are in the army in, a vastly different set of circum stances from the period of the German- Japanese fascist attempt to enslave the world by military ag gression. v? In-vthat. war, - like any true patriots, the Asian peoples fought the . Jap anese invaders and after driving them out, found they had to pick up their guns to fight the returning European oppressors from France, Britain and Holland. Just now Australian regulars are in Vietnam and unfortunately a number of them have been killed — just ordinary . blokes who pro bably never understood the war. -it is stated that soon conscripts will be sent there. Why are Australians in Vietnam? The Army tells the lads that they are fighting "commos" and if Aus tralians weren't in Vietnam the Communists would be in Austra lia. No-one is ever told how they would get here considering that the so-called Viet Cong have no navy, no air force and it would be a considerable feat for them to cross the Pacific Ocean. ? The truth is that not all the Viet Cong are Communists. They are Vietnamese patriots fighting to rid their country of foreign invaders just as we would fight if Australia was invaded. Australians in Vietnam are being put in the position of fighting, for the interests of American million aires who want to make more mil lions out of the mineral and other wealth that abounds in South East Asia. ' The Vietnamese people beat , the French, they also beat the army of the Vietnam American puppet Ngo Dinh Diem, and now they are inflicting defeats on U.S. and other troops. They are not fighting with mod ern weapons — no tanks or planes, some of their fighters are still us ing bows and arrows.: The Americans are fighting with some of the most inhuman weapons like napalm, phosphorus bombs, and gas. A great crime is being com mitted by our own Government in following the American policy like a lap dog and wasting the lives of young Australians. Perhaps not all the call-up blokes Will go to Vietnam but some will simply be demobbed after two years. But will they be !,bettei men"? Will they have the advantages over the other fellows that have been promised by Army Minister Dr. Forbes. On the basis of my experience he is far from telling the truth. Two years' service does not put a quid in your pocket, it does not keep you in a job. It may make you wonder why someone like Menzies can put you in a uniform but never was in one himselff R. Barrett (former conscript). 