 Struggle in the ALP Firm Vietnam policy lays unity base By a Political Correspondent JYDNEY: Proposals for united action around the major political issue of over seas conscription and the Vietnam war have emerged in the past week as important positive aspects of the struggle in the Aus tralian Labor Party. Labor leader Cal well's strong calls for a referen dum or national election, to enable the growing opposition to conscription for Vietnam to be ex pressed, effectively cut across the continuing right- wing and daily press campaign against the ALP Federal Executive policies. A Federal Executive reso lution, previously unpub lished since the February 11 meeting but reported in the "Australian" last Friday, is said to have called on "all State branches of the ALP to intensify their activities and promote the fullest pos sible public understanding, acceptance and support for Labor policy on this ques tion." The resolution condemned in unusually sharp terms the ten dency of the war to escalate and the "cynical" resumption of the bombing of North Viet nam. It expressed "absolute op- iposition" to the Holt Govern ment's plan to post "voteless conscripts" -to Vietnam and warned of the danger to world peace. Rightwing move failed There were increasing signs that the labor movement as a whole was closing its ranks around such major policies, and pushing aside political red her rings such as the "State aid" issue on which Deputy Leader Whitlam had centred much of his' recent challenge to the Party's Federal authority. Last Wednesday's meeting of Federal Labor parliamentar ians revealed that the most recent rightwing gambit (back ed by most of the press) to grab leadership of the party had failed. The majority of Caucus backed the existing leadership and its policy, despite the transparent efforts that had been made to separate the, MPs from the Executive. The unfavorable tii'rn i n g point in the struggle, from the rightwing viewpoint, had come at the meeting of the Federal Executive the previous week. " Victory " Most of the daily press com ments had attempted to paint this as a "victory for Whit- lam" because the Executive had failed to expel him sum marily from the party. In fact, the real significance of that meeting was, that pro bably for the first tixxiet in the entire history of the ALP, a senior Federal officer .was publicly reprimanded by the Executive for his attacks upon the elected leadership. The Executive's decision to call a special Federal Confer ence on the issue raised the prospect, for Whitlam, of dis ciplinary action against him at the highest level. Then he failed to gain anything like majority, support in the Federal Caucus. Whitlam' s admission In a letter to the South Aus tralian ALP the next day, Whitlam "agreed to work with in' the framework of the party and to accept the decisions of its properly constituted auth orities." This was both a climb-down and an admission that he had been disrupting the party. 