 Calypso isle likes gay life yHE extraordinary gaiety and happiness of the people of socialist Cuba made a strong impact on her, Mrs. Freda Brown told the Tribune on her return last week. "They sing and dance at the drop of, a hat. "The people of Havana are as well fed and clothed as the people of Sydney." Mrs. Brown, secretary of the Union of Australian Wo men and vice-president of the Women's International Demo_ era-tic Federation, said this on her return from a visit to Cuba. She attended the celebra tion of Cuba's national day, the anniversary of the storm ing of Moncada barracks on July 26, 1953. Mrs. Brown paid tribute to the work of Cuban women in defence and development of the country.- Cuba was working under the continuing American block ade, American provocations and the constant threat of American attacks. The consciousness of this penetrated right down among the children. Beautiful Women were prominent among the militia. She saw beautiful girls staffing a beauty-care salon changing into militia uniforms for army training after work. Mrs. Brown also saw the American base at Guanta- nomo, in Cuba. "From here they stage provocations, cal ling on Cubans to defect, and promising them all sorts of benefits if they do," she said. "V/hen that fails they shoot. Two Cuban soldiers were shot dead from Guan- tanamo recently." From this hostile base, stuck right in Cuban terri tory, US planes spied on Cuba. Just outside territorial waters off Havana was a US warship spying on foreign snips entering. Those ships were thereafter blacklisted iroru American ports. Cuba could only be entered Mexico and Spain, fPart from an air service om the USSR and Czecho slovakia. The results of the US block er6 were not underestimated, rown said, but the Cu- ans were countering it with In of mend and make s and do it yourself. New industries were being built up. New crops were be ing developed, notably toma toes and strawberries, and here women were important. New nurseries — one to care for 800 children — are being built to free more women for productive work. An attractive feature of Cubans was their total lack of color-consciousness since their skins were "all the way from real white to real bla-ck", she said. (Cubans are mainly descended from the original Indian inhabitants, Spaniards and Negro slaves from Africa). Among those she inter viewed was Vilma Castro, wife of Minister Raoul Cas tro and sister-in-law of Fidel. Mrs. Brown protested strongly against her treat ment by Mexican officials who, apparently under US in fluence, copied particulars from her passport, stamped it prominently as indicating that she was going to Cuba, and even took a photograph of Mrs. Brown herself. She was told that this was routine practice for all Cuba- bound travellers in Mexico. 