 Captain flies away from "black ban" UNIONS' STERN REPLY TO GUNFIRE ON SHIP gRlSBANE: Stoppage of work that affected the whole Brisbane waterfront and included both Australian and Chinese workers followed the shoot ing and wounding of four Chinese crew members by the captain of the Dutch ship Straat Malakka here last week. The captain flew to Hong Kong on Tuesday this week for "consultations", leaving his ship stranded in Brisbane under a union "black ban". When news of the shooting broke, the Waterside Workers' Federation branch, Queensland Trades and Labor Council and other union representatives respon ded in international solidarity and went to the ship "where they met the Chinese crew. These actions followed: — Refusal of waterside workers to work the ship. A black ban" by unions on the Straat Mala'kka and a sister ship also in port, the Tjinegarra. A "black ban" for a day on the whole Brisbane waterrront. i Demands were raised for: — A thorough investigation into all circumstances of the shooting and removal of the captain and officers from their posts on the ship; Guarantees against victimisation or penalties on any crew members, and against penalties on local watersiders for their action. R Release of a Straat Malakka crew member who had been taken ashore by police and put in the Watch- house (but without, it was later found, any charge having been, laid against him). R Full treatment of the wounded crew members, and their repatriation home under proper conditions. Watersiders who were on the wharf beside the Straat Malakka at the time of the shooting flatly con tradict some of the lurid stories in the daily press slanted in the captain's favor. Mr. Jack Roberts (a vice-president of the Brisbane branch of the Waterside Workers' Federation), who was one of those on the wharf, said that it was not true that Chinese seamen on the Straat Malakka who went to protest to the captain against disciplinary actions made, any screaming charge or were carrying weapons. "ONLY HANDS" They went to see him with only their empty hands and their tongues," he said. It was also untrue that seamen had tried to tip over a car in which police had one of their colleagues. The ban on the Tjinegarra was lifted after satisfac tory assurances had been received from her captain about her crew. But the ban stayed on the Straat Malakka while negotiations continued into this week. The black ban" was placed on the waterfront on the Thursday when the Australian Stevedoring Indus try Authority imposed suspensions on more than 200 watersiders for their actions in the matter the previous day. This "black ban" was lifted when the ASIA gave way and removed the suspensions. Meanwhile, legal moves were initiated. As a result, one Straat Malakka seaman held in the watch-house was released, and later a writ was issued against the ship's captain claiming damages for alleged unlawful assault in certain cases and for alleged unlawful arrest and imprisonment in one case. The Chinese seamen expressed warm appreciation of what the Brisbane unionists have done in their support. SHIPBOARD scene the morning after the Straat Malakka shooting in Bris bane. Messrs. P. Healy, Brisbane branch secretary, Waterside Workers' Federation and J. Fitzgerald, Queensland Secretary, Seamen's Union, dis cuss the shooting with Chinese crewmen on the Tjinegarra nearby. j 