 Frank Hardy provides a first-hand account of the campaign now being waged by Northern Territory Abo rigines for full social equality "J" HE night 1 arrived in Darwin, I dropped into 1 a pub for a beer. Nearby 1 were three young Aborigines. I They were quite sober and 1 well behaved. Soon two 1 policemen came in and I arrested them. I tried to in- I tervene but was told to mind I my own business. I A white man standing nearby I said: "You'll get used to it, mate." I "What are they arresting them i for?" I asked. "Maybe they've got a quota," he replied. "You'll get used to it." But I didn't get used to it after ten weeks and I woh't get used to any of it, ever. I had been in the Territory be fore, during the war years, and had developed a deep affection for that much abused but kindly and proud race of people, the Aboriginal tribes of the North. I Much has changed in the Territ- | ory in the years between. The I cattle barons have become even B wealthier, rich mineral resources | have been opened up, but most j of beef and mineral wealth finds I its way into the pockets of the | foreign investors and speculators J from the South. I The population of Darwin has I increased from a matter of hun dreds to nearly 20,000. It is a modern metropolis with many fine buildings. The beer is good and people drink plenty of it. It is the most truly Australian city, perhaps the only truly Australian city. Life is leisurely, people like to yarn about their own environment and they have a marvellous sense humour. People rarely read Southern newspapers, or listen to the radio except for the news. And there is no television (a blessing one can only really appreciate after weeks without sitting in front of an idiot box) and this means less American and more Australian attitudes. The various nationalities, includ ing Greek and Chinese, mix well without much friction, and the majority supported the Malay seamen a few years ago. More and more white Territor- ians ; are prepared to accept the Aborigines as equals. 'Over-simpli fying, one could say that about one-third of white Territorians have an enlightened and helpful at titude to the Aborigines, including faith in their ability to solve their own problems. Another third are well disposed to the "black fellas" but take a condescending and paternal view. And a third are quite frankly anti-Aboriginal and this includes the majority of station managers and owners and not a few police men. Government Welfare Officers and others in responsible positions. A few of the smaller individual stations treat the Aborigines quite well, except where wages are concerned. David Warner, as Morgan, threatens his wife's lover (Robert Stephens), in a scene from Carol Reisz's tragi-comedy about the modern man, "Morgan— A Suitable Case for Treatment", now showing at Sydney's Lido Cinema. Morgan, a painter from a working-class family whose mother is a long-standing and orthodox member of the Communist Party, and who has apparently been a Communist himself, is being sued for divorce by his wealthy wife (Vanessa Redgrave). He embarks on a campaign of terror to break up her re-marriage, planting a bomb under her bed, abducting her to an idyllic lake-side retreat, and finally attempting to disrupt her wedding ceremony by making a dramatic appearance dressed in an ape's costume, the symbol of his desire to return to a natural existence, free of the pressures and tensions of modern industrial society. Director Reisz — who made the film of Alan Sillitoe's "Saturday Night and Sunday Morning" — has created a deeply-moving— and at the same time vastly amusing — study of the dilemma of a contemporary man alienated from the inhumanity of capitalism and haunted by the aberrations of Stalinism. The conflict, mainly portrayed in this unusual but highly significant picture, by the brilliant juxtaposition of shots from old Tarzan films, drives Morgan to mental breakdown, though Reisz deliberately con- cludes on a note of positive hope. -R M- Terms of abuse include "nigger", "coon" and "boong". . . Underground 0UT anti-Aboriginal feeling has had to go under ground somewhat in recent years, especially since equal rights have been granted on paper and in fact the per centage of whites with a progressive approach keeps increasing. The actual situation of the Abor igines keeps improving, too. More children are being educated although mainly in segregated schools. An Aborigine cannot be arrested for supplying his relat ives and friends with liquor any more. He can even drink in hotels, although" in practice he is encour aged to drink only in certain bars or section of bars. Less violence is used against them although when I was there e, case of police bashing came under notice and an Aborigine landed in Darwin Hospital from down the track with both collar bones broken after being brutally assaulted by five whites. Their wages have increased a little, a few even receive equal pay with the whites. But the pay situation remains deplorable on pastoral properties and elsewhere. Aboriginal stockmen receive as little as $5 for skilled and often dangerous work — mustering, branding, injecting. The Army pays about $10 a week and keep to its Aborigine employees (so much for the Government's attit ude). Missions and welfare settle ments pay less than the Army. Aborigines in Bagot Reserve' are often employed pottering about growing a few flowers and keeping the place tidy so that welfare can show tourists and visiting polit- icans how well they treat them. Apart from lack of equality in wages, . the worst part of the em ployment problem is lack of proper education and training and lack of job opportunities even when skills are developed. The fate of the N.T. Aborigines lies in their own hands but is bound up with development of the North. Only by vastly increased expenditure on water conservation'/ mineral resources exploitation, building projects, beef roads, etc. can work be created and main tained for the Aborigines (or white Territorians either for that matter). The Menzies and Holt Govern ments bear the main responsib ility for neglecting the North and for assisting the cattle barons and foreign landlords to pillage it. As a consequence, the vast majority of Territorians— white as well as Aboriginal— will vote Labor in the November elections. Handsome A/Y association with the struggles of the N.T. Aborigines began when Dexter Daniel called on me. He wanted to see "the bloke from Sydney who writes books". Dexter is a handsome fellow of earnest manner and deep thought ful eyes. He looks about 22 but is probably 10 years older. It seems to be characteristic of the Aborigine that he looks younger than his years early in life and older than his years late in life. He was hesitant at first, but soon opened up and revealed that his main preoccupation was the battle for equal wages. He seemed to be sizing up my reaction. Then, apparently satisfied, he expressed the view that if the Sydney conference on August 3 failed to agree to pay equal wages, strike action on other cattle stations was essential and indeed inevitable. Reports showed that Aboriginal pastoral workers had no patience with the three year delay. Then he told me that he had taken six' months' leave from his job as organiser of the North Australian Workers' Union. When I asked why he had taken leave at such an important per iod he said: "Well, I feel I can do more for my people if I go down the 'track' and live with them." (The "Track" is the only road to Darwin). He didn't go, however. Instead he stayed to help revive the N.T. Council for Aboriginal Rights. 