 /T CtcUt&OH&tt' &lt;U exaccC&ite FROM his sylvan retreat in the Blue Mountains Nor man Lindsay, now a sprightly 87, proclaims the unflagging industry of his artistic creation with an exhibition of his latest paintings at the Art Lovers' Gallery. Norman is perhaps the last sur viving contributor to that vigor ous flowering of Australian art a-nd letters; that flourished in the happier days of "The Bulletin". Yet though Norman's fame and fortune grew in part from the roots of his popularity as a car toonist and illustrator for "The Bulletin", his development as & fine artist did not follow the paths of democracy or Australianism taken by others associated with the early days of this magazine such as Lawson and Furphy. Instead |he turned- from the realities of the Australian scene to find inspiration in classic mythology, and along with pir ates, galleons and full-breasted captured maidens, his most bril liant work teems with wood gods, satyrs and lusty centaurs pursu ing crowds of naiads and sensu ously drawn forest nympths. To all this he added a strong Rabelaisian flavor and infused all his work with an essence of warm eroticism which affronted the sen sibilities of the over-prude and, a generation ago, he was our most controversial painter. He was not, however, an inno vator in artistic forms or plastic means of expression and it was this attack on prudery that mainly provoked controversy; his work was often regarded in the old fashioned sense as shocking. In . our day when on any warm day, near-nudity is accepted as ' commonplace and there is a con tinuing movement towards more complete understanding and equality of the sexes, Lindsay's crusade against prudery has little point, and his work today con tains nothing of social protest and does not touch even remotely on social reality. In turning his back, so early in his career, on the Australian scene as a subject for his art, Lindsay has contrived to live and work beyond the influence of changing politics and social upheavals, and also as though utterly oblivious to the exciting movements of con temporary art, which have wid ened its scope and revolutionised the techniques and plastic means of expression. This disinclination to allow modern life to intrude into his art seems to result in an inability to develop beyond a stage reached many years ago, leaving one with a disturbing impression that this present exhibition has already been seen some 40 years ago or more. In his chosen field Lindsay is a craftsman of exquisite refine ment, particularly in pen. drawing and etching, and his paintings, despite their make believe thea trical content, are handled- "with the superb skill of a highly in dividual stylist. His personal success is great throughout a long life he has not swerved from his chosen path, but nne leaveSi lfSt exhibition as ft"m E;,thinklns of those,® have faced t-he nemPorary Australisll®| own envir- &lt; onment and whose works have 1 -contributed in most varied ways to the living traditions of our distinctly national culture H. 1 McClintock. i If' 1 I NORMAN LINDSAY. j 