 Vietnam war burdens Approval would be given only if the project would earn enough to return the original capital outlay within two or three years — a condition that would require a profit rate of 33 l/3rd to 50 per cent, a year. Over the past 12 years, British investments in Austra lian companies have earned an average profit of 6.86 per cent. (US capital has averaged 14.15 per cent.). Government has over-spent Clearly such a British cones, tion on new investment could be met only by much more intensive exploitation of Aus tralian workers. It is also clear that Australia's expanding expenditure on its aggressive war-in-Asia policy is going to aggravate further our economic difficulties. For example, the adverse trade balance for March, $40.1 million, could be almost entirely accounted for by the cost of che missile firing destroyer, HMAS Perth— $38.9 mVlion— paid to its -American builders. Additional expenditure on the Vietnam war commitment, to gether with some hasty alloca tions necessitated by past failures to provide properly against drought and home- building requirements, forced the Government also last week to a decision to borrow $150 million above what was author ised in the 1965 Budget. Economy has slackened off This, as Treasurer McMahon confessed in Parliament last week, was due not only to these increased expenditures, but also to REDUCED REVENUE. This reduction of revenue. including sales tax and other income by some $10 million, duties, is connected with the and have hi.t waterfront workers relative stagnation or "levelling- hard, off" of the economy in recent months, noted in the Financial Rlslngprices, fares, insurance Review (March 23) and based rates and other imPosts n the on company figures for the first earners and farmers have half of the financial year. contributed to the weakening of spending power, and many There was, in particular, a workers have experienced a sag in sales and production in reduction of overtime, the many Important companies . associated with the motor, Fig hi" for home-building and agricultural machinery industries, and a Higher WOgGS weakening in the steel industry. Closely connected with this In New South Wales, the position is the determined fight drought consequences have by employers and governments affected not only the farming in Australia to hold wage levels and country town populations, down. but also have reduced railway The current wage increase demands of. the national trade . union movement — subject of big mass demonstrations at New castle last week and in Sydney on May 18 — are not only the minimum required to keep workers up with their past entitlements. The increased purchasing . power that would result can have a stimulating effect on the economy, although of course in no way solving its basic problems. Big firms beat the gun Not the least enlightening aspect of last week's events is the revelation of how major economic policy changes, al though abruptly "unloaded" on the public who stand to suffer most, are clearly no surprise to big capitalist interests. . For example, British capital exporters noticeably stepped up their investments in Aus tralia in the past six months and thus succeeded in beating the gun. The Commonwealth statistical report on the balance of pay ments for the January-March quarter this year showed a net apparent capital inflow of $173 million, an INCREASE of $128 million over the 1964-65 March quarter figure. A similar in crease was recorded for the December quarter, whereas the increase for the September quarter was under $60 million and the first half of 1965 had actually showed a LOWER British investment than in 1064. Remarks last week by top- level Australian business spokes men leave little doubt that a major reorientation of the policy of selling Australia is in the making, with Japan seen as moving into the British role (see story at left). Orientation to US, Japan Mr. A. J. Birch, director of the Sydney Chamber of Com merce, expressed doubt that the UK measures would be "tem porary" and said that Australian "probing for capital" must now swing more to Japan and Ame rica. He then served warning on British capitalists by adding: "Let us hope that the tem porary measure completes its innings before we become too set in our ways with our new financial partners:" Mr. L. H. Waite, president of the Associated Chamber of Manufactures, urged tax con cession agreements with Japan and West Germany (as at present with the US, UK and NZ) to stimulate investment from there. These statements, which go much further than McMahon and Holt into ( the realms of barely - concealed threats to British investors, indicate amongst other things that the real power and economic per spectives are determined in the big employer organisations rather than in Federal Cabinet. 