 CASTING THE UGHT INTO THE DARKEST OF CORNERS By SUSE MILLISS jRIVING through Bamako, Mali's capital, at night is like nothing else on earth. The streets are fine red dust, the houses mostly of rough red clay bricks — unlit except for candles on the tiny stalls selling cola nuts, oranges and cigarettes, or kerosene lamps shining dimly from within the houses. Arabic-style music from transistor radios and every now and then a group of people gathered around a small band of tom-toms, wooden African xylophones and three- stringed guitars. A few people at a time dance, either moving slow ly, languorously to the rhythm or doing quick and agile body move ments. Most people are out-of-doors. We pulled up and climbed the steps of a simple one-roomed building. Inside, sitting on wooden benches, a class of women— from teenagers to grandmothers— repeat ing words in unison after the teacher. All eyes showed concen tration. A baby tied in the traditional African way to its mother's back was gurgling to itself. Deep shad ows were thrown by the fuel lamps on the desks. As we came in there were smiles all round. We were introduced to the six teachers in charge. One a woman, a baby asleep on her back, the others men in Mali robes— full length and folded over the shoul ders. Daouda told the class we were Australians in transit and we were made to feel welcome. Mme. Diar- ra Fanta, a laughing elderly wom an with warm eyes, the class leader, came forward to shake hands on behalf of the class, ? WE'D . met Daouda Thiero on our'; three-day bus trip from the Ivory Coast. A lean man of 32, extremely friendly and above all in love with his country. He had spoken to us about Mali with as much affection as he did of his wife and three children. He is one of the directors of Mali's massive adult literacy cam paign, in full swing since 1961 and already with close on 56,000 students. This trip to the Ivory Coast had been his first holiday in 10 years. His job, he told us, . was a day and night affair. Months each year are spent out of Bamako, visiting the 54 literacy centres he's respon sible for, advising the monitors in charge of each on their teaching, checking on progress. Travelling through the country, past the small villages of thatched earthen huts, through the dust and glare, over the sandy ground, we could see for ourselves that Mali has enormous problems to over come. But from a person like Daouda and what he could show and tell us we could also see that this new republic is going ahead with gigantic plans for building up a socialist economy, developing the people's political consciousness and raising their cultural level. The fight against illiteracy is part of the first Five Year Plan launched by President Modibo" Keita in 1961. More than 430 literacy centres are operating. The country aims at a thousand. The first step in setting up one of these in a village is to form a literacy, committee made up of local representatives. It organizes the potential students in construct ing the classrooms on a self-help basis. Where there are already school buildings, these are used. The committee also seeks out mon itors. Monitors— the voluntary teachers at these centres— are literate mem bers of the local community. In the countryside monitors are often peasants who have been through primary school. In the towns monitors have usually com plemented their secondary educa tion. And in the towns, too, there are usually a few to a class. Each monitor does an acceler ated course in methods of teach ing, and submits periodic reports on the progress of the literacy centre and its pupils. All classes are held at night, five nights a week. The Ministry of Education sup plies each centre with a pressure lamp, a blackboard, text books, exercise books, chalk, pencils and a transistor radio. A radio programme each even ing supplements the work done in class, consolidates the teaching of the syllabus and helps the monitor in his teaching methods. The texts deal with health, agri culture and social education. The literacy course also covers element-, ary arithmetic. The country is divided into ten inspectorial districts, each directed by an adult education specialist. He trains the monitors, inspects the centres, provides technical ad vice and occasionally shows liter acy films. But the campaign is even broad er than this. It aims at mobilizing every literate member of the soci ety to take part. Youth Wingers of Mali's ruling party— the Un ion Soudanaise-RDA— volunteer to spend their vacations teaching adults in the country, as do sol diers, policemen, civil servants and town workers. Since the school holidays of 1962, full-time urban students volunteer to return to the village to take a spell at teaching themselves. The reports they write on their return tell of their classes often including white oearaea men who lean on their canes — enthusiastic, despite the poor lighting and dis comfort. But there's a snag too. In Mali twelve different languages are spoken — all non-literated. Since Mali's Institute of Social Sciences has been working on the transcription of the four main languages — Bambara, Peulh, Son- tais and Tamachek. Until this work has been .completed the literacy campaign must continue using Mali's official language— French. But it's inconvenient. Becoming literate in one's native language is naturally far easier. As it is now, time must be spent on teaching the French language itself. ? .THERE are lots of problems to overcome, by far not the least of which is finance. The country's resources are lim ited and Mali needs development in so many directions. $700,000 has been contributed to the literacy campaign by the people of Mali— a lot for a low income country. The Government itself can only afford to set aside $400,000 for the campaign each year. But there's been international co-operation— from UNESCO, the USSR, the US, France and Czechoslovakia. ? Before driving back through Bamako we walked around the classroom looking at exercise books. They were neatly kept and carefully written: "Bonjour Mon sieur. Bonjour Madame. Bonjour Mademoiselle. 1 + 1=2, 2+2=4". Mme. Fanta told us that most of the exercises are done as home work. Her family, she said, encour ages her a lot in her work. In fact her eldest daughter is a typist in a government office and helps her mother with her homework. I was wondering why, above all, Mme. Fanta wanted to learn to read and write. To find out what's going on in the world, was her answer. Mainly to read the papers. Other pupils had different rea- . sons. One woman finds it helps her to keep a check on her hus band's spending. As Australians who take things like basic education for granted, this visit was quite an eye-opener. The monitors give up all their weekday evenings to fight illiter acy. The pupils themselves have an enormous task to catch up on what they were denied under col onialism. And for the country as a whole — the campaign shows cour age, foresight and tremendous initiative in overcoming its prob lems. 