 NO YEKKA FOR KABAKA iy Roger Milliss "ISABAKA Yekka" means literally "The King Forever" and is — or was — the name of the principal political party in the kingdom of Buganda, part of the East African republic of Uganda. Events last week how ever, make it look as if the Kabaka Yekka has now become somewhat redund ant with the overthrow of the Kabaka, or King, by federal troops despatched by Ugandan President Mil ton Obote. ' - Anomaly Buganda has long been one " of the anomalies of Africa. When the British penetrated the region in the 1880's, they found a strongly established mon archy and landowning aris tocracy in firm control. After converting the then Kabaka to Christianity, the British built up his regime as a buttress against prog ress and change, granting it special privileges in their system of indirect rule. When the winds of change started to sweep Africa, not even the Royal Household of Buganda could escape the draught. The Ugandan People's j Congress (UPC), founded I by Mr. Obote, led the 3 struggle for independence a , and eventual republican status for Uganda. Under the compromise constitution dispensed bj Britain in 1962, Bugands and the three smaller king doms in the former Britisl protectorate were accordec special status in the newlj independent state. When Uganda later be- 9 came a Republic, the Kab- 1 aka, Sir Edward Frederick I Mutesa assumed the Presi- 1 dency — surely one of the 1 rare cases in history of a King heading a Republic. Mr. Obote was duly elected Prime Minister, Conflict steadily increased between the nationally- based UPC and the exclu sively Bugandan Kabaka Yekka, which contained the most conservative and re actionary elements in the country. It became increas ingly clefir that the tradi tionalist Kabaka Yekka was a brake on the modernisa tion of Uganda to which the UPC was dedicated. The present crisis began last February, when Mr. Obote suspended the ' 1962 Constitution and became President himself, deposing BnoaMBsaBBmnaMBaKHraBBBnnun the Kabaka, whom he ac cused of collaborating with certain unnamed but pres umably western "foreign powers" to seize the Gov ernment. Several rightwing MP's and Cabinet Ministers were suspended or ar rested. Matters reached a head last week when the Lukiko, | Buganda's Kabaka-dominat- I ed Parliament, decided to I secede from the federal republic. Roadblocks were 1 thrown up in the streets of E the federal capital, Kamp- ! ala, and arms were distrib- I uted to Kabaka Yekka sup porters. President Obote then" j ordered Government troops into action against I the rebels. The Kabaka's i palace— a colonial-style 1 mansion built 'for his 1 forcbearers by the Brit- g ish — was stormed, with | the Kabaka himself flee- 1 ing into hiding. B Latest reports state that I the Kabaka has called on | his Bugandan "subjects" to I rise against the federal | Government and that Pre- 1 sident Obote has called in | troops from next-door Tan- 1 zania to help him meet this | ! new threat. 1 r 1 l. Intervention I i The civil chaos precipitat- l ed by the monarchists of r Buganda can do Uganda no good. An early return to normality is to be desired. But in view of continued western intervention in Af rican affairs, as in Ghana and Kenya, and the mount ing imperialist threat against President Nasser and the left-wing Syrian government, it is becoming more and more obvious that more than local issues are at stake in Uganda. The Ugandan Govern ment newspaper Omuku- lembeze pinpointed this danger when it called on . the Ugandan people to help their leaders "put up a strong wall which will stop imperialist interfer ence in the affairs of Uganda". "If we fail to put up this wall we shall lose forever our independence which we have won with such diffi culty," the paper said. THE President of Uganda, Milton Obote. 