 Is Army morale sagging on Vietnam? HOLT TRIES JAILING AND SMEAR JYDNEY : Last week the Federal Government ruthlessly hit back against two youths in an evident attempt to halt the spread of anti-Vietnam- war feeling in the armed forces themselves. News of what appears to be the first case of an Aus tralian conscript soldier refus ing to go to the Vietnam war was guardedly admitted by the Army following a secret "trial" in Sydney. At the same time the Gov ernment resorted to secret poli tical police files in an unprece dented public attack on the mother of a schoolboy who had courageously refused to con tinue school cadet training for the Vietnam war. Last Wednesday the Army an nounced that conscript private J. Morse, aged. 20, a- "recalci trant soldier" whQ liad repeat edly said he would not serve in Vietnam, had been given 28 days detention in the notorious Holsworthy punishment camp for refusing to obey orders. According to the obscure press reports, Private Morse, of Randwick, was due to leave soon for Vietnam, but refused an order to board an army ve hicle. Questions Questions that must be asked and answered include! What was Private Morse's side of the case? What defence was made available to him? «. © Was he offered the oppor tunity to exercise his right of appeal as a conscientious ob jector? Under what conditions is he imprisoned at the notorious "glasshouse", Holsworthy de tention camp? Is he being given "the treatment" (like Gunner O' Neill who was staked down in a gunpit in Vietnam for 21 days) to discourage other sol diers from thinking for them selves about the Vietnam war? The schoolboy In the case of 15-year-old Robert Michaelis Army Minis ter Fraser staggered . even his own supporters by resorting to security police files to defend the cadet corps role in prepar ing lads to take part in the Vietnam war. Robert had to leave Sydney Grammar School when he de clined to continue as a member of the cadet corps after it had been ordered to carry out an exercise based on Vietnam war tactics. In Parliament Fraser answer ed an Opposition challenge by attacking, not the boy himself, but his mother. Mrs. Ann Michaelis, of Mosman. Using a secret police file, Mr. Fraser said that Mrs. Michaelis was a committee member of the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament, and was also secretary of the NSW branch of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. He attacked both bodies as being opposed to the Govern- ment's Vietnam policy and spoke of "Communist fronts". This drew an instant protest from Labor MHRs. Mr. Clyde Cameron accused Fraser of "slandering, under privilege, a defenceless woman, who cannot defend herself here." Mr. R. T. Pollard asked the Speaker: "How would the Min ister like somebody to attack his mother under privilege?" Next day Prime Minister Holt defended Fraser's action and himself read from the sec ret police file. Protests in the, press were., as. strong as those, in Parliament, A Sydney Morning Herald correspondent asked: "Have we . not reached the depths of des picable, contemptible behavior when a Minister of the Crown smears a 15-year-old boy through his mother and when a Prime Minister endorses the Minister's action?" In a newspaper interview Holt was pressed to say whe ther "a junior minister" could use a "security" report to blackguard a political oppon ent. His r6ply, "I wouldn't think so," satisfied few. Security "risk" Deputy Federal Opposition Leader Whitlam, last Saturday in Sydney, strongly attacked the Government's use of the security file to attack the lad's mother. "Soon anyone who raises his voice in Parliament will be a security risk" he said. Mr. Whitlam, who was speak ing at the Six Hour Day Din ner at the Trades Hall, said the Government was attempting to quell the dissent and dis cussion on its actions inrViet- nam. State Opposition Leader Renshaw said that similar smear devices had been used over the years against those opposing the Government. "We should lodge strong protests" he said. Editorial articles in the Syd ney Morning Herald and other dailies called on Sydney Gram mar School to give oy's free dom of conscience in relation to joining cadet corps. An honor Mrs. Michaelis commented to the press that it was . an honor to be secretary of the Women's International League for Peace, a non-governmental member of the United Nations. She was also happy to be cn the committee of the AICD whose membership includes many eminent and respected citizens. AICD president Dr. A. G. H. Lawes said Mr. Fraser knew that the AICD had no party affi liations but was broadly rep resentative of all sections of the community and included members of the minister's own party. 