 Subservience to USA fpHE Association for Inter national Co-operation and Disarmament produces many interesting publications in cluding Professor E. L. Wheel- wright's "Some Thoughts On An Independent Foreign Pol icy", in which he draws at tention to Australia's con tinued subservience to Ameri can foreign policy to the detri ment of our country. Australia's growing involve ment in Vietnam is causing real concern amongst wide sections of the people and through its policy on con scription the Liberal Govern ment is clearly demonstrat- ing its arrogance and dis regard for public opinion. It may he that at the Fed eral election the people will, in turn, demonstrate its con tempt of such arrogance. In a democratic society (so we are told) the government is the servant of the people and therefore subservient to the people. The people hold (or are supposed to hold) the real power and are thus the real defenders of democracy. They must take the role of watchdog of society. It is therefore important that the people acquaint themselves with the intrica cies of foreign and internal policy. To this end the pub lications of the AICD are of inestimable value. Marx wrote in October, 1864: ". ... Have taught the work ing classes the duty to master for themselves the mysteries of international politics; to watch the diplomatic acts of their respective governments; to counteract them, if neces sary, by all means in their power; when unable to pre vent, to combine in simultane ous denunciations, and to vindicate the simple laws of morals and justice, which ought to govern the relations of private individuals, as the rules paramount of the inter course of nations." We Australian working peo ple have not ALL learnt thi important duty, but we AB» learning, and our member are growing, as witnessed in the growth of the AICD an like organisations. Bureaucratic arrogance at home and interference over seas is the keynote of the p sent Government. Their a - sertions that we are ftgnons for democracy, freedom » orderly government low in the ears of intelligent Australians. With vague ge eralisations they put frw. their high-sounding ar, ments, none of which stand up to the test of truth. H. B. Austin. Henty (NSW). 