 i THE GUN By a Special Correspondent 9 I The trend by NSW police to become "gun-slingers" 9 may turn criminals to I SYDNEY: The press outcry about j armed hold-ups lends support to fears j among criminal lawyers that the grow- | ing use of guns by NSW police will in- j evitably cause criminals to turn to the sun- j While the increase in armed hold-ups is a fact, | banisters and solicitors associated with criminal j :a .7 say this may well be an effect flowing from | the recent trend toward police shootings. | Based on long experi- 1 cnce, they say that the I average criminal is not I violent and tries to avoid I clashes with police at all costs. Even the Sydney Morning Herald in a front page story last Friday (April 1) report ing NSW Government alarm at armed hold-ups, had to admit that in 56 hold-ups since April 1 last year nobody was injured. The Herald story reports a senior CIB officer as say ing that sawn-off rifles and shotguns had been used in some hold-ups, but only in a few cases had shots been fired and that in many cases toy pistols had been used. This seems to square up with what barristers and sol icitors have to say, that only abnormal and maladjusted people worship the gun. But, they fear that if a volley of revolver shots are to become the stock in trade of some police, even petty criminals may resort to car rying firearms. The end result, they say, could turn Sydney into a Chicago-like setting of the "roaring twenties" with mass shooting wars, be tween police and criminals. Use of the gun, often with fatal results, is not confined to the arrest or pursuit of dangerous criminals known to carry arms. There have been recent cases where young lads have been shot dead. Last New Year's Eve, a 17 years old lad, George Tater, was fatally shot through the back of the head by a police man at Merrylands, a Syd ney suburb. He jumped and ran from an allegedly stolen vehicle. The policeman concerned called on Tater to stop, but he kept running and died from a bullet wound in the back of the head. George Tater, teenager, is dead. Had he been arrested and tried for his alleged of fences and found guilty, a fine, a bond, or at the worst a short jail sentence, would have been his punishment. Early in March, Leonard Flock, 27-year-old married man was shot dead at Guild ford, Sydney, when detec tives were questioning him about the alleged theft of a lawnmower. According to police he had thrown the grass catcher from a motor mower at one of the detectives, striking him on the gun hand. The pistol went off, strik ing Flock in the side and killing him. Added to this there is daily press glamorisation of gunplay and its main exponents. Ex-Detective Sergeant Ray Kelly of Sydney for instance was glamorised as the ace of all aee detectives who was always ready with the gun, leading armed police squads. One of his last acts as a detective was to lead a small army of police, armed to the teeth, to arrest the Mel bourne jail escapees, Ryan and Walker in Sydney. Use of firearms must not be allowed to become a con sistent policy in the NSW police force. For the real danger is that it can breed a con- tempt for human life and a too-ready recourse to the | gun in cases where they 8 are not in the least heces- | sary. | And the result has been I too often, sudden death for | an alleged petty crime. j Consistent press publicity | of gun-slinging by the NSW j police appears to be con- ! doned by and perhaps organ- j ised by some elements in g > the police themselves. | It is doubtful if there is I more crime in Sydney than | Melbourne, yet Melbourne | police are not armed. | There would be more j crime in London than in | Sydney and Melbourne put I together, yet the London j police are unarmed except | in unusual circumstances ! when special authority from j the Home Secretary has to S be obtained for particular 8 police to be armed on a | particular job. | 