 Truckers get new pay lift From Rupert Lockwood MOSCOW: Truck Park No. 1, specialising in build ing 'industry transport, was among the first to apply the new .economic experi- ments — back in May last year. The truck park's manage ment reviewed the experiment at one of the first press, con ferences to give concrete results on the working of the new reforms. Moscow Truck Park No. l's management was given wider initiative and rights than were generally allowed. The management was per mitted to pay higher wages and release staff made redund ant by rationalisation without consulting higher authorities. Instead of being set ' 30 tar gets based on tonnage load ings, xnileage and other vol ume and output factors as before, the truck park was set only one target, profitability. The park's 1100 trucks have since May increased labor pro ductivity by 20 per cent. The workers before Mai- last year were given 70 per cent of the tariff if they could pick up a return load to avoid the, burden of empty back runs on the economy. Now they are given 100 per cent of the back load tariff if they can find one. - ' The result was a six per cent rise in loaded mileage — a substantial lift considering that many building industry, trucks are desgihed for single purposes like prefabricated 5 concrete walls. Average .wages in the year have increased .£ from 179 roubles to 200 roubles (one rouble equals one Australian dollar) per month. Bonus Before May last year the workers got one per cent of the planned profits as a bonus, and 20 per cent of the profits over the plan. Under the experiment they get one per, cent of planned- profits and 60 per cent of over- S plan profits. . &lt; The quality of repairs and ; maintenance has notably im- ; proved. : Repair workers get paid i . bonuses according to the num- i ber of trips and mileage, so the longer the trucks can stay I without repairs the higher the ; wages. j Before, May last year there ! were 130 breakdown trucks ! and the park was seeking JO i to 40 more. Today there are 96 break- down trucks doing the work ! for which the enterprise pre- J viously cpnsidered 160 to 170 j were necessary. L s x-jhjjuis> mux tue year ueiuie t the experiment reached 1.2 ; million roubles; for the re- j form year they reached 2.5 million roubles, or more than j double. j From extra profits came not ? only higher wages but better 5 amenities. j Truck Park No. 1, has i bought from profits a huge \ 96-flat apartment block for its \ " own workers. It has a holiday i home in the Crimea, at which ? 500 will spend their vacations $ this summer, and a recreation : centre hear Moscow. f It is no longer considered an experiment at Truck Park 3. No. 1, but a system that works to the advantage of commuxl- ? ity and the enterprise's labor i force. i 3 The man with the Moskvich car is slightly dwarfed by these giant heavy- weight trucks from the Byelorussian Automobile Works in the USSR. 