 Giving the girls an (equal) break pERTH : Steps towards equal status for women in industry have been made in amendments to industrial awards i recently. Work in the drum reclaiming industry is dirty, noisy and heavy. Women have only come into industry recently because of the shortage of male work ers. ; Industrial Commiss i o n e r 1 Schnaars in his judgment last 1 week granted most of the Mis- ' cellaneous Workers' Union ' claims for equal pay or altpr ' natively, equal margins Z'v \ women working in this industry. This will result in a wa-e gain Of $2.50 to $3.75. , In the new award women workers employed on certain classes of work will receive the ' same total wage as the male. ' "At the moment there are no women employed on such ' work", said union advocate w. ' Latter. "However it is an im- 1 portant principle that is es- 1 tablished." Where women are employed 1 on work for which the margin has already been prescribed 1 they will receive "the female basic wage plus the margin 1 for the job, i.e. equal margins. ' A female classification, was established that did not exist 1 before and a margin of $4 set1 for these specific tasks. Women , employed at these tasks - until then received only a margin of , ( $1.50. J Disputed 1 The union disputed the clas- sification of jobs into male and : female, claiming that the mar- J gin should be set for any work- - er performing the tasks. A woman employed on com posite duties will get the male - margin. Mr. Schnaars in his judgment said he accepted the principle of equal margins. Where women 5 were employed in occupations; previously held exclusively by men they should be paid the same margin if they did the ; same work. "This was the line taken by . Industrial Commissioner E. R. Kelly in the metal trade judg ment", he said. "From the evidence and _Jn" spections it was apparent that r the existing agreed margins for men incorporated a substantial loading for disabilities asso ciated with work throughout the industry. Those disabilities mostly applied equally to all j workers, male and female, wherever they wei'e employed." ? He considered the industry: unsuitable for women and if; they performed the heaviest type of work (cleaning inside of drums with chains) they ; must receive the total male \ pay. \ \ Building The new building trades j award maintains provisions tha | women could only be employ®0? with union consent and at male ; rates of pay- The ban, however, j on girls becoming apprentices . still applies. The recent metal trades award, by using the word ; "worker" could enable women ; to be employed at the same rate for the job. This is for J work other than tradesmen, j from which women are stm ; specifically excluded. , j The Metal Trades Employers Federation has appealed against \ the new award. One of we j sections they are appealing , against is the one referred &lt; : above enabling women to he ; employed at the rate for 1 job. 