 NG workers straight talk on low wages By Jim Cooper A demand for a $24 minimum weekly salary for New Guinean teachers has been made by Mr. Vincent Eri, President of the Local Teachers" Association, at the public service wage hearing before the Arbitrator at Port Moresby. j j E indicated that nothing less than this "would be sufficient for the man not to betray his trust as a public servant". Mr. Eri sharply criticised the wage cut imposed by the Ad ministration. He stated that while his salary was not cut, he would have to be promoted six times before he would be entitled to an increased salary. He also said that the salary rates imply that a "white man was worth two and a half black men" even if he had the same education and qualifications. Some evidence was given by Mr. Mea Logoni, a plumber with 36 years service with the Administration, favoured a $30 minimum. He thought it impos- ible to live, rear and educate a family on less. The Federal policy of a con tinuing low-wage state in New Guinea is out of step with the people and is likely to produce a new wave of resentment lead ing to more industrial action on an organised basis by New Guinean workers. Discontent The discontent which has been simmering over a long period was brought out. into the open by the 1965 decision of the Minister for Territories, Mr. Barnes, to cut the salaries of the New Guinean public servants by 40 per cent. This decision was smartly answered by the trainee teach ers at the college at Ward's Strip, near Port Moresby. They marched the seven miles to the Public Service Commission er, Mr. Somers' office, where they angrily registered their protest. The opposition to the cut was so bitter that the Minister was forced to back away from his original proposals and apply the cut only to those people who joined the Service after Sept ember 1964. While this may have headed off an open clash it did little to satisfy the' people. The next move was to take it to arbitration. With considerable publicity a Public Service Arbitrator was appointed — Mr. L. G. Mathews, a Conciliation Commissioner of the Australian Arbitration Coin- mission. Mr. Mathews, was appointed at the end of January 1965. After dealing with a number of immediate issues the Public Servants wages case was opened on October 25, 1965. The period of industrial act ivity which preceded the open ing of the case has now sub sided and no doubt the Admin istration sees no particular ur gency in finalising the case. Militancy Similar to experiences in Aus tralia the activity of industrial tribunals is influenced by the militancy of the organisations concerned. A Rural Wage Inquiry., was opened by the Board composed of three representatives of the planters, three from the Work ers Associations, with a chair man from the Administration. The chairman has a deliberative as well as a casting vote. The case opened about the middle of February 1965 and is still hearing evidence. No doubt the rural workers have accepted that something is being done about their wages and conditions and are not dis posed to take any action which would tend to accelerate the Board. While the New Guineans had no tradition of organisational resistance to the attacks of em ployers, they are learning from experience the importance of organised militant action. 