 Lib. Senator duckshoves on education ADELAIDE: The HoJt Liberal Government's Minister in charere of educational activities /Senator Gorton") , who recently denied that there was a crisis in education, is guilty of further misleading the Australian people with his latest statements. With a remarkable bit of figure juggling, the Senator attempted to discredit the SA Labor Government and to excuse the Federal Government's neglect of educa tion. At a Liberal Party meeting at Keitli (SA) , Senator Gp.rton claimed that the SA Government was spending only 22 per cent of its budget on education while its neighbour — Victoria— spent 32 per cent. Only one State —Tasmania — was spending less than SA, he said. There- lore the SA Government was in a weak position to claim Cpmmonwealth financial aid. SA Minister for Education (Mr. Loveday) pointed out that actually SA made the next-to highest provision for education and that Tasmania had a slightly higher provision. Mr. Loveday revealed the following: SA's 1965-66 budget for education is about $54 a head, whereas Victoria's is about $44.30 a head, making SA's a 20 per cent higher provision. . SA's loan expenditure on education is about $11 a head compared to Victoria's $9.60 a head, making SA's a 15 per cent higher provision. Senator Gorton made his Victoria-SA comparison based on total budgets. In Victoria, the total budget has a much more limited scope than in SA. For example, metropolitan and a variety of provincial and sewer works and the main harbour works are ex cluded from the Victorian budget but included in SA. While Victoria has three .times the SA population, its total budget is $615m to, SA's $243m or only 2.1 times. 11 the Victorian budget had equal coverage to SA's, the proportion for education would be lower in Vic toria, than in SA. SA 1 965-66 budget, 23.5 per cent was ear marked for education compared to Victoria's 28 per cent. These proportions, which do not include loan provisions but include pensions, university and agricultural educa tion expenditure, must be seen in the light of the explanation already made. &lt;; Seria'or G'?rt.on apparently got his SA 22 per cent figure by omitting the pensions, university and agricui- tural amounts from the SA budget and his Victorian , Per cent figure by adding the loan provisions to- the Victorian budget. 