 THERE'S CREAM IN THE MARGARINE By Our Industrial Roundsman YDINLY : Behind the publicity around the Marrickville Mar garine case, which may put 1,200 workers out of a job before Christmas, lies an untold story of intrigue between the State Liberal Government and the big margaine monopoly Allied Mills. Two hundred workers were sacked by Marrickville Mar garine Ltd. last week. A fur ther 200 will go this week and an Australian Workers' Union spokesman estimates the final number of retrench ments will be close to the 1200 mark. This is an immediate human problem which must be solved J ; by the NSW Liberal Govern ment. These workers need jobs which are not too easy to find so close to Christmas. Last week 1200 Marrickville Margarine workers demonstrat ed outside State Parliament in a final attempt to pressurise the Government into revising its margarine quotas. There is little doubt that quii- er, but much stronger pressure by the monopoly, Allied Mills, "convinced" the Cabinet other wise. The demonstration was one of those rare occasions when the workers had the backing of their employer. Marrickville Margarine, itself no small fry in the business world, is fighting a battle igainst being swallowed up by Allied Mills. The workers, as they did at their mass meeting last week, congratulated their employer for its light against "Governments and monopoly groups." But these workers are not passive in this struggle. Their jobs are going, along with their employer's profits. Mis. Jones, the company's ex pensive publicity image, hasn't told the public the main scan dal behind the margarine con troversy — the under-cover line up between the Government and Allied Mills. Mr. C. Oliver, NSW secretary of the Australian Workers' Un ion, revealed some of this story in a letter to Labor Council a couple of months ago: "Allied Mills Ltd. through its subsidiaries Vegetable Oils Pty. Ltd. and Mowbray Industries Ltd., acquired control of all the table margarine manufac turers excepting Unilever (the British monopoly) and Marrick ville Margarine Pty. Ltd. "Allied Mills Ltd.- then had far in excess of 50®- 'o of all margarine production in its control. About 1960 with the support of all Liberal-Country Party Governments, agitation commenced for the rigid con trol - of margarine quotas and legislation was recommended by the Commonwealth Agricul tural Council to control quotas at the 1955 level. Why? Mr. Oliver asked: "Why has Allied Mills connived with Gov ernments to nave quotas strict ly policed? "We say immediately it is not to protect dairy farmers. "If the quota system is main tained, Allied Mills Ltd. will be in a position to control the Australian vegetable oil market and the price to be paid to the vegetable oil producers," Mr. Oliver said. According to spokesmen for Marrickville Margarine, this company uses Australian-grown oils for its table margarine. The Askin Government should answer to whether or not Al lied Mills is using imported oils. It would appear that Govern ment "concern" for the dairy farmer is so much eye wash. The small, man on the land has long become a victim of monopoly takeover or control, including by such monopolies a.s Allied Mills. And Allied Mills is being tacked by the "cream" of the big business world. Others in Allied Mills include: L. 6. Darling, of Broken Hill Pty. and Aus tral Bakeries, G. L. Batdick. Colonial Mutual Insurance, Union Theatres, Sir Maurice Hutton, Nth British and Mer cantile Insurance; A. G. Priestly, Meggitt Ltd; Sir Robert Wilson, Aust. Guarantee Corp., Bank of NSW) Country Broadcasting Ltd.. Grazcos Co-op., Tooheys Ltd., (chairman) and General Insurance. Its chairman. J. Cadwallader, is alsc chairman of the Bank f NSW, Bushell. Investment Ltd. and a director of the Queensland Insurance Co. The Cadwallader family directs com panies with a paid up capital of $71 million. From this line-up it's clear that the sacked margarine work ers are no more than the meat in a margarine sandwich! 