 A BLEAK YEAR FOR TENANTS Further inroads into rent control in N.S.W.., plus a decline in new housing approvals over the last six months of 1965 makes 1966. Sydney: In December, 1965, an amend- ment to the N.S.W. Landlord & Tenant Act carried by both Houses (with no publicity) permits the extension of Sa agreements to shared accommodation. CARLIER this month the Minister for Justice, Mr. Maddison, expressed the hope that many more prem ises would become available for letting under these new conditions (which would per mit landlords to evict tenants who declined to pay higher rents when the 5a lease came up for renewal). rnere is no aouoc mat pressure will be applied to all existing tenants of shared accommodation — landlords pointing out the "advantages" of having a lease and some security of tenure. Mr. Maddison's publicity for this amendment was designed to attract the attention and spur to action the potential and existing landlords of this city. Landlords are not slow to respond to such hints. During the Bondi by-election cam paign in October-November publicity was given to the growing use of Section 17a which permits landlord and tenant of controlled premises to negotiate on a higher rent. Wealthy tenants Although the Act does not compel negotiation it is clear that some tenants have been talked into negotiation and have agreed to pay higher rents. Various types of pressure have been exercised including the threat to cite the tenant under tne "wealthy tenant" provisions. The Askin Government has de fined a "wealthy tenant" as one into whose home comes a gross income of £3,000 a year or more. This in cludes income of husband, wife, board of working children and in come of any other independent per son living on the premises regardless of whether they are paying board or not. The landlord is permitted to des cribe (whom he may please as a "wealthy tenant" and report him to the Rent Controller, who may then send the tenant a questionaire to establish whether he can be classi fied as a wealthy tenant- If he comes in the £3,000 a year bracket then the premises can be decontrolled' if the tenant declines to negotiate. These provisions have now been extended to business premises. The "wealthy tenant" businessman is, in the words of Mr. Maddison, to be compelled to "meet their obliga tions not only to the landlords of premises but also to competitors who were already paying decontrolled rents." These further amendments are the . latest of a lone series df measures designed to gradually erode the N.S.W. Landlord and Tenant Act and to render it a dead letter. Recent housing statistics show that tenants have little hope of rental reductions in the forseeable future. Housing decline The reported, number of new housing approvals from July to November 1965- was at 48,560 nearly 13 per cent down on the 55,395 for the same period in 1964. The number of new migrants in i 1965 was up 3i per cent on 1964 and the number of marriages continues to rise. The Federal Government has expressed "concern" over this posi tion and Mr. Holt has announced that savings banks would be making another £12 million available for home construction in the next six months. The Federal Minister for Housing, Mr. Bury, announced that the new Housing Loans Insurance Corpora tion will underwrite loans up to 90 per cent and in some cases 95 per cent of valuation. He said that this would permit bigger loans at a reasonable rate of interest over a longer repayment period and would eliminate the need for borrowers to seek second mort gages at often high rates of interest. One of the main factors holding back many -potential home builders is the steadily rising prices, of land and building materials, and the high interest rates required to be paid on land and homes. Uphill Along with this has been the steady all round rise in a wide range of commodities which is taking place in a period when the basic wage is vrtually pegged. Those young couples paying de controlled 5 a rentals are of course uphill in raising money for a house. The Federal /Government release of more money and the underwrit ing of loans will not solve the basic problem of the high prices __ to be paid and the years-long burden of high interest. Urgent measures need to be taken: A massive increase of Federal finance to State Housing at low interest. More State housing to be built for rental. More bank finance for home building at low interest rates. Maintenance and extension of rent control to coyer all premises. Repeal of Sections 5a and 17a of the Landlord and Tenant Act. Price control to be imposed and action taken to reduce existing high prices. The achievement of these objec tives will need vigorous action in 1966. 