 BACK TO THE JJmS BEFORE "AFFLUEME" JTTNF MILLS reviews "SYDNEY > 0. THE S'aJWalce&lt;fook Society, Sydney) URING the depression years in the early 1930's many unemployed workers from Australian cities took to the country in an effort to either find, if not a job, at least free meals from liberal- handed country people or to scrounge from the bush itself. Most of these people humped their bluey along the country roads or "jumped the rattler" ris ing illegally on trains. Not so the Lawson family, whose story is told in "Sydney and the Bush" by Elwyn Wallace. In danger of losing their home and all possessions Pete, his wife Belle and his mother-in-law Kate move swiftly to leave Surry Hills and take to the bush. By a stroke of fortune Pete has obtained an old coach, a landau, which they name "Morning Glory" and two skinny horses. They set out on their journey to the coun try in fine style. On their way to the north they meet with country folk, some kind, others not. They also meet with a number of "dolies" on the track who give them clues how to eke out their Government hand outs. Not the least interesting of en counters with people in the var ious towns is Pete's experience Mrtefr from can# ithe towns, trying with the police who were in avoidf$ iem the dole cases on the iookout for men on such encounters the track, trying to keep tiiem Pete learns to control his fiery temper, and finds the way to deal with the coppers. / People along the route, in the country towns, are impressed with "Morning Glory" and at one stage of the journey Pete is able, by usr ing his imagination somewhat, to get a story into the papers which leads to him being able to make a bit of money. While the family suffers many hardships during their journey they also find hours of enjoyment in the simple way many thousands did during the depression years. For readers who lived through the depression "Sydney and the Bush" will recall many memories; for those too young to have ex perienced the depression it will give an idea of what many Aus tralians went through in those dark days. Written In an easy-to-read style, telling a story which is based on facts, according to the author's note, the book should have a wide appeal. If there is any criticism, I found the extravagant use of "mate" in various conversations somewhat exasperating and believe that book would not have suffered from the omission of over five pages of rather bad poetry recited by Pete. (Available from New World Book sellers and other bookshops.) 