 Rhodesia I A farce and a tragedy An on-the-spot report from ROGER MILLIS Behind the tumult and the shouting over Smith's seizure of white -supremacist "independence" in 'Rhodesia, what are the real prospects for a principled solution introducing genuine democracy and African majority rule? ON the surface, the Rhodesian crisis 1 seems to be entering a crucial stage. Pushed against his will by the militant African States and the force of world public opinion, Britain's Labouring Prime Minister Wilson has been moved to impose a virtually complete economic boycott of Rhodesia. Press reports state that Rhodesia's whites are at last feeling the economic pinch, particularly as the effects of the oil embargo begin to hit these motor- ised parasites. A prolonged, drought is aggravating the country's difficulties. But despite the outward show of determination and forthrightness, there is little to suggest that UDI and Wilson's self-righteous reaction to it are anything but part of a gigantic game being played out on the world stage in an elaborate effort to divert attention from Britain's failure to act decisively to end the white revolt. High Stakes I The stakes are high. I Firstly, there is the added I threat to the massive West- em investments in Cehtral I Africa that any further con- I cession to African nation alism represents. Rhodesia's mineral prp- duction is small compared with the enormity of the Copperbelt's output in neighbouring Zambia, but new deposits of tungsten and iron are being tapped and mineral exploitation is I all part of the vast inter- I locking of capital that takes in monopolies like Tanganyika Concessions, Anglo-American Corpora tion, and Union Miniere du Haut Katanga. In addition, there are the various ancillary concerns that go with any extensive European penetration of an under-developed coun try—banks, insurance, pet rol and farm-machinery, etc. All these have a vested interest in maintaining dir ect white rule until they are forced to relinquish it. "White Belt" Secondly— and perhaps most importantly— Rhodesia is an intrinsic part of the "white belt" that has been carefully tied around Southern Africa. It has been clear for some time that the white supremacists have decided that no more of Africa is to be surrendered to the forces of nationalism with out a struggle. If Rhodesia goes, then the Portuguese colony of Mozambique — already har- rassed in its northern regions by FRELIMO guer illas supported from Tan zania—will be exposed1 on its vulnerable western I flank. I Liberation of Rhodesia would take the frontiers of free Africa right down to the citadel of imperialism on the continent— South Africa itself. This the imperialists are obviously determined not to allow happen. Rhodesia, they say, must —if at all possible— be pre- served as a buffer state against the tide of libera tion sweeping down . from the north. So it is scarcely surpris ing that Wilson's much- g vaunted campaign to bring 1 Rhodesia hack into the 1 Commonwealth. . fold has 8 been accompanied by both I classic back-room man- 1 oeuvres and stage-managed g publicity stunts, occasioned I by his refusal to use the 1 only realistic means to fin- | ish Smith once and for all g —force. I The giant air and land | oil-lift now being mounted 1 to keep land-locked Zambia supplied with fuel is one | of" the inevitable extrava- I gances resulting from his | kid-glove policy. | Chaos I We hitch-hiked down the 1 1500-mile Great North Road 8 connecting Tanzania and 1 Zambia— along which pet rol is being transported overland— and saw for our selves the chaos the lift is causing. The woefully inadequate dirt road had been turned to mud by seasonal rains , and churned to near-impas sibility in places by the heavy transport. At one spot a huge semi trailer had jack-knifed across the road, and six other trucks were held up waiting for it to be righted. To move one 44-gallon drum of petrol from Mbeya in Tanania to Isoka in Zambia— a stretch of less than 250 miles— costs over £5 sterling in freight charges, plus another £5 for the drum itself. Result: massive profits for the European-owned transport companies, hasty diversion of limited re sources by the Tnzanian and Zambian Governments, and heavy damage to a road totally unsuited for the task. Aid from South Africa Despite the alleged sever ity of the sanctions so far imposed, Rhodesia is still not suffering overmuch. Goods are still flowing in and out of the country through friendly Mozambi que and, of course, South Africa, which is rumoured to be handling Rhodesia's £34 million tobacco crop. Zambia's main wealth comes from copper and as its agriculture is largely of the peasant-subsistence type, the country is depend ent oh Rhodesia for much of its food, which is still passing over the border by normal rail services. Wilson's overall aim seems to be to impose sanctions severe enough to inconvenience the whites without doing any perman- | ent damage to the Rhodes- 8 ian economy, thus isolating | Smith and causing a split | in the settler ranks. | 