 LYNDON'S RATINGS HIT A RECORD LOW "INHERE is no mystery as to why President Johnson's popularity in the USA last week dropped to its lowest level ever, according to the Louis Harris public opinion poll. it is mainly because of his involvement of the USA in the Vietnam war — described by iiepuDiican ieaaer JNixon last week as "the most unpopular, most difficult and . most mis understood war". Not merely' the war itself but the price, inflation which is the inevitable result of it has helped in the slide of Johnson from the peak he achieved when he beat Gold- water in 1964 when posing as the "peace" candidate. Of people questioned by Harris, only 50 per cent thought he was doing his job well. Outside the racialist Deep South, where his rating is significantly rising, he scored only 47 per cent. The start of the congres sional election campaign could not have cpme at a worse time for him, says News week magazine. 1 Slipping I "His popularity is slipping, I yar frustrations are spread- 1 thg' infIaton is threatening, 1 n stock market is slumping 1 , white backlash is a | News Probability" says I 'AH over the country there | uneasiness and division." I „„ Wsweek says that John- | n is blamed for the Wall I tuet slump. "Chart lines of tvw! President's popularity and a Pow Jones industrial aver- ! aav® been running pretty \ m harness this year" it ! Jn>S0me PeoPle now talk of a | £fson bear market." I Periir0lm«nthly jurnal f the York ?eserve Bank of New t rLPOmts out in its Sep tember review that inflation is growing rapidly in the US despite the boom in several industries,- notably the war industry, as a result of mo Vietnam war. The monthly review notes the steady growth of whole sale and retail prices and says that the price structure is causing great concern. The retail prices of basic con sumer goods including bread, milk and sugar, rose sharply in July and August. Big bankers and industrial ists have also complained and warned of the similarity to 1929. Ex-president Truman said the rise in interest rates would probably bring on a "precipitous deflation" and "the result could be a serious depression." George Meaney, rightwing president of the AFL-CIO, America's combined trades union, said his organisation was "seriously worried that it will be 1929 all over again, with shelves full and purchas ing power not there and un employment begetting more unemployment." Yet the AFL-CIO still backs the Vietnam war, drawing this comment from the New York Worker: Profits "The assertion that we can spend tens of billions of dol lars for the slaughter in Viet nam and use those same tens of billions to reconstruct our slums, bring tens of millions of our people above the pov erty line and wipe out the deficits in schools, hospitals and low income housing is a disservice to the nation. "What kind of a war is this? The truth was contained in another resolution adopted by the AFL-CIO council . . . 'It is a war in which, in 1965 corporate profits were 67 per cent above 1960; divid end payments were 43 per cent higher and in which the gulf between profits and the weekly take-home pay 'of the worker has become wider. "It is a war in which, as Steelworkers' Union president I. W. Abel disclosed in his Labor Day message, "corpor ate profits continue to set new records while workers continue to be denied their fair share of such profits" — in which "in the first half of this year profits were up an other 11 per cent and divid end payments 14 per cent. 