 [?] JHE past week has seen some kind of gentle men's . agreement operating among most of the daily press — speak no ill of Bob Menzies. It's almost as if he had passed away. In fact, we can be sure Menzies will continue to exercise political influence — anti-democratic, of course— in those unpublicised Aus tralian-American, Australian-British and Australian Establishment cir cles where the real intentions of imperialism are nutted out. The sort of clubman circles that are working hard to save the Smith Government in Rhodesia, for in stance. But in among the heroics about the Menzies Cabinet was a refer ence (Australian, 22/1/66) to the fact that in 1955 the late Senator Sir Shane Paltridge's first task as Minister for Shipping was "to sell the Australian National Shipping Line". He didn't pull it off. Today, 10 years later, we see that the freight demands of the over seas shipping monopolies are so ruthless that the Government- backed Meat Board has had to fight them; the National Line and the BHP are both reported to be contesting a part-Japanese project for cheaply built ships to collar Australia's iron-ore export trade. But if Menzies-Paltridge had suc ceeded in selling the National Line, we'd be in a very weak position today. It wasn't for want of try ing. After the party, napalm REMEMBER that queer grog-party last October after knock-off time at Syd ney's controversial Opera House site? No one, least of all the obstruc tion workers, could quite work out what went on. But one thing seemed clear among the State de partmental ducking for cover af terwards — it had been organised by an unpredictable woman journalist, Jillian Robertson. Now she has turned up reporting (in the Sydney "Herald", 15/11/66) on a flight with a US bomber pilot in a mission of aggression against North Vietnam. However, Miss Ro bertson must be given credit for her revealing honesty: — "Napalm burns everything. The building behind us is no longer a structure but a furnace. Napalm doesn't leave a crater in the ground, just ashes and scarred earth. IT IS THE CRUELLEST OP WEAPONS" (our emphasis). And she confessed to being sick after the attack, and burst into tears after the flight. Something, smells here THERE is a curious trend in Sydney dailies in the last few days since the an nouncement on Saturday of the biggest jump in quarter ly cost of living figures in five years. The Sydney Morning Herald's Finance Editor (January 22) said that for two years the "continuous rise in consumer prices" had been "almost entirely unconnected with wage-cost pressures." He warned that the Government, which op posed last year's wage claims, should take a "sane and moder ately progressive attitude in the wage case" this year. The Sun (24/1/66) like the Her ald, said the war budget was main cause of the latest cost-rises and warned the Government to deal "sympathetically and realistically" with wage claims. Since neither of these papers nor the Government itself have ever been known to show "sympathy or realism" towards claims for wage increases, we are forced to con clude that: They are worried by the marked decline in consumer spend ing. They have been told that prices are going to rise a lot more this year. They are afraid of the dimen sions to which the 1966 campaigns for higher wages and price con trol are likely to go. Citizens for DLP-dom A FURIOUS batch of letters in the "Australian" last Thursday attacked an earlier letter from a Brisbane correspondent, sharply crit icising a "Citizens for Free dom" meeting in that city. Aim of the meeting was to whip up support for the Vietnam war- most unpopular war in Australian history. Who wrote the angry replies?— K. M. Cairns, Lib. MHR of the far- right and champion of extremist Dr. Knopfelmacher, twice rejected for ft job at Sydney Uni._: and H Wright, "president of the Citizens for Freedom", but in fact a par liamentary candidate of the qlp (DLP). Queensland Guardian also re veals that the acting-secretary ox the "Citizens" is G. Cook, vice- president of the DLP. If anyone doubted that this blow- in group is a war propaganda front for the DLP and its extremist as- sociates, the doubt would be dis pelled by last week's "News- Weekly", organ of B. A. Santa- maria, and its big spread of pic- tures and story about the Brisbane 1 "rally". Those strings from overseas IN a recent TV broadcast, Santamaria made strenuous efforts to show that Aus tralian — and American — - and all other international protests against the Vietnam war are all some kind of pup petry controlled, not from Moscow or Peking, but from Hanoi. For months last year Santamaria and his friend Knopfelmacher up braided Australian rightwingers for not developing a successful pro- war campaign. Recently, they have made ap proving references to rallies being organised in the USA by a "Cru sade for Freedom". And on De cember 28 the Brisbane "Courier- Mail" let it out that the Brisbane demonstration was to be organised at the request of a similar organi sation in the United States." It also came out that at the Brisbane meeting there was the same rabid pro-fascist John Birch Society literature ("Eisenhower is a Communist") from the USA as had been sold at the Sydney State Theatre on October 24, when the new Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party, Mr. W. McMahon, was a featured speaker. (See Tribune, 27/10/65). Seems like overseas control is all right for some. Incidentally, Sydney's Anglican peace investigator Francis James, fresh back from a lone trip to Hanoi, not only laughs at the idea of "Hanoi-control" of world protest activity, but. says that un fortunately Hanoi doesn't seem to know much about the- peace move ment's work in Australia, " . . . and, Pattie, have you packed my Melbourne Uni. cadet uniform?" 