 RACIAL GAME WITH A TWO-HEADED COIN — and the ring-keepers are white By Jim Cooper |yINISTER for Territories, Mr. C. E. Barnes, and Mr. Maori Kiki, a leader of the West Papuan people, have opposite views on growing unrest in Papua-New Guinea. Mr. Barnes is reported to nave saia m rarnament last week that any unrest in Papua- New Guinea was caused by economic and not racial fac tors. Mr. Maori Kiki, an Adminis tration officer, speaking at a seminar in Fort Moresby re cently, said: "What we stand against is not the white man but the ob noxious practice of subordinat ing New Guineans and Papuans to European interests, so . that they become things to be mani pulated by the white man ac cording to the whims of his temper ... "The average .white man in Papua and New Guinea equates his existence with white domin- ation. "In other words, domination and white men have come to be regarded, by the white man himself, as two sides of the one coin." Pin-pointing what he con sidered some of the obvious causes of race hatred Mr. Maori Kiki said that "many of us see white men owning big cars, living in good houses, we erivy them having these things." Fuel The introduction of the New Public Service Ordinance which provided different salary levels for different races and provi sion of accommodation allow ance for European Public Ser vants but not for the natives has added fuel to the fire. White men take advantage of segregated Settlements such as Hohola and Kaugere to seduce the women. Intense feeling is created when parents of edu cated girls sell their daughters to white men because the local people do not earn enough money to pay the bride price required. "White men in Papua and New 1 Guinea must realise that we are not living in the 1920's but in the 1960's. We dream of seeing the survival of multira cial society. It has been shown by the wishes of our peoples for the creating of special elec torates in the House of As sembly. "We cry to Australia every now and then. It is our desire to have you with us here, but we cannot live together if these differences are allowed to con tinue," Mr. Maori Kiki said. Alienation While this attitude of the European is infuriating to the people, of greater significance in New Guinea development is the Government's policy of land alienation and the pur chasing of timber rights in areas open for exploitation. It is very evident that unless the people of Papua-New Guinea are assisted to develop their own economy, which can only come about with a change in Government policy, there will be little basis for the devel opment of real friendship be tween Australians and New Guineans. — — NEW GUINEA WHARFIES LOADING TIMBER Equality at 30 cents an hour 