 HEALTH ON WINGS IN HIGH PAMIRS From RUPERT LOCKWOOD, who recently visited the Soviet Tajik Republic. pREE medical and hospital services are a constitu tional right — but surely the towering massif of the Pamirs can defy the constitution? The doctor travels easily to the dwellers of the plain, but what of a collection of shepherds' huts 5,000 or 10,000 feet up in the mountains near the China and Af ghanistan borders? A donkey or camel trail leads there in sum mer; snow blocks the way in winter. The short take-off and landing area planes, the AN-6, Yak-12 and AN-2 and the modern helicopter guarantee that the most isolated mountain shepherd will have his legal right to free medical care honored. The Commonwealth of Australia, with few high mountains and wide open spaces, and the Soviet Republic of Tajikistan, with 93 . per cent high mountainous, terri tory, have one accomplishment in common. They were the two chief pioneers and organisers in the world of Plying Doctor services. At Dushanbe General Hospital (1,200 beds, 300 doctors, 2,400 staff), I asked doctors what hap pened when a shepherd in the High Pamirs broke a leg. Or a mother had childbirth complica tions, or a schoolgirl needed an emergency appendix operation? Fellowy villagers couldn't carry the sick and injured down a rug ged, dangerous mountain path. In any event, snow might block the path, and the back of a donkey or swinging, jolting camel would be no place for a man with a broken leg or child with acute appendix. I was introduced to Pavel Zhu- kov, Chief of Medical "Aviation in the Tajik Republic, or, in Aus tralian parlance, head of the Ply ing Doctor Service. Tajikistan has a unique Plying Doctor Service. But when I asked Dr." Zhukov about it, he wanted to know all about Australia's unique Plying Doctor Service, of which he had heard glowing reports. Aeroflot, the Soviet national air line, has, Dr. Zhukov told me, a special team of pilots and 10 planes and two helicopters for the Pamirs flying, doctors. The AN-6 was specially designed by designer Antonov for high alti tudes; this plane can land on a penny-piece, almost, and is used for the High Pamirs. AN-2, Yak-12 and helicopter pilots carry doc tors to the medium altitudes. 'Copter The planes and helicopters are at Dushanbe, the Tajik capital, and at Leninabad, the second Taj ik city. As in Australia, a wireless signal or telephone signals the flying doctor, if a small landing place is available, a plane takes off; if not a helicopter. Depending on the patient's con dition, a surgeon, specialist physi cians and nurses or, for emergen cies, an operating theatre may be' carried. Tajikistan flying doctors provide their services at an average of 3,000 metres, which is going on for 10,000 feet. (Kosciusko, Aus tralia's highest mountain, is under 7,300 feet). Most mountain dwel lers at lower altitudes on the val leys and slopes have local doctors and hospitals. The Tajik flying doctors also carry out regular health checks, x-rays, vaccinations and other health checks in the High Pamirs. Tajikistan's death rate is 5.4 per 1,000, against a USSR average of 7.3' and an Australian average of 8.7 per 1,000. Tajikistan's birth rate is 34.5 per 1,000; Australia's at recent date was about 22 per 1,000. Less than half a century ago, quacks and fakirs used charms and sorcery in an almost doctorless Tajikistan, and people died from malaria, smallpox, cholera, plague and tuberculosis. As Australia and Tajikistan prob ably have the most highly develop ed Plying Doctor Services in the world, an exchange of experiences, and perhaps of flying doctors, would help to promote better care for people beyond reach of doc tors' surgeries and hospitals by land transport. The Soviet flying doctors cer tainly have experience. In 1965 they treated 500,000 patients and performed 12,000 operations. The flying doctor comes to a village in the High Pamirs — on the same principle as the famous service pioneered by Australia , though someivhat updated perhaps with the use of the helicopter. Another slight difference is that the Soviet service is totally free. ( &lt; I ......Trtlffliwnw. . . I Cuban chil in—different races, but nobody cares about the color o heir skins on the Caribbean island of social- inn, where happy and secure future is being built for them and their parents. 