 .. .. .. yy 1 yoo. \ Can the " Dragons " make it eleven Champion footballers are somewhat comparable to 1 high precision machinery . The greater their function I and efficiency, the greater the effect of some mishap. Because of this, football in general and in particular the famous St. George rugby league club team will be seriously handicapped this season. Prominent on the injured list are: Reg Gasnier, Johnny Raper of St. George's club, Arch Brown of Parramatta League's club and Rugby Union's Wallabies' captain John Thornett. Because of the retirement of captain-coach Norm. Provan at the end of last season, St. George, was faced with the problem of making up his loss. Indications at the opening of the Rugby League season a few weeks .back, seem to point out that they haven't for they were beaten in an up set by Balmain 19-16. Now the "Dragons" are be set with further trouble with the injury of the brilliant In ternational centre Reg Gasnier and lock Johnny Raper. Gasnier could be out of ac tion for twelve weeks and pos sibly all the season. His injury has been diag nosed as a tear of the cruci ate ligament in the knee, and reports are that the knee will be kept in plaster for at least six weeks. Raper's left wrist went on him last Sunday playing in. a winning game against Easts. It is badly swollen and is to be x-rayed for a possible break. St. George have been pre miership winners for ten con secutive years, but with their recent losses, to the team, many are tipping that this Traor will cpp thp> pnri to their www V..W — - - long winning streak. It will indeed be unlucky if they are finally beaten due to accident. Are you i right Jack? Tribune, of April 13 'under the heading of Sports Com ment, carried an article by Jack Mundey on the ques tion of football. Dealing with Rugby League, he remarked on reports to Tri bune during the last season. Quote: "Last season Tribune readers were dished up long reports of Sydney Rugby Lea gue club matches (often by hopelessly one-eyed corres pondents) and I felt £ Hat these reports, would have been of little interest to readers in other States." During the season I had eight reports published by Tribune, all on the "Match of the Day". I would appreciate it if Jack Mundey would point out which of these were hopelessly one-eyed; that they were dished up long reports. On this point it is obvious that Jack did not check his facts, for none of them were as long as the report by Jack himself in Tribune of Apr',1 13. On the question that Rugby League reports have ' little in terest to readers in other States, that is true, no matter who writes them and from which particular angle (ex cepting Queensland). In regards to last season's reports being on Sydney Club matches, I believe that this is the best angle to re port on (though not the only one), for there is more in terest among the masses of fans in club football. On the question of other codes of football being re ported, everyone would agree with this proposition. It's just a question of find ing the reporters, but again, don't blame those who write for one code for an an- balanced view because the other codes don't report. Backing a winner? j I'd almost given up hope 1 of backing g, winner at the A.J.C. Randwick (Sydney) autumn carnival and was nearly on the point of re tiring from punting. However, while studying the form for last Saturday's Champagne Stakes_ J_h.eca.me. „ convinced that Storm Queen (by Coronation Boy from 1 Storm Gleam), was a good f thing. J While waiting for the big 8 race to begin, I had a small f wager on.Fairlio (J. Jhonson || on top) in the third at San- |- down. I staked a place bet ff on the tote. f Well, Fairlio duly obliged g with a place, finishing second. So I had a few extra cents to put on Storm Queen. I was disappointed when I | heard 25 cents declared as the it off-course dividend for a 25 fM cent stake so all I got was my money returned". ;y| What a reward for selecting g and backing a placed horse. || Unfortunately for the punter, R. che same thing happens again and again. i- It's about time that the State government's racing offi- Eg cials looked into this busi- ness of place bets — money || back routine. if If other State governments | can manage to give success- | ful punters a fair deal, why | cannot the NSW government? | Aren't they satisfied with | the huge profit they are mak- 1 i,ng? So come off it, TAB of- | ficials, and get something I working, and quick, before you If lose customers! I Iii the big race, Storm I Queen had been badly drawn | in the barrier for the six fur- | long distance (number one) 1 and could have been impeded | in the break and forced to | race at the rear of field. 1 However, R. Higgins got | Storm Queen away fairly well, | although cramped for room in | the early stages. 1 He managed to settle her 1 down in sixth place, just be- | hind Candy Floss. | She stayed there until the | furlong mark, and then really got going and flashed home to get up in three-way photo finish. Storm Queen in winning tho Champagne Stakes has com pletely rewritten the 2-year- olds' record book. Her winnings now total $59,620, easily beating the pre vious record of $38,025 held by Eskimo Prince. Storm Queen now returns to Adelaide for a well earned I rest, before contesting the I 1,000 guineas at Caulfield in I the Spring. I Wentworth, an unluoky horse this year, looks all pet for a. win at Canterbury ( 1 Tribune comes off the press) I Wednesday. He was extremely unlucky last Saturday, getting boxed in and losing many lengths; but he fought back and was only beaten by a length in a close finish with Gaba'dan and Nullabor Prince. 3 Reg Gasnier. 