 Crisis point in Rhodesia -J-HE rejection by white supremacist leader lan j Smith of even the moderate settlement terms proposed By" UK Premier Wilson""a£"iEh"eir seaboard > meeting has brought the Rhodesian "independence" fiasco to a head. 'K K Wilson's proposals contained nothing which would cause any "it the most die-hard racial-, sts any concern. They did not ask the Rho- ian white minority regime l" i ;igree to any suggestion of 'j democratic government — % .with the participation of the colony's four million Africans —in the foreseeable future. "Unimpeded" All they required of Smith was to endorse the principle — embodied in the racially-based 1961 Constitution — of "unim peded progress towards maj ority rule." As Wilson himself had told Smith on previous occasions, this did not in the least mean etting a deadline for inde pendence under African rule. . All it meant was that Smith should attempt to avoid a r u'ontal clash with Rhodesia's "'Africans and the independent African states by recognising the inevitability of the Africans ultimately assuming nominal political power. This is in keeping with Bri tain's overall strategy since 1960 in Africa, where she has tried — often with considerable success — to maintain her posi tions of power while granting her former colonies nominal independence. Losses Britain has done this by cut ting her losses — what she has lost in empire she has gained by the maintenance of her economic stranglehold of the former colonies and by clever , behind - the - scenes political manoeuvres with certain Afri can, leaders. But even this course of | gradual transition has proved too radical for Rhodesia's rac ialists. | They have rejected Wilson's 1 terms officially because "any (: recognition of the 1961 Con- 'j stitution would mean a return | tp colonial status and a saeri- | fice of (white) Rhodesia's sov- I ereignty. j This rejection no doubt will place Britain in a dilemma. Throughout the 13-month crisis Wilson has resisted all pres- sures from the rest of the world to bring about imme diate majority rule in Rho desia. He has deflected all calls to put down the Smith" regime by force by invoking a series of empty economic . sanctions, which have had little if any effect On the Rhodesian eco nomy. But world pressures for posi tive action against Smith have been mounting. Slapped In particular, last month the UN Trusteeship Council slapped Wilson's face with a 94 to 2 vote calling on Britain to use force to remove Smith. The UK itself ' abstained. The Mediterranean meeting on HMS Tiger was undertaken by Britain as a last desperate throw to get Smith to see sense. Now that he has so dis mally failed, Wilson's next move to avert the frontal clash he fears — and the inevitable setback to the whole Western position in Africa— will be to ask the United Nations to im pose mandatory (compulsory) economic sanctions against Rhodesia. If such sanctions are to be in any way effective they must be absolute— and the UN will have to ensure that no supplies get through to Rhodesia from its safety-valves of nearby South Africa and Portuguese Mozambique. Canberra If they fail— and a definite deadline must be set, for their success — then the world body must take the issue completely out of Britain's ineffectual hands and take direct steps to bring . about African majority rule. Above all, Australia must cease its official fence-sit ting (ih actual fact, little ghort of tacit support for Smith's ' racialists regime) and add its voice and prac tical assistance to supporting Rhodesia's long-suffering in digenous people to gain full control of their own destiny. 