 Transport mens city protest march SYDNEY: Yesterday (Tuesday) 10,000 Government rail and bus workers stopped work for two hours and 1200 of them marched to Parliament House after a meeting in Wynyard Park. They were protestiner against NSW Premier Askin's refusal to meet Labor Council officials to discuss their grievances which include anomalies in sick pay regulations. After the Wynyard Park meeting the men marched through the heart of the city to Parliament House to lobby the politicians. Premier Askin refused to meet a deputation when the march es reached Parliament House. Extremely hostile, the men began to shout — 'Bring him out; bring him out One worker shouted "Tell it's a deputation from BHP ?r Ansett-ANA; that will bring him out." Several Labor MP's came out and spoke to the workers. Finally, Transport Minister fhhris agreed to meet a depu tation of six later in the day. The stoppage and march to parliament House was called by -ne Labor Council and involved workers from Eveleigh, Chullora and Clyde railway workshops, and the Chullora bus work shops. The men are demanding that the present five days full sick pay be extended to 15 days and to be cumulative. Hostile They are hostile against the use of sick leave investigators. Some of the banners carried by the men in the march to Parliament House read: "Pair Go For Rail Robbery". The men from Chullora workshops, who recently refused to allow un safe carriages to leave the shop, carried one reading: "Keep Our Railways Safe— No Rust Buck ets." Mr. Joe Poole, organiser for the Australian Railways Union, who earlier addressed the men in Wynyard Park, said that he recently told NSW Transport Minister Morris that over 50 per cent of the 50,000 NSW rail way workers were not bringing home even the basic wage. Gestapo Mr. Harry Hatfield, Sheet Metal Workers' Union organiser, said it costs the Government more to employ the Gestapo (the sick leave investigators) than pay the sick leave. He said railway and bus men back the people's growing hos tility to fare robbery. 