 JOHNSON'S INDIAN DOCTRINE: SUBMISSION OR STARVATION — Famine aid withheld By the Foreign Editor "|"HE almost incredible callousness of President Johnson and the US administration in holding up urgently needed wheat supplies for starving India last week shocked world opinion and was bitterly resented in India. It is well known that 70 mil lion people in India are facing starvation through drought. The Prime Minister, Mrs. Gandhi, has proclaimed a state of emergency and urgently ap pealed to the US and other countries to send wheat sup plies, being ready to pay for them. President Johnson was asked to spare two million tons from the US silos, bulging with wheat which cannot be sold at a pro fit to the American people. However, Johnson deferred a decision until a team of US Congressmen had time to go to India in December and investi gate—presumably to find out whether the people are really hungry or not. Starvation A report in The Australian on Thursday said: "This delay could leave India without US food shipments in the vital months of February, March and April. "To Indians this means that people may starve to death while they await America's deci sion ... "Many Indian officials feel they are being punished for India's insistence that the bombing of north Vietnam must stop." Use of starvation as a poli tical weapon is nothing new in American history. The blockade of famine-stricken Soviet Rus sia in 1918-20 by the USA and US administrator Herbert Hoover's manipulation of food relief supplies in starving post war Europe to help overthrow the Hungarian Republic are examples. Today the same policy is be ing applied in Vietnam where the US has sprayed vast areas of the countryside with poison to destroy the crops on which civilians as well as fighting Vietnamese patriots depend. On November 21 the ABC's TV newsreel showed American troops putting to the torch thousands of tons of Vietnam ese rice because it had been allegedly stored by the "Viet- cong." Ghoulish That this is in fact the deli berate policy being pursued in Vietnam was rather ghoulishly confirmed by Australian De fence Minister Fairhall when he recently returned from Viet- nma to boast that two "Viet- cong" prisoners he had seen were very "thin"— a proof of the effectiveness of US tactics. Fresumably if Fairhall could have been shown two. or more corpses of "Vietcong" who had starved to death because their rice had been burned he would have been not 'Onfy pleased but overjoyed. However, if he goes to India now he can regale himself with the sight of as many "thin", or even starving, people, as the most exacting exponent of that form of pressure could desire — and he can claim that many of them will be the way they are because, like the "Viet cong" they aren't taking the political attitudes desired by the USA. In a press conference in Delhi the Soviet Ambassador to India, Mr. I. A. Benediktov said last week that the last loads of a consignment of wheat worth approximately 80 million rupees had been brought to Indian ports. Merinos He read a personal message from Soviet premier Kosygin to Mrs. Gandhi saying that the USSR would hand over, as a gift to the Government and peo ple of India, all the necessary machinery and other equipment for setting up five state seed- growing farms. Another 10 state farms and machine-tractor stations will be equipped on terms of easy credit. Mr. Benediktov recalled that the USSR had already said it was ready to sell India 2000 pedigree merino sheep under a trade agreement this year, together with several special agricultural planes. The USSR was also ready to help India organise sea-fishing and give scientific and technical co-operation in agricultural research. He was sure these actions.', and proposals, would help solve India's food' prob lem. 