 [?] Overseas competition a must for athletes Scarcity of international competition for young stars, in the past, has been a big handicap to Australian athletes. In August . of last year the Australian amateur atmetic Union decided to launch a $50,000 Ron Clarke Founda tion fund to be used to send young athletes of promise overseas for international experience. Ron Clarke himself com mented that he could name a dozen athletes, men and wom en, who should go overseas this year if they are to be as successful as they should be at the. 1968 Mexico Olympics. Such is the importance that one of the world's greatest distance runners ever, puts on the value of international competitive experience. And it is no doubt, that athletics' fans see the present series of international athle tic' carnivals taking place, as a great benefit to all con cerned. A glance at brief sporting sketches of the seven athletes from the world's two leading sporting nations the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. competing here, indicates that if it's international experience our boys are after, then they're getting about the best avail able. In the US team: Jim Grelle, is the US mile champion and was reported to have said on arrival here that he was certain Ron Clarke's Austra lian 2,000 metres time would be broken— and it was, at the very first carnival despite bad conditions. Richmond Flowers is re garded as the most promising hurdler in the U.S. and is tipped to break the world record within the next year,' and is expected to be the US first choice for the hurdles in the Mexico Olympics. Allan Cassell was a mem ber of the US gold medal winning 4x100 metre relay team at the Tokyo Olympics. In the U.S.S.R. team: Vadim Mikhailov won the Russian 800 metres title last year. Leonid Barkovshiy is rated fifth in the world in the long jump. Victor Bolshov is reported to have- cleared 7ft. 2i inches in the high jump and competed most favorably last year with American high jumpers. Yuri Tyurin is the Soviet Union's top man over the 5,000 metre distance. The results of the first two carnivals, held in Sydney and Melbourne, have shown the local talent in quite a favour able light, the results if any thing tending to ' boost the morale of the Australian athletes. Apart from the success of providing international compe tition, for Australian athletes, the Australian Amateur Athe- tic Association should view the carnivals .as a basis from which to pressurize the gov ernment into setting up some kind of sports council to pro vide hinds and facilities to make such international carni vals a regular occurrence. ' And the Athletic Association and sports followers should not let themselves be side tracked into believing that private enterprise, in the name of W.D. & H.O. Wills, the tobacco monopoly, is the solu tion to a lack of funds and is therefore a potential sporting saviour. Their real aim is publicity. Not for the athletes but for W.D. & H.O. Wills' products. The publicity derived from sportsmen and women is fan tastic, and it should be re membered that monopoly big business, has but one interest — self - interest. A recent example . of the benevolence of W.D. & H.O. Wills was the mass stopwork meeting of lOGO tobacco workers last week at the Sydney Town Hall who protested against attempts to lower working conditions. The ring of death The defenders of boxing both amateur and professional are once more on the defen sive following the death of a young Sydney boxer last Mo n- \ day night. The boxer, 21-year-old Pat Casey, underwent emergency brain surgery at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital last week, following a hard fought bout at the South Sydney League's club last Wednesday night. To the time of his death, he had been in a deep coma following his collapse after leaving the ring at the South Sydney League's club. This tragedy once more underlines the ever present danger inherent in boxing and the fact that if boxing is to continue, then a more vin ous and stringent control ol its promotion is necessary. I Such control as the British ' Boxing Board of Control has often been suggested. One of such a board's first jobs would be to set some kind of basic payment to boxers for per forming, a great deal in excess of the lousy. $16 that Pat Casey got killed earning. SOVIET athletes in a .training work - out at Marks field, Sydney l®8 Friday. Left to right: Yuri Tyurin, Vadim Mik- hailkov, Iconid Bark ovshiy and Victor Bol shov. 