 Aircraft workers' margin gain By an Industrial Correspondent Increased margins for workers in the air- craft industry are expected to have a chain reaction. Hearing of claims spread over almost two years has resulted in $.4.30 increase in margins for base rate trades- men and declining increases down to 75c for tradesmen's assistants. The $4.30 increase is in answer to a claim, for $10.00 for tradesmen. It is less than the $5.90 mini- mum claim for tradesmen in the general metal trades case at present being investigated by Conciliation Commissioner Winter. The 75c compares with $3.70 being claimed for trades- men's assistants. Likely chain reactions to this aircraft decision bear on Mr. Winter's investigations and the unions' claim for interim in- creases pending finalisation of Mr. Winter's investigations. Hearing of these claims for interim increases is due to com- mence on Monday December 5. But Mr. Winter's investigations are not expected to be finally dealt with until about June next year. Union officials are now ask- ing the following questions: Since the aircraft decision is the result of a "work-value" investigation by Commissioner McCreadie into work of metal trades workers why should Commissioner Winter's investi- gation be further protracted? How could the value of the work performed by a trades- man in the aircraft industry be any greater than the same work performed in the very much bigger metal industry? Since margins for trades- men have now been increased by $4.30 in the Queensland State metal, railways and building trades awards, in the same awards in Western Australia and in the Federal awards cov- ering shipwrights and aircraft workers, what valid reason is there for tradesmen's margins in the major metal and associ- ated awards remaining $4.30 "below par"? In these circumstances why is the claim for an interim increase— $2.30— due to be dealt with next week, less than the increases already won for other awards?. Is the $4.30 pattern already set in these other lesser awards intended for application to the major awards such as the Fed- eral Metal Trades Award? If so, why the delayed procedure for dealing with the general metal trades claim? Is 75c now awarded for "work-value" consideration to tradesmen's assistants in the aircraft industry a pattern for the metal trades? If so, what valid reason can there be for awarding these workers only one sixth of the increase award ed to tradesmen? The paltry increases awarded for non-tradesmen classifica- tions will cause concern to workers and many metal union officials. Non - tradesmen outnumber tradesmen and if the pattern set for the aircraft industry is followed in the metal indus- try a very large number of workers will get only very small increases. The interim claim for trades- men's assistants is 75c but the aircraft decision could make this sum the full increase for this body of workers. This falls far short of the $3.70 being claimed for them and would leave them further than ever behind their 1947 position relative to tradesmen. 