 I THE SUBJECT- " IS WAR . . . . AND THE 1 PITY OF WAR 1 By GLORIA MELTZER H "THE subject is War and the Pity of War. The || Poetry is in the Pity." These words, from H Wilfred Owen's preface to his war poems, provide n the theme of "Viewpoint", an Artists' Protest |H Exhibition which has just completed a very success- i |1 ful Melbourne showing. ra The first exhibition of its kind, the. Princes Hill n Gallery/ Melbourne, decided to gather together , a R number of artists and sculptors to portray their H viewpoint on the burning issue of war — 'an issue || far above the realm of politics alone, for the main H thing is that everybody should stay alive', a l» spokesman of the Gallery told. me. H He also explained that most of the works of P art had been created in less than a week, and If this had been possible only because each artist had his heart in the subject itself. H One 54 inch oil canvas poignantly depicts man, |j fallen, crippled, tortured, down on his hands and H knees — a victim of napalm. A blinding red cloud R hangs over his head. This is Gareth Jones-Roberts' R "Requiem for the Dead By Napalm". It is simple |a and sad, but very meaningful. A black and white sketch of a stumbling man wrestling with the chains that bind his arms be hind his back. With Udo Sellbach's "To Chain", one has the urge to reach up and assist this powerful figure to untie the knots that keep him prisoner. How appropriate is Noel Counihan's choice of colour, a remarkable mixture of jungle greens, surely all the shades of the Vietnam rleltac in his "Boy". It is the face of a soldier in army helmet, the face of a conscript with' shocked and unbelieving eyes, the face of any Australian youth at war. Bernard Rust's "Mother and Son" makes you want to weep with the mother that holds her naked child against her body. They stand pathet ically, shielding a burning black and red outline, a bombed city. They have survived, but to look at their faces one must ask 'do they want to?' Ken Scarlett's "Head of Sorrow" is a mag nificent work of sculpture. Its most striking feature is an open, gaping mouth, and eyes half blind folded as though . to say: "One cannot draw a blind across their eyes, and ..try tp blot out sorrow." . But the piece which impressed me most, did so because of its realism and complete lack of subtlety. There was no beating about the bush with Clifton Pugh's "The Vietnam Body Counts". Green grass and green soldier highlight the sol dier's black bayonet which points to a mound of bodies, mutilated, naked bodies. A . woman is shielding her face, a child deformed and another with broken limbs, a baby so fresh from its mother's womb that the umbilical cord still hangs from, it, a jumble of bones and bodies that represent the people of Vietnam. According to the Gallery spokesman, this exhibition has set the pattern for future "View points" where artists can focus their talents on thp manv controversial nuestions of the dav. Clifton Pugh's "Vietnam Body Count", from the "Viewpoint" exhibition. Two young spectators before Bernard Rust's "Mother and Son" at the Vietnam Artists' Protest Exhibition in Melbourne. 