 A national calamity if "Snowy" apparatus and men are discarded By W. Mountjoy With the impending completion of the Snowy Mountains sheme the question arises what to do with the apparatus organised by the Snowy Mountains Authority, which in the general sense com prises a highly competent group of scientists and hydrologists skilled in the investigation of water storage sites and construction of dams. T the moment there is a certain amount of work carried on by various State Government instrumentalities on stream flow measurement of Australian rivers, but wide gaps exist in available data. The SMA could step in here and assist the States, and more particu larly investigate in detail our north ern rivers and soil resources. This course of action has been consistently advocated by Professor C. H. Munro, Professor of Civil Engineering, University of N.S.W. and Honorary Director of Research of the Water Research Foundation of Aus tralia. Professor Munro first advanced his ideas in 1961 and more recently in a more forthright manner when moving a vote of thanks to Mr. Hudson, chief of the Snowy Moun tain Authority who had performed the opening ceremony at the exhibi tion of 10 years of water research in Australia arranged by the Water Research Foundation. Professor Munro declared that it would be a national calamity to allow the skilled personnel of the SMA to be disbanded on the oompletion of the Snowy scheme. The question arises — what would such an authority as the SMA do and in what order, if given autho rity by agreement between the Federal and a State government? Examination of possible areas for development suggests that the cen tral and northern areas of Queens land, the north coast of N.S.W. and the border rivers between N.S.W. and Queensland should be first on the list of priorities. Take Queensland first. Here on two river systems, the Fitzroy and the Burdekin are ample water re sources backed by good soil suit able for irrigation schemes. The Fitzroy has a possible total yield of 5,700,000 acre feet on an annual average and the Burdekin a yield of 7,280,000 acre feet on the same basis. Professor Munro has stated that four known storage sites with a total capacity of 10 million acre feet exist on the Fitzroy basin. On the Burdekin a dam has been planned to hold 6& million acre feet. This is greater than the total stor age capacity of the Snowy scheme. The discrepancy between storage and yield for both schemes is due to the higher rate of evaporation on the Burdekin compared with the Snowy. While W. H. Nimmo has estimated that Queensland has a potential ir rigable area of over two million acres, F. B. Haigh considers in a later estimation that Nimmo's figure is too low. Professor Munro supports Haigh's contention. Better soil In Queensland the local water conservation and 'irrigation autho rities support the development of a scheme on the Dawson, a Fitzroy tributary. This is because better soil, com pared to the Burdekin, exists in the Dawson valley. The Dawson soil is the black earth, Australia's most valuable which in - its natural state is not deficient in nitrogen and more particularly phos phorus. All other Australian soils with the exception of a limited area of red loams are at least deficient in phos phorus. The soil in the Burdekin is a mix ture of podsols, red brown earth and krasnozems. The krasnozems are amongst the most fertile of Australian soils, but initial fertility declines rather rapidly and due to reversion of phosphorus to less available forms have a res tricted response to superphosphate. The construction costs of stor ages in the Fitzroy and Burdekin basins have been estimated to com pare more than favorably with those in Australia's southern areas. Water storage On both these rivers, however, a balance has to be struck between the needs of irrigation, Which de mands full storage and flood mitiga tion which needs maximum capacity and minimum storage. Water storages in the areas under consideration need maximum spill way provision due to extremely er ratic rainfall. Turning from the Fitzroy and Burde kin areas another area which requires urgent consideration is that of the Queensland-N.S.W. border rivers. Dams have been proposed for Pike Creek in Queensland and the Mole river in N.S.W. Both dams will not be built for some years due to lack of funds in the hands of both State governments. Eucumbene Dam on Lake Eucumbene — a Snowy project. j Pi 