 | S.Poets for peace at bold read-in From a Correspondent COLLOWING close ly on the heels of the 'Authors against Conscription for the Vietnam War signed by 58 Australian writers and stimulated by reports from the United States, where bold and imaginative Read-ins have been I organised, Melbourne poets presented their viewpoint in no un certain terms at a Read-in organised by the Melbourne Real ist Writers' Group on Saturday, August 20th. Before an audience of 60 people, poets, with vary- i ing emphasis, showed 'that they are deeply concerned about the human suffer ing caused by conscrip tion, the political issues involved in Vietnam, the right to protest and the many interconnected vital and human questions aris ing out of the struggle for a world removed from the shadows of war. The inexperienced poet rubbed shoulders with the established poet, and a spirit of oneness pervad ed the evening. 1 When well-known poet R. A. Simpson read his poem, "By-stander", his experienced handling of the Anzac theme was a perfect foil for Melbourne University poet Michael Hamel-Green who present ed "Soldier, Are you Sure?". Mark Radznes also from the University read his "Theseus", and again the mood changed as a stream of impressions flowed to the listeners. Realist poet Wilma Hed- ley, dramatically read (shades of Yevtushenko) a lengthy poem on the peo ple's right to protest against the Vietnam War, and this was strongly con trasted with the other Realist poetry of Aileen Palmer and Pauline Cros- land, Aileen Palmer's "Re membering Garcia Lorca" was beautifully set to music and presented by Alan and Lorraine Murphy. Horizons widened with Glen Tomasetti, Jim Gil- Ian and Pat O'Connor add ing further colour with songs. Glen Tomasetti's "Ballad of Bill White" speaks for itself. Cyril E. Goode revealed a witty tongue and herein lies a lesson. The grim picture painted of war and the struggle against war could have left the listeners with a picture of unrelieved sombreness. But irony, satire, and humour are the traits of a people immers- 1 ed in the struggle for peace and surely have a place in literature of pro test. It was obvious that a wide range of artistic abil ity. and development ex isted, but it was notice able that the young "in age and heart" had accepted the challenge to partici pate in this venture — that all spoke as one in their own way against the estab lishment which must fear the revealing of truth. When a Geelong Gram mar School boy can write "People of Vietnam Fight On", the Government has a real need to fear. As Chairman of the even ing, Judah Waten gave notice that this historic I occasion was only the fore- 1 runner to a further public 1 performance by poets on | the issues of peace. 1 