 LASH IS STILL TflE ORDER OF THE MY JIM STEVENS reviews "PENAL TO PENAL POWERS", by J. Hutson (mgarnated Engineering Union, Sydney). Tn|:1.50. |N the early 1800's a convict servant was sentenced to 500 lashes, one month's solitary confinement on bread and water and the remaind er of his sentence in a penal settlement for the crime of inciting his master's servants to demand more rations. Nowadays the penal powers of the arbitration court provide a legal lash to compel the servants to work for their masters, and the trade unions are expected to be instruments of the State to force their members to work ac cording to the requirements of the employers. This comparison is sharply pos ed by the Amalgamated Engineer ing Union's Research Officer Jack Hutson in his book, "Penal Colony to Penal Powers". It is a book about the arbitra tion system and its operation— a task undertaken because of the lack of any authoritative material on this subject. It is also not designed to be merely a descriptive work, but one as well which will assist the struggle for better living stand ards. Partisan And Mr. Hutson makes no apol ogies for his partisanship: "A trade union should not be a docile agent of the capitalist state that the arbitration system is de signed to make it. "The primary responsibility of _ a trade union must always be to members and not to an instrument of a capitalist state, moreover a state operating on the dubious moral basis of the exploitation of labour for private profit." Mr. Hutson has. succeeded in making interesting reading of a subject which deals with such a ponderous system as the arbitra tion court and our compulsory arbitration system which has no parallel elsewhere among the in dustrialised nations of the world. He details the methods of col lective bargaining in Great Britain and the United States and adds: "It should be of interest to Aus tralian workers that the introduction of compulsory arbitration is usually proposed in other countries as a threat to pursuade the trade union movement to keep quiet when it is getting too restless for the employ ers' liking." Part of the book is devoted to describing the structure of each of the seven systems of fixing — Wages and conditions in Australia. Maze > The legale laxities of the Commonweal® ii.MS.tate courts provide "the'7 'Mering maze through which iions have to thread their r.keep track of their memhen rorking condi tions." The AEIJ ial shas members covered by: i ' Federal and State Awards) Commonwealth and State Fubl irvice determin ations and by' tered and com mon law agree tsi : In addition, i are about 133 Commonwealth d State Acts dealing with c ent aspects of working condit And talkingro ists, it has been said that "eve word is a ran som." At best a i t award could cost about $1' '-With hearings spread over-b' ears. The new Li» en's Award last year cost the'J il Workers' Un ion $20,000; whi t cost the Pro fessional Engb . about $200,000 over eight ) obtain a Fed- ' era! award. Mr. Button? Viick to point out that this, alism has ad vantages for' employers: "it can distract # de unions from ' their main » »f fighting for wages and cow as on the job." MytbJ He also eXj|F the "prices chasing and speaks of some union as being arbi-" tration hapPf'H "To abide h® umpire's deci- sion is t0.2®»U!trial strug gle as a clJff' be writes. The imPoS#,of bving on the award Jpmch compels workers to Wartime, have their wives « » or have two jobs, is an0® X ot We dealt with. trod UaUty In arg®1® backed by a weight of ije .evidence, Mr. Hutson spell® leal formula for determining court decisions — a formula also Well known to every militant worker: "Arbitration only grants that which has already been won or about which great determination has been shown." It is also well known to work ers that the penal powers are used to try and prevent militant action for higher wages and improved conditions. When used against the unions, me lines ana legal costs are neavy, but when used against employers penalties are trivial. One employer in 1962 was fined $10 for not paying penalty rates j on a public holiday while another . was fined $4 for not paying proper wages. On the other hand, a shop stew ard can be fined $200 if he advised an apprentice to leave the trade for another occupation. There are 28 sections of the Commonwealth Arbitration t Act which prescribe penalties— apart from xthe State Acts, Public Ser vice Acts and so on. These are given a thorough air- 1 ing in the hook. Waterside workers also have to . contend with the Stevedoring In dustry Authority, which between 1 1961-1963 penalised individual whar- ( lies $2,632,666. This was apart from 1 $57,200 in fines and costs imposed by the court. In 1961 ten unions were fined $10,550 plus costs for stoppages over the BHP's suspension of 11 AEU delegates who met in their lunch time to discuss the sacking of another delegate. j The fines were paid under the threat of sending a Receiver into j the unions, while the NSW Labor j Government backed the BHP. e The American-owned GMH is c also well protected as shown dur- 1 ing the strike in 1964 where un- 6 ions were fined £19,000 with a r threat of a further $50,000. Mr. Hutson will find a growing c number of supporters for his con clusion that "struggle against pen al powers is in essence a struggle against the repression of the cap italist state." And that their elimination t: "calls for political struggle backed by industrial pressure." This is a book that will stir up controversy within the labor move ment and will be sought as a hand book by many. As Mr. Hutson has said: "Some issues have been sharply raised in the hope that a little heat may generate some light by provoking constructive debate around them." 