 PRIZES, PICASSO AND CONTROVERSY ART AFFAIRS By NOEL COUNIHAN ""J" HIS column offers warm congratulations to veteran painter Roland Wakelin on receiving the inaugural, 1 966 award, for outstanding services to Australian art, of the International Cooperation Award Committee set up by the Artists' session of the 1964 Sydney Peace Congress. . Fifty years ago Wakelin introduced post-impressionist ideas to Australian painting. He fully deserves his new honor, as William Frater, who me years later launched Cezannisrn into the stagnant waters of Victorian art mer- w his Retrospective show opened at the National GaJ- y f Victoria on August 11. ? AN eighty-five-year-old member of the French Communist Party came out a clear winner when some scores of mainly European critics, his torians, curators and deal- ers answered the question posed by France's "Con- naissance des Arts" : "Who are the ten living painters you prefer, to day?' His name? Pablo Picasso, ? . pROM a painter's point of view a most notable feature of the controversial Realist Group show at the V.A.S. galleries, other than the impressive landscape and figurative contributions of its talented invitees, Armstrong, Baker, Cant, Frater, Luke, Mezaks, and Perceval, is the clear evidence of artistic ad vance by several of its members. This is especially true of Miller, Rust, Armfield, Lin coln, Morgan, Mogensen and sculptor Scarlett, all of whom reveal new and varying quali ties of interest to the more discerning. "Storm", by McClintock, particularly impressed William Frater. Many painters, both inside and outside the ranks of the group, noted the more subtle, imaginative and controlled color harmonies with which Miller and Rust clothed their warm responses to some of the crucial issues of our time. ? |_|OW the wheel turns. Charges of . "propaganda" levelled at some Social Real ist exhibits in this show re mind me that 20 years ago both avant garde and conser- v a t i v e critics constantly charged Bergher, O'Connor and myself with being merely propagandists whenever we exhibited. Now that our paintings of those years have become hal lowed by time, and it is in teresting that many have be come collectors' items, today's avant garde critics, Robert- Hughes and others, regard those pictures as the most important we ever painted. Personally, I take encour agement from , the renewal of the allegations of "propa ganda". 