 — " | 1 ON. THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE :A 850 S. Coast | teachers back ! up colleagues 1 k/OLLONGONG (NSW): In an impressive revolt ' against the "carpeting" of two Illawarra teachers for making statements about school conditions, two 1 pages of letters signed by 850 teachers from 47 local schools appeared here in last Wednesday's 1 Daily Mercury. | The two teachers had been I reprimanded by an Education Department officer after they wrote to the press pointing out inadequacies in' accommodation at their schools. Now 850 teachers have done what the two were reprimanded ' for having done. They too have put their names to public statements which in many in stances reveal grave deficien cies in conditions. The two "carpeted" teachers made their statements as local Teachers' Federation represent atives. Some of the biggest lists of signatures follow letters telling of the situation at Wollongong, Keira Boys', Port Kembla and Corrimal Boys' High Schools. The teachers also stress their support of the Teach ers' Federation campaign to repeal the gagging Public Ser vice Board regulations 17 and 23. Meeting A resolution calling for re peal of these regulations was carried earlier at a meeting of 400 people in Wollongong, called by the Illawarra Dis trict Council of P. & C. As sociations and the North Illa warra Teachers' Federations. The meeting asked the Edu cation Department to cancel a direction to the two Wollon gong teachers not to speak out about education problems. More than 60 telegrams were sent to the meeting from teach er and parent organisations, south coast politicians and trade unions in many parts of the State. A message representing 3000 Sydney secondary school teach- ers said: "Teachers have a dutv to publicise school needs " The meeting called on th« NSW Government to reoeai regulations 17 and 23, aiS 1 urged the State Government to ; establish an education com 1 mission without delay. Mr. F- Starling, of Corrimal High School, said at the meet ing that the basis of democracy was informed criticism. Teachers could provide in formation that nobody else could, and it was their moral obligation to provide it. Mr. J. Dombroski, president of the Illawarra Teachers' As sociation, said that 27 new high schools and 11 new pri mary schools originally pro. mised by the NSW Labor Gov ernment were not to be built now. The lack of school accom modation and equipment would be even more intoler able next year when addi tional classes of sixth form \ pupils swelled classes under tbe Wyndham scheme. jj Mr. S. P. Lewis, president of 11 the NSW Teachers' Federation, : ® said the federation welcomed J|| the promise by the State Gov- ||1 ernment of a $60 million crash til plan for school building, but m it would not replace the ori- p ginal promises of new high and || primary schools for 1967. || Amazed This new plan, he said, 1 would not have been secured |j but for the teachers' campaign M throughout the length . and || breadth of the country. g| In a public statement the || secretary of the South Coast ||j Labor Council, Mr. E. J. Har- g| vey, supported the teachers i ana saia: jrueni« m the South Coast are indebted g to these teachers, who are 1 looking after the interests of. f| their children." . M Interviewed after the Woi- gj longong meeting, a Seamen s || Union member said the sea- || men would be glad to help the m teachers in their campaign. . fg Many seamen, he said, wen 1 to sea, renouncing the benefits jg of family and community n 1 enjoyed by others so as 1 assist towards the better eou- |j cation of their children. 1 They were amazed when i ' 1 formed of the lack in school | of ordinary facilities wn they had taken for gra 1 would exist in view 01 | heavy taxes which they Paia' | 