 Queer light I on police at inquest g YDNEY: There were some nasty un answered questions at a Sydney inquest last week into the death of a teenage hoy, I shot by a policeman, and it is up to the police, and the Askin State Government to provide the answers: — ® What was in the police report on the case that made the Department object to have it produced in court? © Where is the missing witness? Why could the police not find him? Or did they prefer not to? © Why did the Attorney General fail to ensure legal representation for the impoverished parents of the dead boy? ! The case concerned the fatal | shooting last New Year's Eve of George Tatar, 17, in Derby Street, Merrylands, by Con- ! stable H. L. Weyman. Police evidence was that Tatar and another youngster, Raymond Smith, were seen by patrolling police in the act of breaking into a service station. When the patrol car pulled up they jumped into a utility Iand drove off; a highspeed chase ensued, then Smith fell from the utility and escaped and the vehicle crashed into a | Pie> I Peculiar 1 When the driver, Tatar, ran M up the road, the constable gave % chase, fired three shots over m Tatar's head "to frighten him", Wm the youth fell down with a W bullet., in the head and died I three hours later. I It was an unusual inquest I in that a jury had been sought, 1 and obtained, at the request || of the parents. The jurors did I' some determined probing into | the case— they even visited the 1 scene of the shooting— but a | series of peculiar incidents res- I tricted their scope. I When asked by Mr. K. J. I Holland QC (for Tatar's par- I ents) to produce Weyman's 1 written report to his superiors, I Sgt S. Short refused to pro- 1 duce it, saying he anticipated the Minister (Premier Askin) would claim privilege on the document. After the coroner, Mr. N. C. Gardner, issued a summons for production of the document, the police returned next day with a strong demand for its suppression "in the public interest", and saying that Pre mier Askin had put the onus DTI fbo D/Mn«%AM 4>/\ Ja: a — WiUIICi IU UCUUC. Suppressed Mr. Holland: "A man has been killed at the hands of another It is a statement by a person who fired the fatal shot, what could be more relevant? The public interest is in getting to the bottom of this matter, whether anybody is hurt or anybody is exonerated by it. The public interest of getting at the truth must override any damage to the public interest by production of the report." But Mr. Gardner ruled that the report be NOT made public. Lawyers believe that there tnay have been something in weyman's original report that would have revealed at least some inconsistencies in the police evidence at the inquest. The parents' legal represen tatives had made contact with aymond Smith and had sec ured a written statement from mm which, according to evid ence, directly challenged the P lice story about attempting ontry into the garage. r(3s, was a crucial point, un e Woyman admitted km»er cross-examination he that, under Police Rules, , lrearm should not be used n?tfS a felony has been com muted and not "where the H ny concerns property or matters not of great value or moment." ' But if, in fact, no serious felony had been clearly estab lished, the excuse for firing shots might have fallen to the ground. It was therefore particularly interesting that the police claimed to have been unable to find Smith. Although the Coroner issued a warrant on consecutive days for his atten dance, they were still unable to find him. Earlier the law yers had easily located him and, it is understood, they expected him to attend the court up to his sudden and mysterious dis appearance some weeks ago, after saying (according to evi dence): "I have heard that if I give evidence the police will give me 10 years." Forbidden The coroner permitted only the viewing of the statement by the jury and forbade its publication, saying that it could not be tested by cross-examin ation of Smith and might there fore be given undue weight. The failure of the Attorney General to ensure legal aid to the parents revealed serious inadequacy in the system of legal aid to needy people and in the Government's attitude. Had it not been for the efforts of Mr. J. Ferguson MLA and the Council of Civil Lib erties, the parents would have had no lawyers and there might have been no effective challenge to the police story. As it was, the jury had little alternative under the circum stances but to find for "death through misadventure" but also urged "stronger discipline" concerning police use of arms. Demonstrations Q YDNEY: The Project Viet nam Committee has planned a poster parade and city walk on Monday, July 11. The Parade will begin at 5 pm in Martin Place, Sydney from which the walk will commence to a lower town hall meeting at 6.30 pm. Speakers from interstate and folksingers will take part in the lower town hall rally. Other public meetings sched uled for July include: Friday July 8, 8 pm, Public forum on Vietnam, North Sydney Town Hall. Speakers: Barry Robinson, Geoffrey Mor row, Owen Harries, and John Howard. 