 NEW WALK-OFF AS STOCKMEN'S STRIKE SPREADS Manager points rifle 0ARWIN: Aboriginal stockmen with their wives and families have walked off another Vestey's cattle station, Helen's Springs, in the Northern Territory to join the spreading strike by Aborigines for equal pay with whites. The stockmen from Helen's Springs had not received any pay for four months. When a member of the NT Council for Aboriginal Rights, Mr. George Gibbs, approached the manager of the station to question him about this, he gave the Aborigines and Gibbs five minutes to leave the pro perty. He had a rifle resting on the steering wheel of his vehicle pointed at Gibbs while he spoke. "I'm not going to make the same mistake as Tom Fisher (Wave Hill Station manager) and pay them. "They get nothing", he said. Four stations are now strike bound. They are Wave Hill, (Vestey's giant holding),, New castle Waters, Mount Sanford and Helen's Springs. Reports from Darwin indi- cate further walk-offs are ex pected in the nea-r future. George Gibbs and Clancy Ro berts, another NT Aboriginals' Rights Council member, were on their way back from New castle Waters when they herd of trouble at Helen's Springs. Assaulted It was alleged that in a dis pute between native stockmen and the manager, an Aboriginal spokesman named Dick had been assaulted by the manager and several white stockmen. Gibbs and Roberts travelled to Helen's Springs homestead, where Aboriginal women told them that the stockmen had been left at the outstation the previous weekend with virtually no rations- When the manager came, out on the Monday an argument had developed and they were told if they were not satisfied they could walk the 40 miles back to the station. Gibbs and Roberts then went to the outstation. When their truck pulled up they were greet ed by the Aboriginal stockmen, who asked whether they were from the Rights Council. They confirmed that they were and the stockmen said, "Take us to the station to pick up our wives and children. We want to go to Newcastle Waters to sit down with the strikers there". School The Helen Springs people are now at Newcastle Waters, where arrangements have been made to feed them, and the children went to school on Friday morn ing. Like the people at Wave Hill, they are determined not to re turn to work until they get award wages a-nd get improved living conditions. Average Aborigine stockmen on Northern Territory stations receive about $6 a week for long hours and skilled and arduous work. Most of them live in squalor, without hygiene or sanitation, and their diet is often only dry bread and salt beef. The settlement terms pro posed by the Australian Coun cil of Trade Unions and re jected unanimously by North Australian Workers' Union en visaged the payment of the equivalent of the basic wage in cash and kind to only a "skilled" minority of stockmen. These terms would have given the majority as little as $14.50 a week. No provision was made for payment to domestics. Mr. Paddy Carroll, NAWU ' secre tary, has always contended that no settlement would be accepted, that did not provide as a mini mum the basic wage. The sharp reaction of the people of the Northern Territory to the settlement offer was re flected in an editorial in the Northern Territory News last week. It commented — "Anger" "There is bound to be a sense of surprise, and perhaps anger, in many quarters now that it is known what the ACTU was prepared to settle for. "Quite obviously the ACTU has gone the way of many in dustrial union leaders in rela tively affluent societies ... it has lost contact with reality and real interest in its proper func tion." Conditions on Wave Hill sta tion shocked and appalled all who visited there recently. Na tives had lived in tin humpies without floors, furniture or . toilet facilities. Vesteys had refused to lay even one pipe for water for the camp. Natives had to carry water 300 yards. The striking Aborigines allege that some of the gear they left behind at the station has been burned or stolen. They say that the hut of strike leader Vincent Lingiari has been broken into and val uable knives and a steel, vir tually his only possessions, have been taken. Stolen Another strike leader, known as Long Johnny, alleges that two suit-cases of personal be longings, including four gramo phone records he recently pur chased from a hawker, and a bible were stolen from his hut. The Aborigines have com plained to the local police and investigations are being carried out, with Captain Hook in charge. , The Federal body of the Abo riginal Advancement League is organising a tour of the eastern States by Robert. Tudawaali, famous star of Jedda and Whiplash. Tudawaali is vice- president of the NT Council for Aboriginal Rights and has been extremely active in the wages campaign. Captain Major, leader of the Newcastle Waters strikers, is also likely to visit the south to raise funds. Urgently required money should be sent to the North Australian Workers' Union and to the NT Council for Abori ginal Rights, Box 600, Post Of- ' fice, Darwin. 