 Dead miners were victims of 'profit before safety' OLLONGONG: Two young married men with families, buried alive at the Corrimal Colliery on April 12, were vic tims of "profit before safety" — the main cause of the mounting death toll among mine workers. There were 20 fatalities among mine workers last year, the highest on record. Seven of these men were killed in six weeks. The two men killed at Corri mal were William Arthur Neaves (21) and Eric Hillman (39). Neaves leaves a wife and two-year-son. Hillman leaves a wife, daughter (10) and son (7). Corrimal Colliery, like the Old Bulli Mine, where four miners were burned or suffo cated to death in a gas explo sion and fire last November, is owned by the Broken Hill Pty. Ltd., Australia's biggest mono poly. Roof caves in With two other men they were erecting roof supports in the north-west section of the mine about four miles underground when the roof caved in about 11 a.m. They were not experienced miners and a resolution from a pit-top meeting last Friday said that the management should not have allowed them to do this type of work without a first class shiftman in at tendance to advise and assist them. The resolution carried by about 300 men said that had the management cared to take this necessary precaution the men might not have lost their lives. One of the two men who escaped the fall, Robert Simp son, said he had heard a rumble and saw stones falling. "I turned and ran and the roof caved in behind me," he said. Experienced miners said that had a first class shiftman been with the men he would have probably "heard" the roof movements long enough before the cave-in to allow all to escape. After a meeting at the Corrimal Colliery on Friday morning the men decided against work for the day after hearing a report on a meeting with the Federa tion and the management. The meeting condemned the management of "not being sin cere." More breaches by management Three serious breaches of safety that could have caused loss of life in BHP mines took place just before the Easter break. At the Old Bulli Mine, scene of the gas explosion disaster, excessive quantities of gas were discovered. The Deputy decided that the men should stop, but the Over man (for the management) tried to the force the men to con tinue. At Appin Colliery (BHP owned) there was an ignition of gas caused by a damaged electric cable. There was a fall of "rip" coal that seriously injured a Deputy. He was lucky to escape with his life. In the same mine the Over-, man tried to stop mine workers erecting steel supports as roof props. Mr. R. Cram, president of the Southern District of the Miners' Federation, said that roof con ditions in the Corrimal Colliery had caused concern among mine workers for some time. "They are probably as bad, if not worse than any in the field," he said. Mr. Dave Bowen, a miner employed at the mine, made an even more alarming remark. He said that some of the miners had predicted that the roof would come down before the Easter holiday break was over. Mr. Cram said that while as yet there was no clearly defined reason for roof collapses, he thought that possibly one of the reasons in the case of Corrimal was that the machines used for coal extraction were too big. No support They left too little coal standing to support the roof. There was a coal extraction machine being used . at Appin Colliery which, with experi ment and modification, could be probably adapted for mines with a great roof danger, he said. The machine worked on a mole-like principle and left a greater section of coal standing and hence the roof was streng thened. There were some problems about clearance at the sides of these machines, but with ex periment and then modification they probably could be adapted, he said. So alarmed is the Miners' Federation at the rising acci dent rate in mines that they have launched a nation-wide safety drive. Lodge delegates' meetings are to be held in a determined drive against death and disaster, the twin products of the "rip, tear and drag" methods of the employers. Recommendations . for safe working made by the Miners' Federation's Central Council following the Bulli tragedy last November were:. Departmental approval for all mine development plans. Deputies to be appointed by and under the control of the Mines ' Department. .More Mines Inspectors and Electrical Check Inspec tors. Mr. Dave Bowen 