 FRENCH TESTS NOT TRES BON TO WWF YDNEY: The Federal Council of the Waterside Workers' Federation has called for an immediate ban on all French goodsl and the working or handling of French ships, and aircraft as a bid to stop further1 nuclear testing by France. The Australian Council of Trade Unions and the New Zea- ' land Federation of Labor are . called on to impose such a ban. Federal Council, which is at ' present meeting in Sydney, has , also asked the ACTU to call on the International Confederation ; . of. Free Trade Unions and the World Federation of Trade Un ions to place a world-wide ban on all French goods, ships and aircraft. . The WWF said it was disgust- ' ed at the action of the French , Government in testing nuclear r devices at Mururoa Atoll in de fiance of world opinion and the 1 expressed opposition of all the , peoples of the South Pacific. "Their now announced deci- £ sion to test a thermo-nuclear device in the same area is a blatant disregard of the right of the people and countries af fected. Criminal "It is a criminal action by a : European power which has no right, moral or territorial, to - impose such dangers on people far. distant from its own land," , the WWF said. i A demand was also made on the Australian Government to | take a strong line with the French Government and to , bring the matter before the Un- ited Nations. Federal Council also con- . , demned the policies of the Holt Government for the loss of Z young Australian lives in Viet- l nam and branded the Govern- x ment as "a lackey of America." All foreign troops and mili tary bases should be withdrawn from Vietnam and the people v of this unfortunate country be ; allowed the right to determine ; their own affairs in peaceful '. relations with their neighbors, the WWF said. | The Council stated that con- | scription for overseas service I was now being forced on the | Australian people "not for the | defence of our country, but to | interfere by aggressive military L action in the affairs of another country and to satisfy the re quirements of the USA." Full support was given to the ALP and ACTU's declared op position to conscription and the demand for a referendum on this matter. "The people of Australia should not tolerate this situa tion," the Council declared. 