 Indonesian power struggle FACTION-FIGHTS FOR CABINET POSTS By Rex Mortimer INDONESIA'S new Cabinet, announced last week, appears to I have given little satisfaction to any of the factions jockeying for power in the capital. The right wing student body, KAMI, front-runners for General Nasution and the outlawed Moslem extremist party, Masjumi, are incensed that their > nominees have not been placed in clear command. The Moslem Scholars' Party, jealous of any attempt to re vive the Masjumi, is agitating for the sacking of the wily and corrupt Malik, who remains Foreign Minister, president Sukarno rails at the loss of two of his favorite Ministers and publicly reclaims the authority stripped from him. Behind the comic opera elements of much of the poli tical feuding lies a serious and sober reality. Contrary to many expectations, the army leaders have not succeeded in establishing their undisputed sway for the simple reason that they are unable to agree among themselves on policy or political formula. A complicated tangle of po litical differences, conflicting ambitions, regional loyalties, ethnic and religious barriers are operating to splinter the army's authority and force different factions into alliance with civilian political group ings. Nasution One section led by Nasution is inclined toward rightwing Moslem domination; however, its influence appears to be on the decline. Another, the dom inant one, ranged behind the Cabinet head, General Su harto, wants to confine the political arena to two parties — rightwing Nationalist and united Moslem— with the army holding the balance; so far it cannot find any basis for unity. A third wants to return the country to Sukarno's fold. In these conditions intrigue and in-fighting are rife. Each of the political party manag ers is strenuously asserting his group and personal inter- ' ests. The higher governmental officials, steeped in corrup tion and with inflated and costly departments to protect, are pushing their barrows busily. Because of the inter locking of these interests, and their retinues of personal fol lowers, kinsmen and agents, the political scene resembles nothing so much as a pit of pythons. The Government is bogged down in disputes and compro mises. Confrontation with Malaysia is neither on nor off, to what extent because of political differences affect ing Indonesia's defence and security, or other factors such as the army's fear of a re duction in its share of the budget, it is impossible to sa.y. The economy con tinues its steady slide to bankruptcy and impoverish ment. Confident predictions of an imperialist "rescue" operation are waning. Either the cost is too high or the political un certainty is too acute, or both; in a.ny case, none of Indones ia's Western creditors repre sented at last month's meeting in Tokyo seemed anxious to pick up the baby, alone or ip concert. , Declining The popular standing of the new rulers is declining, espe cially in the populous pro vinces of Central Java an£ East Java. ; The> fear and paralysis that followed the army's anti-com'- munist bloodbath is slowly evaporating. Economic distress is combining with reaction to the slaughters and a growing disbelief in the official ver sion of the coup and counterf coup last October to promote renewed discontent and rebel|- iiousness. Underground Suj- karnoist, communist and othej: radical organisations are sprouting. As yet there is no force, either on the right or the lef£, capable of ending the ecoi- nomic and political drift. - It is hard to see such a force in the immediate offing. Disorders and upheavals ar&lt;e . likely to spread and become more serious. They may as sume proportions of majoijr armed clashes, r e g i o n ajl breakaways, conceivably civil war. It is a situation ripe for imperialist interference an|i manipulation. 1 - It will not end until a reso luie, united and reforming movement is able to mount £ successful assault on the rote- ten edifice of wealth ana power that resides in Dja karta. 