 YIC. LIBERALS' GIFT TO BIG COYS ON GAS PRICE /MELBOURNE: Thanks to Victoria's Liberal Premier, Sir Henry Bolte, the Esso-BHP combine have succeeded in extorting an exorbitant price for natural gas from deposits under their control. i This ends the long haggle involving the state instrument ality, the Gas and Fuel Corpor ation. Industry authorities quoted by the Financial Review last Thursday have said that the price steamrollered through by Bolte was fourpence, 3.3 cents per therm or more than double the liberal offer of the GFC and well above the maximum price recommended by the gov ernment's own consultant Dr. Charles Hetherington. A therm is the amount of heat obtained from about 100 cubic feet of natural gas.) In fixing this price, Bolte took the extraordinary step of overruling his own corporation and imposing a price far in excess of what they were pre pared to pay. The high price is meeting with hostility from large sec tions of industry who are inter ested in cheap sources of gas. In commenting that the Vic torian gas was now priced off the New South Wales market, the Financial Review authori ties referred to a "politically imposed price disability". Will hit people Household consumers and unionists will no doubt be hos tile too when the full meaning of the price machinations be comes clear; - The price, will mean immense extra profits for Esso-BHP, as the extent of the gas deposits is measured in trillions of cubic feet. The GFC offer of 1.5 cents (1.8 pence) per therm would have provided them with a nett profit of at least 175 millions dollars, from the first and sec ond Gippsland shelves. At the time of the discovery of the Second Gippsland Shelf Esso-BHP had spent only eight million dollars on exploration. Each additional cent in price means a further 175 million dollars profit on the sale of 1.75 trillion cubic feet of gas. The ownership and control of the pipeline to transport gas to Melbourne and other centres has also been the subject of sharp controversy. New plan The original plan of the Bolte Liberal government was to put . this lucrative venture complete ly into the hands of private. enterprise. But this was oppos ed by large sections of the community including some ele ments in the Liberal Party it self. The widespread demand for the pipelines to be in the hands of the Gas and Fuel Corpora tion (which already operates a 90 mile pipeline from Morwell to Melbourne) forced Bolte to change his plan. At present, a Liberal-sponsor ed bill to set up a separate semi-governmental authority to pipe natural gas is running into opposition from the Labor and Country parties, who want the GFC to be the pipeline author ity. Apparently Sir Henry Bolte, having failed to get complete private control of gas trans portation, is aiming for a new, more compliant body to handle the gas. 