 Keep him out! AUSTRALIA 'does not want Lyndon Johnson here. He is the man who . perpetrated one of the cruellest pieces of political deception in world his tory, to win election as United States President. It was he who promised America and the world back in 1964 that he would seek peace- in Vietnam (repudiating the notorious Goldwater policy of escalation of the war) and on the basis of that promise won a landslide victory. The same Lyndon Johnson, a bare three months later, took up and implemented the very Goldwater policy he had denounced to launch one of the most savage and ruthless wars history has known against an Asian people seeking . its freedom. This Commander-in-Chief, iru defiance of inter national law, is using horror weapons such as napalm, white phosphorus and poisonous crop killing chemi cals — besides aerial bombings Worse than Hitler's attacks on London. The daily press of both countries hardly bother to deny that the talk, of a Johnson visit, like the pro jected Manila conference of the governments waging war against Vietnam, is a cynical political stunt. Responsible US papers like the New York Times, the Baltimore Sun and the St. Louis Post-Despatch have, helped debunk the story that Manila has any other purpose than to build an "image" of Johnson as a world statesman for the edification of the US electorate. ? t r A Only Governments supportinghe US have been invited to what Senator Fulbright has called "a cosy meeting with our boys in the back. room". - ' One of "their boys" — Australian Prime Minister Holt — has been busily suggesting that the conference will aim to work out a 'peace plan. In fact the air is full of American threats about their openly-planned and predicted escalation of the Vietnam war by an invasion iof the demilitarised zone — which General Westmoreland demands must be turned into a "defoliated" desert. Defence Secretary McNamara "spoiled" UN Am bassador Goldberg's "peace plea" (complains one paper) by announcing, in the middle of it, big new plans to extend the air war beyond mid-1967. Purporting to accept the principle of negotiations with the South Vietnam National Liberation Front, Goldberg was promptly given a let-out by Saigon puppet Premier Ky, who ruled the idea out of court. So far from seeking peace, Johnson is actually fostering the illusion that the US is getting the upper hand and that, as he said last weekend, the position had improved "from . the military and pacification standpoint". (This is hard to square with the admission that the LTS had just suffered one of its heaviest weekly cas ualty totals of the whole war to date — and the clamor of US generals for more cannon fodder.) If he comes here, most Australians will recognise it as pre-election window dressing for both Johnson and his local sponsor, Holt, and will know how to demonstrate their indignation. ' ? Dr. Subandrio THE trial of Dr. Subandrio in Jakarta recalls what those responsible for it seem to want to forget — that Subandrio, along with President Sukarno him self, was one of the leaders of the struggle for Indo nesian independence in 1945 and later. . His policies favored a development of the friendship formed in the days when Australian workers rallied to Indonesia's struggle against colonialism. In attacking him and, through him President Sukarno, the Suharto regime is striking at the forces most favorable to that friendship. That is a point Australian daily papers seem to overlook when they rejoice at Subandrio's plight. 