 r ' f The l -n bugging business "REVELATIONS by Mf. Francis James, Liberal Reform election candidate for Lowe have brought to light once more the intrusion into Australian citizen's privacy by the Australian Security Intelligence Organ isation — the Holt Government's political police. Documents released by Mr. James (see Tribune 16/11/66) showed that Brigadier Spry's men hacl obtained all sorts of information about him — by crude burglary of his home and office, by tapping his phone and reading his mail and even . by eavesdropping on a "private" conversation he had in the street. Such revelations will shock many people who believe that Australia is part of the free world. They may hesitate to believe that the Govern ment could dc all the spying that Mr. James has alleged. Here we quote sections from the book "The Naked Society" in which American author Vance Packard has shown the enormous development of spying devices brought about by the advance in recent years of the science of electronics. Though he deals with the American scene he refers to the use of devices "in the international field." The Holt Govern ment's pro-Washington orientation ensures that Australian police spying fs strongly influenced by the methods of US agencies like the CIA and FBI. satisfaction of , the needs of soc- iety, and its protection. They began by withdrawing Russia from the murderous First World War in Europe — just as the communists and very many others in Australia today see withdrawal from Vietnam to be a first essen-. tial step for sane Australian de velopment. They proceeded to nationalise the major industries, financial and commercial institutions owned by foreign and domestic capital. They reorganised a broken, famine-stricken country and lib erated it from 14 armies of inter vention from the most powerful capitalist countries; they abolished national and race oppression and built the world's first true fratern ity of nations. They introduced to the world the idea of national economic planning,1 inspired workers of all lands by building great fact ories, dams and canals in virgin land. When the scourge of the Nazi armies struck them, they took to .- flTw.BiicViod ihenxr des;o_ pita-. tewtejfateSin lifting a weight fro® world. Then tiiilsbuilt and built anew Wieiilpcialist economy, cities and If s, conquered the atom and ! se and asserted abroad a pi I of peace and friendship h :en nations that has won the port of increasing millions aroi the world. And never :e, through those 40 years, !> there been the sightest possi ;y of any return for the ca ist or landlord owners, nor. iere now. On the coi ry, socialism has been adopted the people of 13 other countri More will follow, not seeking t ipy Soviet society, hut taking same essential path of pub! ownership of the means of pr ition, distribution and exchange : It is entire within that basic framework tl he new economic measures are :ing applied and are already educing startling results. A T least thirty US companies are now involved in manu facturing electronic eavesdropping equipment. One of- the larger companies, - Solar Research, Inc., in Oakland Park, Florida, claims that iji 1962 for example, its . sales increased fourfold ' hvithin ' a ' year. ' Some sell only to law enforce ment agencies; others sell only surveillance equipment to law-en forcement agencies; others sell counter-intrusion devices to pri vate concerns; and some seem interested in selling anything they have to anyone who has money to pay for the devices. In the course of my research I was given a number of demon strations on the arts of bugging and de-bugging by people who , were clearly experts. Raymond Farrell, manager of Bondwitt Sound Engineering Co., in New York, explains: 'If we're serving the public, we're anti- intrusion specialists; if we're serv ing the law, lawfully, we're in trusion specialists.' As he and I were chatting in an office, he took out of his brief case a transmitter the size of a small matchbox. At his suggestion we went down the hall to a room where two girls were chatting and with their permission placed it and its tiny microphone on a table several feet from them. We returned to the office where we had been talking. He closed the door and turned on his re ceiving box. The conversation of the girls came through loud and clear. He said the girls could be heard at least a block away and perhaps two, depending on con ditions. The most impressive demonstra tion was put on for me by Ralph V., Ward of Mosler Research Pro-, ducts, Inc., in Danbury, Connect icut. He is one of the leading authorities in the free world on surveillance devices. His company and its predecessors pioneered in making miniature surveillance devices for federal agencies, in cluding some in the international field.. One interesting item was a mircrophone mounted in rubber a quarter of an' inch thick. It can be slipped under a hotel door. Another device was the spike mike; a microphone attached to a spike nearly a foot long. It can bo driven into walls or doors, which serve as resonators. The challenge today is not to make the 'bugs' small hut to nako them more undetectable, or use in spots where the occu- >ants are security-orientated and ikely to make checks. A transmitter, no matter how small, is fairly easy to spot by in anti-intrusion expert with room-'sweeping' equipment. He tiears a squeal in his receiver when his electronic 'mop' gets close to a hidden transmitter. A buried microphone with a tiny wire leading to a remote tape recorder is vastly more difficult to detect. Thus the transmitter is con sidered to be most appropriate for quick hit-and-run jobs, whereas the mike wired to a remote re corder is preferred for perman ent installations. Some of the preferred places to tape hidden microphones in a room are at the back of desk drawer (because people usually don't go all the way back even when searching), in the upholstery, or the underside of a bed. If a long-term bugging with a transmitter is planned, there is an advantage in putting the trans mitter in an electric clock or TV set or in a light fixture so that it can draw its power from the building's electric power source. Hiding Another favoured spot for hid ing bugging devices is within the frame of a picture on the wall. Mosler sells a nice pastoral scene that has a very thin transmitter pasted inside the paper covering the back of the picture. (Price $215). A visual search would not detpt this transmitter even if the pic ture were taken off the wall. These pictures are particularly esteemed for installations in hotel or motel rooms where persons under sur veillance are going to stay. The base of a telephone is also a choice spot for making a quick installation of a bug. it can be done within one minute. There are two ways of installing the bug. A two-wire tap using a small transmitter in the base gives you only the telephone conversation, A three-wire taR includes a wire that jumps the hook switch anc thus broadcasts all calls and ir addition all conversations going or ir. the room when the phone is not in use. As counter-intrusion skills have advanced, the professionals have sought to place their microphones beyond the probing range of the metal-detection sweepers now widely used. This means placing the mike behind the wall — and as far away as possible. Mr. Ward explained: Tube Normally the best way to bug is through a pinhole that is too small to see in the imperfections of the woodwork or the plaster. Visually, you wouldn't find the pinhole.' (Researchers are at work to develop pinhole finders). But even with a pinhole the presence of a microphone buried in the wall may produce a slight signal on the metal detector if it is just inside the plaster behind the pinhole opening. Now, Mr. Ward indicated, the tube mike has been developed. This permits you to put the mike several inches back from the pin hole. The tube, which can be a plas tic resonator, leads from the pin hole to the mike and reduces the chances that the microphone will be detected by any metal-detect ing device. Dr. Leo L. Beranek of the Mas sachusetts Institute of Technology, an authority on acoustics, has des cribed devices that can be placed on the outside wall of a room under surveillance. Voices inside the room set up mechanical vibrations that may be detected by such a device placed against the outer wall. As for the highly directional microphones that reputedly can pick up conversations from great distances, a sizeable folk-lore on the reach of such microphones has developed. Voices Published reports that they can pull in voices from 1,200 feet away or through closed windows are apparently without basis. But apparantly some do bring in conversations 100-150 feet away under moderately noisy condit- ions and up to 500 feet if con ditions are ideal (quiet). The first of these miracle mikes to receive much attention was the . parabolic microphone, placed at the focal point of a reflector. An effective parabolic mike re quires a reflector with a diameter of at least three and preferably six feet. This makes it somewhat cumbersome for most sleuthing purposes, but it can be concealed behind bushes, or in an open truck, or in the darkened balcony of a conference room. Another kind of long-range mike is the so-called machine-gun type, consisting of 9 bundle of tubes of varying lengths, each of which brings the sound to a microphone at the rear. Such an arrangement of tubes tends to eliminate most 1 sounds not almost directly to the front. Cumbersomeness is again a problem. The picture of the one I saw in operation indicated that the longest of the pipes was about seven feet. The man using it was behind bushes. Still a third type of long-range mike is produced by Electro-Voice, which specialises in developing microphones for broadcasting. Re cently it developed a single-barrel mike about seven feet long. All major TV networks have used it to pick up the voices of questioners at presidential press conferences ... to pick up the sounds of distant bands in par ades . . . and to pick up the voices and sounds of body impact of players at football games. The National, Football League now has banned it because it was picking up and broadcasting too many obscenities. One of the most prevalent forms of bugging Is a concealed mike- transmitter on the body. Miniat urization has made this feasible; and unfortunately there is little reason to fear prosecution. Concealed Many experts favour placing the mike behind the tie, fairly low down so as not to pick up inter- » ference from the heartbeat. Tape 1 recorders are now small enough i so that there is little chance they l will be detected if taped to the i body. However, the experts prefer ! concealed transmitters rather than i recorders. The transmitter will broadcast to a tape recorder that can be several hundred feet away,, and, even a fairly powerful trans mitter can be made smaller than a good concealable recorder. Also it can operate without reloading longer than a tape recorder. The transmitter can he car ried in a coat pocket with its antenna going up to the armpit and down the sleeve. Another favoured way of con cealing a transmitter and mike is to pack them inside a king- size cigarette package designed ; to feel, to the touch, soft as a | package of cigarettes. A quite different kind of elec tronic surveillance—and control — has become possible through the development of the giant memory ; machines. Privacy Whatever the benefits, the mar vellous new electronic devices with memories or ears or eyes are serving to push baok the boun daries of each individual's privacy, j What can a citizen do to pro- tect himself, for example, from people who may wish to listen in on conversation he conducts in or from his home, by microphoning or wire-tapping . . . . ? ! He should at least avoid the telephone for important conver- t sations and talje prudent action to foil any possible microphones. , The techniques used . by the federal government and by cor porations to safeguard conver sations are too expensive to be considered by the average citizen. l So what possibilities are left . for the citizen? His best bet is ' to do his conversing near a turned-up . radio. The human ear, fortunately has one enormous advantage over an electronic ear. The human ear automatically filters out back ground sounds, whereas a micro phone cannot. Another possibility is . to do any important conversing in a- room where you would ordinarily be , most unlikely to conduct suoh conversations, such as in a child's , room or in the kitchen. ' From The Naked Society, by Vance Packard, Pelican books, 80c. The Affluent Society t the Great Society —Must , the Bugged Society? A "Popular Mechanics" cover descms how you too can avail yourself of the democratic opjtoiliityK to protect yourself from electronic spies. 1 " oflfiihisands of Muscovites celebrating the 49th An- One closer to the half -centwy- m's Red Square earlier this month, niversary of the Bolshevik Revolution , &lt;i I 