 « ffasMwwk to Holt's trip : Heavy U.S. defeat was covered up A heavy military defeat for United States forces around Pleiku, South Vietnam, occurred during the night before Australian Prime Minister Holt arrived in Saigon (April 22), but the facts were largely suppressed, either by the US command or the Aus- tralian daily press. The Sydney Morning Herald of April 23 featured, as did other dailies, the arrival of Holt and the soothing assurances he received from Saigon premier Ky. In an obscure paragraph, it stated that, in the third vietcong attack on a US air- base in nine days, a heavy 15-minute mortar barrage from the edge of the Pleiku airbase had burnt out five planes and damaged 15 others. The "Herald" and the "Aus tralian" (which did not men tion Pleiku) also carried con tradictory reports of a US suc cess in a battle 300 miles north of Saigon. Last week for the first time a detailed report of the Pleiku action, from the South Viet nam Liberation newsagency, was released through the Viet nam news service in Hanoi. 500 casualties On the night of April 21- 22, it said, liberation army units in South Vietnam had attacked simultaneous ly four US strongholds over a 12-mile front in the Pleiku area. They inflicted 500 casu alties, including 450 Ameri can officers and men; des troyed and damaged 58 planes and helicopters, and set fire to US depots and barracks. At Pleiku airbase alone, the toll was 40 aircraft and 380 troops, mostly Americans. On the morning of April 22, (as Holt was arriving in Sai gon) US reinforcements being rushed to Pleiku were inter cepted by guerillas 12 miles north of the town. During the battle, the liberation forces killed 110 more troops, includ ing 76 Americans, and destroy ed 17 and damaged 7 planes and helicopters. US warning In Washington members of the United States Senate For eign Relations Committee last week warned against Saigon premier Ky's plans to avoid or delay holding elections already promised for South Vietnam next August. Senator W. Fulbright refer red to Ky as an "irresponsible man who may prevent elec tions." Senator C. Pell stress ed that Ky was planning to use the army to prevent elec tions of "communists and neutralists" to any new gov ernment. Secretary of State Dean Rusk's claim that the US ac tions in Vietnam could be justified by international law also came under attack. Senator W. Morse said the claim was "a shameless view". Senator Fulbright supported him and said Americans were confused and alarmed by the US actions. NEW YORK: Two hundred trade .unionists, mainly head of local organisations of 30 major unions on May 3 formed the Trade Union Division of the Committee for Sane Nuclear Policy. They warned that no Ameri cans „ could stand aloof from the national debate over Viet nam, that "victory through escalation" could not succeed and that negotiations of all those involved in the armed struggle must take place. The conference received messages of support from Senator R. Kennedy and two other members of Congress. Demonstration A demonstration in New York by the Women Strike for Peace organisation sent a delegation to the office of Sen ators R. Kennedy and J. . Javits to announce that they had already collected 25,000 signatures of electors pledged to vote next November only for Congress candidates who promise to work for an end to the Vietnam war. The hundreds of women de monstrators called for with drawal of US forces from Viet nam. 