 Big menl charged j in court1 i SYDNEY: Last week brought some shocks to Australian bie business. In New South Wales, ser ious eharges were laid against some of the State's biggest capitalists; in Victoria a State Government investigator's re port stated that a prominent businessman, Mr. Stanley Korman, was "wholly unfit to direct any company in which the public might be induced to put its trust -or invest its money." Charges were laid in Central Cour,t on Monday under Sec tion 176 of the Crimes Act and at the direction of the Registrar of Companies, Mr. F. J." O. Ryan, against seven former directors and two offi cers of H. G. Palmer (Consoli dated) Ltd. The charges referred to pub lishing a false prospectus- >in 1965. The persons charged and their financial connections in clude: — Sir Norman Nock, former Chairman of Lindsay Rd., Potts Point. A former Lord Mayor of Sydney, he directed in 1965 (according to J-obson's Digest) companies with an aggregate paid capital . of £13,739,442. These were Australian Equity Corporation Ltd.; Bruck Mills Ltd., Commercial and General Acceptance Lid., H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd., and Silver- ton Transport and General Industries Ltd. The big boys Mr. Robert Neil Cadwal- lader, former deputy chairman, an accountant of Burns Rd., Wahroongar directed companies with an aggregate paid capital of £8,262,621. These were Alder- shot ltd. £500,008j. Alliance Holdings Ltd. £2,250,000, Apple- ton Industries Ltd., Koitaki Para Rubber Estates Ltd., M.LJC. Ltd., Reinvestment (Aust.) Ltd., Thomson and Scougall Industries Ltd. Dr. Alfred Hulrstone Pol lard, former deputy manager of M.L.C., Lower Cliff Rd. North- wood, directed companies with j/fllU LApilUi X JlCSC were H. G. Palmer (Consol idated) Ltd. and Realty Dev elopment and Mortgate Co. Ltd. Mr. Brian John Downing Page, solicitor of Wolseley Rd., Point Piper directed companies with a paid aggregate capital cf £33,423,742. These were Australian Nat ional Industries Ltd., Commer cial and General Acceptance Ltd., Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney, Lend Lease Man agement (N.S.W.) Ltd., M.L.C. Ltd., Tooheys Ltd. Other directors charged were Mr. Norman Hector Palmer, Mr. Cecil Howard Trenham and Mr. Herbert George Palmer. Printed and published at 21 Ross St., Forest Lodge, by D. B. Young Pty. Ltd. of the sam,e address. 