 ft I g ' I W ffw 1 fl 1 or ' B H B H H ff B1 Hello, Junior Tribune readers! CALLING JUNIOR CAMERA FANS!! WE lave received a letter from the Czschoslovakian Pioneers ( the Pioneers are something similar to our Rov Scouts, and Girl Guides 1 asking if anv boys and girls tn Australia would like to submit photographs in their Second Festival of Photography of Pioneers and Youth FF 66. The main part of the ex hibition, to be held in a beatiful castle in Prague (the capital of Czechoslovakia), is for the boys and girls from Czechoslovakia, the entries from the boys and girls from other countries in the world will be shown in a separate section and all photographs will be returned after the ex hibition is over. The details are: 1. All entries to be sent to House of Czechoslovak Children, Prague Castle, Czechoslovakia — to be sent air mail as they must be in Prague by the 30th April. 2. The age groups are chil dren up to the age of 15 years, young people from 16 to 20 years. 3. For children the entries must be no smaller than 13 by 18 centimetres (5t"x 7i") for the youth 18 by 24 centimetres (7i"x9t"). 4. Slides both colour and black and white (size op tional) may also be enter ed. 5. The subjects should pre ferably be taken from the life of children and young people, but you may enter photographs of your own choice. So for all you enthusiastic "shutter-bugs" here is that op portunity you have been wait ing for to romp away with al) the glojy at an international exhibition. I hope that your entry is the winning entry from "Down Under". — DINEWAN. School 223, MOSCOW. U.S.S.R. Dear boys and girls, We want to have penfriends in your land. We think you want to have penfriends too. This is our first letter to you. Please, answer it. We are pupils of the 7th form and we are members of the drawing and zoological club. We study butterflies. Yesterday we sent you our drawings, dry butterflies and post cards. We want to organize an ex hibition of your drawings and letters at our school. We are interested in nature of your country. We know very well that your nature is very rich and luxuriant. Soon it will be our winter holidays. We like to go to the skating rink and to the forest to ski. There are many good skiers among our pupils. How do you celebrate the New Year? We'd like to receive your let ter. Good-bye, the pupils of Form 7 "A" and "B" 