 YANKS, BRITISH GUNNING FOR SYRIA DETERMINATION of Arab, Israeli and US-British imperialism to get rid of the progressive Syrian Government lies behind last week's flare-up on the Israeli-Syrian frontier. That Syria offers any sort of a military threat to her neighbor is not seriously pre tended by anyone. Writing from Tel Aviv, Israel, the Manchester Guard ian's correspondent Eric Sil ver says that " "military sources are little short of con temptuous of the technical Capacity of the Syrian Army". Why they really fear Syria is that early this year a new Government came to power, containing Communists, which nationalised some industries, launched a big land reform program and 'is arming the people to defend their gains. Friendly relations were established with the USSR and its help sought in develop ing Syria's untapped resources . including oil. This is what has so gravely alarmed British and US im perialism, which, however, cannot work openly because of its deplorable reputation among the middle east peo ples. A convenient figurehead was found in King Feisal, ruler of the feudal kingdom of Saudi . Arabia. Feisal is just back from a tour of Moslem countries where he tried hard to knock together a reactionary alliance spearheaded . against the pro gressive Arab states— Algeria, Egypt, Irak and Yemen as well as Syria. For four years Saudi Arabia lias been waging war on the Yemen Republic in a vain ef fort to bring it down. According to Soviet sources the anti-Syrian conspiracy has all the hallmarks of Saudi Arabian participation. Soviet New Times says that according to Arab papers Feisal recently offered King Hussein of Jordan £10 millions to conduct subversion against Syria and Irak . (Most of Feisal's money comes from US oil monopolies in royalties for oil). New Times says Feisal has already used $300 million American to subsidise the struggle against democratic advances in the Arab world and push his US— and British- backed Islamic Fact, regard ed by many Arabs as John son's version of the old Eisen hower-Dulles doctrine. However, Arab .delegations have told the UN Security Council, Israel is also plan ning aggression against Syria and this has created problems for Feisal and Hussein whose peoples might stall at war with Syria on the side of Israel. US Newsweek comnlents: "Not only Syria and Irak but also 'reactionaries' such as Jordan and Saudi Arabia might feel obliged to join the fight against Israel." fflDDLE EAST 