 Trade union protest over murder of Indonesian workers g YDNEY : A combined trade union protest against the killing, arresting and ill-treatment of Indonesian trade unionists and other democrats was delivered last Thursday hy a delegation to the Indonesian Embassy, Canberra. The Ambassador, Major-General Kosasih, undertook to transmit to his Government the letter of protest presented by the delegation of five on behalf of the 18 signatory unions. The letter stated: "We have learned further that "The Australian Trade Unions, a great number of leaders and linked with large sections o| members of SOBSI and its the Australian people, played a unions and numerous other major role in support of the workers and democrats have Indonesian peoples struggle for been grossly ill-treated and independence from Dutch domh many killed and arrested, nation and are very concerned . "Our unions can do no other at recent events in Indonesia. than condemn these acts of "Prom the World Federation violence against trade unionists of Trade Unions and from and other democrats, other sources we have learned "We request that firm action that the headquarters of the be taken to end all violence National Council of SOBSI and terror against the workers (all-Indonesian Council of and democrats, and to effect Trade Unions)) and those of its immediate release of all de- unions in different parts of In- tained unionists and other donesia have been ransacked democrats with full restora- and destroyed, with the protec- tion of liberty and trade union tion of the authorities being rights. denied, and that in many "We have been directed to con- parts of Indonesia the activi- vey the views of our organisa- ties of these unions have been tions to Your Excellency, and banned. to ask if you would be kind enough to convey our views to the Government of your country." The letter was signed by of ficials of the Seamen's Union, Building Workers, Miners, Mis cellaneous Workers, Waterside Workers, Boilermakers and Blacksmiths, Sheet Metal, Actors' Equity, Amalgamated Engineering, Gas Employees, Fire Brigades, Liquor Trades, Meat Employees, Moulders, Federated Engine Drivers Painters and Dockers, Painters and Newcastle Trades and Labor Council. Delegates said afterwards that the Ambassador, after agreeing that actions of Aus tralian trade unions had been of decisive importance in the winning of Indonesian independ ence in 1945-46, had claimed that recent actions against SOBSI arose from the fact that SOBSI leadership was communist. He did not 'explain why an estimated 300,000 working people (including unionists) lost their lives in events Sub sequent to the October inci dent, nor did he explain why the trade union movements, its buildings and records, had been destroyed. Trade unions dispersed " Delegates said that the num ber of industrial workers in Indonesia was estimated at 7m. Of these about 5m. were or ganised and 3.3m. of the or ganised workers were mem bers of unions affiliated to SOBSI. But this was only part of the strength of SOBSI. A number of strong indepen dent unions had a joint sec retariat with SOBSI and five of the other trade union cen tres, and the strongest, had a joint secretariat with SOBSI. From this it can be seen that a blow at SOBSI would have the effect of dispersing the whole trade union move ment. A delegate expressed the view that the "dommunist" label was applied to SOBisI for this purpose and not be cause of any association with an alleged -coup attempt. Members of the delegation, who indicated to the Ambassa dor that they could not accept his explanations of the matter, included: E. Roach, Waterside Workers' Federation; R. Scott, Boilermakers and Blacksmiths; F. Bollins, Sheet Metal Work ers; J. Cooper, Building Work ers and J. McMahon, Build ing Workers (Canberra). Three members of the delegation. From left to right, Messrs. J. Marshall (Canberra BWIU), E. Roach (WWF) and R. Scott (Boilermakers and Black smiths). 