 ABORIGINE LEADERS VISIT SYDNEY CYDNEY: Two Northern Australian Aborigine leaders, Dexter Daniels and Captain Major, will arrive in Sydney tonight (Wednesday) on a historic fund-raising tour to assist the striking Aboriginal cattle station workers. The Aborigines are striking for equal award wages now — they refuse to wait until 1968 for the implementation of an arbitration court decision. The strike, pioneered by Captain Major and his men, has how spread to several other large pastoral properties, including those of the British- owned Vesteys combine. Earlier this week, the man ager of Vesteys, Mr. Morris, refused to allow a reporter from "The Australian", Chris topher Forsyth, „to visit Wave Hill station. "I had sought permission to see the standard of accommo dation provided for the Abor igines." Mr. Forsyth said. "I also wanted to interview the station manager, Mr. Fisher, who had been bitterly criticised by the Aboriginal Rights Council and the North Aus tralian Workers Union for his attitude to Aboriginal stock men". Plans to send Robert Tuda- waali, star of the films Jedda and Whiplash, and vice presi dent of the NT Council for Aboriginal Rights, on tour were cancelled following his admis sion te Darwin Hospital with suspected TB. The men's tour in NSW has been sponsored by Actors' Equity the Building Workers Industrial Union, and the Federal Council for the Ad vancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. Guests Giving some details of the visit, Actors Equity secretary, Mr. Hal Alexander, said they were due to arrive by TAA at 6 p.m. tonight. They will be special guests at an evening function by the Teachers' Federation on Oct ober 13 at Federation House. This is an annual function to raise finance '"for Aboriginal advancement. Apart from the numerous factory and job meetings being arranged, they will also attend the 10th Anniversary Dinner ot the Aboriginal— Australian Fel lowship at the BWIU Hall on October 15. Mr. Alexander said, that the . men .would address the New castle Trades Hall Council on October 20 and, it is also planned for them to visit, the NSW South Coast. They will leave Sydney for a fortnight in Melbourne on October 28, and stop over at Brisbane for several days after their final departure from Sydney on November 15. Mr. Alexander appealed to job and workshop delegates who wish to arrange meetings tor thb men. to contact him at 31-7718. Donations The sum of 175 dollars was collected among students out side the Fisher Library, Sydney University, last Friday for the Aborigine stockmen on strike \ in . the Northern Territory. After an address last Tuesday by author Frank Hardy on the strike, members of the Sydney University Labor Club decided on the. collection. Dexter Daniels, one of the leaders of the Aborigine stock- men, will next week address student meetings at both uni versities. Students are sending the money to the strikers care of the Northern Territory Abor iginal Rights Council, Box 600 P.O. Darwin. Members of the Central Committee of the Australian Communist Party last weekend put 50 dollars into a collection for the strike. 