 mghiz farm lit icm a history dletty Lock wood llfdds a postscript i 1 1 — SIXTY '(Tti year - old doubled |gie. of social ist '-labor. Sb Mr. Kainezar- nva told iMl»:the Salieva Collective ibi lln Kirghizia got its name, fan; It was called SfJrkiya Salieva who was naitd If hen 24 years vv Wl-.n? of age xa' %' wuw«»wea . landlords. Urkiya was! ® tears old when news of the? Per revolution reached her#' iMh Kirghizia. Che was a dS I ed courageous little girl- f# fthe village hoys and on Wbed a Judge's sl for cur|| new Soviet power. .j|| At 16 stiei M.vne of the first W60 Sobers in her village ai it to interest S ef V'it 1" the mean' .A18 s mg ot tu igg| Tn 0 a young komsomolBer of the Sant «$SE?Smg the P i landlord jjfaamage was elf a revJ®Use she had nr been solfij llpusband true to tradition,S married for &lt; r the ag®' H,kiya was the nrst woman: W member of SL Central W-. Committee of the P Autonomous Republic 1 Tn early #lit1923 a meet- ?of the decided lnnrganise'e. arm and ecS«rloB».an.She wais very popular and worked hard. At this time the farm consisted of forty families and two cows. Today the Salieva Collective farm owns 40,000 sheep, 300 cows and 600 horses. . In- the winter of 1933 Urkiya and her husband were murdered by a group of landlords who had eSCap- ffri from r.nnfinpmpnf-. and mora hiding in the hills. They were kill ed in front of her mother and their two small children. The farm' she had worked so hard for was given the name Salieva. gURAKAN herself is a very interesting though modest person. Daughter of poor peasants, she was sold in marriage at 14 years of age and some months later left her husband and family and fled to the mountains to hide. The pen alty for this -was certain death, hut the Soviet revolution took place and Surakan left the moun tains and went to school complet ing four grades. She married again, a local peasant whom she loved. In 1926 she led a team of women who topped the All-Union record for sugar-beet output and for this was awarded one of her medals. She is an honored citizen of the Soviet Union; Her two daughters are teachers, a far cry from the unhappy lass who lay in hiding after fleeing from a forced mar riage. A member of a mobile medical unit talking to Kirghiz shepherds out on the job in the Tien Shan mountains. 