 Communist Party of India Comments on CPA statement SYDNEY: The Com munist Party of Australia yesterday released com- | ment made in a letter from | the Communist Party of j India. Signed by General | Secretary C. Rajeshwar j Rao, it referred to the Political Committee, CPA statement on the international communist movement published in "Tribune" on December I | 15, 1965. The Indian letter refers to the | following sentences in the state ment. "In India, where a real and serious division exists, both rival Communist parties pub licly reject Chinese actions and statements in support of Pakis tan. Both oppose Chinese actions over the Sino-Indian border; neither supports the Chinese ideological positions. The letter made the following main points:— "We wish to make the follow ing comments: "(1) Though our 7th Congress characterises that "the split in our Party is a serious one," we call only the split- away Party as the rival Com munist Party. To talk of the existence of "two rival Com munist Parties" glosses over certain realities and is, therefore, not correct ac cording to us. "(2) The statement puts the position of the rival C.P. on three points exactly on . a par with the positions of the Communist Party of India. First of these three points is that they publicly reject Chinese actions and statements in support of Pakistan. Their acting General Sec retary, has expressed dis approval of the Chinese utlimatum to India and of China's naming India as the aggressor in the recent Indo-Pak conflict. But these positions have not been consistently support ed by their central organ 'People's Democracy'. "(3) Second point is that they oppose Chinese actions over the Sino-India border. They have declared them selves in favour of the defence of the country against any border viola tions; have refrained from opposing or criticising the Chinese actions over the Indo-China border dis- Ipute. In their resolution pass ed at their Congress in Calcutta (31st October to 7th November, 1964) they call upon both India and China to break the dead lock over the border nego tiations but they make no reference 10 non-aligned Powers' (Colombo) pro posals which India accept ed as a basis for opening negotiations but which China rejected. "(4) Third point Is that they do not support the Chinese ideological position. gress inert; was a uiait, uu the ideological question which generally supported the positions of the majo rity of the Communist and Workers' Parties and re jected the Chinese posi tions; but their Congress de cided not to clinch the issue in the Congress but "to organise inner-Party dis cussion on the ideological questions." They proposed to "come to independent conclusions" and thereby make their own contributions to the restora tion of unity in the inter national Communist move ment. As this was not possible because of the wholesale arrests of their leaders and cadres, their official posi tion continues to be ambi guous. But their Party organs, including their cen tral organ, have never con tained any statement or article indicating that they reject any of the ideologi cal positions of the Com munist Party of China. On the other hand, their organs, both central and provincial, have published articles supporting positions of the Chinese Communist Party and criticising those of the C.P.S.U." CPA General Secretary Laurie Aarons told Tribune that he had written to the Indian Party, wel coming their clarifications. The information in the letter would help Australian Com munists to understand better the position in the Indian move ment, he said. 