 Fair hall admits it: j Against peace talks By the Federal Parliamentary Roundsman ANBERRA: Labor Leader Mr, CalwelPs stinging attack on the Federal Government's decision to treble the Australian forces in Vietnam drew an&lt; admission that the Government is opposed to ending the war. The Minister for Defence (Mr. Fairhall) who followed Mr. Calwell in the Federal parliamentary debate said that Mr. Calwell had spoken of the need for a peace con ference to end this "unwin- able war". "But there are grave dan gers in a peace conference," Mr. Fairhall said. In making clear that the Government wants the war to continue till they can get a victory imposed by force, he said: "Wherever a conference reaches a compromise solu tion the communists are left in increasing strength." Mr. Calwell in shattering the Government's "downward thrust" theory of Chinese ag gression pointedly asked: "What evidence does the Government possess of the presence of Chinese troops in Vietnam?" The only reply that Mr. Fairhall could make was that there was no need for Chinese troops in South Vietnam be cause the North Vietnamese were puppets of China. On US role Mr. Calwell said "The Amer icans have already supported eight so-called governments in Vietnam, and all of them have been military dictatorships, and all have been tyrannical and oppressive." "The fact that America con scripts its youth for overseas service is its business and not ours. "There is a large and- grow ing body of . influential opinion in the United States and else where that the United States cannot win there, Mr. Calwell said. Faced with the accusation by Mr. Calwell that the Holt Government was sending con scripts to Vietnam "to curry favour with international cap italism," Mr. Fairhall's reply was that "the conscripts would come out of the forces as better men." "Does harm" In a pointed reference to this remark the Sydney Morning Herald editorial last Friday said: — "This kind of statement and! the state of mind it reflects does the government's case seri ous harm." Mr. Calweil's otherwise hard hitting speech was weakened only by introducing the idea of United Nations intervention in Vietnam. This can only create confu sion at a time when the need is for full support for the Gen eva Agreement (the only . exist ing international agreement on Vietnam) as the basis for a just settlement. Mr. Calwell threw down the gauntlet to the Government that the Opposition would fight the next general elec tions as well as the current Kooyong by-election on the issue of conscription. By-elecfion a focal point At. the opening rally of the ALP campaign for the Kooyong by-election last Monday night speakers made it clear that they looked upon the oy-eiection as a focal point for all Austra lians concerned at the- conscript ion of young Australians to fight in South Vietnam. Political observers 1 relieve that the test of the result of the Kooyong by-election will not be whether the Liberals hold this blue ribbon seat as this is considered certain, but the ex tent to which the Liberal vote is reduced. The Kooyong by-elecfcion is seen as the first real inter- party struggle on the conscrip tion issue since the stir-ring anti- conscription battles of the first world war. Privately some of the senior Cabinet Ministers are admitting that they are worried at the prospect of conscription becom ing a big issue in the next Federal elections. It was noticeable in Federal Parliament this week that Prime Minister Holt was very edgy about the questions and demonstrations against the Gov ernment's Vietnam and Con scription policy. By December when the Fed eral election is due there will be 10,000 conscripts in the army, with 2,000 more under orders to enter camp in the New Year. In refusing the demand of Mr. Calwell for a referendum to decide whether conscripts should go to Vietnam, Mr. Holt replied that the people could decide the issue at the next general elections. They might do just that. 