 Jap C.P. correspondent beaten up in Peking From Rupert Lockwood MOSCOW : The brutal beating up of Akahata's special correspondent in Peking and of Japanese students at Chinese higher learning institutes has seriously strained relations between the Chinese and Japanese Communist Parties - — relations that were very close until the recent Japanese Party declaration of independence. Akahata has devoted front pages of recent issues to the hooligan attacks. Akahata says that Japanese in Peking who oppose the line of the Communist Party of Japan broke into the hotel where the Akahata correspond- D' Konno was stying. Revolution means violence," the hooligans- mockingly de clared. Konno was beaten up for two hours. "The floor, tablecloth and window curtains were stained with blood," Akahata reports. Konno had critically report ed on the activities of a group of Japanese in Peking who sup ported the policy of the Com munist Party of China. Pour of this group had been expelled by the -Japanese Party for "slandering the Japanese central committee" from "posi tions of subservience, dogma tism and sectarianism and organising anti-Party activities in Peking." Attack On October 5 Akahata report ed "another disgraceful anti- revolutionary collective attack in Peking on students uphold ing the line of the Communist Party of Japan." Akahata also reports that when on October 3 the Chinese- Japanese Friendship Society held a 3rd anniversary recep tion, a member of the Japanese Communist Party Central Com mittee, Sunana, who went to Peking as Japanese CP repres entative and the two Akahata correspondents, Konno and Ta- sano, were not invited, but cor espondents of capitalist news- Papers were invited. After the reception students Joyal to the Japanese Party pol icy were dragged from the bus m which they returned to their hotel and beaten up before the eyes of Chinese officials. "The Whole Party is Indig nant" says Akahata's headline, as reported by the Pravda cor respondent in Tokyo. A Japanese general strike in protest against American ag gression in Vietnam and revival f militarism by the Sato Gov ernment has been called by the Central Council of Japanese trade unions for October 21. Graham Dixon (right) as George and Ken James as Fred in "The Runaway", an hourlong play from the ABC's Sydney studios about two young brothers in suburban Sydney, to be shown next Wednesday, October 19, at 8.00 p.m. Next week's Australian Playhouse — Monday, October 17, at 8.00 p.m. — will feature another play with a suburban setting— Liane Keen's "Across the Bridge", about a middle-aged couple who share a strange relationship. 