 WHITLAM LOSES GROUND IN A.L.P. STRUGGLE By a Political Correspondent As evidence of support for the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party mounted in the last week, there were signs that the attacks by ALP Deputy Leader E. G. Whitlam on its leadership were weaken ing. By last weekend, after more than a weelk of press publicity, statements by ALP leaders and discussions between Labor MPs, it wa$ clear that widening ALP circles were becoming concerned at the danger of a deep split in the party as a result of attacks from the Right. MR WHITLAM had launch- . ed a bitter attack on Feb. 11 against decisions by the Federal executive. These had included a protest against the sending of South Korean troops to the Vietnam war, and a warning against the activities of the US Central In telligence Agency in Australia. However the issues singled out by Mr. Whitlam were: deci sions foreshadowing a scheme for universal student aid, and a possible legal challenge to exist ing forms of State aid to non- State schools; and changes of personnel on the executive sub committees, particularly foreign affairs and education. Mr. Whitlam and also Mr. A. Fraser MHR (Eden-Monaro) took the stand that the deci sions concerning education were contrary to ALP conference pol icy, and that the Parliamentary wing of the party would not he dictated to by the executive. . Mr. Whitlam made savage! personal attacks on the execu tive members and publicly nominated himself as "predes tined to be Leader." He spoke of the "12 witless men" of the executive, thus con demning Messrs. Oliver andt Colbourne, NSW party machine leaders, along with the other members, excepting only his friend Mr. H. Webb MHR. 'Chamberlain's chaps have had their last fling," boasted Mr. Whitlam, in a TV interview on Feb. 15. Union men speak A joint statement by 40 lead ers from 25 trade unions in Queensland urged the Federal Executive "to take urgent drastic steps to compel men in responsible positions in the party to show loyalty to the party. "Those people occupying high party positions should not need to he told that their obligation is to set an example of loyalty to the party, and it ill becomes them to indulge in flamboyant theatrical press, radio and TV debates," the statement said. Federal officers of the Sheet Metal Workers' Union protest ed against Mr. Whitlam's actions .described as "disloyal public at tacks on the ALP." The Boilermakers and Black smiths' Society in a letter to Mr. Cblwell expressed concern at the statements of Messrs. Whitlam and Fraser. Other unions known to have publicly backed the Federal Ex ecutive include the Common wealth Council of the Amal gamated Engineering Union, Amalgamated Postal Workers and the Miscellaneous Workers. Victorian ALP stand An official statement by the Victorian ALP executive fully supported the Federal executive, pointed out that those who dis agreed could appeal to the Fed eral conference, and disappoint ed the press predictions that it would move for Mr. Whitlam's suspension or expulsion. ALP members generally not ed, too, that Mr. Calwell's pub lic statements all avoided com ment on personalities, and con centrated on support for the Federal executive, and explain ing the positive aspects of its new education aid proposals. While almost all the daily press had backed Whitlam's early attack, it was noteworthy that the Sydney "Daily Tele graph", owned by a prominent and wealthy Liberal, Sir Frank Packer, came out in full-scale support for Mr. A. Fraser as the future Parliamentary leader to replace Mr. A. A. Calwell. This was one of the first signs that Mr. Whitlam had over reached himself. Another was the failure of NSW leaders, in eluding Messrs. Renshaw (State Opposition Leader), and execu tive officers Oliver and Col bourne, to give any clear back ing to Whitlam, though they expressed disagreement with the executive's decisions. Meanwhile the voices of cer tain Catholic bishops and the Sydney Catholic Weekly deliver ed bitter attacks on the execu tive and even on Mr. Calwell (himself a Catholic) personally, over the State aid issue. But the fact that this issue had merely been a political springboard for Whitlam and others, to fight out other more important questions of policy and control of the leadership, was being spelled out more and more by interested observers. Santamaria seeks split Last Saturday, the Sydney Morning Herald stated editorial ly "that without "moderate" parliamentary leadership, the ALP might cease to provide meaningful opposition to the ruling coalition. And whatever its parliamentary fortunes, it was intolerable that it should be under the control of a "Left- wing group of faceless men and trade union leaders." This view, expressed by the organ of one of the most power ful groups of big capital in Aus tralia, showed the role expected! of a reformist party under right- wing leadership— that of provid ing an alternative administra tion of capitalism without seek ing any real social change. From a somewhat different point of view, and using the sharp anti-communist bogey, Mr. A. Fraser, in a Sunday Mir ror article changed his line, and attacked Whitlam as vain and opportunist. Whatever happened in last Friday's meeting of all NSW Federal Labor MPs (called by the party's State executive of ficers without complaint from Mr. Whitlam or Mr. Fraser) it clearly had a dampening effect on Mr. Whitlam. However, another very im portant figure of the extreme rightwing— Mr. B. A. Santa maria— spilt the beans in his weekend TV broadcast. It did not really matter, he i-said, who was Leader. What did matter was that the Leader must be determined to "des troy" the "pro-communist con trol' of the Federal Labor Par ty." Mr. Santamaria then said that if those MPs who opposed the policies of the "Left"— i.e. of ficial ALP policies such as op position to Australian involve ment in the American war in Vietnam -and- to overseas con scription—did not now stand fast against the executive they would be electorally "lost". Predicting that these MPs would fail to win a Caucus majority on March 8, Santa maria insisted that they must then "stand firm as an inde pendent parliamentary block independent of the ALP leader ship and must call for the sup port of every non-communist in the labor movement". This clear call for a split in the ALP dovetailed in with the repeated claims by DLP leaders in recent months that their present small minority group ing, based solely on anti-com munism, and war, could dis place the ALP as the traditional "alternative" party. Kennelly moves In Although most commentators failed to see any connection between Santamaria's extreme rightist forces and the ALP struggle, many experienced ALP men and women noted the hur ried arrival in Sydney ("to talk to the boys") of Senator P. Kennelly, who last year revealed his close relation to Santa maria by publicly calling for a meeting between the ALP and DLP. It is the well-based distrust of the anti-labor aims and activ ities of these extreme rightwing forces that has stimulated the vigilance and unity of the ALP majority forces in the past week or so, in defence of their elect ed leadership and its policies. 