 3 Aust. delegates for CPSU congress JJYDNEY: The Communist Party of Aus tralia will be represented by a delegation of three at the 23rd Congress of the Com munist Party of the Soviet Union, which opens in Moscow on March 29. The delegation is: Messrs. R. Dixon (national president), R. Gandini (WA State pres ident), and H. Hatfield (cen tral committee member). This was announced follow ing a meeting, last week, of the party's political committee. Earlier, a meeting of the central committee had ap pointed Mr. L. Aarons:, gen eral .secretary, to. lead the delegation. However, Mr. Aarons is unable to go be cause of the serious illness of his wife. A „ statement issued by the political committee said: "The 23rd Congress of the CFSU, the most experienced of all the world's communist parties and pioneer of social ist revolution, will review the struggle towards communism. "Its discussions arid decisions will be of great significance to the people of all countries. "The Soviet Union is con sistently playing a vital role in the interests of world peace, in support of the struggle for national independence and in the interests of socialism. "The correct policies and many successful initiatives of the Soviet Government in the field of international relations in the recent period (such, as the Tashkent Conference on the India-Pakistan dispute) have won ever widening sup port. "The historic achievement of the soft landing on the moon demonstrated again the speed and quality of advance of science in socialist society." "There is no doubt that the policies of the CPSU have played a major role in res isting imperialist policies of aggresision. They have been a most powerful support to the people, of Vietnam in their heroic resistance against the United States aggressors. "The CPSU has also con tinued to make principled efforts for unity of the world communist movement, includ ing initiatives and patient effort to slecure joint action against US aggression in Vietnam. "These are among the many external and internal policies cf the CFSU which ensure that the 23rd Congres:i will, lay a basis for great new advances in the struggle for peace and socialism." 