 Queensland mil conference demands . . . Govt, handouts to monopoly must cease "OWNSVILLE: A conference of trade union delegates held late last month in Townsville called for an ending of Government policy favoring Big Business companies to the detriment of the railways and workers in Queens land. Conference demanded that the State railways be ex tended to assist in Northern development. A resolution demanded that an end be put to the run-down condition of the railway, service and to the attacks on railmen's condi tions. "The policy of the Govern ment, in giving huge rebates to Big Business has cost the railways millions of pounds, and has helped monopoly. "We call for the co-ordina tion of transport which, along with the new shops, would create jobs for rail- men displaced by dieselisa- tion. "This would also allow cheaper freights and fares for the people," Conference said. The conference was called by the Combined Rail Unions in Townsville. Delegates attended from the Australian Railways Union, Building Workers' Industrial Union, Australian Federated Union of Locomo tive Enginemen, Boilermak ers' Society, Amalgamated Engineering Union, Electrical Trades Union, and Mainten ance Union, as well as from the Rockhampton CRU and Charters Towers. Mr. P. Tucker, MLA, opening the conference, said that under the present Gov ernment there has been a marked deterioration in the position of the. railways and of the railway workers. The number of railway- men in Queensland has been reduced in seven years by 5125. He said that in the seven years of the present Liberal Government some 671 miles of railway track has been closed. In its resolutions, the conference condemned the Government's policy on dieselisation as not taking into consideration the need of railmen, and called for a conference between the CRU and the Government. It called for a 35-hour week, four weeks' annual leave, a new workshops for Townsville to allow the building and maintenance of all railway needs, including diesels, and an increase in wages for men on long trains. It declared that shortage of materials is part of a deliberate policy by the Government to reduce the work force. "We do not accept redun dancy as inevitable," the conference declared. Stopwork meetings aro to be organised to highlight the situation and inform the public. The conference called on the CRU State Committee to initiate an active cam paign for increased wages and pensions, price control, and repeal of the anti-union penal laws, with the cam paign to be. based on job- level activity and representa tions to the Government. 