 — MB— i 1— Hill IIIWI—IM— — ac How a hailstone went visiting LITTLE hailstone fell on the ground and bounced along the path like a ball.' Where did it fall from? From the sky. How could it grow so big and heavy on the sky? What held it up? It will tell you its story it self. But you'd better be quick with questions, before.it melts away. Look under that bush! Do you see the hailstones that have rolled there? Pick up the biggest one and get out your penknife. Now, cut the hail stone in half. It's as transpar ent as glass on the outside and as white as porcelain inside. Of course, it's not porcelain, for porcelain doesn't melt. It's snow. And the glass isn't glass at all. It's ice. Now we've found out the hailstone's secret: it's made of snow, like the fairy-tale Snow- Maiden, and its dress is made of pure ice. This wasn't the prettiest hailstone, however. Some of them wear as many as three or five petticoats. First there's a transparent ice petti coat, then a white snow petti coat on top, and finally an ice dress on top of the last snow petticoat. Where do they get into all these petticoats when they decide to go visiting? Why, at home, of course, high up in tne SKy. ? A HAILSTONE has a hard little white nut in the centre. This little nut was born in a snow cloud and started falling down to earth, but it had a very long way to go. There are many clouds in the sky, and the snow-clouds are higher up than the rain-cloud, which gave it a water petticoat. The dress froze on it and he- came an ice-petticoat. But how did it get a white snow petti coat on top of its ice petticoat? When it came out of the rain- cloud it didn't fall towards earth, but climbed up to the Kingdom of Snow again. Where else could it have found a snow petticoat? But our hailstone had more than two petticoats. And this means that it had been flying up and down, putting on a new petticoat at each stop: a snow one upstairs and an ice one on the floor below. How could it go back upstairs once it had found itself down stairs? Surely, it had no wings? Well, it was tossed upwards by the wind, the only thing powerful enough to lift it up. ? MOW you know the hail stone's story, and you know it because you found out what it was wearing. It took a long time for it to dress up and get ready to go visiting, but when it finally ar rived, all its lovely petticoats siarcea meiimg. nvwc»wi still had enough time to tell you where it had been and what it had seen. You found out that there are snow-clouds above the ram- clouds. Once you thought that the wind could only blow from the left or the right, from the Jfront or from behind, but now you know that there's another wind that blows upwards, lme a fountain. This was the winci that wouldn't let the hailstone fall to earth while it was get ting dressed to go out. The people who fly m ® clouds and above them have t know- all about the differen kinds of clouds and winds, u you want to he a flyer, you have to study the science oi an and water, so that yur aer plane won't be battered by wind during a storm, or covered with a sheet of 1C®. , a cold cloud, so you'll be aWe to guide your plane bravely an ulfWIPf fcllB fllTW&y —from "Do You Know by M. Ilyin and E. Segal. 