 2 union meetings on Vietnam MELBOURNE : A new and significant develop ment in industrial trade union participation in the movement against the Vietnam war was marked by a trade union teach-in at the Assembly Hall in Melbourne. The gathering agreed to establish a mass union com mittee, consisting of about 35 unions, whose function it would be to discuss and or- ; ganise action on the issue of Vietnam. Despite attempt by Liberals to divide the meeting by rais ing' alleged differences within the Labor Party and injecting anti-communism, the meeting was unanimous in its feeling of opposition to the Holt Govern ment's policy. More than 300 delegates, rep resenting 27 unions, heard the State President of the A. L.P. and secretary of the Furnishing Trades Union (Mr. W. Brown), give a short opening account of the origins of the Vietnam conflict. Dr. J. F. Cairns, M.H.R., de clared: "Surely the only thing to be done, whatever our poli cies, is to stop this thing in Vietnam, to bring an end to killing and war." The secretary of Melbourne District of the Amalgamated En gineering Union (Mr. L. Car- michael) a member of the Cen tral Committee of the Commun ist Party, said that the trade unions must organise against the Vietnam war. "The same men who pretend to represent the Australian peo ple in foreign affairs, speak and work against wage increases at the Arbitration Commission," said Mr. Carmichael. "FRAUDULENT LIE" CYDNEY: Sections of the government were per petrating a "fraudulent lie" in claiming that conscription naif been necessary because the voluntary system had fail ed, Mr. Barry Robinson told a trade union Vietnam forum in Sydney. The forum was organised by the Men Teachers' Association. Speakers included Mr. Robin son (secretary, Youth Campaign Against Conscription)," Mr. H. B. Turner MHR (Lib.), Miss Alison Darby and Mr. F. James, managing editor of "The Angli can". Mi-. Robinson said: "In fact, 134,000 volunteers tried to join the armed forces over the last five years, out of which. 57,000 tried to join the Army and the rejection rate for that was 72%. That meant that 41,000 were knocked back. "On the Combined Forces, 19.1% were knocked back on medical grounds, 23.81% were knocked back on educational grounds and 4.43% were knock ed back on civil record grounds. "Then we come to a category called 'others', "The late Senator Paltridgc told Parliament 'others' ar.e ap plications in excess of the re quirements , those who are be low training potential and have failed the trade test . . . "The truth is that 52.7% were rejected as the excess of the :equirement needed by the Armed Forces. This rejection rate., started five years before conscription was introduced >.nd continued past the date conscription was introduced in- o 1965 and figures from then cn in have not been available. "Dr. Forbes (then Army Min- 'ster) told the House in August, .964 that the military advisers '.o the Australian Armed Forces cad told him and had told the Government that National Ser- /ice was not needed and could aot be reintroduced as the mili tary commanders were against it. Some months later conscrip tion was introduced. "I say that only 20% of the rejections were legitimate. An 18 year old lad volunteered to join the Army two years ago and he was rejected at that stage medically unfit. "He's called up today for r national service and he's accept ed as medically Al! It seems » there's a difference!," he said. 