 SYMPOSIUM TJUIS ON CPU HISTORY Varied views ! ' ' ' . , on party's past "THE difficult conditions in which the Communist Party , had worked in the past add was working now would not last for ever, Dr. Eric Fry said in addressing a recent symposium on the history of the party. Giving the other main address, Mr. .E. A. Bacon said that the Communist Party had shown in the post-war' period that it was willing and able to build the unity of the working class move ment. The symposium was attended by over 80 people including many who are not members of the Com munist Party and who took part in the vigorous and pointed dis cussion on the two main papers. The symposium was arranged by the Education Committee of the Party on the occasion of the pub lication of Mr. Bacon's draft Out line of the Post-war history of the Communist Party. During the discussion many speakers raised strong criticisms of what they considered to be errors, in the text and omissions which, some claimed, showed a tendency to conceal some of the errors of the past, However a majority of speakers recognised the draft as providing a useful basis for discussion and clarification of the way forward for the Labor Movement. . Chairman of the symposium, Mr. W. E. Gollan, said it was a valu able chronicle of past events which would be especially use ful to new members and ' support ers of the Party. Dr. Pry, a lecturer in History at the Australian National Univer- . sity, entitled his paper The Com munist Party in- Australian His tory. He said that the Australian Communist Party was firmly root ed in Australian history while it had international connections and the main stimulus to itfe formation was an overseas event — the Soviet revolution. . There was nothing strange about an overseas model or the coming iu Australia 01 . iaeas irom over seas, said Dr. Pry. It had been the same with the . ' idea of political democracy which came . to Australia from England. Generally the spread of ideas internationally meant progress. "The Australian Communist Party was the natural successor of what had gone before," said Dr. Pry, referring to the earlier Australian socialist movement. The Soviet revolution provided the Australian socialists with something they needed — the moral support of a world move ment ,and "a vision." Dr. Pry said that the Communist Party had faced special diffi culties in a country where the people welcomed their isolation resulting trend towards insularity from the rest of the world with a of view. . Australia was also a supreme example of a country with a two-party political system, with the Labor Party standing for wel fare,. democracy and Australian nationalism. Overall, said Dr. Fry, he thought the Communist Party had shown a sectarian tendency. For example, it had not taken account of the depth of the Australian workers' attachment to the ALP. It had tended to see itself as re placing the Labor Party in the be lief that there must be one reli- . able party of the working class before there could be socialism-. This had not been found to be a necessary prelude to socialism in some other countries. The Party, added Dr, Pry, faced the difficult task of a revolutionary party in a non-revolutionary situa tion. The Australian economy had continued to expand since 1949 and in the economic sense, the posi tion was similar to that in mid- Victoria England. However, this would not continue always. The atmosphere of the cold war was likely to weaken and condi tions would develop more favor ably for the Party's growth. Mr. Bacon who spoke of the Communist Party and the struggle for unity in. the post war years, said the Party had always made the acheivement of unity its main task. The Party was proving itself able and willing to build unity, he said. Discussing some past mistakes, Mr. Bacon said that the Party in 1945 and the late 1940's had been "caught unawares" by the realities of the cold war and the continued expansion of the eco nomy. During the strikes of that period, and as part of a sec tarian attitude over a longer period, it came to regard itself as the only reliable force of the working class and its assessment of the 1949 coal strike indicated illusions as to its degree of sup port among the workers. However, later decisions by the Party had improved the prospects for unity in action with the ALP forces which had also changed their position, expelling the In dustrial Groupers and making many important decisions, such as those of the Hobart Conference in 1955. Mr. Bacon stressed the need for unity with other progressive forces and opposed the view that there must be one united working class party before we had socialism. In the discussion which fol lowed both papers, criticisms were raised of the Draft History's treatment of the "Consolidation" question in the 1950's. It , was claimed that the top party's leadership's own participa tion in some leflst errors had not been frankly enough ex plained. There was also a suggestion - that some expulsions which fol lowed the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, in 1956, should be re examined. Tributes were paid to Mr. Bacon for his work and appeals v were issued for further assistance in compiling a full history of the Party. "Poorer people weed courage," jPatti Asange, as "Mother Courage", in New Theatre's production of Berfyjfecsht's epic play about the endless but futile struggle for survival of an ©rdmaiffcjmss caught in the maelstrom of war. Now showing every Friday, SaturdaylftSunday evening for a limited season. 