 Wage-cutting award Nursing sisters quit in protest About 120 nursing sisters from Concord Repatria tion Hospital handed in their resignations at a meeting last Tuesday night, in- protest against a new award that means a wage cut for one third of them and little or no increase for most of the others. The medical staff at the hos pital have held' a meeting and notified the Australian Medical Association of their support for the nursing staff. The sisters' action resulted from weeks of stalling by 'the Public Service Board, which had refused to _alter the new award, after the nurses had waited six years for it to be brought down. At their final meeting, the night before they resigned, sev eral of the sisters said that it was no longer the money that was' their main concern, but the principles involved. One of them said that the authorities wouldn't dare to give such an award to other workers. No representative of either of the unions, concerned, the Australian Nurses' Federation or the Federation of Hospital Employees, attended the meeting. "We have no further confid ence in them," one of the sisters is reported as saying. Concord Repatriation Hospi tal is under Commonwealth control and until the new award was introduced, the sisters were receiving penalty rates, including a special rate for week-end work. On the other hand they re ceived only four weeks annual leave, compared with six weeks leave., for nursing staff under State Awards. One of the sisters said that not one of them wished to re sign from the hospital, but they felt that they had to, for the future of the nursing profes sion. They had received support from every major hospital in Sydney she said. As a result of the resigna tions, to take" effect from Nov ember 30, 20 wards in the hos pital will have to be closed and auxiliary staff laid off. Many of the sisters felt that the Federal Government is showing disregard, not only for the sisters; but lso for the returned servicemen to whom they have promised full repatri ation benefits. 