 ATLAS INQUIRY DREDGES UP FACTS lutELBOURNE: Further evidence of the unseaworthy condition of the m dredge W. D. Atlas came forward two weeks ago at the inquiry rnto the disaster in May when 13 out of 17 crew members died after the vessel sank off the New South Wales coast. Survivors told the court that the hull opened up be neath the fuel tanks, admit ting water to the fuel oil and causing a loss of power to the engines. With inade quate power, the ship had to lie in the trough of the waves and was at the mercy of heavy seas. A split then developed along the port side, the dredge filled with water, rolled and sank. A feature of the inquiry has been the conflict Between the evidence of the executives of the Dutch company own ing the dredge, the West minister Dredging (Aust) Pty. Ltd., and boilermakers, shipwrights, and survivors. For example, the marine superintendent of the com pany, Captain J. Knight, told the inquiry that lifeboat equipment had been com plete when the dredge sailed. Leaks But the bosun, Mr. J. Mulder, who was one of the four survivors, said that when he informed Captain Knight that certain items were mis sing from the "lifeboat stores, he was told to go ahead and cover the boats without them. All company executives, in cluding Captain Knight, de nied knowledge of any leaks i,n the Atlas prior to its departure from Whyalla. But correspondence between Westminister Dredging and the Cockatoo Dry Dock in Sydney, where the vessel was to undergo repairs, in cluded a letter over the signature of Captain Knight, together with a repair list ordering repairs to leaks below the water-line at a point specifically mentioned by other witnesses. Seamen told the Victorian Guardian that preparations for the voyage of the W.D. AiUr. funm Tivornnnl to 1 ALldSi JLiw/iia u-u i Whyalla took seven months. But preparations for the fatal Whyalla— Sydney voyage lasted only three weeks. The seamen said that in their opinion, the dredge had been worked beyond its design capacity in Whyalla The dredging mechanism had been lengthened, and linked with twice the normal power, placing extra stress on the machinery and structure of the vessel. Disaster This, according to the seamen, had contributed to the disaster. Further evidence emerged on the heavy tumbler assem bly mounted in a high pos ition in the super-structure, which was said to be a factor in the instability of the dredge in open seas. Company witnesses stated that they wanted it taken down for the voyage, but were told by Lloyds that a position on the deck was not suitable. So they left it up. The hearing, before the Marine Court of Inquiry, resumes on November 7. 