 ' Great Betrayal' feared in Southern Africa From DENNIS FRANCIS in London THE resumption of "talks about talks" on Rhodesia in Salisbury between high - ranking British and Rhodesian officials has roused fears of a British "sell-out" in Southern Africa to high pitch. A series of articles by Colin Legum, a leading anti-com munist but anti-aparthied author and journalist in the LONDON OBSERVER on a possible' "sell-out" in the whole of Southern Africa have shown how widespread is concern. Such a "sell-out" would cover not only Rhodesia but also the three British Protect orates which are almost totally surrounded, by Ver- . woerd's South Africa— Basuto- land, Bechuanaland and Swaziland. Finally, there is the case of South-West Africa, it seems clear now that Brit ish policy is aiming at the quiet absorption of the three Protectorates into South Africa' as glorified "Bantust- ans". On October 4 this year Basutoland will become the formally independent Kingdom of Lesotho. Britain will be granting independence to a minority government. Chief Leabua Jonathan leader of the Basutoland National Party, became Pre mier earlier this year when his Party gained a majority of seats but only 44% of the votes. This was due partly to careful division of seats, to ballot-rigging, but also to divisions between the pan- Africanist Basutoland Con gress Party and the Merema- Tlou Freedom Party, the party tied personally to the Paramount Chief. At the recent Constitutional Talks in London the BCP and MPP formed a united front and demanded fresh elections before independence. The Wilson Government re fused and the BCP and MFP also sefused to sign the final document. It is well known that the National Party was heavily backed by Verwoerd. They were supplied with money, Landrovers and even helicop ters during the electoral cam paign. Most important, in drought-stricken Basutoland, the BNP was given large supplies of wheat by Ver woerd with which to persu ade tribesmen to vote for Johnathan. The Opposition parties backed so far by the Para mount Chief have threatened civil war if Janathan heads an independent Lesotho. That could mean South Africa may intervene. Swaziland is now under complete control of King Sobhuza II who is a great admirer of Verwoed. British troops are still stationed in Swaziland, after having been sent there -some years ago to crush a General Strike. Swaziland is the richest of the three Protectorates with rich iron ore deposits (now being shipped to Japan) and rich agricultural land, mostly however in the hands of European settlers. Perhaps it is for that reason that Swazi land will beopme formally independent in 1970. Lastly, Bechuanaland, the largest of the Protectorates, but with the smallest popu lation, is due to become in- . dependent in September this year. Heavily hit by drought this already poverty-stricken land is even more at the tender mercies of Verwoerd and Smith. Its Prime Minister, not completely a pawn of Chief Seretse Khama, although Verwoerd, is now preaching a policy of "realism" in future relations with South Africa. No doubt his policy will differ little from Sobhuza or Jonathan. Banfustans For Britain, granting "inde pendence" in such conditions is merely a means of washing her hands of any responsib ility for these "Protectorates". Economically already depen dent on South Africa, they will become virtual "Bantus- tans". It is even strongly rum oured that Verwoerd has already planned their absorp tion into his Republic by joining them up with other "Bantustans" in the Transkei (for Basutoland) and Zeerust (for Bechuanaland.) The recent World Court decision on South-West Africa, ruling that the World Court had no juristiction to decide if South Africa was correctly carrying out its former Lea gue of Nations mandate has not only exposed the World Court for the sham it is, but has laid bare the plans of Imperialism in Southern Africa. The World Court decision, after years of legal hair splitting reminiscent of Dicken's Court of Chancery, gives Verwoerd the green light to absorb South West Africa fully into his Apartheid Re public. The infamous Oden- daal Report will now be im plemented. Finally, it is generally ac cepted in Britain by Anti- Apartheid forces that Wilson has already made a secret deal with Smith to recognise his Minority Independence. This deal would mean that African seats in the Assembly would increase to 22 out of 65 (instead of 15 as at pres ent), thus preventing any regressive constitutional change, while some legal "guarantees" would be writ ten into the Constitution to "protect" the African major ity. Both African nationalist parties have clearly stated that they will reject any such Constitution and continue preparations for guerilla war fare. Only the opposition of the Zambian Government to such a deal is preventing it being applied immediately. Buffer A quick glance at the sit uation in Southern Africa then points to the following British and American policy: while Britain and America at international assemblies will make disapproving noises about Verwoerd's suppression of the African majority (as they have for decades about Franco's fascist Spain), in reality they will help Verwoerd form a Gordon Sanitaire, a buffer zone, around his Re public. And in the meantime of course, American, British, West German and French im perialism will continue to reap huge profits from their investments in southern Africa.. But there are signs that this plan shall not be easily implemented. First of all, in the Portu guese colonies of Mozam bique in particular- have gained important victories. Whole zones of northern Mozambique are now liber ated areas in the control of FRELIMO (Mozambique Lib eration Front). Secondly, the nationalist movements in Rhodesia, ZAPU and ZANU, are both stepping up preparations for a liberation war in Rhodesia. Next, in Zambia there will be massive resistance to granting Smith independence i,n Rhodesia, which could reach explosive proportions if Imperialism tried to force President Kaunda to agree to independence for Smith, or if they tried to remove him from power. Lastly, the resistance move ment in South Africa itself, despite heavy repression . is now preparing carefully for the next stage of the struggle. In Basutoland also, the com bined opposition forces could by their violent oppos ition to phoney Independence provide a spark which could set all southern Africa aflame with violent resistance to Apartheid and racial and social oppression. If Verwoerd has been able to boast about how "calm" South Africa is today, he could soon find that that is only the calm before the storm. . . South Africa's Verwoerd Rhodesia's Smith 