 i-:: ::: ; i ; :v\: / ; : ; v:" V : ;;5;5:y;5; : V ; "i: Elections 1966 — State by State round-up New South Wales Right-wing splitters' role By Our Parliamentjary Roundsman yHE general swing to the Government in Saturday's Federal election — except in Western Australia — was most marked in South Australia and New South Wales. The Government failed to wm an upper House majority in the limited election for Senate places, but the pres ence of two Democratic Labor Senators and an independent will in general ensure passage of its legislation. The biggest loss of seats by the Labor Party over the last two elections has occurred in N.S.W. A big factor in this is un doubtedly the splitting role played by the right wing lead ership of the NSW Labor Party. Not only did the NISW lead ership instruct campaign com mittees to ease down on op- position to conscription and. the war in Vietnam, hut also firmly introduced anti-com munism. In addition, Deputy Leader E. G. Whitlam threw things into confusion by pro- | ducing. an independent line on I the withdrawal of troops. m .Many, electors..,, would not if have forgotten that at the 1966 | ALP Conference in NSW the rightwing left the Holt Gov- 1 ernment alone and reserved all their fire for Mr. Calwell and the party's Federal Exe cutive. The role of the NSW Labor Council leaders and the ACTU leadership— also a centre of rgiht-wing policy— was an ad ditional drag on the anti-Holt campaign. Their election leaf lets avoided the central issues. There are many contradic tory features in the NSW results that need close exa mination. Labor lost not only the seat of Barton that has been nar rowly held for some time by Mr. L. Reynolds, prominent Continued on Page 11 ELECTION DETAILS Continued from Page 3 supporter of Mr. Whitlam, but also Hughes, held by a left winger, Mr. L. Johnson. This may be explained by the influx into Hughes of a large number of new young voters who voted for the Lib eral candidate. The challenge of the young voters cannot be ignored by the Labor Move ment. Mr. James, a left wing mem ber for Hunter, polled excep tionally well. Prominent left-wing mem ber Mr. T. Uren (Reid), like his Yarra (Vic) colleague Dr. J. F. Cairns, did well to with stand concentrated hostile campaigns by the daily press and the DLP and Liberal Party. In Reid, the Liberal Party distributed a vicious, rnud-slinging leaflet of a per sonal nature against Mr. took out a hundred-thousand Uren. During the campaign he dollar writ against his Liberal opponent. Another Labor Member pro minent in opposition !to the Vietnam war, Mr. W. Hayden (Oxley, Qld. ) polled very strongly. 