 STOCKMEN'S STRIKE BIG POLITICAL ISSUE | DO not agree with the views of M. Edmonds (Tribune, 26/ 1 0/ 66) that "Tribune is giving too much space to the Aboriginal strikers in the Northern Territory. "Tribune undoubtedly has a problem to reflect- the many issues that concern Australia. Certainly there should be more space for the struggles of GMH workers, too. I do not understand why M. Edmonds lists the Abor igines with other .inter national issues for there is . certainly something funda- mentally different between this question and "Rhodesia, Indonesia, Syria, Korea", al though in passing I would say r that there is too little inter- &lt;; national news in "Tribune" too. "Tribune" is a small paper with many questions to cover. In general I think it covers them with consid- . erable balance. But the question of the Aborigines is not a minority issue. It is an issue that concretely expresses Gov ernment policy and calls in to question the foundation of that policy. In this sense it will contribute to the de feat of the Holt government. A government which fol lows a policy of discrimina tion against its own citizens is in a poor position to jus tify the "defence of democ racy" in Vietnam. A government which re fuses even minimum wage rates to workers who have, by their skill, made enormous profits for foreign companies calls into question the whole problem of foreign invest ments and the sale of our country bit by bit. There is something very much in common between the Aboriginal employees of Vesteys and the employees ' of GMH. The basic differ-: ence, however, is that the Aboriginal workers do not even receive the basic wage. A government which allows a situation where only four Aboriginal children in the whole of the Northern Terri tory are in high school where Aboriginal housing is beyond description and health services minimal be comes, in the eyes of many electors less than civilised. For very large numbers of Australians the present Lib eral Government is seen as the architect of a policy which provides an expanding living standard. The redund ant workers at GMH and the Aboriginal workers in the Northern Territory are not "typical" but very many Australians have a basic hu manity and an attitude of "fair go". . I believe that the public re ception afforded Dexter Daniels and Captain Major, the representatives of Abor iginal stockmen from the Northern Territory, confirms that the discrimination against Aboriginal workers highlights the inadequacies of the present government . and strikes chords of con science and sympathy more than most other issues. This was confirmed by the attitudfe of University stu dents, workers at several Sydney job meetings and in the response at the meeting held in the Orana Coffee Shop, by the Eureka Youth League. In the latter meeting I saw a response from a politically conscious group . of .young people that one seldom sees on any issue. About 50 young people don ated more than 55 dollars on the spot. A dozen or more agreed to pay weekly sums from now until the time when the Aboriginal stockmen win a minimum of the basic wage. In response to re quests from EYL members a collection is now being taken to provide a special Christ mas Box for the Aboriginal families at Wave Hill Station. I would not like to over simplify the question and suggest that Holt will be de feated over the attitude of the Government to the Ab origines but this is certain ly one issue which will in fluence many voters. The space Tribune alloc ates, however, cannot be judged just on election effect. For too long too many people have been silent about the disgraceful attit ude to Aborigines. At this time when Aborigines are fighting for themselves no support could be too great. One of the most shameful aspects of Australian capit alism in the brutal treatment of the Aboriginal people. This does not excuse the sacking of GMH workers but they, at least, have the right to unemployment benefits, the possibility of other work, homes to live in and schools for their children. The sack ed Aboriginal stockmen have none of these. I hope that Tribune keeps pricking the national con science on this question and that readers will follow the example of EYL members by making regular contribution to the Aboriginal strike funds. If any reader wants to BMMnaaMHnaMMBaiHnmr contribute to the Christ mas fund they can send a donation C/- the Eureka Youth League, 168 Day Street, Sydney. Mavis Robertson, National Secretary. Eureka Youth League of Australia. No parallel TV/jr. EDMONDS (Tribune, 26/10/66) is apparently unaware of the great sig nificance of a strike that has no parallel in the struggles of the Aboriginal people for equality and justice. A handful of Aborigines have taken on some of the world's biggest and probably the world's must ruthless pastoralists. At the head of this band of beef and land barons is Vesteys, the international beef, shipping and land con cern which ranks as the fifth largest monopoly in the world. By rejecting the Wave Hill strikers' demand for unem ployment benefits the Holt Government has shown where it stands on the issue —squarely on the side of the pastoralists. But against such formid able opponents the Abor igines have stood firm and won the support of most of the trade union movement and other organisations. This struggle, if there is no satisfactory settlement before the mustering season next year, could paralyse the pastoral and beef indus try in Australia. Its magnitude and import ance has not only been re flected in Tribune; few struggles of any section of workers have received such a wide coverage in the press, on TV and radio. However, as important as this struggle is, it is only the first step towards a new deal, not. only for the Northern Territory Aborigines, but for the whole of their people. The goal of full equality is the spur that will take the Aboriginal people beyond their immediate demand for wage justice. The comparison made by (j Mr. Edmonds with the GMH 1 workers, is inconsequential. ' Wherever and whenever workers are fighting for their rights it is the duty of Trib une to publicise and support them more particularly when they urgently need such sup port. H. McCarthy, Sydney. Point missed rnHE letter of "S.C." pat- L ently misses the purport of my statement on China which was to determine when one Party may, and should interfere in the affairs of another Party by public, open criticism. A couple of examples from history: In 1944 the CC of the French Party openly de nounced Browder's liquida tion of the American Party describing it as a "radical deformation of Marxism- Leninism." And Lenin who, to " use "S.C.'s" language "spluttered" invectives about Kautsky the Renegade and a hundred times more. "S.C." keeps emphasising sectarianism. If Mao and Co. were guilty only of sectarian ism then we shouldn't inter fere. But they have virtually liquidated the Party, destroy ed Communist Party theory, organisation, democracy, cul ture. I am afraid that they have put , back the world movement perhaps by dec ades. Finally, "S.C." indulges in personalities and uses some un-comradely terms about me. -Any way, I don't want any "honour" paid to me! My knowledge of China, then and now, is the same as that of other comrades. In my letter I ventured into new grounds, viz., the right ana duty to interfere. I repeat that, from the hindsight ot today, our public criticism ot Mao is about three years too L. Harry Gould, Sydney. 