 f'l haven't met ene ! I wimai enineer!" ! ! By Suse Wolf I I;&lt;My mother-in-law was horrified where my husband told her that we j were both leaving Ivaiicva because I had been offered a better job in Mos- j cow," Valentina Titova told me. j 5 "What, my Vladimir fol- ! low Valentina to Moscow!" ) is an approximate translat- I ion of Mrs. Titova . senior's ! reaction to her son's news. J But now these family | squabbles have been ironed j out and Vladimir's old J mother often comes to visit | him and his family in the | big smoke. I Valentina Titova— here in ! Sydney as representative of ) the Soviet Women's Com- | mittee. at the triennial con- j ference of the Union of I Australian" Women— studied j to be a . teacher of literature f in her home town of Ivan- 1 ova,- about 150 miles from | Moscow and now lectures Sat a Moscow teachers' train ing .college. I She told me about ' this I incident with her mother- | in-law after I asked her how I Australian women's status ! in society compares with I that of Soviet women. And this, too, is what she's been talking about to a lot of people she's met here over the last few days. There's one point she's adamant on. She's convinced that if a women has a job which she likes and feels ! is useful she's likely to feel independent, confident in herself and prepared to stand up to any man. In. fact, Valentina said, what struck her most since she's been here is the lack of opportunity for women to achieve equal status with men. She was amazed and quite frankly shocked when a 21-year-old rriother of two children told her that when she had applied for a job she was told by the employ er that she was too old to work. '"Just because she was married!" Valentina pro tested, looking aghast. "And I haven't met one women engineer since I've been here!" In the Soviet Union 38% of all engineers with tert iary education are women. There women make up 58% of all fully qualified pro fessional workers. Here, Valentina has noticed, . those women who do work mainly have casual-type employ ment 1 which needs very little training. She also com- ' mented on the shortage of nurseries and kindergartens. ? Valentina's daughter is in fifth grade at present. She's twelve. I couldn't help chuckling at what a proud .mother Valentina seemed as she listed her daughter's talents and interests. She dances, plays the piano, reads a lot and draw? rather well. She likes athlet ics and goes swimming regularly at Moscow's Dyn amo Swimming Pool. And then a crowning Russian understatement: "She's a very nice girl," Valentina declared. But to get back to the point. The Titov family lives in an eight-storeyed block of flats on the ground floor of which there's a nursery and kindergarten. Valentina used to pick her young daughter up at 5 o'clock each evening after she had knocked off work. Of course the raising of women's status in a society is no simple matter. All - sorts of people have to change their attitudes. Right after the 1917 Rev olution the new Soviet gov ernment had to pass a reg ulation stipulating that no fewer than '40%. of all uni versity entrants must ' be women. This didn't please men much at the time, but it was the. only way to overcome prejudice against women's studying and work ing. These days there is no longer any need for such restrictions. Men have come to accept women as their intellectual equals and no longer think twice about having a women over them as director on the job. I asked Valentina whether she and her husband have experienced any conflict as a result of her having full- time employment. No, noth ing like that has cropped up. He husband is a hydro- | electrical engineer, she told S me. He's one of the chief | planners of hydro-electric I power stations which the | S. U. is helping to build in j India, Bulgaria and Rumania. j He's been offered the j chance of working in any f of these countries; but as ! Valentina couldn't bear the j idea of just being a house- | wife for a few years and I he couldn't face being away I without his family for years j on end he's chosen to re- | main at his Moscow instit- ! ute instead. | ? I JBOUT the funniest thing | that's happened to J Valentina during her few | days in Sydney occurred during a reception given by I the Amalgamated Engineer- | . ing Union. g | She spoke to a lot of | people there and during ! question time someone asked | whether there's equal pay | in the S. U. j "Well, not exactly," was ! her answer. I "If a women does better j work than a man she'll get J better pay"— which amused j her audience no end. j Valentina has been stay- I ing with Pliyllis Hopwood | at Castlecrag. A couple of | evenings ago about 30 friends | from the district came round | to meet Valentina. Quite a j discussion developed about j the life of women in Aus- ! tralia as compared to that j of the women in the S. U. j The conversation turned | to the comparative quality I of consumer goods in the j two countries. j Valentina talked about how j six' years ago women had j trouble even getting a dec- ! ent . lipstick anywhere in j Moscow. | After the Second World | War the Soviet economy ! was geared to the develop- I ment of heavy industry. But j now that that basis has been g laid, more attention is being \ paid to light industry. jj Valentina herself has not- P iced' that many Australian ! consumer goods are sup- j erior in quality to' the So'v- g iet equivalents. But the f situation at home she has f noticed is improving a lot. There's a greater variety of g consumer goods available I and their quality is getting j much better. g ? | FORTUNATELY Valentina j seems to be a tireless- g woman. She's still got a J lot of racing round to do ( and a lot of people to meet j before leaving our country, j The UAW is seeing to that. | She'll be going to Wollon- gong, and then spending a j couple of days in Melbourne, g After . that it's back to | Sydney and home via Sin- | gapore, Bangkok, Rangoon, . j Karach'i and Tashkent. j Before leaving here Val- I entina asked me, through j the medium of TRIBUNE, g to thank all the people who ! have received her here so warmly. She said she has . met so many she just I couldn't thank them all I personally. j Valentina, it was a pleas- g ure meeting you too. Thanks I for coming. j | My mother-in-law I was horrified!" | 1 couldn't hear being ( a housewife!" ! . just because she ! was married ?" I—. 