 THE P.K.I. AND THE OCTOBER COUP IN INDONESIA Here is yet another in the series of journalistic scoops by famous Australian foreign correspond ent, Wilfred Burchett. The story is the first account to Teach Australia that presents a credible account of circumstances surrounding the September 30 coup attempt in Jakarta, Indonesia. Burchett obtained the story by an exclusive interview in Pnom-Penh, capital of Cambodia, with an Indonesian who had escaped the manhunt in Java. "A FEW days ago I met an Indonesian whom I know as having close contact with the P. K. I. (Communist Party of Indonesia) leadership and who escaped the army drag net in Jakarta. He is temporarily 'out of the country. "According to him, the P.K.I leadership learned in mid-August that right wing army leaders planned a coup to take place between Octo- , ber 5 and 12. "A 'generals' council' had been formed. 'Trusted' army units were to be concentrat ed in the capital on October 5, the 20th anniversary of the founding of the army, and 'several millions' of Mos lems, grouped around the outlawed right wing Darul- Islam organisation, were to flood into Jakarta on the pretext of a Moslem holiday, to give the 'mass support' for a general massacre of communists, left wing nation alists and their supporters. "Documentary evidence of these plans, and C.IA. (U.S. Central Intelligence Agency) involvement, fell into P.K.I. hands, according to my in formant, and this was the principal reason for the sack ing of P.K.I. offices and the homes of (P.K.I. leaders) Aidit, Njoto and Lukman. "The PJK.I. central com mittee met during the last week of August and took secret decisions presumably related to organisational questions in case the gen erals' coup could not be averted. "Sukarno reportedly was informed of what was im pending, but because of his ill-health he either did not take the warnings seriously or failed to act witli his cus tomary energy, or— as has been the case since— was no longer able to impose his will on General Nasution and the other right wing gen erals. "In late September Colonel Untung, head of the Presi dential guard, learned of the planned coup from independ ent sources. He approached leaders of the P.K.I., among others, revealing what they had known for some time, and urged joint action to thwart the coup. "The P.K.I. leaders report edly refused, on the ground that such action would be premature, and that as long as Sukarno remained at the helm everything should be done to maintain unity, while all patriotic elements within the armed forces should re- main vigilant to deal with any coup from above.- "The rest is history, Un tung struck on September 30, hoping to eliminate all the members of the 'gener als' council,' from Nasution on down. Apparently he be lieved that although the - P.K.I. was opposed to such action, they would be bound to support him once the deed was done. "In this he miscalculated. When Untung started hand ing out arms to the people, Young Communist League grabbed their share— if only to prevent their falling into the hands of their political enemies. But neither the PJK.I. nor the Y.CJL. nor any affiliated bodies took part in any phase of Dntung's ac tion. "And in acting as he did, he provided a sort of 'Reich stag Fire' pretext for a hunt ing down of all progressives and a ban on their organisa tions." "According to my inform ant, C.I.A. agents played an active part all the way through, circulating forged documents, printing forged bulletins and even news papers, spending consider able money, providing every thing from slogans for the Moslem lynch mobs to ad dresses of those to be ar rested and killed." | WILFRED BURCHETT in Vietnam jungle. 