 [?] j Some early surprises at Jamaica By The Challenger I J"HE eighth Commonwealth Games at present taking place in I Kingston, Jamaica is providing all the thrills and excitement 1 known to sport. To the joy and dis- may of Australian sports | followers, it has been I Australian sportsmen who 8 have been prominent in I the main highlights so far. i Big-time sport always I provides the under-dog 1 with the opportunity and 1 stimulus to shine and this 1 was well demonstrated in I the six mile event, when I the unknown Kenyan I (Naftali Temu) unexpect- 1 edly defeated the world 1 record holder, Ron Clarke. I In this era when the I under-developed countries | are striving for recogni- | tion and respect, all pro- 1 gressive minded people I must no doubt feel pleased I with results that favor I the people from these 1 countries. However, it is 1 regrettable that such a 1 fine sportsman as Ron 1 Clarke should be the vic- 1 tim of such an upset. I Clarke, it would seem, | judging from the time re ft corded for the six miles 1 (38 seconds out side I Clarke's world record) is the victim of circum stances. He has, because of his prominence, been under great psychological pressure. It was reported that team manager Bill Young had to place a ban on interviews by journalists to protect Clarke. It was during the 1956 Olympics that a similar 1 defeat was administered to 1 the great mile runner | John Landy. Considered a B certainty, Landy was un- I der a tremendous pressure to live up to his past achievements. One consolation is that it can be said that when Clarke clashes with Kip- choge Keino in the three mile event (as Tribune _ goes to press) it will be his turn to be rated "as the I outsider as Keino has won 1 three of their previous B four meetings on the track. 1 If Clarke fails it could I verify that he is better I suited to beating the clock I than individuals. i With the reports of the extreme heat of Jamaica I sapping the energy of the I athletes, it is all the more 1 surprising that a number 1 of world records have 1 been broken. » 1 In water temperatures ) fe reported to be about 16 p degrees above the usual M Olympic temperature of 72 j|| degrees, Australian swim- «|| mers Micnaei wenaen, Ian O'Brien, Peter Rey- | nolds and Kathie Wain- f wright have all smashed $ world records. Also the | | Australian 880 ya'rds 6 | men's relay swimming | | team also set a new world I record. 1 | These outstanding sue- | cesses will boost once more Australia to a dominant position in world swim ming and the condi tions under which they took place will give many coaches food for thought. Gould if apply! to league? I T EADING Soviet foot ball expert Andrei Sta rostin has outlined some proposed reforms that he says should be applied to the running of the World Soccer Cup. It would not take much imagination for the aver age Rugby League fan to see that the essence of Starostin's proposals are very applicable to League today and would be of great benefit to the game. In an article (July, Soviet Weekly) written prior to the USSR-West | Germany game in which the early injury of Josef Szabo may well have been | decisive, Starostin stated | that the time was ripe for the changing of the World Cup rules. "First," be said, "substitutes should be permitted". Starostin argued that the preparation for the World Cup takes four years, but the final stages last for less than three weeks, so that ". . . we must think | more carefully of ways 0. I ensuring that the finals 1 reveal as fully as possible | the skill of the competi- | tors, who have worked for j four years for that out- 1 come- . . I Ron Clarke. I— —MM IWWWI — — aWMIlUMIMMBMM— — «— A 