 Metal Unions unite on wages campaign JYDNEY : The quarter-of-a-million-strong Metal Trades Federation of unions last week called upon all Australian metal workers to back up the unions' basic wage and margins claims by united "vigorous and militant activity, including in the workplaces." This call was made by the national conference of the Federation's Federal Council and delegates from six State Branches which met last week in Sydney. Unions represented at the conference included the Amal gamated Engineers, Federated Ironworkers, Sheet Metal Workers, Moulders, Boiler makers and Blacksmiths. The Electrical Trades Union and the Australian Railways Union also attended as observ ers. Conference called for direct negotiations with employers for wage increase above the awards as a continuing general form of activity. "The fall in the purchasing power of the basic wage and margins has made the question of over-award payments one of ever increasing importance," the metal unions said. A resolution declared "deter mined opposition to the per sistent efforts of the employers to secure the abolition of the basic wage and margins con cepts and to establish what they term a total wage. "We condemn the 1965 deci sion of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission refus ing a basic wage increase and giving a petty margins increase calculated as a percentage of the 'total' wage sought by the employers." As part of the national cam paign, conference called for in tensive activity in support of the demand for control and peg ging of prices by Common wealth and State Governments. Conference said this would! eliminate exploitation which' has become further intensified with the introduction of decimal currency. It was also decided to press the trade union movement's demands for control of rents, interests and profits and seek strong measures against all monopolies to abolish price rigging and restrictive trade practices. Attention is drawn to the fact that the Commonwealth basic wage as applied in each. State is below the 1953 basic wage as adjusted for cost of living price rises, by amounts varying from $1-20 to $4-30 per week. ' Conference said this disparity in the Federal basic wage from State to State arises from the abolition of quarterly cost of living adjustments and the deci sion giving flat rate increases in the period since 1953. "This calls for renewed and persistent campaigning to res tore quarterly cost of living ad justments." Appreciation was expressed that the current margins claim seeks to restore the 1947 rela tivities "won as a result of metal trades struggles in that year, and subsequently lost in the decision of the Commission in 1954." 