 Mr. Winter looks at Arbitration— twice (By a Special Correspondent) "|N my view there is not the slightest reason to hope for any enlightened attitude to this great social question of automation on the part of the arbitration system," this is an extract from a paper read by Mr. T. C. Winter, now a Conciliation Com missioner at a Union Conference in 1958. Mr. Winter went on, "atten tion will continue to be paid, in the assessment of margin salary rates, to the histor ical job requirement com ponents of skill, qualifications, aptitude, responsibility, train ing and experience." "Little of a satisfactory nature can be expected from the arbitration system while it retains its present concepts of salary and wage fixation and remains preoccupied with legalism and the past." Mr. Winter was then Federal Secretary of the Municipal and Shire Employees' Union of Australia and he was address ing a conference organised by the Australian Council of Sal aried and Professional Assoc- — iatfons-CACSPA) on "Automat ion in the Office." Cowardly . Subsequently to this speech he was a member of the ACTU Executive which described as "cowardly, spurious and evas ive" the Arbitration Commiss ion decision rejecting basic wage and three weeks leave claims in 1960. A Federal Unions Conference at that time adopted the Exec utive's resolution. Now. as a Conciliation Com- missioner, Mr. Winter con demns workers . who, having the same lack of confidence in the arbitration system which he previously expressed, take direct action to raise their inadequate wages. He counsels the workers to await the outcome of his "work value" investigation into margins. They are apparently expected to assume that Mr. Winter's presence as a Con ciliation Commissioner has changed the nature of the arbitration system which he previously attacked. But workers have learned that the appointment of former union officials to the arbitrat ion . tribunals is of itself no guarantee of success with union wage claims. In 1948 a veritable flock of union officials were appointed Conciliation Commissioners but this in no way affected the operations of the arbitration system. Futhermore award wages for most workers and metal wor kers in particular have declined in value since 1948 despite the presence of former trade union officials as Conciliation Com missioners during that period. In fact it was a former union official, J. M. Galvin, who in 1952 refused to restore metal workers' margins to their 1947 relativities, froze margins and opened the way for the over throw of the 1947 standards by the Arbitration Court in 1954. Mr. Winter was for many years a prominent delegate to ACTU gatherings and for the six years immediately preced ing his appointment as Concil iation Commissioner he was a member of the ACTU Executive. In these capacities he sup ported applications for the restoration of the 1947 standard of margins and participated in condemning the repeated re fusal of the arbitration tri bunals to grant this claim. Now, as a Conciliation Com missioner, he has endorsed the Commission's decisions which he previously condemned and has joined in rejecting the margins claim which he previously supported. This record would not war rant unqualified confidence by workers in the outcome of his "work value" investigation even if the final decision on margins rested with him. But the decision on the amount of the margins to be awarded as a result of this in vestigation rests with the Bench which dealt with the national case— three Judges plus Conciliation Commissioner Winter. The background to their consideration of this question includes a number of "work- value" decisions which con tain "principles" adverse to the unions. The application of these principles has resulted in many workers being refused increased margins. For the unions to succeed these so-called "principles" will have to be overcome and this will require a really mighty campaign. In his speech in 1958 quoted above, Mr. Winter suggested a course of action when he said: Sound advice "We must endeavour to en sure when an industry improves its productivity factor, or lowers its cost of production because of technological change, that those employed in that, industry should share in the economic gains involved" and " ... . we now must develop and exert social pressures upon governments to force a new concept of wage and sal ary fixation more in keeping with the requirements of our time." This advice is as sound to day as when he said it in 1958. 