 Why Sir James is in the box By an Industrial Correspondent Main feature this week in the Arbitration proceed ings concerning the national wage case is the unwill ing appearance of Sir James Vernon as a witness. Sir James is managing direc- tor of the wealthy Colonial Sugar Refining Company, which has extensive interests outside the sugar industry and is asso ciated with other wealthy com panies. He was also chairman of a Committee of Economic In quiry set up by : the Federal Government in 1963. Other members of this Com mittee were professors Craw ford and Karmel, Messrs. D. G. Molesworth and K. B. Myer. Mr. Myer is head of the wealthy Myer's Emporium. Sir James has been sum moned before the Arbitration Commission as co-author of the committee's report (deliv ered, May. 1965). He was sub-poened by the unions because the employers have been pressing the Com mission to adhere to the reasoning and principles of wage assessment contained in the .1965 total wage decision. To support this they have drawn heavily on the so-called Vernon Committee Report. The 1965 decision accepted most employers' arguments, rejected the unions' main argu- ments, departed from previous principles of wage assessment and granted increases of only a few shillings (60c for trades men). The report The Vernon Committee Report (not made public until after the 1965 wage decision) in chapter 7 dealing- with "Costs, Prices and Wages" spelled out detailed support for the main grounds on which the Commission based its de cision. Its report has been seen and used by the employers, as giv ing justification to the 1965 wage decision. Should the Commission ac cept this the unions' claims cannot possibly succeed. Australian Council of Trade Union's advocate, Mr. R. Hawke, has therefore attacked the 1965 decision and is publicly ques tioning the validity of the Vernon Committee's views. These include:— O Wage rises are not the sole cause of inflation, but they are the main cause. There is no means of controlling other causes of in flation, but the Arbitration system can and should control wage in creases even though this does not prevent inflation. Total earnings of wage and salary earners, which include all forms of earnings and persons on high salaries, should not increase at .a higher rate than the national productivity. Because of over- award earnings in' this period,, award wages . should increase at a rate lower than the increase in, national productivity. Over-award payments, won out side of the Arbitration tribunals should not be accepted as proof of capacity to pay increased award rates. In fact success in winning over-award rates should tell against workers when they seek to increase award rates. Past price increases are not ,a reason for increased award rates, so the purchasing power of wage rates should not be maintained by adjustments to meet price rises. Capacity to pay is not to be determined by profit levels, but by the possibility of inflation if wages are increased and this irrespective of profit levels. Absolute price stability can not be guaranteed because of fac tors beyond the control of the Ar bitration Commission, but price sta bility is a central purpose of the Arbitration Commission and wage increases should be limited because of this. In the whole of the Vernon Report not one word is said against the detrimental effect of monopoly and the need to control prices and profits. The section of. the Report dealing with costs, prices and wages is directed at supporting the use of the Arbitration system to restrict wages. The Government attacked sections of the Report but not its reasoning in support of wage restriction. 