 U.S. election set-back JOHNSON COPS IT RIGHT ON THE CHIN By the Foreign Editor J"HE blow to the prestige of the American war-leader, President Johnson, is the outstanding feature, especially for Australia, of the US mid-term congressional elections of last month. The loss of some 48 House of Representative seats was admit tedly far greater than normal in a mid-term election. Nobody has denied Republi can claims that it is the great est ever. And the vote has gone against not merely the political head of the Administration but against the commander-in-chief of the armed forces now increasingly engaged in a desperately fought war where unity of the people behind the war is the most ur gent need of the government. Danger Nothing could more drama tically emphasise for Australia the danger of Prime Minister Holt's "all the way" slogan. In going with "LBJ" Australia IiilgJ.it .iUiU ituC/li glsAiig iiUv Wivll| but away from, the American people and the next Adminis tration. The two-party system in Ame rica meant that the large num ber of voters who opposed the war had no direct means of expressing this opposition since the leadership of both parties was committed to it. The peace voters had already taken their stand in the prim aries where some peace candi dates got as much as 45 or 49 per cent of the vote. So the only way for them to vote against the Vietnam war was to cast their vote against the leader most immediately responsible for carrying it on —the President. This was partly, though not, of course, wholly, responsible for the Republican gains. It certainly helped Governor Romney's increased majority in Michigan and the victory of Senator Hatfield, the peace-sup porting former Governor of Oregon. Senator Paul Douglas, of Il linois, a Democrat, abandoned his former liberalism to back the war strongly and, in part consequence, lost his seat to a more moderate Republican. Defeat of segregationist pro- war die-hards like Johnson (Democrat, Arkansas) and Ma- honey (Democrat, Maryland) could be set against victories for die-hard extremists like Reagan (Republican, California) and the southern Democrats Maddox and Wallace. Only in one city, Dearborn, in Michigan were the people in vited directly to support or op pose the war. Here 19,000 voted No to a proposition expressing the most advanced position of the anti war campaigners— that the US should immediately withdraw from Vietnam and leave it to the Vietnamese to determine their future. But a big minority — 13,000 or 41 per cent — voted Yes. 