 CAR WORKERS FIGHT FREEZE: WILSON PAUSE PLOY RESISTED — Answer to sack threat LONDON: Ten thousand workers at the Austin motorworks at Longbridge, Birmingham set the scene last week for a nation wide fight to keep their jobs. At a mass meeting they cheered the call of Combined Shop Committee chairman Dick Etheridge for the "utmost resistance to redundancy. . Soon afterwards all Austin car deliveries from Longbridge were stopped when Transport drivers voted to strike against the sacking of 333 men among the 649 employed by ten Longbridge car delivery firms. Mr. Etheridge said at the mass meeting that "motor workers wi,ll never stand for the loss of their jobs and wages — they will fight every inch of the - way to stop it and make the Goverment bring in a new policy." The transport drivers' action followed a week of mass &lt; activity among car industry workers facing the sack under the Wilson freeze-sque,eze policy. The Transport and General Workers' Union decided to back the drivers' strike. The gigantic British Motor Corporation announced, that it would sack 11,000 workers —more than a tenth of its work force — in November. Unemployment created by the freeze-squeeze is now ex pected to exceed the half- million already projected by the Government. ' At the same sime the Gov ernment has just held a "Productivity Conference" in cluding employers and union officials — to which shop stewards were not invited. The London Morning Star comments editorially that Mr. Etheridge had not been asked because he would have said something about the lunacy of throwing thousands of car workers on the streets in the name of "productivity". The Star recalls that in his last election manifesto Wil son (only last March) declared "whatever the pressures" the Government would not - jetti son the' ' aini of "full Employ ment. - It was "determined not to repeat Conservative Stop-Go". Now, says the Star, the Government has deliberately set out to increase unemploy ment and has introduced a worse Stop than the Tories aid. "Enthusiasm" The Star notes the "enthu siasm" with which some car firms have resorted to sack ings and short-time and notes cheerful forecasts than in a few months as many cars as before will be produced with thousands fewer employed. "Throwing men out of work and simultaneously appealing to those left to produce more goods on frozen wages is simply a recipe for putting more profits into the emi ployers' pockets", it says, i Attacking claims by Min ister Richard Crossman that the Government's plan was "socialist", the Morning Star editor George Mathews says the only "plan" in Britain now is the one which exists to keep wages down while . prices rise. "The last Socialist plan in the USSR put up wages by IS per cent" he said. "The present five year plan will Increase real incomes by a further 30 per cent". "In capitalist Britain pro duction.;. stagnates. Iln the USSR industrial output went up by 8 per cent in the first hall' of this year compared to the same period of 1965. "In the Five Year Plan it w',11 go up a total of 50 per cent. "Socialism has given the USSR a rate of economic growth double that of the US and. three times that of Britain". Mr. Matthews notes that; "optimistic" forecasts of . "only" 500..000 unemployed in Britain are bevng replaced by talk, of 800,000 or more. But there is no unemployment in the USSR. 