 [?] QYDNEY: "The infamous nature of penal clauses, their excessive use, and retarding effect upon the struggle of Australian workers for an im proved standard of living," will be given special publicity on the initiative of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths' Society. The union's Federal Council last week decided to ask other unions to join in setting up a committee to do the job. The Council, which met last week in Sydney, strongly con demned the ever increasing use of penal powers, bans and limit ations by employers, govern ment and private, as a means of denying the democratic rights of trade unions and their members. A resolution said that var ious International Labor Of fice conventions and recom mendations aJl clearly define the right to organise, collective bargaining and freedom of as sociation. Conflict "Australian penal clauses are in conflict with these articles and clearly restrict the univer sally recognised rights of work ers in a free society," Council said. The Australian Council of Trade Unions is called on to document the excessive use of penal clauses and have the International Labor Office in quire into breaches of its deci sions- A resolution dealing with wages criticised the amount being claimed as an interim increase in margins, i "The $2-3-0 for tradesmen is far less than amounts granted to Shipwrights, Aircraft In dustry Award and the State Award metal tradesmen in West Australia and Queens land". Council, which represents 30,000 metal workers, said "the ACTU had a duty to call meta-l trade unions into conference for discussions on the claim and the reasons justifying the amounts claimed." Parliamentary Labor leader Mr. A. Calwell was commended by Council for his leadership during the recent Federal elec tions. "We fully endorse his state ment that the policies put for ward for ending the war in Vietnam, for improved social service standards and for an independent Australian policy on foreign affairs will be proved by history to be correct." 