 New Guinea or Aust., budget is the same By JIM COOPER JHE New Guinea Budget presented in the House of Assembly last week has something very much in common with many presented before it in Australia — it soaks the workers. First, New Guineahs earning $4 a weeK or more (ana tnis means nearly all workers) are to be taxed. There is no indication that this is to be in lieu of Head or Council tax, so . it can be assumed that it will be an added burden., Excise duties on , tobacco, cigarettes and liquor will mean increased prices. Spirits are up 40c a 26oz. bottle, imported cigarettes rose by 6c a packet of 20 and locally, made 5c. A record total of' $120m. is proposed in the budget by the Treasurer, Mr. Newman. The Commonwealth grant of $70m. provides 58.33 per cent of the total, the smallest per centage since World War II. $43m.'is to be raised, by internal taxation and $7m. by loan. Mr. Newman warned New Guinean workers against any demands for increased wages and salaries. This warning was incongruous coming from an Administration official on a salary of $7,320 per annum plus allowances when speaking of workers on $200 to $600, which is the range of most New Guineans wages or sal aries. The Budget will not assist the economy. The important factor in the development of any country is the purchasing power of the people. Industry cannot develop unless there is demand and higher taxation will lower purchasing power which must lower the capacity of the economy to expand. One valuable feature is the increased expenditure on. edu cation, some $4.4m. Although this is far too small to meet the requirements of the Territ-. ory it is a step in the right direction. $1.8m. has been allocated for university' build ings and $43,000 for the Instit ute of Higher Technical Edu cation. Education is an urgent basic requirement in New Guinea. Although the allocation has been increased, annual expen diture on education in The Territory is about half of that in South Australia with a similar number of . children attending school. Presenting the. Budget, Mr. Newman said that approxim ately $lm. was invested in New Guinean cooperative societies, indicating this as a degree of indigenous activity. This works out at 50c per bead of the population and re veals the failure of the Admin istration to really foster coop eration, a form which would assist adaptation to the com mercial production society now being introduced. Mr. Newman stressed that New Guinea- cannot always rely on the availability of the Commonwealth Grant. If this is correct, and the statement is not being chal lenged, it is vital that this grant be allocated to promote to the utmost the productive capacity of the New Guineans. Only the Administration and big business operating in the Territory can be happy with the Budget. 