 'Inadequate article on apartheid TT seems to me that the article by Roger Milliss on apar theid in Tribune November 2, deals inadequately with a very important issue. He sees apartheid mainly as a racial issue: "the basic premise of apartheid is that the 'Bantu' . . . is an inferior being". The South African Government spokesman plug this line, as long ago the bourgeoisie fought their . revolution under a religious banner, and middle class commentators, opposed to apartheid are confused as to its basic reality. Apartheid in South Africa today is essentially a class oppression, a weapon for the suppression of the working class who are in the main Africans and non-whites. The South African Government realises this in its actions, for the first organisation suppressed was the Communist Party, then the trade unions and their activity, and only after that the wholly racial organisation the African National Congress. The laws can also bring a fully white person under apartheid oppression. It is because many Africans do not see their class oppres sion, as well as racial oppression under apartheid that Pan- Africanism and other issues split and divide the internal opposition to apartheid. And failure to point out the class nature of apartheid has meant that working class opposition to apartheid in other countries has not been developed to the fullest possible extent. South Africa is the country with the biggest number of workers on the African continent, the biggest iron and steel producer, the most productive industries. It is the biggest coal producer, it has the biggest fishing industry in the Southern Hemisphere. Its mineral wealth and pro duction are enormous. It is a big producer and exporter of fruit and. tobacco. The slave wages of apartheid, com bined with its vast 'natural wealth, puts it in a special position on the world markets, and workers in other countries feel the direct pressure of these slave wages. This production can be increased. The decentralisation plans to build industries on the borders of the Bantustans, where labor is half the price than in the cities, and where the supply of labor is greatest, can possibly succeed, despite what Roger Milliss and Time Magazine of Aug 66 think. The South African State has as much capital in industry in South Africa as foreign capital has, and far more than private South African capital has invested. The Government can finance and control this development. The great changes and cheapening of mass transportation are altering decisively the economics of production. Even the partial success of this plan will further strengthen the position of South African capitalism. Roger Milliss wrote "Sooner or later there will be an eruption in South Africa whose repercussions will rever berate throughout the ' African continent and the world." That is true, hut he took too much acreage horsing with Sir Raphael Cilento to develop this. South Africa is the white arsenal of Africa, the base from which the defeated imperialists dream to recolonise the continent. By 1963 the South African Government was spending one fifth of its income on defence. It was by far the strongest military force on African soil. The French armaments firm, Le Carbone, has a huge factory on the Reef, The Belgian automatic rifle F. N. is now manufactured in South Africa. - The British Owned Oppenheimers African Explosives and Chemical Industries has built three new armament factories at the cost of £10 million. All this to shoot lions and elephants? Andries Vissar, on the South. African Atomic Energy Board, gave the answer. He said South Africa (which is the largest producer of uranium ore in the world) should start making atom bombs for use against "loud mouthed African- Asian States." The phoney granting of independence to the British pro tectorates bordering South Africa (with over fifty police posts and border fences as well as several South African army camps facing them), the play-acting and shadow spar- 1 ing around the Smith Government of Rhodesia, the growing B tension over the control of South-West Africa; any of these | pressures could set off an eruption that would set "Africa | aflame, and involve Australia in a war as desperate, dirty I and dangerous as the war in Vietnam today. Vic Williams. | Willagee (W.A.) I 