 "Won't direct members into aggressive war" fT — | ' — — " — — - . SEAMEN'S STAND ON VIETNAM Unions new statement CYDNEY : The Holt Government last week attempt- ed to provoke a head-on collision with the trade unions, through the Seamen's Union, over the Viet nam way. After supplying Australian forces normally in Vietnam for 12 months with aircraft, navy and foreign based shipping, the Government sought to pressurise Australian civilian seamen into taking a ship, the "Boonaroo", with war materials to the Vietnam war zone. This occurred as new uprisings and civil war flared up in South Vietnamese cities threatening the hated Ky dictatorship which is propped up by the US and Holt Governments. Simultaneously a statment signed by 234 trade union leaders from 46 unions, issued yesterday in Sydney called on the Federal Government to end Australian participation in the inhuman Viet nam war. . WHAT HAPPENED " Thc 'Seamen Union stated this week: "On Wednesday, May 11, at a hurriedly convened meeting in Sydney, Government agents asked the Union's Federal Secre tary (Mr. E. V. Elliott) would the union man the 'Boonaroo" for Vietnam. "At the same time, the agents stated that whether or not the union manned the vessel, she would sail on schedule, Thursday, May 19." Government agents told Mr. Elliott that the cargo was traoftors, trailers, fcased palletised (stfores, supply stores, ordnance stores, timber, cement, barbed wire, scaffolding, steel sheeting, prefabricated huts, plywood and sandbags. The federal executive of the Seamen's Union, follow ing a special meeting, advised that the union could not agree to provide a crew in this case, pending rank and file stopwork meetings on May 31. Senior officials of the National .Maritime Union of the USA have reported that merchant ships had been held up for two months in the Vietnam war zone. In making its decision the Australian union's execu tive said it was "aware that leaders of the Federal Parliamentary Opposition and that of the labor move ment as a whole, have voiced strong opinions against Australia's participation in the war in Vietnam." "WAR OF AGGRESSION" It said: "The Seamen's Union is emphatic that it will not ask its members to become participants in the Vietnam war. We oppose the conscription of Austra lian youth for this war; unfortunately, the youth have no rights to decline. We have declined the Govern ment's proposal. As a union we will not encourage or direct the par ticipation of Australian seamen in this war,: which we— along with hundreds of thousands of other Australians, and millions of people throughout the world — believe 0 e a war of aggression by the United States on our near neighbors who are struggling to establish their country's sovereignty and independence." Without exception, seamen's meetings have expressed Pposition to Australia's participation in the Vietnam I have demanded a peaceful solution and the Wljdrawal of Australian troops," the statement said. I When it became known to ships' crews, in port and 3 «2,S,ea' "adigrams and telegrams of support flooded in. smnf?0rLras aIso come from Federal Boilermakers and Black- W a ' - »fS anj Builders' Labourers, A.L.P. executive in Hotl| Workers, Painters and Dockers and (Port iT x-V". (W-A-h Queensland Miners' executive, Dockers s Dredp i and the B.W.I.U. (Newcastle and Port Kembla); | ( NewcasUe) yeeS' uor es and Waterfront Watchmen I UnThe union's press statement said: "The Seamen's 1 not and is not interfering with or preventing I SUPP ies going to Vietpam, 