 [?] When the U.S.-installed Ngo Dinh Diem in South Vietnam failed to carry out the conditions of the Geneva Agreements . . . and repressed any opposition ... it became necessary to organise armed opposition, uniting all sections of the South Vietnamese people . . . and this organisation became the National Liberation Front. -pHE F inal Declaration of the Geneva Conference of 1954 pledged that Vietnam would he united. It ruled out as illegal .he setting up of a separate state. While dividing Vietnam into north and south military zones it said (in article 6): "The confer ence recognises that the military demarcation line is provisional and should not in any way be inter preted as constituting a political r territorial boundary." It was to last only for two years because (said the Pinal Declara tion in Article 7): "General elec tions shall be held under the supervision of an international commission." But in 1955, article 6 was broken when dictator Ngo Dinh Diem was brought from the USA and, backed by massive US arms supplies, de clared himself to be President of South Vietnam. That meant . the partition of Vietnam. The next year the second solemn pledge --- the promise of all-Viet nam general elections for 1956-— was broken when Diem, again with American support, refused to let them be held: The story that comes from Wash ington and Canberra that the "Viet Cong" broke the Geneva agreement by attacking the south is therefore untrue. The National Liberation Front of South Vietnam was not set up until December 20, 1960 — several years after Diem and the U.S. had vetoed elections. British Labor M.P. William Warbey says in his book "Viet nam, The Truth" (page 65 and 66): "The Government of the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam had earned full marks from the Inter national Control Commission for strict observance of the Geneva Agreements, as their first Interim Reports clearly testify" (Mr. Warbey quotes some of these re ports). "Diem had violated them again and again ... "But when in August, 1959, five years had passed with hopes con stantly deferred with scores oi thousands of families still sepa rated, with the 17th parallel a more impassable barrier each year, 'with . the Diem regime be coming more ruthless and repres sive and the western powers more solidly aligned than ever behind their all-powerful ally — patience broke at last. "The revolt against Diem aod his American masters could no longer be restrained and the National Front for Liberation of Southern Vietnam came into being." Wilfred . Burchett, Australian- born journalist, who visited the NLF-held part of Vietnam, said that only when the democrats faced the prospect that all former resistance cadres would be wiped out by Diem was "the line changed at the end of 1959 to permit the use of arms in self- defence only." Till then: says Burchett, the policy had been "a legal (poli tical, non-violent form of .. strug - gle." Quoting Burchett's statements, Dr. J. F. cairns, Australian Labor MHR, also cites American writer George Tanham to the same ef fect: "The Viets never relaxed their efforts to win over the peo ple . . . with the political ob jective taking precedence over the military at all times". (This is from Dr. Cairns' book Living with Asia, page 32.) Even more important, this view is confirmed by the US State De partment itself, as. noted by Ger ald L. Stone, just back from Vietnam, where he was corre spondent for the Sydney Daily Mirror, in his new book War Without Honor. Mr. Stone comments; "As much as the US Government might want to condemn communist act ions in South Vietnam up to 1956, it could apparently find no evidence that they used actual violence to attempt to overthrow the Government. "But when President Diem can celled the elections, the Viet Minh time bomb started ticking." In taking up the struggle the National Liberation Front fol lowed in the footsteps of all pat riots who have risen against dic tatorial governments. The right and duty of free men to overthrow such a government, when it has shown it will not i tolerate the peaceful expression of i opposing views and will not allow peaceful change was written into the American Constitution. r.rlBnBSBvS b J .. a "DEMOCRACY" UNDER DIEM. Things not worth fighting for. 