 | Sweet | bird of! ft & f youth I i l SEASON OF YOUTH, by Judah Waten | ( F . W. Cheshire, Melbourne) . $3.50. Re- !' viewed by JUNE MILLS. "pHE versatility of author Judah Waten will be readily appreciated by those who have read his previous novels and now read SEASON OF YOUTH. This book relates the story of a Melbourne family— a genteel mo ther, a drunken and sometimes brutal father and three boys. In the period of the twenties and the great depression the family is involved in ' endless argument, mainly arising from the father's war neurosis, which make him torment the mother about the birth of one son, Dapper Dan, whom he believes was the result of an illicit love affair while he was in the army. The central character is a boy whose ambition is to become a writer. His relations with women are part of'hisvj relopment and perhaps bawdy is! a word to des cribe some ;.of; n i talk and be haviour. He tries t&lt;3 pr ot his mother from the > father®? -openly con temptuous obhtsSjhgest brother ' Peter becau'selo/jfeo father's fav-; ored treatmenticftim;, and' does his best to be;ftlaiyawith Dap per Dan Whoitwvtually makes his living frond soeiation with the shadier (chard astof society. The main .'icha tier, - who is never identifiedfitj laine, tells the story. Mr. Waten) itesvthat "this novel is not :aut| graphical nor are the character artraits of liv ing people. TheeJ fed': necessary device for telliiig| 'these pages." As part ofibisn ibition to be come a writer;ot jtoyseeks out people in itheltaihry world through a ,chai | acquaintance with a journalist | lias' met while working on a secondhand stall in Victoria Markets. The description of parties held in the home of a wealthy woman, frequented by poets, writers and journalists, and the efforts of the boy to understand the dilettant talk form one of the most enter taining episodes in the book. But despite his literary ambitions, he tends to find the company of the ladies and the conviviality of drink- ' ing with the men more interesting. His association with a married woman, leads to a row with his father who, despite his own drunk enness, has tried to bring his sons up as "gentlemen". Set against the working class suburbs of Melbourne and Syd ney, which are contrasted with the wealthy woman and her circle, Mr. Waten is still able to show in this light-hearted book the differ ent way of life of the working class and the rich. Worthy of comment also are the descriptions of Carlton, Victoria Markets and parts of Sydney, all described by the boy in the course of telling his story. Superficially, it seemed highly . improbable that this boy would ever achieve , his ambition, to . be come a writer — but his' many ex periences with his family, the peo ple he meets and the women he woos finally give him the inspira tion to achieve his aim. . This is a book to be read and enjoyed, because of Mr. Waten's ability to make his characters live and his faculty for depicting the attitudes of various social strata through the story of one central figure. It is a human story of a family suffering much buffeting from life and yet, in the end, at least some of them coming to understand the reasons for it all. (Available from tho New World Booksellers and other bookshops.) H SEASON OF YOUTH3"0"6' Judah Waten Judah Waten 