 PAMPHLET FIASCO Vietnam revolt makes liars of the Liberals (By a Special Correspondent) JYDNEY: The new Liberal Party pamphlet on Vietnam ("The Stake is Freedom") begins with a long quotation from an American politician and ends with another long quotation from another American politician. Somewhere in between is a claim that the Liberal Government's foreign policy is that "decisions affect- _ a ' «t ft . 1 a a J... 1.1 J .«» «Mn iivk iMrlllAN ing Australia will be made by Australia. Australia must not come unaer uue comrui or of any other power". To show how free the Liberal Party is from being dominated by the U.S., pic tures of U.S. politicians are prominently featured in the first three pages. On page two U.S. vice-presi dent Humphrey, Ambassador Clark, special envoy Harriman and other U.S. representatives are pictured at the Canberra conference in February at which they pressured the Holt government into trebling its Vietnam commitment and send ing Australian conscripts there. "All-Australian" in tms "an -Australian" pamp hlet" pride of place is given to Humphrey's statement telling Australians what they should think and do about Vietnam. Pushed back into an inside page, and given about a third of the space, is an echoing call from Australian Prime Minister Holt. Both Humphrey and Holt may well be wishing the Liberals bad buried their speeches instead of broad casting them wholesale. Events since they . were — written have shown their statements to be ridiculous. Thus the core of Humphrey's statement was, "We are the revolutionists — not the Com munists. We are the libera tors . . . the agents of justice and reform." Just as this was rolling off the press in hundreds of thousands of copies the daily press of Australia was report ing how the "liberators" in South Vietnam — the U.S.- backed Ky regime — were us ing gas, clubs and rifles to batter down the South Viet nam Buddhists and their backers who are demanding free elections in South Viet nam. "Revolutionist" Ky was get ting ready to use force against the "rebel" city of Da Nang and ordering its mayor to be shot. " Justice f reform " Humphrey's so-called "agents of justice and reform" were secretly bringing more troops into Saigon to try and quell the mounting wrath of the people. They tried to screen their at tacks on the South Vietnamese civilians by banning photo graphs of street storm centres "where stronger vomit gas must now be used" noted Sydney Daily Mirror reporter Richard Hughes from Saigon on April 12. Holt's statement reads no better in the light of the South Vietnamese upsurge. "We are there (in South Vietnam) to establish conditions in which ordinary men and women — and there are 14 mil lion of them in South Viet nam alone — can. pursue their lives in freedom." But when tens of thousands march precisely for freedom— the right to elect their own civi lian government— in the cities of South Vietnam they are re- buffed by the very Government at whose alleged request Holt is sending more troops to Viet nam. Further, "explains" Holt., "Aus tralia cannot stand aside from the struggle to resist the agres- sive thrust of communism in Asia." "Aggressive Communism" But those whom Australian- backed dictator Ky has been "resisting" quite apart from the "Vietcong" — for the past month or more have been the vast majority of the South Vietnamese who fol low the Buddhist leaders. This is in effect admitted by Time magazine which says (on April 15) that after the Budd hist-inspired" demonstrations, "unrest spread steadily, drawing in the civil servants, the mili tary, laborers — all disaffected by South Vietnam's galloping inflation and war-time insecu rity, by wild rumours and even by the growing American pre sence in Vietnam". In fact, Time is saying, prac tically everybody is against Ky. But Holt and the Liberals, can only see "aggressive Com munism." The Liberal pamphlet sees everything in terns of a contest of power . . "the conflict between communist beliefs and the beliefs of the free world." But what about the "beliefs" of South Vietnam Buddhist leader Thich Tri Quang and the millions who .support him in opposing "free world" nominee Ky? Are the Liberals telling us that these are all "Com munists"? Will they say the same of South Vietnam Catholic leader, Rev. Hoang Quynh, who also came out against Ky at an early stage of the present unheaval? Buddhists, Catholics, mili tary leaders like General Thi, students, soldiers, workers are all "Communists"! to the blin kered vision of the Australian Liberal pamphleteer. "No alternative to force" The pamphlet then proceeds to commit the Liberals to war like operations precisely against those "communists" — the whole democratic people oi South Vietnam and other Asian countries. True it professes to fear "the danger that we will move into a world where peaceful pro cedures are cast aside." But what place for "peace ful procedures" did Liberal External Affairs Minister Has- luck leave when he made his famous declaration, of August 16, 1964, that there was "no alternative to force" in deal ing with Asian liberation movements? How does such a statement square with the pamphlet de claration that "we should take a constructive part in common affairs to make peace?" Obviously the Liberals are not really concerned with peace and this comes out in the last of the "principles that have helped to shape our Govern ment's foreign policy" which reads: "We must be able to defend our country against armed at tack, but because we are a small nation and an exposed nation, we must look to our alliances and our friendship with those nations of the Western World which believe in and strive for the kind of life we hope to see preserved." (our emphasis). Nothing about friendship with any "nations of the Eastern world" — not even those who happen to be our nearest neigh bors! Not a word about the kind of life they may want to see pre served — against U.S. puppets like Ky! The Liberal pamphlet and the program it announces will con- vince lew DUL snuuiu cUcUlIi many. Its policy of ignoring Asia and relying on "western nations" is full of danger for Australia's security. Our national security requires friendship with all countries but above all with our Asian neighbors not excluding the big gest of them — China and In donesia! It requires replacement of Hasluck's "force only" policy with a policy for the peaceful settlement of disputes based on recognition of Asia's right to its own independence and its own "kind of life". This photo speaks for itself. Taking part in a meeting in Canberra of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Com mittee of the Australian Cabinet were the US Vice-President, Hubert Humphrey, Averell Harriman and several other US "advisors". The insert is from the recent Liberal Party pamphlet, "The Stake is Freedom". 