 DANGEJRSSWR JHE clamour both in Saigon and Washington for a land in vasion of the North, ignoring the sharply-increased danger it would bring of world war, rose again last week. In Washington, Republican lunrtpv and former vice- president Nixon complained that unless the USA '"escal ated , in a major way" the war- would drag .on' -for:'five 'years?-0 vr-&lt;-, ' . "Proposals for such dram atic military short-cuts have a built-in appeal for many US military men", comments the US journal Newsweek. It says that some US offi cers are already discussing . potential invasion points which include the coastal towns of Thanh Hoa, Vinh and Ba Don. Newsweek says . that Presi dent Johnson is "keenly, aware" that the USSR aind China might intervene; But this does .not guarantee . that he would. . not agree to .'¥:ianid4hVasibri of "the north. "Only two years ago the prospects that the US would commit, a major land army to an Asian war seemed just as remote as the prospects of an invasion of North Viet nam do now", says News week. "And only last March General Earle G. Wheeler, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of. Staff, was rebuked for suggesting that the US might start bombing the oil storage facilities in North Vietnam." In a report to the Mel bourne Herald from Hong kong, Richard Hughes says there is no doubt that sup port for the invasion is grow ing among the US military officers. Brinkmanship The foreshadowed doubling of the US forces in south Vietnam— now 300,000 — would be related to these plans for further brinkmanship. And of course Australia would not be left out. As State secretary Dean Rusk said while here for the SEATO talks: "There is plenty of room for more troops in Vietnam." . This ties in with the re port in The Anglican that the Holt Government has secretly decided to commit yet another battalion to Vietnam next May. after the elections. According to Richard Hughes, the Saigon press is saying that maps are already prepared for the coming in vasion. of north Vietnam. Hughes makes it clear that the new campaign, boosted along last week by south Vietnam puppetx president Thieu, springs from the total collapse of the myth that the bombing of north Viet nam would stop the war. He adds: "US deaths in south Viet nam have now passed the 5000 mark and. the mounting air losses, as north Vietnam's defences are bolstered by Soviet equipment, are con tinually intensifying the pressure for invasion". Pictures in the Soviet press of Vietnamese pilots being trained to use the latest Soviet warplanes leave little doubt as to what awaits the US agressor, whether he attacks, by land or - continues to attack by air. Ever-increasing , desertions by puppet troops in the south has compelled the " puppet authorities to introduce new penalties, including death by shooting. 