 Sheahan urges health change pORMER Labor Minister for Health W. 3. Sheahan, Q.C., MLA, has called for a complete overhaul of the organisation of health services in Australia, in commenting on Tribune's , recent articles on the crisis in NSW'S health system. Mr. Sheahan's full statement reads as follows: In my opinion health services in Australia will have to undergo a complete change if they are to be within the reach of the ordinary man, woman and child, particularly those of the lower income group. The proposed increase in hospital fees envisaged in New South Wales and Victoria is only symptomatic of the in adequacy of the existing system. Nothing less than national insurance, which will provide for all forms of medical, den tal and hospital care, will meet the situation. The only alternative to a national scheme in my opinion would be that which exists in Canada where hospital main tenance costs are distributed on an equitable bases of one- third from the Federal Govern ment, ones-third from the State . Governments and one- third from the community. In the State of Ontario, with this form of hospital contrib ution in existence there, care is taken of indigent and un employed patients and their dependents. The Federal Government in this country will not accept its one-third share of responsibil ity of financing hospitals.- It accepts no responsibility whatsoever for capital expendit ure in building hospitals except ing a half share of those essential or teaching . hospitals attached to universities for medical training. The cost now of running hospitals depends largely upon revenue provided by the States. Because of this more tttention has not been paid to the needs of geriatric hospitals and con valescent hospitals which operate only to a limited extent. It is a sad commentary that the Federal Government will pay more to an approved pri vate convalescent hospital than it will to those fun by the State. Dental care just does not exist. Whatever free dental services that are available by the State at the Dental Hos pital in Sydney or the arrange ments made by the Hospitals Commission with country dentists, operated through a local hospital, are totally in adequate to meet the demands. It is absolutely essential and necessary for a qhange in Federal-State policy and their collective responsibility should give a service to the sick public. I cannot envisage this hap pening under the present cut throat system. 