 The marmo turned a ml topsy-turn (jim McNeil recalls an incident inSLlitant life of the late norm jeftrrs ation member of the communist party iralia.) m On a railway construction job in the bush in 1919 all the gang saw a sturdy bloke carrying a swag approach the ganger, Bluey, for a job, just as Bluey shouted "yo ho" ending the day s work. The bloke got a start and was handed to me as the dele gate to show 'him the inn of the camp. Around the camp fire at night during keen discussions on job problems, union affairs, politics as well as race horses the new starter proved to be a militant worker from Queensland. We were miles from town, wire less hadn't come to light as yet, so camp fire discussions were popular. Norman was asked to give a talk and chose as his sub ject "Correct Leadership and Unity". His discourse went some thing like this: It was late in 1918 in Brisbane and the returning soldiers, stay- at-home patriots and flag wavers were incensed at the proposal of socialists and militant sections of the trade union movement to celebrate the 1st anniversary of the Russian revolution by a march through Brisbane to be followed by a meeting. A law was introduced forbid ding the carrying of the red flag. No red flag was flown during the march, hut at one stage a number' of marchers took large red handkerchiefs from their pockets and waved them in the breeze. The police stepped in and among the dozen arrested was Norman Jeffrey. flown a red handkerchief jj 1(j. been well a |ir and writer £ the wori|p; even then. Sentenced j months the men foimd Tditions tough and hard anhgj forman as the acknowledge the men de manded to d as political prisoners. _Supportefljj' | iutside by a big agitatioeyjj! backed their demand wUgpfeer strike in J1 anti aff-wej .k they won. They di.d n|3 work, wefe permitted |rs, food and reading matoui 1 be sent in and they flowed free assembly. J In the e yard Nor man condU|qlfees, one on economics gulter on espe ranto. if However, (JSqme discussion it was agriat'9:l3y not work ing they witting themselves off from itmasses. "The masses" in$i£jque case were the prison's! arders. Shortly iitfchiy started to work, prvDdj&y all sections started to.itiiiatically- Many ap prisoners and some of tliledrsn greeted each other as hie" ' or -fellow worker" adhiMae had gone to pot Before thatence was up peace waiared and His Majesty cut -.-.the sentences or a nimlflfi short-term prisoner" /? In sayingjffipl to the 12 a prison offuflfej "Of courfe names are on the top wfcf . I am very glad to secfe&ying this jail whatpunger strikes, economics, feito and go- &lt;=low. the fiqtopsy turvy. After you iojym gradually get back to &(-' n 