 Y esterday Spain, today V ietnam — Tomorrow...? International Brigader Sam Aarons concludes Tribune's series on the Spanish Civil War CPAIN today is a nation in chains; its freedom- loving people are oppressed and poverty-stricken, its jails are full, its larders empty. Yet more than 30 years ago the working people of this back- , ward, semi-feudal country voted . into power its first ever demo cratic government, pledged to a policy of reform and modernisa tion. These included — Limitation of the power of the wealthy, the aristo cracy, the Church hier archy and the army chiefs; Improvement of the work ers' living standards; Provision of land for the landless peasants; Abolition of illiteracy, and free popular education from Church control; Release of the thousands of political prisoners held without trial. This moderate program was never realised. Instead of the peaceful progress for which the majority of the people cast their votes, they got death, destruction p.nd misery. On July 18, 1936, the forces of reaction launched all-out war, which drowned Spanish democracy in its own blood. More than one million people— soldiers and civil ians, men, women and children, were killed and many more wound ed. Death rained from the skies on dozens of cities and towns, from Malaga in the south, to Madrid in the centre, to Guer nica in the north. Nor were the villages exempt. The rebels tried to justify their treason against the Government saying that they were fighting to save Spain from Communist domi nation, the same foul and now discredited lie behind which re action always hides its real pur pose and aim. Regarded at the time as purely a civil, war, events quickly showed that what the Government was faced with was an international fascist conspiracy entered into by the ' insurgents with Hitler and Mussolini, to destroy democracy in Europe. Right from the beginning some German and many Iitalian con scripts were placed at Franco's disposal; German and Italian planes were used to bomb the civilian population; their tanks appeared wherever there was fighting, their warships blockaded the Spanish ports and sank ships suspected of running their block ade. AT. the beginning, all the Government had was the remnant of the Army who re mained loyal and were able to get away, and this included a number of officers up to the rank of General. Inevitably much of Spain quickly fell to the enemy, which in a few months reached the outskirts of Madrid, and there they made a stand for more than two years. It was never taken, thanks to the newly formed, newly trained army, the courage and staying power of the people, and the aid from outside that quite early be gan to flow in. Much help came from the Soviet Union; modern fighter planes and tanks, rifles and machine guns, experts to train those who were to use them, uniforms and, last but not least, food which already was worse than scarce. Came too, freely and of their own volition, many thousands of young and not so young men from all over the world, to take place place in the ranks; came too doc tors and nurses to care for the One of the seven ambulances provided with funds raised by the Australian Spanish Relief Committee and donated ,to the Spanish people to alleviate their suffering during the Civil War. Thousands of Australians rallied to the support of the Republican cause and gave willingly to the Relief Committee. Its Secretary, Phil Thorne, writes o? Australia's contribution to helping the Spanish people: "Records of the Committee reveal that it raised £17,115, of which. £4,300 was subscribed by Trade Unions which also contributed through the Austra lian Council of Trade Unions. "Our Committee sent four Australian trained nurses to Spain in October, 1936. They stayed until late in 1938 when the International Brigade was withdrawn. We purchased seven ambulances through the Cb-ordination Committee in France and £1A850 for food and medical equipment. Our early contributions were sent through the Spanish Medical Aid Committee in London, and then after the forma - sick and wounded, women to look after the orphans. Came too money to buy medicines and bandages, "comforts" for the troops. They came in groups and indi vidually; by train from European countries, on bicycles and even on foot. They came by ship from all the countries of North and South America, from South Africa, Australia, New Zealand; some even from Asian lands. It was a unique and inspiring demonstra tion of solidarity with embattled Spanish democracy. No one knows how many there were; no one knows how many laid down their lives, but it must have been a great number. In spite of the valiant fight, the mass sympathy and wide sup port from outside, fascism tri- tion of the Co-ordination Committee in France we- contributed through ,tha.t organisation. "Though many thousands of miles separate us from Spain, the names of 49 Australians who served are recorded, and it was reported that ten Australians were aboard the City of Barcelona torpedoed by a German submarine off the coast of Valencia in 1937. Of the 49 Australians who served in Spain, 15 gave their lives." Mr. Thorne also writes: ". . . During the Spanish War I often wondered how the ordinary German citizens felt when they ead of the suffering created by their Government's bombing of Spanish towns and cities. Today I feel shame and humiliation when reading of the open support given the US by our Australian Government in raining death and destruction on the people of Vietnam. "Hitler claimed he was all for peace, but encircled! President Johnson claims he is also for peace, but orders the dropping of bombs and napalm on the people of Vietnam." umphed. Franco is still there; so too is the poverty, the crowded jails, the peasants without land, freedom in chains. Why did this happen? That there wefla weaknesses and mistakes was inevitable and it is outside the scope of this tribute to the heroic past to deal with them. It is clear that the last word has not ' been spoken; that the people of Spain are on the march again. The country is and has been for some time in a ferment; the workers are striking, although strikes are illegal and are repressed with violence. The phoney fas cist unions are being boycotted, and university students, professors and staffs are demanding improved education, freedom of thought and expression, the right to set up. their own organisations free from interference and control. The peasants are demanding land and an improvement to their miserable lot. The regime is shaken, unable to rule as in the past, as shown by , the fact they have been forced to make concessions to various sec tions of the people. Any support and assistance from the outside would give the people very great encouragement and added strength. the time of the Spanish war and Japan's invasion of China, the la'.e President F. D; Roosevelt said: — ''The present reign of terror and international lawlessness began a few years ago. It began through unjusti fied interference in the internal "af fairs of other nations or the invasion of alien territory in violation of treaties, and has now reached a stage where the very foundations of civil isation are seriously threatened. "Without declaration of war, and without warning or justification of any kind, civilians, including women and children, are being ruthlessly murdered with bombs from the air. "In times of so-called peace, ships are being attacked and sunk. Na tions are fomenting and taking sides in civil warfare in nations that have never done them any harm. "Innocent people and nations are being cruelly sacrificed to a greed for power and supremacy which is devoid of all sense of justice and humane consideration." What a different, a more secure and less anxious world we would be living in today if President Johnson shaped his country's pol icy to accord with the sentiments in Roosevelt's statement. Instead, he is behaving precisely in the manner that Roosevelt condemns so categorically. He was not listened to, either; the result was World War II, the first shot in which coincided with the last one in Spain. The "foundations of civilisation" were badly damaged but not de stroyed in 1939-45, but today we live precariously in the terrible shadow of the hydrogen bomb, capable of not only destroying the foundations, but mankind itself. In remembering the heroic struggle of the Spanish people 30 years ago, we need to draw the lessons of that struggle, and work with all possible energy and abil ity to end the aggression in Viet nam, end ensure that all people are free to decide their future without threat of outside inter ference. Sam Aarons is WA State Secre tary of the Communist Party, and a long-standing member of its Central Committee. The two faces of Spain: (left) La Pasionara — Dolores Ibarruri, veteran Spanish Communist leader and heroine of the anti fascist struggle, and (right) Spanish dictator Franco. International volunteers to defend the Republic in Madrid in November, 1936. 