 MEAT DEAL IS HARMFUL TO AUSTRALIA A' case for the national overseas shipping line JYDNEY: After months of manoeuvring, the Australian Meat Board has done a deal that amounts to surrender to the Lon don-based overseas shipping monopolies, which have demanded 100 per cent of the meat trade from Australia to the United States. The Seamen's Union federal secretary, Mr. E. Elliott, last week called for urgent action to force the Federal Government to implement a shipping policy that will strengthen Australia's national independence. "Australian ships must trade overseas to help develop our economy and free it from dependence on the overseas shipping monopoly," he said. Late last year the Overseas Shipping Conference group sought to increase freight I rates on beef exports from Australia to the USA by up to 27 per cent. I This would have increased I the freight hill by about I $(US) 4.4 million. \ This out-and-out freight '1 piracy was stopped by an offer by an Israeli company (Maritime Fruit Carriers) to carry Australian meat exports ' at the existing rate until i January 1968. i In reply, the . Shipping Con ference "persuaded the Board to impose a 10 per cent penalty rate on meat ex porters who do not exclusively use. the Conference vessels. , Ibis is clearly aimed at preventing exporters from using the independent Israeli 1 vessels. In return for this virtual promise of 10O|% of J, the trade, the Conference- has agreed that the new freight ' \iates which the Conference group earlier declared as "essential" will now not be ' applied, and the present rate w.ll continue until January 1968. "What's the Govt.'s attitude?" Mr. Elliott said that this was a a clear example of the greed % of the- Conference group 1 which controls all our exports r fl and imports. "What is the attitude of I the Commonwealth Govern ment, elected to protect -our national independence and improve our national econ omy?" Mr. Elliott asked. W "Informed opinion is thai '1 the Commonwealth Govern- I ment's pending legislation or shipping restrictive trade practices, will favour the Con ference- system,, but, it is stated — probably as a sop — it will not be a blanket approval for closed conferences- but will contain provisions for the entry of new shipping lines to the conferences on the grounds of price and efficiency. "Anyone with any knowledge of the operation of the Con ference groups knows they do not permit competition among their members. The Chandris (Greek-Australia) Line ex perience in trying to gain membership of the Conference group and- enter the export meat trade some years ago was but one example of how the Conference groups oper ate." ANL submissions Mr. Elliott also asked what happened to the detailed sub missions of the Australian National Line to Shipping Minister Freeth last year for the entry of Australia into the overseas trade with "prim arily refrigerated and pallet ised- general cargo vessels, built for a minimum crew and quick turnaround?" "Nothing ! The Minister evade:- the questions," he said. Mr. Elliott said the Austral ian Government asserts high wages for Australian crews prevent the- operation of a 1 National Overseas Shipping Line. "But Conference l.ne ships carry Indian, Swedish, Ger man, British, Chinese and US crews and regardless of the crew's wages the same freight rate is charged." ; The seamen's unions in Australia anc3 New Zealand l I have . jointly demanded the establishment, by the respec tive governments, of a regular trans - Tasman passenger service. Modern roll on roll-off ships could and should be used for this service. Mr. Elliott saidi the trans- I Tasman passenger shipping service was allowed to fade away because the local Aus- . tralian and NZ shipping com panies became subservient to the powerful British ship owners.. At one time there were eight ships plying this route but today there is no regular passenger service and many thousands of people cross the Tasman in ships of many nationalities. The Oriental Queen (ex Kanimbla) with a Japanese crew is intermittently on the trans-Tasman trade. On February 20 in Sydney her master was fined $500 for failing to keep the life- saving gear in proper order. After an inspection of this ship a Navigation Department surveyor found that none of. the life boats could have been used in an emergency. Mr. Elliott said that the year ahead may well answer a vital question for the Australian shipping industry: Whether Australia will maintain and expand her coastal fleet into an overseas trading fleet; or whether overseas interests will retain their present monopoly of our overseas trade and make encroachments into the expanding coastal trade. "These matters call for immediate action to step up the trade union demand for an Australian National Over seas Shipping Line," he said. It MR. E. V. ELLIOTT, national secretary of the Sea- men's Union of Australia, HI 