 CHESS SELF-TEACHER Al Horowitz A series of lessons with quizzes and reviews. Chapter headings give some idea of the range of the book. Basic Checkmates — Pawn Endings — Minor Tactics — Mating Combinations '(in two parts) and Strategical Objectives (in two parts). $1.95 ($2.05 posted). CHESS FOR BEGINNERS A picture guide by Al Horowitz This book by one of America's foremost players and teachers, is dedicated to a new generation of chess players. An ideal book for all who wish to leorn tl.e gome quickly and with little difficulty. Concise — with drawings and photographic illustrations which help to make the explanations clear. $1.55 ($1.62 posted). I COMBINATION IN CHESS Ncgycsy Hcenji Examples set out by means of diagrams. The authors grouped the examples according to the aims to be achieved by the com bination — they discuss the potentialities and positions which make the combinative solutions possible. $3.30 ($3.46 posted). Xmas gifts for chess addicts New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607. CHESS OLYMPIADS Arpad Foldeak A history of Chess Olympiads, which is the most popular of in ternational tournaments engaged in by chess teams. Surveys the principal events in competitions, lists their results, evaluates them with the help of tables and finally analyses the finest games. $3.50 ($3.69 posted). THE NAKED SOCIETY Vance Packard An exposure by the author of the Hidden Persuaders & The Status Seekers of one of the most menacing aspects of modern society in America — the systematic surveillance of the individual within industry, society, the university and even the schoolroom. A form of blackmail which has become so insidious as to en courage students to spy on teachers and professors by means of bugging apparatus and tape recorders. 80c (90c posted). THE WATERSIDERS Michael Davis . Despite its basic seriousness a humorous book about life on The wharves in New Zealand. Written with know-how because the author worked for two years on the wharves — two years in which he learnt about bosses, conditions and the various types of men who do an essential job for society. $2.15 ($2.28 posted). 