 Govt's stand-over threat to pilots By Our Industrial Roundsman The Holt Government's first act in the industrial sphere since re-election was a naked threat 60 Qantas pilots that lines up with its policy, displayed in the domestic aviation field, of air line profits before air safety. The Acting Minister for Labor and National Service, 1 Mr. McMahon, on Monday told striking pilots to return to work or "take the consequences". McMahon attacked the Aus tralian Federation of Air Pilots for its attitude that "the man ning of aircraft e,nd the cir cumstances and conditions under which Qantas shall op erate its aircraft 'must meet the federation's requirements". He significantly complained that the federation had "re peatedly challenged decisions by the department (Civil Aviation) about routes that could be flown by Qantas with out navigators". Most air passengers would be pleased that the federation has such a responsible attitude to air safety, in view of the mounting list of tragic air crashes on international routes and the need for the maximum possible margins of safety. It was only two months ago that the same federation sharp ly criticised the lowering of safety standards by internal airlines. 1 Following the crash of an Ansett-ANA aircraft in Queens- land ,two months ago, it was reveaied by Labor MHR L. De- vine that aircraft were being allowed to fly even if a num ber of important instruments and components were out of service. These included: fuel gauges, artificial horizon instruments, windscreen wipers, pressurisa- tion system and generators, he said. A petition signed by 125 pilots demanded properly conducted performance tests and the in troduction of take-off charts with accountability- for air temperature, pressure and humidity. In Parliament, Mr. Devine demanded to know if lives were to be jeopardised by the failure to provide the safest possible operations. Australia's international air line Qantas has had a long re cord for , safety which should not be allowed to deteriorate in a period in which much big ger and more complex aircraft, are being ordered. 