 THE fw SIDES OF A UWMA TION By Es)l Campbell JHE main motive force of human society, from its primitive beginning, hund reds of thousands of years ago, has been the making and development of the im plements of production — from stone tools to this mod ern age of automation. Trade unions, rightly so, are alert to the advent of automation. Long experience has taught them that benefits from technical in novations under capitalism do not flow automatically to the work ers. Hence, in their approach to auto mation, emphasis is put on meas ures to counteract its negative aspects. This is fully justified, because, in the absence of trade union action, automation could, in a short time, throw millions out of work. Automation, however, also has its positive side, which should receive appropriate attention. Throughout history changes in the productive forces (the instru ments of production and the peo- ple who operate them: in modern society the factories, mines, mills, etc., and the workers employed in them) have brought in their train changes in the social sysetm. In the million or so years since man emerged from the animal kingdom, society has passed through four main forms of social organisation— primitive commun ism, slavery, feudalism, capitalism —and is now entering a fifth- socialism. Each of the past succeeding forms served in its time to further develop mankind's means of pro duction. However, within each system a stage was ultimately reached where no further growth of the productive forces could take place without a radical change in the social order. In its initial liiod : the slave- owning systeta otributed to a growth oh'Mfr- Xliictive forces, but in its date tages became a fetter on thi&l fthimnd had to give way torrftn isfai. In feudali'so yjstKe place of the slave was: en by the serf who had more centive in pro duction. Under feudaii 'the productive forces reached? igher level than under slavery' new means of production mad ieir. appearance. The first blast naces appeared in the 15th- cen i heralding the approach of; a: nological revol ution and an ' revolutionary change in theifo of social organ isation. Capitalism 091 cecl feudalism and proceeded oofexpand and develop th&P' -tive forces at such speed and on such a vast scale that all prior development marched at snail's pace in com parison. Today the capitalist form of social organisation has reached its limit and is no longer capable of providing full scope for effective use and development of the new means of production available through science. Frivate ownership of the means of production is proving itself more and more to he incompatible with the social character of the productive forces. Private profit is the motive force of capitalist production and technological development. Greed for profit spurs the cap italist class on to frenzied efforts to constantly increase the volume of production. Greed for profit likewise causes the capitalist class to strive just as constantly to depress the amount of wages paid. j-rjERE lies the rock on which the system must founder. Increased mechanisation and automation increases the volume of production. At the same time, despite all ef forts of the trade unions, it dis- . places labor and decreases the wages bill. A lower wages bill means lesser purchasing power _ and consequ ently less ability by consumers to buy back the greater amount of goods produced. This results in an accumulating surplus of unsold commodities on which the capitalists are unable to realise their profits. The further result is a drying up of funds for further investment to further develop the productive forces. Capitalism, having run its course, has entered the vicious circles of more frequently recur- ing economic crises — crises of over-production. The advent of automation will sharpen this contradiction. One can conceive of machines capable of automatically reproduc ing machines and thus replacing men in this process. But the notion of machines automatically replacing man as the ultimate consumer is incon ceivable. Automation, which can only real ise its full potential' under social ism, will at the same time speed its coming. Trade unions, in pursuit of im mediate aims, should keep this ultimate objective clearly within their sights. 