 'Space' play that probes deeply MEW THEATRE'S new pro duction, "Night of the Auk", a drama set in outer space, steers clear of the pit- falls one finds only too often in situations where a small group of people are trapped within narrow con fines. Arch Obler, the .playwright, concerned with the future of the human race, suceeeds be cause he probes deeply into the hearts and minds of the five characters on board the US spaceship. The spaceship is, returning to Earth, or rather Satellite One, after a successful landing on the Moon. The venture has been financed by private enter prise. Lewis Rohnen, the civilian director and main backer of the space project, sets out to prove the superiority of his system and of the individual in making history. He sees himself as the Col_ umbus of the New World and claims the moon as "great new territory" for the United States, the "first, masters of the moon". Lewis Rohnen is played ad mirably by Norman Phillips, who will be remembered for his role as the Attorney-Gen eral in "The Advocate". Dr. Bruner, the ageing med ico-philosopher, is, played by Paul Williams, who on Sat urday lost much of Obler's bril liant dialogue by fading away at the end of his lines. Peter Dyke's Colonel Russell is a convincing one. As the commanding officer he sees the glory of the USA at stake, and his patriotic duty as helping to maintain US military superior _ ity. Lt. Kephart, as the over sensitive and rather neurotic jet pilot, should never have been allowed off the ground. The role is a little over-dra matised by 'Max Sims. Contrast is provided by Lt. Hartman, the young happy-go- lucky communications officer, who can hardly wait to spend his share of the loot and take part in the grand parade down Pennsylvania Avenue. He wonders why he cannot weep as he gazes though the peri scope at the war raging on Earth. Michel Winter's Hart- man is most refreshing. The pla.y did suffer from first night nerves, but no doubt as the cast warms to its task it will become -less stiff. Back, ground noises were disturbing, and children should definitely not be allowed to play tiggie in the room over the stage. — Reviewer. 