 LABOR LEADER HITS ASKTN GOVT. HARD CYDNEY : The refusal of the Askin Government to take action to curb the "unbridled spiralling of prices for essential foodstuffs and services" was strongly attacked by Mr. J. B. Renshaw in thd NSW parliament last week. Mr. Renshaw, leader of the State Opposition, was speaking in reply to the Government's policy as outlined in the open ing address to the 41st session of Parliament by the NSW Gov ernor, Sir Roden Cutler. "The people know by bitter experience that almost daily the cost of living is climbing way beyond the reach of the wage and salary earners of the state," Mr. Renshaw said. Increased The Minister for Labor had disputed Labor's claim that the cost of living had increased ovef the past 12 to 15 months by four to six dollars a week, but "any housewife or bread winner can tell you what the real position is," he added. The most recent release by the Commonwealth Statistician showed that wholesale prices rose by 3.3 per cent and those of imported goods by 2.2 per cent; Mr. Renshaw cited the Gov ernment bus fare increases, the increased charges by road hauliers after concessions from the Government, and its fail ure to keep fare-concession promises. No new public works had been started. "The biggest failure of the Government is in education," said Mr. Renshaw citing figures to show a drop in school build ing approvals. Reduction "The Executive speech had said that there was a marked reduction in the waiting list for the Housing Commission, but is wasn't stated that this had come about by the imposition of a means test," he added. Often the Electoral Commis sion had flagrantly disregarded the statutory provisions of the Parliamentary Electoral Act. "In a whole number of cases the E lectoral Commission's deci sions merely realize the predic tions voiced by more than one minister in the present Govern ment," commented Mr. Ren shaw. If the Chief Secretary of NSW was correctly quoted— "the Commission has done a thor ough and equitable job and the redistribution is quite sound" — no doubt the Government would be quick again to enlist the services of the chairman of that Commission. 