 ALP conference: HALT HOLT BIC THEME? By a Political Correspondent. CYDNEY: A large section of delegates at the forthcom ing conference of the N.S.W, branch of the Australian Lab- or rariy are expected to make a strong plea for united ac tion by the whole party to defeat the Holt government in this year's federal elections. The conference agenda con tains the basis for a decision to launch a strong campaign of united action against, the Viet nam war and overseas conscrip tion, as well as for improved living standards. The conference will be held in the Sydney Town Hall on June 11, 12, 13. This year's conference holds special importance. What the | ALP does in the key state of NSW, could have an important bearing on the results of the federal elections, now only months off. With the party's state leader ship heavily dominated by the rightwing, delegates will have in mind that the swing against Labor was heaviest in NSW in the last federal elections, and that rightwing policies played an important part in the defeat of the NSW Labor Government last year. Most resolutions listed in the agenda from branches, electoral councils and trade unions on foreign policy fully endorse the principles laid' down by the for eign affairs committee of the Federal ALP. Campaign These include opposition to the war in Vietnam and con scription and call for the with drawal of Australian troops. Others oppose the French nuclear tests in the Pacific and call for the admission of China to the United Nations, and the development of trade and friendship between Australia and our Asian neighbours. It is not likely that there will be any frontal attack on sifcn proposals. However, attempts from the right can be expected to blunt the effect of these resolutions by praising the alliance with the USA— the main aggressor in Vietnam. In foreign policy, however, the real test will not be on policy itself, but on attitudes to con crete plans and energetic activ ity between now and the elec tions to expose and fight against the disastrous Vietnam and con scription policy of the Holt gov ernment. . . The proposals made in tne resolution submitted by m Boilermakers' Union shoui win wide support. It calls for vigorous campaisy' ing to secure the ACTU has wage and margins claims, a day 35-hour week, equal pay women, long service leave > i casual workers, an extra wee annual leave, and repeal ox trade union penal laws. The most contentious msu is certain to be public ed tion. 