 Terrible Albee There is an atmosphere of terror, a feeling of futility and considerable confusion all round in the Old Tote Theatre's production of "Tiny Alice", by American playwright Edward ("Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolf?") Albee. Theatre . So much confusion and ob scurity, in fact, that it is virtu ally impossible to say with any degree of certainty what the play is actually about. Miss Alice (Dinah Shearing), a multi-millionairess, settles a vast amount of money on the Church in annual grants. The only condition is that the arrangements for obtaining the money should be handled by the Cardinal's Secretary, a lay Brother named Julian. The other characters then embark upon a systematic plot to des troy this innocent and goodly man. Miss' Alice works her wiles upon him,' and eventually they are married— by none other than the Cardinal. But immedi ately after the ceremony Alice prepares to leave her new hus band, while she goes off with Butler and the lawyer. The woman he has married, she tells Julian, is not herself but a creature of his imagin ation. When Julian refuses to accept his loss, the lawyer shoots him and the others leave him to die. These are the mere bare bones of this baffling work, and perhaps it is a gigantic con fidence trick being worked by Albee. But what he does appear to be saying is that life is a pro- cess of terror, with people set ting out deliberately to intimi date and destroy each other. The nature of reality is un certain or unknowable, and there is no value — either God or fellow-man— to which the in dividual can turn. Hence the good man— like Brother Julian— who refuses to accept his. lot must be des troyed. ' It is a tribute to Director Robin Lovejoy and his five-man cast that they can give life to this warped and bitter vision and turn "Tiny Alice" into grip ping and absorbing theatre. Headed by Alexander Hay, as the Lawyer, and Rob Inglis, as Butler, they stalk each other round the stage, probing for the inevitable weakness in character to wound and hurt. Miss Shear ing purrs her way through a magnificently controlled per formance as Alice, while Ben Gabriel is excellent as the in nocent Gabriel, as is Alan Ed wards as the hypocritical Car dinal. If -a line or two was fluffed in this wordy but immensely witty play, . it is no disgrace. That the actors were able to give it such a ring of authenti city is a wonder in itself.— R.M. 