 Public funds go private and . «, . DEMOCRATIC SCHOOLING TAKES A DIVE Second of a series by well-known educationist and Communist W. E. GOLLAN THE policy speech of the Prime Minister has drawn attention sharply to the erosion of democratic principles that is taking place in the educational system. The Menzies Government first introduced the principles of allocating public funds to private institutions by way of Commonwealth grants and interest free loans to the denominational schools and the schools of privilege and wealth. The policy of the Holt Gov ernment has taken this pro cess of promoting education al inequality a stage further by undertaking to double the provision for school labor atories for private schools, and, while providing a meagre advance of $8 m. dollars a year for the building of new teachers' colleges, placing on the States the burden of mak ing available 10 per cent of the places for the training of teachers for private schools. Damage Apart |rom the damage done to the State schools by diverting urgently needed funds from public funds to private institutions, the whole principle on which public funds are used to provide further privileges for the already privileged is a direct denial of democratic practice. It is true that the poorer Catholic schools have deceived some marginal benefits from the Government handouts, but basically their position is as serious as ever. It i,s clear that their needs cannot be supplied and that the Government has no in tention of going beyond what the Sydney Morning Herald described as the "meagre" provision for education. At the same time Catholic families on lower incomes are the victims of the edu cational inequality being act ively promoted by the Gov ernment, just the same as non-Catholics. The favoured treatment of the private schools has deep- rooted social consequences. Wealthy Henry Schoenheimer, edu cation correspondent of the Australian and Senior Lect- urer in Education at Monash University, has stated that, at present, the children of un skilled and semi-skilled wor kers have about one-twen tieth the chance of higher education of children of the wealthy. This tendency will be strengthened by the current Government policy and the proposals in the Prime Min ister's policy speech. As Schoenheimer says:— "Pro-rata science grants to the needy and the un-needy alike: Commonwealth scholar ships which are by regulation longer in the schools of privi lege and which go in proportion ately higher numbers to these same schools; taxation rebates of school fees on the principle of the higher the income the higher the rebate and therefore the lower the net cost; all of these and other inequities are likely to set a continuing pat tern for State Aid in exclusive schools." And further: — "More places in tertiary edu cation by and large means more places for children from privi leged schools." Professor Freeman Butts, one of America's most dis tinguished educational schol ars — who visited Australia in 1954 — confirms this opinion: "Increasing public support for private schools will tend to weaken the State schools and tend to create or perpetu- ate stratified divisions in a culture whether along econom ic, social class, religious or racial lines." Catholic The policy of the Govern ment has already created serious divisions in the com munity with overtones of sec tarian conflict. The Anglican Synod has gone on record to the effect that it Will insist on a pro rata allocation of funds in proportion to the numbers in each denomination; and 'that it will, if necessary, set up a complete system of Anglican schools. The dual system with its emphasis on social and sec tarian differences lead to more and more fragmentation as each denomination raises its demand for its share of the "largesse", and promotes further inequitable assistance to the wealthy schools. The gap between the rich and poor schools will continue to widen, and the tendency will be to confirm the place of the State schools with the poor ones. The only result can be wide and serious harm to the State school system and further damage to equality of educa tional opportunity. In the scramble for the available public funds, it is obvious that further conflict and division will result and sectarian bitterness will be promoted. Meanwhile the great prob lem of our age of technology and science — that of ensuring that all young people receive a full education to enable them to take their place in a technologically advanced soci ety, and fulfil the responsib ilities of citizenship — will be pushed into ' the background. Poorer Many Catholic parents real ise the impossibility of secur ing the massive aid needed to place the poorer Catholic schools is a satisfactory con dition. Already one third of all children of Catholic par ents are being educated in State schools. The unreality of the State Aid proposals was sharply ex pressed by the Roman Cathol ic Bishop Cullinane of Can- berra-Goulburn in the words "I feel (Mr. Holt's statement) shows a complete lack of un derstanding of the problem facing Catholic parents. I fail to see how Mr. Holt can con sider realistic his declared policy on assisting non-govern ment schools." The fact of the matter is, and more and more people Catholic and non-Catholic alike are coming to recognise it, that "State Aid" is a red herring and that the margin al benefits gained by some schools is poor compensation for the further entrenchment of privilege, the growth of in equality and the serious long- range damage to the whole educational structure. United The growing realisation of this fact is creating the con ditions for a united cam paign along the lines indicated by the parents and teachers organisations— a full enquiry into the position and needs of education and substantial long-term and emergency Fed eral grants to the States to enable them to meet the crit ical situation they face. This is the only way to re store to the education system the democracy that is being whittled, to estabish a sys tem based on genuine equality of educational opportunity with adequate funds to "pro vide a full education for all citizens. And the money? If the Gov ernment can expand the arm aments expenditure by over $300m a year, it should not unduly tax its ingenuity to find the money necessary to carry out the far more im portant task of' providing an educational system that meets the needs of the country and its people in the techological age. 