 ON THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE UNIONS TELL FRANCE: LEAVE PACIFIC ALONE C YDNEY : Several trade unions are pressing the Australian Council of Trade Unions to lead a public campaign against French nuclear testing and to demand that the Holt Government prohibits entry into Australia of French shipt and aircraft connected with the tests. The Commonwealth Council of the Amalgamated Engineer ing Union had earlier proposed to the ACTU the following forms of protest action: That a meeting of water front unions be convened to discuss a black ban on all French shipping prior to and during the tests. That a national 10-minute protest stoppage be called as a token of concern and public protest against the spreading of nuclear weapons among nations and the dangers to the human race from nuclear fall-out. That public protest meet ings be called in all major centres to explain trade union policy against testing. Among the unions supporting the AEU proposals are the Waterside Workers' Federa tion, Sheet Metal Workers, Boilermakers and Blacksmiths, Seamen and Building Workers' Industrial. Organise Answering these proposals, Mr. Souter (ACTU secretary) said that all State Labor Coun cils will be called on to organ ise public protest meetings. ' He told the AEU that a 10- j minute stoppage would not be H-ijthe - spirit of last year's — South Pacific Unions' Confer ence. Mr. Garland i secretary of the AEU's Commonwealth Council) has now a&lt;sked Mr. Souter to implement a trade union ban on French transport connected with the tests. The Building Workers' In dustrial Union has backed the statement by the Deputy Lead er of the Opposition (Mr. Whitlam) who said it is the task of the' Australian Govern ment to prevent French ships and aircraft from going to Ta hiti for any purpose connected with the tests. . The ships could have been unable to make the voyage if they had been unable to refuel and refit at Australian ports, he said. Mr. F. Purse (Federal secre- tary, BWIU ) told the ACTU that because the first of the four tests to be held over the next two months has taken place, this makes it necessary that not only, should it be condemned but that action be taken to prevent further tests. The Sheet Metal Workers' j Usion has also asked the ACTU ' to take action in support of — MM— — W— MM the Fijian airport workers who have placed a black ban on all French aircraft. Mr. J. Heffernan (Federal secretary of the union) said his union believes that what the workers at Nandi Interna tional Airport are doing is in line with the decisions of ,the Sydney South Pacific Unions conference. The union has called for a ueuiitia. wun ui support rur me Fijian workers and to consider supporting action. The Council of the NSW Teachers' Federation has called on the Fede.-al Government to renew its efforts to have the tests prevented. FRENCH PRESIDENT DE GAULLE Peace in Europe, H-Tests in Oceania 