 "This is the moment for more vigor" SYDNEY : The time had come for new and more vigorous actions against conscription of Australian youth for the Vietnam war, and for opposition to the war itself, said a statement issued this week by the political committee of the Communist Party of Australia. The statement said:— "The thousands of demon strators against the Vietnam war, the young men burning their draft cards, the mothers opposing conscription of their sons, the trade unions reaf firming opposition to sending Australian troops to the dirty war — all this is the authentic voice of Australian demo cracy today. Communist statement "These democrats are acting in the tradition of the antir conscriptionists of 1916, who were derided by the Establish ment as ratbags and threatened as traitors, only to be vindi cated by great victories, against odds, in two Referenda. "The movement against the Vietnam war will , also become a majority and defeat the Holt Government. Prime Minister Holt and his Cabinet are afraid of the public debate and dare not face a referendum on sending conscripts to Viet nam, opposed by most Aus tralians. "Holt's platitudinous state ments justifying the decision are delivered wearily, without conviction or vigor. The alleged request from South Vietnam for more troops is a polite fiction, not even believed by the Liberals themselves. "In fact, Holt has bowed to United States pressure. Last December, the Communist Party warned: " 'It is now clear that many more young Australians, includ ing conscripts, are to be sent to Vietnam. The evasions and subterfuges of Holt and Hasluck mean nothing. " 'The United States Adminis tration has already decided that more Australians must go. . . .' (Tribune, December 21, 1965). War contracts "Still more spurious are Holt's arguments for sending conscripts and refusing a referendum. Sending con scripts to Vietnam, to a war in which the Australian casualty rate is 17 per cent., Holt said Australia is not at war. "This surely removes - any shred of justification for send ing conscripts, all the more as sending troops to the Vietnam war is a flagrant breach of a solemn international agree- ment, the Geneva Accords of 1954. "The sordid bargaining for Australian capitalists to get a share of US war contracts in return for this trebled force only arouses added public re sentment. While conscripts are sent to die in an undeclared war, business goes on as usual and huge profits are made. "The time has come for new and more vigorous actions against conscription of our youth for the dirty war, and for opposition to the war itself. "Australia, of all nations, needs peace and friendship with its Asian neighbors. Its future is most seriously threat ened by active complicity in the war of aggression waged upon the Vietnamese people by United States imperialism. "Holt has delivered Australia into the toils of war to which almost every Asian nation is hostile, and into which other US allies will not be drawn or pressurised. "It is a war which cannot be won, even by the huge foreign forces involved, be cause it is a people's war of national liberation. "The protest movement, which will grow in breadth and strength, is the best guarantee of Australian se curity and peaceful relations wi.th Asia. If it grows rapidly and develops diversity of forces and, actions it can; save the nation from the consequences of the Holt policy, dictated by big business, which is selling out the nation. "The movement will grow, embracing people of all beliefs, because the Government will add further financial burdens upon the people, to pay for the war. The employers will use the war as another argument gainst wage increases and another excuse for price rob bery. "The movement will grow, despite the efforts of the Liberals to brand it as 'traitorous.' The real traitors (Continued Page 10) Communist statement i (Continued from Page 3) I are those who are selling Aus I trali, an youth and abandoning | Australian independence. "They must be answered now, before it is too late. TW answer must be all-out resist ance to sending conscripts t Vietnam, the demand for v#' drawal of all Australian tro0?®l and Australian initiatives 1 peace in Vietnam. . "There are no obstacles a Vietnam peace,, except ths erected by the United State i. All that is needed is to carry out the standing internationa agreement of 1954— withdraw all foreign troops, let the Vi namese people decide their o destiny free of outside Pr sure." 