 LLLII hflrtil J, wl The ' truth itch' in Canberra MOTHING could more clearly illustrate the subservient and anti-demo cratic instinct of the Holt - ' Government than the censor- ship hoid-up to the Michael Charlton TV film on Viet nam. Whatever the decision (not an nounced when Tribune went to press) the political conclusions re- ,'main the same. The film — made and screened by the BBC — is, judging by reports, simply a realistic treatment of some aspects of the brutal Ame rican war in Vietnam. It could not possibly contain anything more shocking than has already been revealed in TV and press. But it has been criticised in the USA! And now Dean Rusk and other Big Brothers from Wash ington are in Canberra. This is thin ice for the Holt Government. Besides, as indicated by Holt's anti-demoristrator threats last week following the attack on Cal- . well, the Government believes it is time to crack down on demo- , cratic discussion and opposition to Australia's involvement in that war. So it is hardly surprising that the truth about Vietnam has be come a pretty ; dangerous idea in . Canberra. Which may be a reason why viewers so rarely see TV in terviews with Australian casualties back from Vietnam. ' FOOTNOTE: Sydneysiders can express ' their protest against at tempted suppression of the film by joining a special demonstra tion, Customs House, Circular Quay, Monday, July 4, 5 pm, or ganised by the Vietnam Action ; Committee. , . Hawk tawks too much 1OP officials of the Wheat Board and the Common wealth Trade Department had their fingers crossed last week. Paul Hasluck, Minister for Ex ternal Affairs and a leading Hawk in Cabinet, said when asked about ; China's reaction to Australia send ing, an Ambassador to Formosa: "They will hate it like hell— if they take any. notice of it." The officials knew that a public announcement was about to be made that the same China had bought another $30 million worth of Australian wheat. There is some speculation that Hasluck, author of a number of books, might use a new title: ' "How to lose friends and Austra lia's best customers". Murmanskies don't1 forget NOT. everyone has forgot ten — as British Labor Prime Minister Wilson has — — that 39,000 British merchant seamen died in action . in World War II. Rupert Lockwood cables from Moscow that the workers of Mur mansk, remembering with grati tude the courage and fortitude of British seamen in running precious convoys to Murmansk at terrible cost to themselves, was among the first Soviet ports to black-ban strike-a.ffected British ships. "We are fully aware," said a mass meeting of Soviet seamen in Murmansk, "of the courage of the seamen of Liverpool and Newcastle, London and Glasgow who in the, i years of World War II broke the blockade of fascist submarines to besieged Murmansk. "Now we admire their staunch ness, in the just struggle for their rights". No sympathy from Press |_| ASLUCK (a former journ alist) is known to press men as the Silent Hawk — since going to External Affairs he has never called a press conference in Canberra. And so, amidst the justifiable criticism of the Government last week for packing Federal Parlia ment with armed troops to guard the security of the SEA.TO Coun cil, this story is being' told with' gusto by correspondents. Hasluck was stopped by two soldiers guarding the side door he uses to get to his office. "Pass, please"' they said. Has luck had left his pass behind. He got in — but . only after screaming the place down. Enjoy it — you're paying yyiTH income-tax-form time around again (see page 1 0 for advice) here are some useful facts on how millions of Australians are soaked in some common channels of indirect tax. You pay in taxes when you buy: Bottle of beer 19c or 1/11 lOoz. "middy" 7c or 9d 8oz. glass 6c or 7d 7oz. glass 5c or 6d Pkt. 20 lge. cigarettes 2lc or";' zJ/l-, 2oz. pkt. tobacco 28c or ; 2/7 f;/ , Gallon petrol 12c or 1/3 ;.:; Doz. boxes of matches 5c or 6d 