 Cooper replies: Attack aids big business, not neonle By Jim Cooper | FIND it difficult to understand why Professor Lawrence should take such a negative and disparaging attitude towards my pamphlet, "The Challenge of New Guinea". As an Australian citizen, proud of my nationality, my only aim in writing the pam phlet was to help restore Australia's international pres tige, which has been seriously tarnished by its administrat ion of its Trust Territory and colonial possessions. Australia and fascist Port ugal are virtually the only countries in the world hold ing sizeable territories under colonial administration. It is the duty of all Aus tralian citizens familiar with the real situation in Papua- New Guinea to publicise and criticise the errors and fail ures of the Australian Admin istration in carrying out the United Nations Charter and the Trusteeship. Agreement. The reality is that only lip service is paid to these obligations and the real policy is one of a low-wage system which serves the in terests of the big business exploiters of New Guinea. This is borne out by evid- ence presented so far in the inquiry into an award for New Guinean public servants now being heard by the Public Service Administrator, Mr. L. G. Mathews. This marathon commenced in March, 1965, and is sched- uled to conclude this Novem ber. Early this year Mrs. Thelma Price, a social worker of more than 20 years' standing stated that the minimum cost of living in a town was $26.25. "Below this, living is sub standard, which is the case of a large number of clerical and technical workers," she said. The Town Basic Wage in Port Moresby is $7. In September, 1964, the Barnes Administration an nounced a cut in the Public Service wage. This sparked off demonstrations against .. the Administration and cre ated such hostility that the Government was forced to retreat, limiting the cut to those joining the service after September, 1964, but progressively to New Guin- eans as they advanced in the service. The Administration then fell back on arbitration. Evi dence given by competent New Guineans suggested a basic rate varying from $24 to $30 a week. Mr. Oala Rarua stated that his education and experience in the Public Service over 37 years had not advanced his material welfare above that which obtained in his native village. Sentencing a former public servant for stealing last June, Mr. Justice Frost expressed his sympathy with the ac cused, adding: "I do not see how he could have lived on his salary of £3 a week here in Port Moresby. Men who are underpaid are tempted to break the law." Reappraised What is immediately essen tial in New Guinea i.s a com plete reappraisal of the wage structure, so that the people can live decently and by satisfying their wants they will create a market for the development of industry. It is evident that if there is — to use Professor Law rence's phrase — "subversion and insurgency" in New Guinea, it will arise because of the low wage policy of the Government and the planters. It is true that Professor Lawrence noted this and stated at the Inquiry that the low wage policy was risky and potentially dangerous. I agree, but realise that if the New Guineans are to achieve wage justice it Will require the united efforts of all those who desire this to happen. Any attempts to create divisions, and Professor I Lawrence's statement win do ! just that, will jeopardise the ! end results and certainly will j not improve the standing of the person responsible among the New Guinean people. Testifying before the Public Service Arbitrator in a pay claim case brought by New , Guinea public servants in Port Moresby last week. Professor Peter Lawrence, Professor of Anthropology and Sociology at the University of Queensland, produced a copy of the pamphlet "The Challenge of New Guinea", by Jim Cooper, which he described as seeking to "show the Administration and its work in the worst possible light. It has been distributed to all members of the House of Assembly and is the kind of thing which started off subversion and insurgency elsewhere". "Mr. Chairman, I represent the small investors." 