 The struggle inside China "It is of one piece with the Seoul Conference which set up the so-called ASPAC. This' 'alliance' of nine governments seems intended as another effort to knock together a more Asian' . military alliance and to show that Asian - opinion is behind US pol- icy. ; "However, it shows not strength, but isolation. The total population of coun tries represented is 180 million out of Asia's 2000 million. Over half this total live in Japan, where great opposition exists to US policy. Even in this conference Hasluck could not sell Air Vice-Marshal Ky as an acceptable mem- . ber- — he was too obviously :aUS.;:pupefcv?y /V"; ' "Government policy is psycholbgically'basecl upon Continued on P. 11 CPA General Secretary Laurie Aarons (right) at last week's press conference on the Party's recent Central Committee meeting. gaaa—MaaBa— amaga— ii iiini iiiii m iiranumu STRUGGLE IN CHINA Continued from P. 4 The cult of the individual is just one such force of habit...' (Historical Experience of the Dictatorship of the Proletar iat, p.7.) "Inevitably the construction of socialism must increase these growing new collective and advanced social forces; this will lead to a continued pressure for an enlightened and scientifically-based pol icy of building socialism in China, for a more positive in ternationalist foreign policy, and co-operation and mutually beneficial relations with other socialist countries. "The great importance of ideology and ideological work is undoubted; however, in the long run, the development of the productive forces will as- sert itself and change the' ideological reflections of ac tual social relations, thud overcoming the lag already evident. "Experiences of the other socialist countries, and the work of other Communist parties, can exert a. consider able influence upon the inev itable process of change. This will certainly not come through interference, but by the constant all-round eco nomic, political and cultural development in the socialist countries, and by the creative development of Marxism- Leninism by all parties in their struggle against imper ialism in the widely-differing conditions in which they work. "Conscious though patient efforts to restore unity are also needed. Joint action in support of Vietnam remains the most vital issue. "Experience has already proved this the central issue in the struggle to prepare the conditions for re -uniting the world movement. Chinese re jection of continued proposals for united action have already served to clarify the issues." 