 Film honours 5-ways "THE honours of this year's Sydney Film Festival (June 1st- 14th) went to Czechoslovakia, India, Japan, France and East Germany. The best films . were "A Blonde in Love" (Czechoslovakia) , "Char- ulata" (India), "Adventures of Werner Holt" (East Germany), "Fires on the . Plain'.' (Japan) and "Thomas the Imposter" (France). "A Blonde In; :Loye" was. prob-. ably the most popular film shown. O It is a delightful and humorous observation of young people and their fumbling progress towards the pleasures that life can afford them. "Charulata", directed by Sat- yajit Ray, is a subtle observation of Indian life in Calcutta in the 1880s. The central character Is beautifully played by Madhabi Muk- herjee, who was the wife in "Mahangar," Ray's film at. lat year's Festival. The East German film, "The a i - rs «rr 1 TT-UH AQV6HXur©s ox Werner xiuii ; was a complex study of a young German who joins, the army just before World War II. He gradually becomes disenchanted with the policies of Hitler. This brilliant film, which won an award at the Moscow Film Festival last year, is a powerful indictment of fas cism and war. "Thomas the Imposter" and '.'Fires on the Plain" were also 'about the effects of war. The scene of the first film is 1914. Thomas, a young boy, lies about his age, borrows a uniform and poses as a general's nephew. For him, the war is a chance1 to be unreal, to become more than a provincial nobody. The director, Georges Franju, has recreated the con- fused phantasmagoria of World War I with remarkable effect. You observe the characters and inci dents with a detachment that draws you into an understanding of the wastefulness and futility of the conflict. "Fires on the Plain," directed by Kon Ichikawa ("Harp of Burma," "Tokyo Olympiad") con cerns a Japanese soldier caughr, in the debacle on Leyte during the ' last days' of the Pacific war. Some of the scenes shocked many people, but the film is complemen- tary to werner Jtioit ana i nom as the Imposter". The three films show that progressive film makers are very concerned with the issues . of war and peace. Other films of merit included "Heat", a Soviet film set in one of the Central Asian republics, "Cumbite" (Cuba), "My Enemy the Sea" (Japan), "An Undignified Old Lady" (France) and "Before the Revolution" (Italy). It is a pity thai many prog rammes shown at the Hub Tteatre were spoilt by bad projection. The projectors kept breaking down and often the film was shown on one projector with waits between each reel. The Festival Committee should consider other theatres. E. A. CZECH film star Hana Brejchova pulls the bedclothes up in a scene from "A Blonde in Love", shown at the Sydney film Festival. 