 MORE DOUBLE-TALK AT MANILA: HUMBUG OF "PEACE APPEALS" —War widens every day By the Foreign Editor "£AN the US steadily escalate the war in Vietnam, prepare for a still bigger war next year and at the same time bring about peace negotiations with Hanoi?" The New York Times asks this question ini a biting comment on Johnson's pre-Manila "peace appeals" to the. Democratic Republic of Vietnam. (In New Zealand Johnson appealed to the DRV to join him in "a nobler war — against poverty in Asia" — just after massive air raids had been launch ed on DRV territory). The New York Times continues: "Peace offers with one hand; killing, burning, defoliating, destroying, bombing with the other. The result, surely, is to cancel out each other's effectiveness." Quoting this NY Times comment the London New States man's Washington correspondent (on October 14) adds: "To be credible, the President would have to stop the bombing of the North (not merely suspend it) take a serious step to prbve that US bases in South Vietnam are not permanent and begin to pull out , ground troops. "In short, the US would have to make the decision to withdraw." Extension The NS correspondent Andrew Kopkind, sees Manila as" merely stage six of the routine Johnson has invariably followed before'c(each major extension of aggression in Vietnam. "It is once again phase five of the recurrent cycle of the war" he writes. He lists the stages of this cycle or routine as: (i) massive escalation (the bombings round Hanoi and Haiphong in June); (i,i) "peace proposals" (Goldberg at the UN); (iii) token de-escalation (temporary cessation of bombing of z part of the demilitarised zone); (iv) foreign "initiatives" (UK foreign minister Brown's speech); (v) a foreign tour for "peace" (not "likely" to be found among the warhungry satellites and puppets at Manila); (vi) the promulgation of manifestoes, protocols, "plans for progress" (etc). Having completed all this, says Kopkind, Johnson will be ready for the last stop, the elections— "the domestic "political obstacle which, when hurdled, permits the cycle to begin again with massive escalation". Elections He adds that if the Democrats hold their own in the elections, allowing for the predictable off-year attrition, "the Administration will interpret the results as a vote of confid ence and proceed to enlarge the war-". McNamara went to Vietnam early this month to plan the new phase. The New Statesman writer speaks for a consensus of expert commentators who take the same view of Manila. Thus Soviet writer Y. Matukhin writes in "Soviet Russia" that whatever peace-loving phrases come out of Manila its main purpose is the expansion of the war. He says public condemnation of the US aggressors has become so strong and widespread that Washington has 'decided to emphasise with the utmost rapidity the "collective" nature of the military effort in Vietnam, to put part of the respon sibility for their piracy on their junior partners and to hide behind their backs. Delta The task of framing up the North Vietnamese to world opinion for a US invasion of the DRV has been complicated by the requirements of the milit ary situation for an attack on the Mekong Delta in the far south. This, according to the military will require another 100,000 US soldiers. And it will tax even the best US propagandists' powers to show that the people of the Delta, who account for about half the population of South Vietnam, are "north Vietnamese aggressors." . The US troops will be needed because,, increasingly, the US cannot get Vietnamese to fight for them, not even the official "South Vietnamese Army". New York Times commentator Neil Sheehan was already writing, a month ago (September 18) that except for a few elite units "Saigon's forces have lapsed into a defensive role and the majority of the offensive operations are being under taken by American troops." He says the Saigon regime's forces are deserting at the same high rate as last year when 96,000 deserted (other US authorities give a higher figure). This would not be likely to happen in ari army really fighting against a "foreign invader" when it had such powerful allies as the US. 