 STOP KNOCKIN' NED! /- He urns ALL man . . . ... and a pretty progressive feller ROGER MILL1SS / defends a dying legend VA/HAT with the Golden Holden, Go-Go dancing and AH-the-way-with-LBJ, it sometimes seems to an old- fashioned square like me that we don't have much of the old Australian- tradition left to hang on to. Down in Melbourne a few months ago, on my first day back in Australia after several years' absence, I watched fascinatedly while a U.S. Marines brass band, paying a "friendly" visit for Coral Sea Week, played a jazzed-up auto mated version of Waltzing Matilda outside the Town Hall. They marched up and they marched down, they formed fours and sixes and eights, they criss crossed and circled, and the strains of our best-loved song poured forth across Burke St. like maple syrup. It sounded about as Australian as the Stars and Stripes Forever. Poor old Banjo Paterson, I thought. Austerica, it seemed, had arrived with a vengeance. BUT the few shreds of our national dignity still re maining were almost stripped from us recently by Mr. Sidney J. Baker in a new edition of his well-known dissection of our fractured . idiom, "The Australian Language". Mr. Baker turned the knife in every true Australian heart by sug gesting that one of our most noted historical personnages, one Ed ward Kelly in fact, suffered from an abominable form of sexual deviationism none of us had ever associated him with. "After examining all the relev ant evidence," Mr. Baker drama tically announced, he had "little doubt" that Ned Kelly and his colleagues "were a group of homo sexuals". Could anything be more abhor rent to the average red-blooded dinkum Aussie? After all, Ned is identified explicitly in the national ethos with masculinity—the epi tome of the . country's virility. "Game as Ned Kelly" we say, as a criterion of good honest guts. Race horses have been named after him, plays and poems have been written about him, and one of our leading contemporary art- ists, Sidney Nolan, has done two whole series of paintings in his honour. Now, after 80 years of celebrat ing his manly prowess, comes the impudent imputation that Ned's personal behaviour may have been —to put it politely— a little odd. I am not advocating that Mr. Baker should be arraigned for this before an Un-Australian Activities Committee. That sort of thing is better left to the R.S.L. Besides, he has satisfactorily proved his basic loyalty by his ex cellent research into the peculiari ties of Australian speech. His "Dic tionary of Australian Slang" is a fascinating study of the origins of our colloquialisms and profanities. the same time, however, I feel that this unwar ranted slight on Ned's character shoulcj not pass unchallenged. Mr. Baker's main grounds for his contention are that Ned appar ently had a fondness for perfume, that Dan Kelly once asked the Glenrowan schoolteacher Curnow to dance with him, and that the bodies of Dan and Steve Hart were supposedly found in the burnt-out pub at Glenrowan locked in each others' arms. All this is nevertheless circum stantial and the evidence is contra dictory. Bush youths a century ago were wont to be "flash" and dress up for a lark. There was nothing unnatural about men dancing to gether in a community where males so greatly outnumbered women. The comradeship that bound the Kellys was nothing more than the traditional "mateship" still surviv ing, under pressure, today. Moreover, Ned's close mate Joe Byrne— generally acknowledged to be the "brains" of the gang— was widely regarded as a full-blooded ladies' man, and the terror of the bush barmaids. And Ned's flowing beard was bigger, bushier and blacker than anything to be seen today. Somehow it's somewhat hard to swallow the view that four men who hid out in the Stringybark Ranges for sixteen months, who crossed the border into New South Wales and stuck up the town of Jerilderie for three days, and who were prepared to take on the whole of the Victorian pol ice force in their final stand at Glenrowan, at the same time dis played distinct transvestite tend encies. And it would take something more than weak wrists to lift the 92 lbs of . armour the Kellys had specially made for their last glori ous act of defiance. AAK. Baker's attack on Ned's masculinity is part of a wider theory that, as he puts it, "apart from a mistaken regard for Ned Kelly and his gang . . . there are few Australians who are even remotely to be classed as folk-heroes". This may be basically true. After all, most of our Founding Fathers were a pretty scurvy lot. Nobody, for instance, would want to make any sort of hero out of a racketeer like the original W. C, Wentworth, whose lineal descendant still goes out of his way in Federal Parlia ment to plug his family's tradi tionally reactionary line. On the other hand, we still have many historical figures to be just ly proud of— like Josepji Holt of the Castle Hill convict revolt in 1804, the fiery clerical champion of democracy John Dunmore Lang, Peter Lalor of Eureka fame, and the great Billy Lane, who led the shearers' strike in 1891. Still, none of these have ever commanded the same popular ap peal as Ned, the anarchist, outlaw. So it might be worth asking why the Kelly myth has grown up. There is plenty of evidence to suggest that the whole bushranging era of 1860-1880 may have been more than a mere wave of anti social lawlessness. Men like Frank Gardiner, John ny Gilbert, Ben Hall and the Kellys themselves were never regarded by the ordinary people of the time as public enemies. One of the greatest difficulties besetting the police in their efforts to beat the bushrangers was the active assist ance the poorer section of the bush community rendered the outlaws. |T could be argued that in fact the bushranging out break was an anarchistic and purposeless — and, for that matter, unconscious — ex pression of social discontent among the small selectors and poor farmers at being squeezed off the land by the big squatters, backed by the long arm of the law. Legend has it that when Gardin er, Hall and Gilbert were planning the Eugowra Gold Escort Robbery in 1801, they rode round the cockies' holdings on the Lachlan calling for volunteers to join in the exploit— and got them. As for Ned himself, the legend exists that when— his arm smash ed by a police bullet— he broke from the Glenrowan pub, he was trying to reach a mob of his rela tives and supporters, fully armed, who were waiting on a nearby ridge for the word to attack the police. And that when the police captur ed him, they took from his pocket a declaration for a Republic of North-Eastern Victoria. Most likely it's not true— but legends and myths, though they may have little real relation to the facts, often express what we woulti like to believe WAS true. So, please, Mr. Baker, leave Ned alone — he was a pretty tough bloke, and there's a little bit of each of us in him which is not all that crook. What he represents is the basic Australian militancy and anti- authoritarianism— and let's hope they never take that away from us. Let's try to salvage some of the positive aspects of the national tradition from the wreck the so- called Affluent Society is making Of it. After all, maybe that's all Aus terica and Uncle Lyndon have left us. GLENROWAN , from, the first "Ned Kelly" series by Australian artist Sidney Nolan. 