 Supposedly " proletarian" „ but ... Where is the working class? "WHY is this 'proletarian' movement proceeding without the participation of the Chinese working class?" "Why are non-party young- sters and school children called upon to criticise the Communists — to assess the work of the Communist Party?" These so far unanswered questions are asked in an article oh China's Red Guards published in Pravda from its Peking correspondent. A characteristic feature of the present Red Guard activ ity are the ever sharper attacks on Chinese Communist Party committees at enter- . prises, educational establish ments, towns and provinces, as well as on Party and Government officials. The Red Guards openly call for a "reshuffle and purging of all Party committees," the correspondent says. "The Red Guards also direct their attacks against the Young Communist League of China, declaring that the 'YCL has ceased to be a militant revolutionary organisation.' They call on its members to 'Take off their YCL badges and throw away this rubbish.' "Chung Tsinan Pao, news- paper of the YCL Central Committee stopped publicat ion on August 19. On the other hand two newspapers of the Red Guard are being published—'Hun Weibin Pao' and 'Him Weibin Chan Pao'," the article states. The Pravda correspondent said "A new upswing of the great proletarian cultural rev olution has now begun. This new upswing is connected with the turn out of Red Guards not only into the streets of Peking, but of other cities also. A Peking Red Guard de tachment, which arrived in Shanghai to "exchange exper ience", and the local Red Guards broke into the build ing of the Shanghai CP City Committee and occupied it. Some of them climbed up on the roof and began ston ing people who gathered around the building. Others threw pieces of glass at them, wounding several people. They continued rioting all through the night, insulted workers by calling them "hooligans" . and people "with out shame or conscience", the correspondent writes. \ 