 Workers need "more gravy" —and now! By an Industrial Correspondent JYDNEY : "A little gravy now?" was the headlined query by the Financial Review (17/2/66) in a feature article on the present and anticipated state of the economy. The author, Dr. A. R. Hall, was not very con fident about the future, and urged the Government to act now to "prime the economic pump" and not wait until things got worse. This government assistance was the "gravy1" the Finan cial Review was looking for. Since the asti&e appeared, the theme "a little gravy now" has been consistently plugged by that capitalist paper, not as a| query but as a demand. The gravy does not, of course, refer to the unions' wage claims, it refers to as sistance from the Government to maintain present profit lev els. 10/- is too little However, the unions' wage claims were not ignored. Dr. Hall considered a wage rise likely, and put the expected figure at $1. But the unions are claiming very much more than $1. If their claims are granted in full award wage rates for most workers will be little better than restored to previous pur chasing power levels. So $1 increase would indeed be a very small amount of "gravy". Some idea of the quantity of "gravy" needed by the work ers is given by some data; pub lished in the Financial Review on December 14 last year. This was prepared by two Profes sors of Economics and based upon a sample survey made of income, wealth and savings of Sydney families. In this sample survey the average family income was ap proximately $80 per week. Mo sf have the least Of the families surveyed, 51 per cent (those with incomes up to $10,000 per year) owned only 17 per cent of the total assets owned by all the fami lies in the survey. The families whose family income was the average shown by the survey ($80) or less, owned assets totalling only 2.2 per cent of the total assets owned by the' families covered by the survey. Some 51 per cent of the families had as sets worth less than $10,000 and between 85 and 90 per cent of .those assets were in the form of a home. For those families whose income ranged from $46 to $62 per week, real property aver aged 89 per cent of their assets, cash and bank deposits 10 per cent and bonds, shares, etc., only 1 per cent. Savings of the families sur veyed ranged from 15 per cent of income at the $40 per week level to 30 per cent in the higher ranges. As the authors observed, "to them that have, shall be given." Make direct approaches These facts extracted from the survey help to underline the position of workers, espe cially the lower paid groups, and tarnish a little the rosy picture of the affluent society. They certainly emphasise the workers' need for more "gravy" and now! And the likelihood of no de cision by the Arbitration Com mission before the end of June emphasises the importance of the call by the NSW Labor Council and the Metal Trades Federation National Conference for workers to make direct ap proaches to their employers for the full claim to be paid now. 