 sRilOltsESfliiSfit K ' ' &lt; ' Ms', 1. Do you dissociate yourself from President Johnson's statement (Nov.1 5) that "when, as and if" General West moreland asks for more men in Viet- it ii i .«%#% nam, we will supply it I General Westmoreland (US Commander in Vietnam) told the Manila conference more troops WOULD be needed. Y ou, Harold Holt, were there. Your only comment so far has been that, if re elected, you will review troop commitment — but "not downward". 2. Do you reject the statement by Army Secretary B. White at a Canberra lecture (31/10/66) that "another million" troops are needed to "do the job properly" in Vietnam? This statement was not among those published by the daily press when White was being roasted for speaking out of turn. (The Sydney "Herald" said "Mr. White's blunder was not what he said but the fact that he said it in public".) There are already one million troops there -r- 600,000 Saigon forces and 300,000-plus American, Australian, etc. If these are to be doubled, the — additional force must come mainly from outside. 3. Bearing in mind the low voluntary enlistment rate now in Australia, do you admit you are planning to extend the conscription age group? One-third of the Australian contingent of 4,500 army men in Vietnam today are conscripted 20- year-olds. Several months ago, Labor Leader A. Calwell said the Holt Government planned to have 10,000 conscripts in Vietnam within another year. White's statement could mean that forecast is a conservative one. In any case, future Australian contingents would con tain a much higher proportion of conscripts— say two- thirds— since the volunteer forces have increased by only a handful in the past six months. 4. Do you admit your withholding of money for education, hospitals, and housing will become more serious if your war policy is continued? The August Federal Budget brought the Aus tralian war spending rate up to $1,000 million a year — a record. Prices rise and there is a near- . freeze of wages. It is no secret that, if re-elected, your Govern ment plans a supplementary Budget in the New Year to reveal more financial burdens that were too unpopular for election purposes. A foretaste was the recent reduction of proposed uni versity/ finance, which is already sending student fees up by 15 per cent. 5. If your answer to these questions is "No", do you admit that you are asking Australian electors for a blank cheque for a bigger war, more conscripts in Viet nam and reduced living standards at home? Australians, who want peace and security, real independence from foreign control, a better life and good-neighbour relations with the near North, cannot afford to give the Government such a blank cheque.. With the Liberal forces splitting on the Viet nam issue and conflict with the Country Party on the sale of Australia to foreign capital, it looks, Harold, as though the skids are under you. 