 — amam — — — ml nni | BBBaUBBgntinp— Mnmmna The Drought When Sydney received its recent record 24 hours of rain, State Liberal Premier Askin took it to mean the breaking of the inland drought, irresponsiblv declaring: "This Is worth millions". But the drought goes on. Here, in contrast, is a contribution to Tribune by a 14-year-old girl, Voula Cassimatis, in a N.S.W. country town, who describes the drought as she has seen it. For nine long months it persisted. The drought. The farmer gazes proud ly over his prosperous land and then the fingers of drought maliciously encircle Ihis hopes. Ruthlessly it bears down upon the helpless farmers and even more help less animals. Slowly at first, but sur ely, the lush green sum mer's pastures wither and die, the moist earth be comes dry and hungrily soaks up the evaporating streams and water holes, sheep and cattle gaze thirstily at. the stagnant, smelling patches of rott ing slime. "Wnat a sight to view beside the roads; shy bush creatures advancing gam ely to. beg food from man while. pitiless hunters "pick-off" these easy tar gets. Sheep and cattle forage in vain among the stunted growth and in 1 despair eat all manner of non - sustaining material until they fall, unable to stand because of their shockingly over - filled stomachs. All around lie their hideous bloated bod ies which paint a stark horizon when the sun sets. Still it continues — steadfastly twining its fangs around trees, bushes and animals alike, working closely with a staunch ally the sun. The sun, which is an important element in the drought's work, mercilessly beating down upon the already parched earth and steam ing up and quickly evap orating any remaining puddles. Upon the farmer's face is painted the grim pic ture of the results of the drought. Like a beaten dog, the farmer cowers beneath the master. Be fore him loom visions of piling debts, poverty and ruin. He is defeated and slowly a small tear finds its way down his lined and haggard face as he watches a sheep struggling with the last threads of life. His head bows as the animal sinks beyond human help, and the far mer's body shakes -with sobs. He constantly looks up toward the mockingly clear, blue sky and sees nothing but endless blue and blazing sun. His hopes are whittled away as each day passes with no sign of his saviour — rain. A jackass flies over and laughs. The laugh echoes eerily, but is lost on the appalling scenes below— a scene of desolate death and destruction. 