 [?] More than 'wit' needed VHILE Australians are be ing regaled with the "wit of Menzies" — a. pains taking collection of mediocre by-play — it is rather more fruitful to refer back tp some of the man's keynote state ments, to get his true r?.easure. In June 1964, in New York, ad dressing the American-Australian Association, Menzies made a long and wandering speech the spirit of which was summed up in the sentence : "The truth is that in our relations with you, not only . are they wonderful from our point . of view, but they are reciprocal, they impart obligations on our part, obligations which we will at all times honorably discharge and therefore we are friends." It is instructive to contrast this grovelling guff with what Dr. " H. V. Evatt, as External Affairs . Minister, was saying in the USA almost 20 years before. In a speech in San Franfisco in December 1945, Evatt said that the future of the south-west Paci fic would largely depend on the relations between the USA and Australia and New Zealand on the other, but it "will also de pend on three other closely relat ed factors ... a just peace in relation to Japan and the firm establishment of a Pacific secur ity zone . . . and thirdly there must be a positive pplicy of maintain ing .and improving the living standards of all the Pacific peo ples, including our own peoples . . develop a greater, feeling of understanding, friendship and comradeship with each other and all nations. . ." Evatt, voicing what he called "positive Australianism", was not . afraid to be challenging towards the USA. Such a stand was al ways quite beyond Menzies. Gough : What's the secret? "|HE sharp query about the real reasons for the resignation of Archbishop Gough as' Anglican Primate of Australia, raised last week In this column, seems to gain substance from. .. a long, obviously "inside", article in "Nation" of June 8. In a colorful description of top- level Anglican in-fighting, the writer claims that there has been a continuing struggle between .Gough and the most influential churchmen in the diocese of Sydney, and says: — "In Sydney, Dr. Gough never managed to . make himself at home ... his frequent extended trips back to England, his early policy of insulating himself with a series, of English appointments, indicated his diocesan difficult ies. "It would be unreal to attri bute his abrupt resignation simply to these difficulties. The imme diate circumstances leading to that were of a personal and fin ally compelling character not relevant to this discussion." Well, what WERE they rele vant to? Wide backing for UK seamen 1"'HE appeal of the British National Union of Sea men for sympathy and sup- port in the strike has brought a wide international response. A spokesman for the Transport Workers' Union of Norway de clared that his union was pre pared to boycott all British ships in Norwegian ports. It is reported from France says Soviet TASS newsagency' that the French Dockers' Union is prepared to render , any needed help to the British union. Swedish, Finnish and Australian seamen's unions have also sent messages of solidarity to the Bri tish seamen. The seamen are demanding pay increases that will bring them into line with other sections of the British working class and also with the seamen of other Euro pean countries. Recently, after the threat of a strike, the Government awarded doctors working for the national health scheme a £1000 a year rise and also sharply increased Minis terial salaries and allowances. The Government - appointed court of enquiry last week ad mitted the basic justice of th6 I seamen's case by proposing a 9s per cent wage increase over two . yers. | But they did not give any ade quate reason for. rejecting the j seamen's demand for an imme diate increase of about 17 per cent and a 40-hour week. Showing strong solidarity, the J Seamen's Union executive unani mously rejected the Government report a few hours after it was published. 