 Federal election prospect: j ALP tidies up ; Vietnam policy By Our Parliamentary Roundsman £ANBERRA: The foreign policy manifesto unanimously en dorsed by the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party last week cut the ground from under new attempts to split the ALP through confusion of different interpretations of its Vietnam policy. The manifesto declares that the ALP opposes the sending of Australian troops to Viet nam, especially conscripts. It says that an Australian Lab or Government would instruct the army to bring back the con scripts without delay. Regarding other Australian forces, a Labor Government would consider the situation in Vietnam at the time and the importance of maintaining fut ure cooperation with the USA, hut would insist upon the re turn of all Australian forces as soon as practicable. Considerations A Labor Government would act in accord with the follow ing considerations:— e The. USA to stop the bomb ing of North Vietnam; and Viet nam to be converted into a "holding operation". 9 The Australian Govern ment to take the initiative for further attempts at a cease-fire and negotiations for peace in Vietnam. 9 The cease-fire to involve, the recognition of the National Liberation Front as a party principal to the negotiations. The Australian Government to support the Geneva Accords for the withdrawal of all for eign troops, and non-interven tion in the affairs of the area as a basis for peace. The Government to strive for a position in which the peo- ple of Vietnam can have a Gov ernment of their own free choice. Addressing a school for ALP candidates in Melbourne last weekend, Labor leader A. Cal- well said that other issues in the Federal election would be: the take-over by foreign capital of Australian industrial and mineral resources; also housing, education, northern develop ment, drought relief,' inflation, incomes policy and poverty. All of this means that an im proved base has been laid for a united labor movement to defeat the Holt Government next December. The foreign policy is not en tirely consistent. For example, the reference to turning the Vietnam war in to a holding operation not only adds nothing to the manifesto but could be used by the war hawks at a later stage to justify carrying on the war. Further, the rightwing forces will certainly continue to use phrases like "cooperation with the United States" to justify subservience to US policies and demands and prolongation of Australian involvement. Remove obstacles The big issue, if a Labor Gov ernment is elected, will be for the whole labor movement, to ensure that this principle is im plemented rapidly despite the inevitable attempts by right- wing forces, backed by daily newspapers and big business, to postpone practical action. In the immediate sense, the labor movement's task is to overcome rightwing obstacles to implementing a great mass campaign around these positive policies, to bring down the Holt Government. The reality of these obstacles can be seen from the recent conference of the Tasmanian branch of the ALP. While unit ed in its opposition to conscrip tion, it failed to support a move by Mr. Williams, an ALP vice president, to have the State ex ecutive organise public and job meetings in opposition to con scription for service in Viet-, nam. The Federal manifesto, how ever, should strengthen the hand of the trade union and other forces that will be seek ing a much more positive and active result from the forth coming June conferences of the ALP in several states, particular ly the vital NSW branch. 