 Behind the pilots 9 strike Safety and survival By Tribune Editor ALEC ROBERTSON , who was an RAAF pilot during the Second World War. SITUATION of grave and growing danger to international civil air safetv has been revealed in expert documents published by the Aus tralian Air Pilots' Feder ation in the course of the Qantas pilots' strike. They reveal that, for reasons of competition for profit, in ternational air line companies are: — allowing the strain on pil ots to build up, despite the steep rise in fatal accidents many of which are blamed on "pilot error". failing to ensure equip ment of airports and air routes with available naviga tion and landing aids and ade quate runv/ays, all regarded as essential for big jet air craft. Since the 1970's are ap proaching, bringing with them a new generation of super sonic jets carrying hundreds of passengers each, the air line companies may well be accused— as they are by the world organisation of pilots— of "criminal folly." Pilots report The points made below are extracted from a statement delivered for the International Federation of Air Pilots' Asso ciation by Captain A. Liebing (Sweden) at the Swedish Soci ety of Aeronautics, Stockholm on April 26-29, 1966. First Liebing pointed out that, behind soothing statistics Year Major accidents 1964 44 1965 49 1966 (1st 80 days) issued by companies and some governments showing a de cline in the number of air passengers killed per 100 mil lion passenger miles, stands a very different reality— the rapid increase in the absolute" number killed. Here are his figures: — KILLED Passengers Crew Total 795 128 923 855 183 1038 780 Additionally, in the 1964-65 period there were 99 major "incidents" in which 40 air craft were totally destroyed, v/ithout deathrolls. The figures mean: one fatal accident per week, one major accident or incident every days, and an upward trend. "Of special interest to the profit hungry industry would also, be the fact that the value of the destroyed airplanes re ferred to in the above figures will rise to something between 300 and 350 million US .dol lars . . ." Automatic systems Liebing said that the feder ation regarded aviation safety as_a..mattex of..survival in its widest sense. "To be quite frank, we shud der at the future, if nothing is done to rectify the present situation by the responsible parties involved," he said. Discussing the complicated question of pilot responsibili ties, he points out that today's and future aircraft will more and more be equipped with various automatic systems as aids to the pilot. These sys tems reduce manual work in the cockpit but greatly in crease and speed up the flow of information to the pilot. Liebing raised the vital ques tion: what about the human operator at the heart of this semi-automated system, on whom all the decisions dep end, often in sudden, critical ly dangerous situations? "There is evidence that the maximum rate at which a man can take in new information is rather low, a fact that has been proved again and again in our experience. "It is my own considered opinion that all disasters are derived from a breakdown of the human navigational facul ties in time and space— from a wrong choice between 'Yes' and 'No'. "The pilots' tolerances are becoming much narrower as traffic and speed continue to increase and the possible cost in human lives and hard cash, of exceeding these tolerances, will therefore be unbearable in the future if no due con sideration is given to the crew structure of modern jet trans ports." This is where the argument (raised by Qantas pilots) about two-man and three-man crews becomes particularly relevant. Liebing points out that at the very time these problems of pressure on the human pilot are multiplying, aircraft manu facturing and operating com panies are collaborating to produce new aircraft (such as the DCS, British BAC 111 and Boeing 737) with cockpits de signed to accommodate only two pilots. The International Federa tion, on the other hand, states through Liebing that "these aircraft cannot be operated safely by a two pilot crew." "There is quite a marked difference between FLYING an aircraft and OPERATING an aircraft in our present and future environment" (having in mind varying conditions of airport equipment, weather, air traffic density etc.). One important way out of this situation is contained in this pointed comment by Lieb ing: "For years the attention has been focused on the machine and very little effort has been spent for research of the human factor." He blames airline operators placing too much reliance on the "ultra human" capacity of automatic systems and assum- ing that pilots can in turn produce "super-human" cap- acities of higher-speed think- ' ing and decision. All of this ties in with such questions as flight-crew fati- gue, which have been the sub ject of studies and reports— too little publicised (for com mercial reasons) — by both the international and Australian civil aviation authorities. "It is at present considered quite in order for pilots to complete routine working per iods of 14-16 hours, that is fully twice as long as the aver age office day, and this through the hours of darkness, in any kind of weather, with literally unlimited numbers of landing approaches, across time zones, in temperature changes sometimes up to 40 deg. C or more, working at average altitude of 6500 ft v/here oxygen lack is a signi ficant factor . . ." "In spite of all these odds against him, the pilot is ex pected to maintain full con trol of a complex lethal machine, operating into a great number of second and third rate airports." Profit doubles Liebing leaves no doubt that the motive force behind this situation, whose potential dan ger is growing, is the search for higher profits. "Since the advent of jet, the airlines have come out of the red and are making profit on the double. ". . . It would be reasonable to expect the main part of that profit to go back into safety devices such as precision alti meters, landing aids, air traf fic control systems, improved working conditions for flight crews etc. "But the operators, by rea son of competition, seem more interested in improving the service on board by providing in-flight entertainment such as TV, Hi-Fi, free champagne and what have you. "The service is lavishly ad vertised and, in fact, it lulls the public into a false feeling of security that does not ex ist." The concern of the world pilots' body is echoed in an article republished from "Air craft" (July, 1966) by Captain P. W. Hovvson, Technical Ser vices Director of Qantas, who says: "The thought of losing hund reds of people in one accident in the 1970's is one that I believe should be quite unac ceptable to the industry — NOT THAT THE PRESENT POSI TION IS GOOD ENOUGH... "The International Air Transport Association should take the lead . . . after all, if they do not the pilots will and, in my opinion when the order of responsibility reaches the level of a 'jumbo jet' or super sonic transport they are entitl ed to do so if the airlines ab dicate their duty." The points quoted here do not take account of the tre mendous economic resources becoming involved in the aviation industry, which will multiply rapidly in future. But they serve to show that the demand of Qantas pilots for a firm say in control of air safety directives and pol icies is one that is becoming a lite-and-death matter for very large numbers of people. 