 In his policy statement last week, Prime Minister Holt qliblv referred to the necessity of defending Australia's national interests ' But it is a truism of the Liberal-Country Party's 17 years in off that it has successively sold out Australia's economic heritano '1! ' overseas capital. Nowhere has this process been more evident than ' in regard to the shipping industry, especially with the Government's ' steadfast refusal to establish a national overseas shipping line ex amined in this article by a Special Correspondent. ' f HANGES brought about in the shipping and handling of cargo by the in troduction of containerisa- >ion represent a revolution comparable in its effects to the change over from sail to steam. They affect far more than mere ly wharfies, carriers, importers end exporters, and only dramatic changes in national policies will ensure that these changes will benefit the Australian people in stead of surrendering control over every stage in our vital overseas trade to British, European, Ameri can and Japanese shipping com bines. Thanks to the efforts of the labor movement, the solutions that will go far towards safeguarding Australia's interests—the creation of a National Overseas Shipping Line and the nationalisation of stevedoring— are now matters of practical politics. ALP leader Calwell last week clearly pledged the development of the overseas line. The defeat of the Holt Gov ernment on November 26 and the return of Labor would open the way for making those policies a reality. Containerisation means basically the preparation of cargoes for handling by machinery instead of by human labor, the provision of highly mechariised marshalling, berthing and loading facilities to handle such cargoes and fewer but much bigger and much faster ships, again highly mechanised for cargo-handling and increasingly automated, with cargoes loaded in. to "containers," or special metal boxes. W.W.F. General Secretary C. H. Fitzgibbon recently stated that 12,000 i tons of cargo could be dis charged and loaded in 24 hours, using only drivers for two shore- based cranes and mechanical equipment operators to shift the containers on the wharf. The capital outlay required is a multi-million one. If the foreign shipping combines are allowed to continue their overseas trade mon opoly they will seek to recover that outlay qi iiy by driving for the most eca nlcal use of con tainers, withs en co-operation of exporting and dporting interests. Econl \mies The long sei lauls to our mar kets mean th 'economies while in port reprei t smaller savings proportionate t outlay than would otherwise he e case. This will mean that r fshalling centres, will have toil |both adjacent to shipping; betih brought clos er and clo#- phe 'point of pro duction. S&lt;® complete handl ing of ourrw will end up in the hands i ie shipping mono polies, whiciney declare to be necessary. | The P & 0 lipping monopoly already is a r or shareholder in road transpoi Mayne Nickless and is coirnei with Associated Steamships G vhich is bringing two Japanese- t container ships into the coast rade in 1968. The record of the & O-led shipping conference sh how this control would be a -for forty years Taste of the future — bulk " containers " unloaded from the automated dish freighter Killara at Darling Harbour in dney last week. A grip that can he broken on November 26 AUSTR ALIAS TRADE HELD BY THE THROAT they have bled Australia through freight rates based on "what the traffic will bear". Discriminatory freieht rates have penalised Australian exports in markets which the shipping con ference wanted preserved for their associates. They are imposing containerisa- tion when and how it suits them, forcing Australian wharfies to try to cushion the redundancy of more than half their membership in the near future. Compulsion on exporters and im porters to fit in with shipping lines plans is another example of this kow-towing to external pres sure. The annual report pf the Aus tralian National Line, recently tabled in Parliament itself declar ed: "The practicability of Austra lian ships engaging on a regular basis in the shipment of bulk cargo overseas has been ventilat ed widely. "Construction of larger semi- automated bulk carriers and a tendency in other maritime nat- ions toward rising costs, has lessened the impact of this coun try's relatively high wage struc ture on voyage costs, providing an opportunity given the resources, for Australian tonnage to partici pate in these trades at a modest profit." In the light of its record this is a modest claim. In its ten years of existence it has pioneered the roll-on, roll-off cargo handling principle in the mainland-Tasman- ian trade. It has also introduced the first self-discharging bulk grain carrier on the coast, pioneered shipments by large containers, and it oper ates the largest roll-on, roll-off ship in the world— Australian built, at that. Severe It has taken an active part in forming and sometimes leading world shipping trends — all while still making a profit and reducing freights— by up to 30% on the Tas- manian run. The ANL has still had to over- come severe restrictions placed on its operations by the Federal Government. Robbed of its proper character of a public utility it is required to pay income tax and as well return a 6% dividend to the Government —to "put it on the same footing as its privately owned competi tors". But, it is deprived of this foot ing by not being permitted to en gage in stevedoring, thus being dependent on its competitors. Un like whom it can be directed to enter and maintain unprofitable, but necessary services. At a time when Australia's ex panding economy is demanding greater efforts to increase exports and consequently imports, the con trast between the service rendered to the nation by the ANL and the avarice of the conference lines 'has produced a revolt against the latter unequalled since the agita tion that led to the creation of Australia's first overseas line. A crisis over freight rates exists within the Federal Exporters' Overseas Transport Council that once used to rubber- stamp con ference freight-rates. Trade union ists and primary producers' organ isations have been joined by both the Victorian Employers' Federa tion and the Victorian Chamber of Manufacturers in calling for the establishment of a National Over seas Line. In a world of intensifying com petition for markets can we expect other nations' ships, especially those of our competitors in the UK, the Common Market, in the US and Japan to provide us with shipping services to compete with them for markets? What better form of Export Action is there than a National Line? Among the world's first twelve trading nations, even small ones, we are unique in not having our own ships. Threshold On the threshold of containerisa- tion we are more on equal terms with the conferences than we are ever likely to be again if we miss out now. The drastic cut in the number of ships required means that a small number of vessels could force changes in conference practices. Australia's First National Line, operating in the '20's forced . the Conference into freight reductions while itself carrying one-tenth of our trade. Nationalisation of stevedoring would create a single Public Auth ority, covering all ports which would rent out, but it would re tain ownership of berths, marshall ing yards and equipment, thus best serving the national interest and preventing a complete "take over" by foreign shipping companies. Policies in favour of a national overseas shipping line and nation alised stevedoring have long been points around which the Labor movement have been united. This is best expressed by ACTU policy, which is based not only on the interests of maritime and ship building workers, but on national interests and particularly those of small farmers. The Communist Party, having its own long-standing policy for the nationalisation of the shipping in dustry as part of the socialist re construction of the economy, fully . supports the ACTU policy for a national line. The ALP is pledged to intro duce such a line. The need for it has been prominently featured both by Opposition Leader A. A. Calwell and his Deputy E. G. Whit- lam. Labor members spoke on the question in debates on the Budget and the Restrictive Trade Practices Bill. An overseas national line was pledged in last week's policy speech of Mr. Calwell. The Liberal-Country Party coali- tion, despite lip service to the idea, remain- prisoners of the ship ping combines and reject pro posals that would give Australia its own ships overseas. This is made clear by: The rejection recently in Parliament, by Shipping and Transport Minister Freeth of the proposal for the National Line to engage regularly in overseas trade as recommended by its Chair man's annual report. The squeeze being put on R. Miller & Co's tankers, which could drive them off the coast and lead to re-emergence of non-Australian manned tankers. Mr. Freeth's public acknow ledgement late in October that while no major shipbuilding yard is able to operate at an economic level of production, there being no continuity of orders and in sufficient standardisation of ship ping and shipping components, that "Government policy is work ing out well." It is clear that the Holt Govern ment is the main obstacle to devel opment of policies and steps out lined above and that this fact is a significant reason why that Gov ernment's defeat would be in the national interest. 