 l All round Australia demonstrators say... NONE OF THE WAY WITH LBJ' AFTER BOMBINGS &lt;:|ONE of the way with LBJ." This slogan repudiating the words of Aus- tralian Prime Minister Holt in Washington was the main one carried by demonstrators all round Australia from Per 1'ft to Brisbane following the American bombing raids on the North Vietnamese cities of Hanoi and Hai phong last week. The raids brought world-wide' condemnation, with the Australian Liberal Government giving the US admin istration almost its only support. The British Government dissociated itself from the raids because they involved populated areas, stating that "this will enormously intensify the danger" (see story, Page 9). A statement was issued by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Australia condemning Mr. Holt for identifying Australia with the bombing and for com pletely endorsing everything the Johnson /Administration has done and will do in the future (see Page 3) . Sydney arrests In Sydney, street demonstrations were held on Thurs day, Friday and Monday nights outside the American Consulate following the Vietnam raids. - - Eight were arrested after a sit-down demonstration on Thursday night and were later fined and placed on good behavior bonds. Another 11 were arrested on Monday night. Last night 11 people were arrested in Sydney when they attempted to hold a peaceful all-night vigil outside the American Consulate. One hundred people paraded outside the US Consul's office in Adelaide carrying banners saying "Negotiate, don't escalate!" A delegation told the Consul that they repudiated Prime . Minister . Holt's . statement in Washington that he went "all the way with LBJ", a slogan they considered suggestive of American politics rather than an Australian political statement. The delegation pointed out that the British Prime Minister, the United Nations General Secretary, Senator Robert Kennedy and others had opposed the US bombing while the, US Congress was divided on the question.. A large number of trade unions cabled Prime Minister .Holt in Washington demanding that he dissociate Aus tralia from the bombings. Protest telegrams were also sent to US Secretary of State Dean Rusk, then in Can berra for the SEATO and ANZUS conferences. The NSW Labor Council last week condemned the US bombings and called on the Holt Government to dissociate itself from them as the British Government had done. Mr. Rusk faced demonstrators outside the Hotel Can berra, in Canberra, on Friday as he entered it to address a meeting of the National Press Club and later at the Australian National University. A sign outside the Hotel Canberra read: "Go ahead and stai;t World War III, Mr. Rusk. We can't wait to die". / There were also demonstrations in Melbourne, Perth and Brisbane oh Saturday morning. In Brisbane,' seven young people were arrested after a demonstration outside the US Consulate. The leader of the Federal Opposition, Mr. A. A. Cal- well, told a meeting of 1500 people in Sydney Town Hall on Sunday night that he had never been so sickened in his life before as when he read Holt's "all the way" statement. v Mr. 'Calw ill demanded an end to the bombings and the development of an independent Australian foreign policy (see Page 4) . The Project Vietnam Committee has planned a poster parade and city walk next Monday, July 11. The parade will begin at 5 pm in Martin Place, Sydney, from Which the walk will commence to a lower Town Hall meeting at 6.30 pm. ' - ' Speakers from interstate and folksingers will take part in the lower Town Hall rally. Dr. STKANGEHOLT says; "I'M ALL THE WAY WITH LBJ." 