 Women, children under U.S. fire BULLETS ANSWER SHIP'S GOOD DEED MERICAN troops recently fired warning shots by machine- gun around Vietnamese women and children receiving gifts from Australian merchant seamen in Saigon harbour. Mr. Mick Fowler, a crew member of the Australian motor ship Jeparit, recently returned from Vietnam, told the story to Tribune last week. "We were lowering half a bag of spuds and a few other stores over the stem to some Vietnamese women and kids in boats, when the crew of a Yank patrol boat yelled at us to cut it out — we ignored them — so they sprayed around the boats with machine-gun fire." He said that when orders were given to Australian soldiers guarding the ship to stop any further contact between the crew and Vietnamese people in small boats — the soldiers refused. They were then withdrawn and guard duty was taken over by provosts. Tempers Flared "We realised that it was a sheer fluke that none of the women and little kids had been mowed down in cold blood," Mr. Fowler j said. j "Tempers flared among the crew and there were strong feel ings of disgust among the crew at this inhuman act against hungry women and kids — there was not one man among them. "Yet the Americans tried to justify their action later by saying that th'ey were probably Viet Cong. "Here we had seen proof with our own eyes that Americans will callously open fire on Vietnamese women and children on the slightest pretext. "The term 'Viet Cong suspect' (which covers practically every Vietnamese) , is a US-stamped licence to murder at will. "Is it any wonder that the people hate them," Mr. Fowler added. There was a growing mateship between Australian soldiers and the crews of the ships on the Vietnam run, he said. "When they come aboard w'e give 'em a ball. A decent meal and a few beeFS are a real luxury to them. "I have made two trips up there and have not met one soldier (and that includes regulars) who does not want to come home," Mr. Fowler said. Negro Conscripts "They witness events like the one I have described almost every day and they soon realise the war is a rotton cruel war and many decided, they want no part of it," he said. Mr. Fowler said a Negro conscript who came aboard said that no white American dare venture far alone after dark in Saigon. But the Viet Cong never bothered Negroes, he said. They know that Negroes are almost all conscripts and they have sympathy with their fight for freedom in America. "Me," the Negro told Mr. Fowler, "I'm safer here after dark than I am in Chicago." MICK FOWLER 