 rWe are marching I to freedom !" By WILMA HEDLEY | "Inspiring . . . and with a much more militant flavour than | many similar conferences in the past ..." | This in- an apt description of the ninth Easter conference of the Federal Ii Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Straits Islanders 1 held in Canberra from April 8 to 10. I | The cry of the whole meeting was for closer co operation with the trade union movement for action. | The youth in particular were v|onderful — and what open, hpnest mateship one got from t|ese young Aboriginal people! r, You only had to hear them (and some of the older folk, tgo) sing "We are going to freedom," "We shall over came," and "We ain't gonna study war no more," or give t|eir enthusiastic renderings cif their own Aboriginal cjhants, to know that for many a certain climate of ajpathy has gone forever. | Two hundred or more dele- Fc&tes attended, Aborigines and fff European descent, from a variety of organisations too long to be listed here. QUEENSLAND HERE were many semi nars — on Reserves, Cul- |ure, Legislation, Housing. I chose to go to the one on i Housing. During this seminar the icture from Queensland re- ealed by Mrs. C. Smith, boriginal delegate, from the. Queensland Ad vancement League, was exceedingly grim. In Brisbane, she said, Aborigines with large families are paying up to $10 a week for old houses (privately owned) with broken windows . and no fences. "Half Hie time after paying this rent, there v is nothing to feed the children on. There are families starving." "When one Aborigine has a home and a job, relatives with out housing and out of work go to live with him. Expenses mount up, until he is evicted." Converted army huts (pri vately owned), said Mrs. Smith, are available on the outskirts of Brisbane for nine dollars a week- They have no water; it has to be carted from a tank and when the tank runs out, a charge of eight dollars is made for more. This is often weeks in coming. The huts have no drainage and families must bury their own nightsoil. "Aborigines live in fear. Queensland is a police state," said Mrs. Smith. "If my people protest at police bashings at Cherbourg, they are put joff work." If an Aborigine is found drunk, even for one night, he can be sent to Palm island Mission (40 miles off the coast, .of . Townsville, NQ) for years, apart from his family. If anyone ..escapes from this Mission, the police eventually catch up with them, although ) one or two have been known to swim shark-infested waters to escape. If an Aborigine does any thing wrong he comes, under the Act, "but if he seeks assist ance to bury a member of . his family or any such help, he doesn't come under the Act. NSW and SA IN some areas of northern NSW and the Territory the Aboriginal male receives 25/- a week and his keep. Those for whom there's no set work can contribute 12 hpurs of work a week for "rations." Imagine a family of, say, seven, counting relatives, living in a humpy and con tributing 12 hours of work of different kinds a week! The station owner would re ceive 84 hours a week, with out paying a penny in wages, only giving a paltry hand-out. A delegate explained that the inhabitants of La Perouse (NSW) deliberately let their shacks go, so that the Welfare ; Board will do something about decent housing; Instead the newspapers took pictures of these homes and declared that Aborigines liked ' to live in this manner. This delegate asked: "Why couldn't films be taken of housing conditions of the Aboriginal people and shown to the trade unions and every one possibte, so they will be shocked into doing something about it?" A hideous case of discrim ination was reported in Whyalla (South Australia), where the local mayor, de ciding that 150 Aborigines were unnecessary in the town, drove them out by force. FOREIGN COMPANIES lyiR. GORDON BRYANT, 1 Labor MHR from Vic- toria, who shared the chair manship of the conference with Aboriginal leader Mr. Joe McGinness, had stronger words to say on this sub ject. He stated that Yirrkala, a mission on the edge of Arn- hem Land, was difficult of access and had been pro claimed an Aboriginal reserve by the administration in 1931. But the people just happened to be living on bauxite. Overseas mining companies had taken out leases which ran right round the reserve. The Aboriginal Australian was not even consulted. They wouldn't do this to anyone else, he said, mentioning a particular case in Melbourne concerning land, the building of a reservoir and a certain Mr. R. M. Ansett. He added that bauxite was to be found in other countries, too, including France. "But it is much easier to dig it out from under Aus tralian Aborigines than French peasants," he said. URGENT NEED After talking, toasting, eat ing and exchanging ideas with people I found entirely com patible, here are a few of i their - remarks: Faith. Bandler (NSW Secre- .. tary of the Federal Council): "Here's to peace and Abori- /ginal rights. They go. hand in hand." On integration: "We want to live how the Jewish people live .in NSW — retaining our own identity." Herbert S. Groves, JP (Pre sident of the Aborigines' Pro gressive Association): "We want integration, not assimila tion. Integration s i m pi y means that we have the right to j live . as r,we please, . among whites, or on our own, and retain our own culture." Kath Walker (poet, Queens land Secretary, Federal Coun cil); "We are on, the move. We want our own leaders. If y/t we m'ake mistakes, we want Z them to be our own." Mrs. Celia Smith (Queens- S; land Aborigines' Advancement ./-j League): "We need more help '"1 from the trade unions." f c Jack Hassen (Aborigines' Waterfront Committee, former VJ Australian lightweight boxing champion, 1949): "We need f ' action now, for referendum, I everything. Putting this off rZ will plaice us years behind." " . H: | &fctorigmes in conference tell of starvation, eviction, fear of I police . . . BUT, they add . i . JOE McGINNESS. is congratulated on his re-election j as president of the Federal Council for Advance- 1 . ment of Aborigines and Torres Straits Islanders by Mrs. P. Pickford (Victoria). Mrs. M. Edwards (Vic- toria) is at right. 