 i ?oo. pmi pn|||P ipf|||P |Pl|a| 111 pi !|i lllllllll liil'iJIIll V,, yiiiJ , ililiJiiiiiilnil III J I, L. Election opinion MR- A. Calwell, Federal Labor Leader, told a press conference in Canberra on Saturday morning that President Johnson had no doubts about the Labor Party's policy on Vietnam. This followed a 40 minute discussion on Vietnam that he and some of his colleagues had with President Johnson. At the conference Mr. Calwell again confirmed, that opposition to conscription would he a num ber one issue for the Labor Party in' the election campaign. This follows a survey in 15 elec torates carried out for the Labor Party by veteran Australian poli tical observer, Don Whitington. The survey revealed that there was' very strong support in the electorates for opposition to con scription and for some control of rising prices. When Mr. Calwell revealed Mr. Whitington's preliminary finding at last week's meeting of the Labor Caucus, Dr. Patterson agreed that a recent survey in his own elec torate had confirmed that opposi tion to conscription was a winner. Liberal party organisers in the electorates are sending in reports that women voters this time are making the conscription issue an emotional question. The Liberal party is also well aware that in the blue ribbon seat of Kooyong when conscription be came the number one issue the party declined by 7.3 per cent in votes. Casualties among Australian lads In Vietnam, including conscripts have increased considerably since then. There are hundreds of thousands of women voters whose sons in the next few years are liable to be conscripted and killed in Vietnam or similar wars. Sidelight's from THAT visit CIDELIGHTS from the Johnson visit ... Sydney detective who said the night before the Presid ent's visit "why should I stick my neck out if there's trouble — the Yanks'll rush in, shoot first and ask questions after . . Trade union official was ap proached by political police who said "We hear you're planning to shoot the President" . . . Firemen, approached in Can berra with an official request that they stand-by to "hose down" de monstrators if necessary, refused, with the union's backing . . . Security men who used grapnels to tear down an anti-LBJ banner from a Sydney building at 5 a.m. last Saturday ... Elderly woman who said, during Sydney demonstration: "It's all so unnecessary. I lost my grandfather in the Boer war and my father in- the first world war. I lost my son in the Korean War and he never even saw his son. I live in terror for my two grandsons. But what can I do? I'm 70." The counter-demonstration by a group of "Mormon Youth of Syd ney", equipped with elaborate but erratic loud-speakers, one of whose signs read: "We salute the militant youth of Djakarta." Up round Wollondilly way "pHE buying up by Americ an companies of NSW agricultural land is worrying local farmers. This was revealed in N.S.W. Parliament recently when Mr. F. O'Keefe (Country Party) asked the Minister for Lands (Mr T L Lewis) to tell the House what tatereste SW to overseas Mr. Lewis said that Americans had purchased freehold land in the Western Division, especially around Bourke, and recently have been given some leasehold land with the idea of irrigating it to grow cotton. "In my electorate Wollondillv there has been quite an invest ment from King. Ranch in con junction with Australian invMf . ment," he said. c" King Ranch (Australia) a giant American -operated Company owns property not only in N.S.W but also in the Northern Territory nnri Queensland." ' na Mr. Lewis, said that the govern- ment welcomed the Americans here and wished them every suc cess. Human values priced in USA yyASHINGTON rates the average value of a Vietnamese life at $34 and that of a tree destroyed by I American action on a rubber I estate at $87. This difference of $53 in the Pentagon's ratings of human life as against rubber trees is noted by the New York Post's observer, Peter Hamill. Hamill points out that America paid $5650 in compensation to the nearest relatives of 166 Vietnamese killed in 11 "misdirected air at tacks". 