 Chief footman to Johnson yR. ALLAN FRASER, Labor MHR, has ironically accused the Holt Government of treating President Johnson as the King of Australia. Having surrendered its national independence to the USA, the actual handing ol the crown t.o King Lyndon would be only logical, his remarks sug gested. Already grooming himself for the role of chief footman in the new regime is External Affairs Minister Hasluck. Quoting Marcus Aurelius to the American-Austra- lian Association dinner on October 10, he said: "It is royal to do good and be abused." Emperor Aurelius, said Hasluck, was referring to "those noble qualities that are not common among ordinary men"; And precisely "this noble quality is being revealed by the United States throughout the world today." Whereas Holt before him could not find "any material particular" in which he disagreed with US policy, Hasluck castigated those who could find such ground for criticism. . Whereas Holt wanted to go "all the way", Has luck found a means of going even further by abusing such as did not feel like joining him in the perilous partnership. It appears that there are some caitiffs, some base- , born churls and villeins who don't appreciate, the _ noble qualities of the Monarch should. Not a few of them, living in Vietnam, don't understand that in being blown apart, roasted and cut tc pieces with Lazy Dog bombs they are being privileged by firsthand contact with those . selfsame "noble qualities not common among ordinary men". Being ordinary men themselves, they protest, and this pains the flunkey, the Australian External Af fairs Minister. ? Further, some of these rebellious serfs are found within the imperial palace itself! Forgetting every rule about not interfering in other countries' internal affairs, Hasluck proceeded to berate the American critics of the Johnson Admin istration who dared to criticise its Vietnam policies. He attacked American journalists for their report ing of UN debates, before proceeding to dress down the Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Com mittee (Senator Fulbright) for his criticisms of the Manila Conference. He attacked the "woolliness in the thinking" of liberals in America and Australia. He described as "childish" criticisms of US policy he had heard in New York. His motive, plain then, has become even plainer since it was revealed that President Johnson's poli tical fortunes are at their lowest ebb ever. Facing a Congressional election, notes the Sydney Daily Mirror's New York correspondent on Monday, his popularity is "at an all-time low". Australia is offered to him as a platform for waging an American election campaign. Says . Newsweek: "He will be making headlines and TV news shows around the clock — a form of campaigning that many of his supporters think will help them more than a personal appearance in their home town ever could". But, of course, he will be expected to reciprocate for favors received. If Holt and Hasluck have done their best to help him in his elections, they will hope and pray — probably not daring to demand— that he help them in theirs. Having touched the forelock and even blown the master's trumpet as required, they will expect at least a public pat on the back or some other evidence of the R,oyal bounty. The trouble for both parties ' to the transaction is that the mass of Australians, like the mass of Ame ricans, have no regard for crawlers and may show this on November 26. H 