 n T „ . , f, n |_|ELLO Tribune Juniors, This week we finish our story of Patchie the Spaniel. You'll remember that our friends are lost in the forest and something is coming down the road "Clumpety-clump ! Clumpety-clump !" THE SEARCH TN the meantime Tanya and the boys were missed in the village, it was night, the snow was falling heavily, and the children were not yet back from school. The collective farmers han- nessed a horse quickly, and Tanya's mother drove swiftly to the schoolhouse: she thought that the children might have been detained there. She drove into the forest. The horse's hoofs made a clicking sound as they struck the frozen ground. The road was mantled with snow and visible in the darkness. She was quick to arrive at the school, but it was locked. "They must have strayed off the road and are wonder ing about in the forest. They'll freeze, the poor dears", said the mother to herself. And she headed back, send ing the horse at a gallop: the villagers had to be roused and a search party sent out. PATCHIE TO THE RESCUE Tanya listened, her heart in her shoes. But the clumpety-clump of Bab-Yaga, the Witch with the Switch, had no sooner come than it began to recede till at last it was still. All of a sudden something cold and damp toucred Tanya's hand : " Patchie ! Patchie ! My sweet little dog,"' Tanya whisperel. All her courage had now revivel. "Come, boys, let's go!" she ordered them gaily. "Patchie will take us home!" And she was right. Tanya and the boys ran straight across the fields till they reached Tanya's house. And from around the bend in the street there came a lu" Clumpety-clump! Clumpety- clump! Clumpety-clump! Just as though Baba-Yaga were tramping along the road and striking the 'ground with her "Whoa!" came the voice of Tanya's mother. "Is that you, Tanya?" "Yes, Mummy. And the boys, too! Patchie's brought us!" Well, when the village children heard the story they grew very fond of Patchie. She was a darling lit"© spaniel, stubby-legged, with floppy ears reaching to the ground and a tail like a tiny stump. All white she was, but for several black spots on her back and one over her eye, like a patch. The End 