 i Nurses threaten mass resignations SYDNEY: Nurses and sisters at six NSW public hos pitals have now threatened mass resignations unless their wage claims are satisfactorily dealt with by next week. The history-making mass demonstrations of thousands 'ot nurses taking to the streets in Sydney and similar action i:in Wollongong (NSW South -Coast) for wages justice early this year, should be enough to convince the author ities that they are in no mood to make idle threats. ' r THa oirls nrp nrpriarino for a showdown to force the issue over the long drawn-out court &lt; hearings which now go back ;over 12 months. They have now been told that -the hearing of their claims will lie further delayed until Sep tember 20. The hospitals at present in volved are Sutherland, Banks- town, Blacktown, Moree, Mac lean and Narrandera. It is likely that this show of strength will spark off mass demonstrations of support throughout the State, similar to the earlier rallies in Sydney and Wollongong. At these earlier demonstra tions, which included protest marches through the cities, the trainee nurses and sisters in their thousands demanded de scent wages to accord with their dedication. Paltry offer The best they were offered was a few paltry cents. ' Present wage rates are $21.59 or a first year trainee rising to $30.23 in fourth year. A first year sister receives $39.05 and after 15 years service gets $48.60. After paying board and tax a final year nurse is left with about $10 a week. Torcixr TvTuvcoc kjcui oi>ai y ui hid jiiuawwu Association, Mr. L. Hart, told Tribune that the wage claim Is" $24.65 for first year rising to' $33.37 for a fourth year trainee and $45.85 for a first year sister rising to $59.20 after five years. The present unrest is being fanned by the NSW Govern ment's announcement to cut back its expenditure in all gov ernment departments including hospitals and schools. At the recent conference of the Nurses' Association, State Health Minister Jago spoke of nurses' "responsibility to the community" and to retain, in dependence from industrial and political matters. What Mr. Jago and the rest of his highly paid parliamentary friends will need to show is a little "responsibility" to the overworked and under paid lasses who care for the sick! 