 That $2 rise: Its going, going, gone! By our Parliamentary Roundsman C YDNEY : There won't be much left of the recent two dollar rise in the basic wage, once the State Governments increase taxes and charges following Federal Treasurer McMahon's "stay put Budget". Already hospital charges are up twenty-five per cent in Victoria and the NSW Government is preparing for drastic increases in train fares and freights, hospital fees and there will be more rises as yet unannounced. Higher S,tate taxes and charges will cut heavily into living standards already threatened by price rises flow ing from increases in the jlrice of copper, steel and freights between Australia and England. The Leader of the Federal Labor Party, Mr. Calwell, in opening last week's Budget debate, bitterly attacked the Treasurer, Mr. McMahon, for having brought in a. Budget that ensured that the States would have to increase taxes. Hand wash Mr. Calwell said that while the Treasurer had ensured that the States would have to in crease taxes, he has tried to wash his hands of the respon sibility by trying to claim that he did not expect the effect of his Budget would mean forc ing up rail and bus fares and freights, hospital charges and gas and electricity charges in most States, and particularly in New South Wales and Victoria. There are growing misgivings about Mr. McMahon's Budget in wide circles, which last Thursday expressed itself in a 3.11 per cent drop in the stock- market, its biggest loss for three months. Sackings The Budget also did not assist the sick motor industry and sackings that have begun in a small way are certain to in crease. Labor MPs, while recognising the Federal Government's re sponsibility for the neglect of the States, were also critical of the State Liberal Govern- _ ments for making the pension ers and working people carry the burden. Big profits Mr. Peters (Labor., Victoria) suggested that Victorian Pre mier Bolte should survey the profits of businessmen who have made profits in recent years ranging up to hundreds of per cent. He might then devise means to secure some of the excess profits to finance the works of his Government, he said. "Then again the Victorian . Government might abolish or restrict its lavish concession to overseas companies in the form of reduced electricity charges— in the case of Alcoa this amounts to $6 million," Mr. Peters added. Pretty sick Mr. p. Galvin (Labor, South Australia) told the House that a "fairly big industrialist" had said to him: "Things are pretty sick; industry is dead", and had added: "In 1961, just before the elec tion, the then Treasurer (Holt) almost sent me broke . . . but somehow we survived the credit squeeze. We voted Labor in 1961, but we had not learned our lesson and we swung back in 1963 and here we are now, with the then Treasurer as Prime Minister. "And while he has not got a credit squeeze on, manufactur ers have not been worse off since the credit squeeze days." Perhaps the "lesson" such people failed to learn in 1963 will be easier to grasp in 1966. CPA secretary ; 1,;:, page/ilJl 