 EXPOSE OVERSEAS DOMINATION CALL YDNEY: The Australian Council of Trade Unions has been asked to call a meeting of the maritime, waterfront, transport and shipbuilding unions, to initiate a nation wide campaign to expose the exploitation of Australia by the overseas shipping conference lines. This call was made by the Seamen's Union's Committee of Management and ship repres entatives, which met over the past fortnight in Sydney. The seamen point out that Australian shipowners , have publicly expressed their con- n + vmi nrl onni«nonV>. UC1U aU 1/JL1G V/VJiXLJLliUVA. WCtl/U" ment of overseas shipping monopoly into the shipment of Australia's products, highlight ed now by the development of Australia's great mineral depo sits and their shipment over seas in foreign vessels. "We believe the time is now for the waging of a united cam paign of the whole labor move ment to force the introduction of a national overseas shipping line/- ine seamen saia. To offset redundancy and other hardship due to the in troduction of automation into maritime industry the seamen propose: The improvement of voca tional training and leave schemes. The reduction of normal working hours. O The maintenance and im provement of wages and in come levels. Executive officers of the ACTU are asked to call a meet ing of the Automation Commit tee to recommend a policy for the trade union movement on this urgent and vital issue. A resolution demanded the immediate withdrawal of all foreign troops from Vietnam. The ACTU was asked to seek the calling of a conference of the industrial and political wings of the labor movement with the aim of: Consolidating public opin ion against the cynical and in defensible policy of the Holt Government. Securing the defeat of the Holt Government and the re turn of a Labor Government pledged to reverse Australia's aggressive role, in Vietnam. The meeting said it consider ed that the ACTU "is not pay ing sufficient attention to the alarmingly rapid changes taking place in industry as a result of mechanisation and automa tion." Horror was expressed "at the barbaric massacre which' has and is taking place in Indo nesia, now officially estimated as having reached one million people." The seamen called on all democrats to demand the res- 1 toration of democracy in Indo- i nesia and freedom for the trade i unions and working class or- If ganisations to carry on activi- M ties to improve the living con- M ditions of the Indonesian peo- Iff pie. 1 Labor leader A. A. Calwell accepting an elections fund cheque for $2000 from Boiler makers' & Blacksmiths' Federal President Stan Willis in Sydney last week. 