 [?] Catching up with the affluent society Labor Council calls talks on standards C YDNEY : Problems of housing, education and social services will be discussed at a public living stand ards conference to be held in Sydney on July 30. The NSW Labor Council has sponsored ine conierence to al low for public discussion on Australian Council of Trade Unions' policy and press for much needed improvements in living standards. Mr. R. Marsh (Labor Council assistant secretary) told last week's meeting of Council that the conference, being held on the eve ' of the Federal Budget, can help improve living stand ards. throughout the Common wealth. "It will also be an important forerunner to the Federal Elec tions," he said. On ftOUSING, lack of .fin ance, exorbitant land costs and uncontrolled price's oh building materials and rents will be dis cussed. Answers Answers to these problems will include: 9 Control of the so called "developers", allocations of low interest-rate finance to State housing authorities, and more long-term low interest- rate finance through the banks and co-operatives. 9 A rental rebate system with a vigorous and expanded Gov ernment home building program in competition with private developers. On EDUCATION, delays in school building programs, short ages of teachers, overcrowding of classrooms and the need for more Federal finance will be dealt with. Demands will include: © A nation-wide enquiry into the needs of Primary, Second ary, Technical and Teacher education. 9 Emergency Federal grants to the States for their educa tion services. On SOCIAL SERVICES, the conference will discuss: O The urgent need for a real ly free hospital and medical ser vice. 9 Improvements in child en dowment. .9 Restoration of the value of the maternity allowance, which has not been increased since 1943. 9 The need for substantial increases in all pensions. 9 The restoration of the value of s.ickness and unemploy ment benefits payments. An Australian Economic Pol icy will also be. a matter for discussion by the conference. A special session will discuss; overseas control of our indus tries and exports, restrictive trade practices, alienation of Australia's natural . resources, overseas domination by ship ping interests, inflation," taxa tion inequalities and falling levels in social services. A local organisation, associa tion, club or workshop can. be represented by four delegates and a State or national organ isation by 10 at. a cost of 50 cents per delegate. Guest speakers at the morn ing sessions will include; HOUSING— Mr. B. McFarlane (Research Fellow in Eco nomics, Australian National . University); EDUCATION— Mr. H. Schoenheimer (Sen ior Lecturer, Monash Univer sity); SOCIAL SERVICES— Dr. G. Ford (Senior Lecturer in Industrial Relations, Uni versity of NSW). The' general session of the conference, under the chair manship of Labor Council pre sident, Mr. F. Bowen, will be held in the Sydney Town Hall commencing at 2 p.m. Mr. T. Mawdsley, the organ ising secretary of the confer ence, called for the full support of the trade unions to make the conference an . outstanding success. "This can be a decisive action against the policies of the Holt Government in the coming elec tions," he said. C.O.'s form discussion group g YDNEY: A discussion group of potential conscripts who hold a conscientious belief against participation in any form of military service, or who hold a conscientious belief against participating as a combatant soldier has been formed here. The sponsor, Mi. G. Barter, of 18 Gray's Pt, Rd., Gray's Pt., is seeking contact with any one who is a potential conscript or in the process of being con scripted. 