 | China no threat \ I to Must | gYDNEY: American | and Australian in- volvement in the Viet- I nam war would be- | come more danger- ous, said Mr. L. Aar- ons, general secretary I of the Communist Party of Australia, to I the party's central ! committee meeting re cently. | He said it was part of a ilong range strategy which would involve Australia in | further aggression in Asia j I and had in mind the ultim- &lt; ate folly of attacking. China. I "That is why action j | against the Vietnam war s s is so important for Aus- j | traJia's future, as well as j | being a great moral res- j | ponsibility for the labor j 1 movement and all progres- j ! sive people," he said. J I "There is no 'Southward | thrust' by China, for there | are no Chinese forces in j Vietnam and most foreign | equipment to defend the North comes from the Sov- 1 iet Union. | Differences | "The Australian Com- | munists have differences 1 with the Communist Party | of China on some very | fundamental questions, but ! we do not believe that I China, a socialist country, is out for military conquest of Australia or any nation or country. "Our differences with the CPC on the question of war and peace are rather on whether world Iwar is inevitable or not, on the need and possibil ity of preventing world nuclear war, on the stra tegy and tactics of the struggle for peace, on the need to impose peaceful co-existence upon US im perialism, which includes | all out opposition to US I aggression in Vietnam and I elsewhere. I "China has no foreign I bases, but the US rings I China with bases. Bombing 8 of China and a possible S preventive war are openly I debated in USA and even j in Australia, and the only official arguments against I such actions are whether it is wise or militarily pos sible, not whether it is just or moral. "China, despite its great iWviiw umiiiwuwuwwuwuwuwuwi' advances, is still industri- j ally incapable of waging an I aggressive war and will re- j main so for decades; in deed, its whole defence policy is based upon a peo- j pie's defensive war, as all but the most violent anti- s Chinese commentators ad- j mit. Even Chen Yi's press S conference statem e n t s, I damaging as they were to 1 the cause of communism, were confined to "welcom- | ing" the threatened US in- | vasion. j Grave threat j "Australian Communists f believe that US policy to- | wards China is a grave jj threat to world peace, and I . especially dahgerous for f Australia. Any war against g China must be a land war, ! and if Australia were f thrown into this war it g would be a national cala- j mity. ! "Australian Communists | oppose the war threats « against China, will always 1 oppose US and Australian I aggressive attitudes and g resist to the end any effort g to embroil Australia in war I against China. j "We favour Australian g recognition of China and i support for seating the ; PRC in the UNO, further j development of trade and I cultural exchanges, reoog- I nition of the vital import- I ance of Sino-Australian j friendship and- good neighbour relations." f 