 The British elections: DEMAND FOR NEW POLICY LONDON: "Turn the elections into a nation-wide demand for a new policy for Britain", was the appeal of Communist Party general secretary John Gollan in opening .v l 1 „ « the Jrarty s general election drive. He said that Prime Minister Wilson's appeal was to "give Labor a new mandate to complete the job build a new Britain". "What Britain?" asked Mr. Gollan. "One in which social services and the elimination of poverty are held back by\ the millstone Of military ex penditure? "A Britain with the fraud of an incomes, policy and the threat of fines and j«til for trade unionists? "A Britain that slavishly backs America's war in Viet nam?" Change now In every constituency, said Mr. Gollan, the voters should demand a change in policy now. "This. Is the great issue. This is what the election is all about," Mr. Gollan emphasised. The Communist Party, put ting 52 candidates into the field would fight for this new policy— a nationwide attack on poverty, the stopping of price increases, improve ment in wages, cutting of military ex penditure, extension of social services and preservation of union freedom. Communist candidates would campaign for Britain to stop supporting the Vietnam war, to end colonialism and become a power for peace in the world. At present Labor has a ma jority of three in Parliament. Only a slight swing is needed to improve this, as there are 20 Tory seats held by a ma jority of 100 or less. One Tory has a majority of only; 14, another a majority of 713. On the other hand, therd are 20 Labor seats also held by a majority of less than 1000. While most papers predict Labor gains, some observers are warning that these may not come automatically as Labor's 500 days in office inspire little enthusiasm. Instead of fulfilling the pro mises which aroused such fer vor in 1964, Mr. Wilson has in general taken over Tory policies. His pro-American course in Vietnam, his wage-pegging pol icy at home both come straight out of the Tory book. 