 Letter on Indonesia by L. Aarons CYDNEY: The Sydney Morning Herald on July 14 published the following letter from the general secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, Mr. L. Aarons. The letter on the Indonesian murders, signed by six acade mics from two universities (pub lished in the SMH on July 9) was a welcome break in the silence of all but the Com munist Party and a section of the trade union Left in face of a tremendous crime. The six signatories have ex pressed their horror, saying this is all that can be done "in the meantime". This is certainly a long step ahead of the scarce ly veiled glee of certain pillars of the Australian establishment at the Indonesian bloodbath, or the quite open, unabashed and definite statement by General Jesus Vargas, of SEATO, that the "shootings of thousands of Indonesian Communists was a blow for freedom". One must, however, take is sue with their view that it was difficult to protest or that it uiQo rinf q dplihPYfliAlv insH- gated major terror campaign. There can be no doubt that the massacres were initiated, organised and largely perpe trated by the Army, under the centralised direction of the Rightist generals. This was our view, clearly and publicly stated in October and re-stated on December 8 of last year. This is borne out by a recent report which tells of a fishing tillage near Tjirebon: "And then the Army came and took away a lot of people, perhaps 30 or 50. Some didn't come back." Nor was it impossible to do anything at all, despite the contradictory reports. We cabled Sukarno on April 30, calling for reprieve of Njono, sentenced to death by a mili tary tribunal; we protested on May 11 at the murder of Luk- man, "shot while trying to es cape". It was possible for trade union officials to visit the In donesian Embassy to protest at the killings of SOBSI leaders. It is still possible to organise a broad appeal of Australian public figures to prevent fur ther killings. The Indonesian Embassy press release "Indo nesian Newsletter" of May 23 carried a report that the Army is combing Jakarta looking for PKI leaders, including two members of the political Bur eau, Sudisman and Sakirinan (the latter a hero of the mili tary struggle against the Dutch). A call for their safety and for release of the thousands still imprisoned would give an op portunity for the voice of con science to speak even now. 