 Liberals apologise i I" to Francis James JYDNEY : Some young Liberals have apologised to Mr. Francis James for joining in the attack on his meeting by an organised group of fascists at Gordon last Thursday night. Mr. James, editor of The Anglican, told the Tribune last Monday that he had had many phone calls from people congratulating him on his stand. Young- Liberals came from miatny parts of Sydney1 — as fa(r away as Sutherland — to attend the meeting. Afterwards one of them told Mr. James he had not known that the man leading the disruption was Arthur Smith, leader of the .Aust ralian Nazi Party. A young Liberal from Mos- man asked Mr. James whether he would be available to address a Young Liberals' meeting in Mosman. Mr. James said he would. St. John's Church of Eng land Hall' was packed to the doors by about 10001 people to hear Mr. James speak on "Saigon and Hanoi — a Contrast". Mr. James has recently visited both capitals. Prom the beginning Mr. Jamesi had to contend with a barrage of organised heck ling from a group of people led by the nazi, Smith, who at one stage tried to take the platform. Smith was identified to the meeting by Mr. Allan Ash- bolt, former producer df the ABC's session Pour Corners, who later described what happened in a letter to the Sydney Morning Herald. Mr. James said he agreed' with Mr. Ashbolt that the disruptors did not amount to more than 30 per cent of the audience. One member of the aud ience tdld the Tribune that a Croatian Ustashi fascist was among the hecklers. Refugees from Hitler-Ger many who were present said afterwards that the scene re minded them of Germany in the early stages of the nazi movement Another member of the audience said: "I was doubtful before but after this I will . be with the peace movement heart and soul." Mr. James told Tribune he felt that Australians should be aware of facts presented by the US press which on the whole had done a "mag nificent. job" in covering the Vietnam war. . (Mr. Jjames is a former Rloyal Air Flarce pilolt who served with distinction in the Second World War.) 