 I The national cake gets bigger, but . . . The workers' share gets less By Bernie Taft The forthcoming wages decision by the Arbitration Commission will affect the living standards of / over wiree muiion wage and salary earners, who with their families make up the majority of the Australian people. What stands out in this year's hearing is that the case that the unions pre sented was so overwhelm ing and unanswerable that it left the employers lit erally "without a leg to stand on". On the other hand the employers had the humil iating experience of having , 'their own case, (based largely on the recommen dations of the so-called Vernon Report, torpedoed by the members of the Vernon committee who appeared before the com mission, including Sir James Vernon himself. Unfortunately, however, judgments of the Arbitra tion Commission are not simply determined by the strength of the case that is presented. Were this so there is no doubt that the demand of the work ers would be met in full. Other forces play a decisive part. There has been a great growth of the wealth of our country. Our gross national product has al most doubled since 1948. We are blessed with great national assets. Recent significant discoveries of minerals, oil and gas have added considerable to our prospects for development. Yet, the great increase in our wealth has been distributed very unevenly within the Australian community. Wealthy Whilst most" people's ma terial standard of living has risen, what they got was only a very small proportion of this great extra wealth which our country now produces. A few wealthy companies got the lion's share of it. So much so that there is actually a growth of in equality within the Aus tralian community. This was shown clearly before the Arbitration Commission. The share of workers of the gross na tional product has fallen from 64.6 per cent in 1953-54 to 61.1 per cent in 1963/64. This amounts to a very considerable decline of the relative position of the Australia! workers as a whole over those 10 years. , Since then there has been a further decline. After the basic wage judg ment in 1964, prices in creased to such an extent that the 'value of the basic wage was reduced by 7 per cent. While some sections of the Australian workers are able to secure over- award payment to count eract this official reduc tion of their wage stand ards, many are not and are falling further behind. What have the employ ers in mind at the mo ment? They recognise that with the 7 per cent decline of the value of the basic wage since 1964 and with the feeling that this has generated among the workers some wage in creases will have to be given to them. But they want it to be as small as is possible, consistent with the need to keep the workers reasonably quiet. Mr. Kerr, QC, appear ing for the Common wealth, openly stated that the Government favored a moderate increase. Yet on the basic wage claim alone (which is for $4.30), $2.30 is required to bring it back in real terms to the posi tion of 1964, the extra $2 being for the increase in productivity . during the last two years. Determined What are these object ives? The Australian rul ing class today is deter mined to get as much as it can out of the indus trial developments which open up before our coun try. They have long-range aims. They want to keep the wages .of the bulk of the Australian workers as low as possible in order to have the maximum funds for development and greater profits from these. At the same time they are prepared to give a small section of the work ers, the highly skilled, some increases to separate them off from the rest of the workers. The employ ers have decided that it will be cheaper this way. The point is, though, that you cannot win if you rely on the Arbitration Commission. In the final analysis it is the workers' strength and their readi ness to use it which deter mines how much they get. It determines how much they win from the Arbi- | tration Commission. I 