 The copper racket Katanga to Cobar, all Uncle Sam's baby By a Special Correspondent REPORTS that share values in London of firms using copper were among those that tumbled last week (because of the Rhodesia events) have brought a smile to the lips of the domin ant American-based world copper producers. Home 40 per cent of Brit ish copper imports come from Zambia, which still basically depends on export routes through Rhodesia. The prospect of ail upward swing in copper prices was therefore already reflected in a rise in the copper wire bars price in London. The Rhodesia windfall for the big world monopoly pro ducers fits in perfectly With their overall strategy of boost ing world prices by deliberate restriction of production of this metal, so sought after in - modern production; The entire market for cop per throughout the worlds is now a tightly closed horizon tal monopoly. The main production centres axe in Africa and South Ame rica. The province of Ka tanga, in the Congo, heavily dominated by Belgian inter ests, is the major producer; second Zambia, third Peru, where the government control of the copper industry gives the external appearance of socialist administration. This Is a complete myth because the Peruvian copper market operates very much under the thumb of Ameri can dictation of prices. The British retain a little bit of independence by main- taining a copper market in London, which is called the London Metals Exchange. This is a last remnant of the days when the British colonial empire did, in fact, dictate the price of copper. The Americans competitively established a world price re cognised in New York, and this is dictating a ruling price, and the price to which the Australian market reacts. Prices There are really three cop per prices. Firstly, the price at which copper can be sold in the country which produces it. This varies enormously. Secondly, there is a world price. This is an average dic tated by the American com panies. Then there is the London Metal Exchange price, a sort of bargaining mart where the prices oscillate up and down. This industry is a perfect example of the contradiction of private ownership of the means of production. Produc ers try to establish a price which gives them a maximum profit from maximum exploit ation, particularly of cheap labor in under-developed countries. In Australia producers adopt a ruthless anti-union stand and. use the manipula tion of the market to get maximum profit. Copper is the most profit able ore extracted from Aus tralian soil. It has the longest record of profit earning— more than silver, lead, zinc, chrome, tin or gold. In Australia the price of copper today is 19 times its price at the height of the depressiod in 1931. It is rap idly becoming a rare metal. Australia produces in five , main centres some 3i per cent of the world's copper output. The major producer is Mt. Isa Mines, followed by Mt. Lyall, Peko, Cobar and Mt- Morgan. With the exception of Mt. Lyall, which has a distinct Japanese orientation, the cop per industry is 51 per cent owned by American capital. . There is, however, a sinis ter association of the copper interests in Australia with the other mining interests, which means you cannot consider the copper story in Australia in isolation. The mining consortium led by the Broken Hill - Conzinc- Rio Tinto group, which is a combination of Australian capital with American parent control of the mining industry has decided to carve up the metals market. This carve -up means the Australian consumer is going to pay more for copper and the production of copper will be artificially restricted in future. Contract There will be no further major development in Austra lia in the production of cop per. As it costs in the region of $1500 a ton to increase the production of copper, which is now yielding $1300 a ton, clearly it costs the capitalist mine owners $200 a ton to invest in this increased pro duction. This they are not prepared to do. They would be happier allowing the market to con tract relatively only and to gain a higher price for what they produce. Copper is essential for some industries at the present level of technology. The world de mand for it is increasing at the rate of 500 million: tons per year. This is a. natural increase irrespective of whe ther or not more is produced. In the face of this increas ing demand they have delib- ately and cold t bloodedly planned to consistently in crease the price for what they now make and not to invest any of their profits in further production. The profits of the Australian copper industry mainly go back to the United States. The full significance of this plot by. the copper corsortium can be seen in the fact that the people who own the cop per mines have tremendous investments in the main metal which is competing with cop per on the Australian market, aluminium. It is Broken Hill North, Broken Hill South, Broken Hill Zinc, Rio Tinto, Kaiser Aluminum, who have the investment in the alu minium ore, bauxite, of which Australia has unlimited re sources. The whole picture of the metals market is one of cyni cal market rigging, cynical exploitation, cynical seduc tion of the taxpayer to believe that he is getting something that he isn't. 