 Mutiny on the (fertiliser) Bounty BY E. W. CAMPBELL MICK went home. By train to Katherine and with, the mailman Bob McClelland to Wave Hill where he worked a short while for the next policeman. He went on holiday from the Police. Station and got a job tailing bullocks for Inver- way Station. Again no wages so back to the police Station where he was found a job with a drover, Paddy Conway. He drove a ,mob from Burrun- duda to Morestone in Queens land and returned after the wet to Wave Hill where he fell out with Cipnway, again over wages. He has worked for the Wave Hill Station from then till the recent strike. The trouble is still, over wages. I had a yarn to Mick about how the accident happened and he told me the details. ,, In passing I asked "How 4 much, -did they -pay. you for W Compensation, IV|ick?'' Mick, looked at me with' a blank look, so I rephrased the question ... "When you hurt your leg Mick, how much money did they give you?" "Nothing, me in hospital might be one year, me. get no money." "Do you still ride a horse and do stockwork, Mick?" "Yes, but very hard for me to ride horse." j\\CK is a cripple now. One leg is shorter than the other, so he walks with a very pro nounced limp. I wonder how many more Aborigines there are who have been similarly treated? The Welfare Department in Darwin is now inquiring into' the whole > matter. They must come up with an answer which is going to benefit this man. In any case, machinery must be set in motion by the ;A.C.T.U. to amend existing Compensation legislation to provide for this disgraceful position where workers have been" excluded from benefit due to race discrimination. pROSPECTS of Aus tralian farmers staging a mutiny against the way the fertiliser monopolists were robbing them of the benefits of the $6 a ton government bounty were mentioned in the Federal Parliament., The mention was made during the second reading i debate on . the .Phosphate v Fertilisers Bounty vBillr 19|>6. Labor member for Lalor (Vic.) Mr. Reg Pollard was engaged in a devastating criticism of the fertiliser monopolists, when Mr. Breaz- ley interjected: "Does the honorable . member think that the farmers will stage a mutiny on the bounty?" Mr. Pollard replied that ' if there were sufficient farmers like him. there would be a mutiny. The evidence produced by Mr. Pollard. justified i ' mutiny, not only by farmers but the entire labor move ment, against the fertiliser : monopolists. Mr. Pollard replied that ift 1963, when the $6 a ton bounty was introduced, the price of bulk superphosphate was $12.45 a ton. Today the price is $19.96 a ton— an increase of $7.50, or $1.50 more than the bounty paid. The price of bagged super had, risfen by $9.20, thus out stripping the bounty by $3.20' a ton. R. Pollard traced the in the fertiliser industry and showed how it, like so many other vital in dustries, was being allow ed by Liberal govern ments to pass into foreign hands. In 1929 there were - three ., .firms producing superphos phate in Victoria — Wischer & Co., the Mt. Lyell Co. and Cuming Smith. They merged, into a group known as Commonwealth ' Fertiliser: By 1961 this group had been mopped up by Imperial Chemical Industries of Great , Britain. In 1965 ICI' increased its sales from $82 million to $112 million and earned a peak profit of $10,600,000. These sales and profit in cluded results from newly acquired subsidiaries, which were Australian Fertilisers Ltd. and. its main subsidiary ACF and. Shirleys Fertilisers Ltd., Queensland. When ICI moved to take over Commonwealth , Fertil isers in. 1961, the price of the tatter's shares jumped from $1 to $6 on the Stock Ex change. Mv. Pollard said, that the attitude ,'of the monopolists could . be summed up as: "Now that our shares 1 are worth' $6 instead of $1 We must extract from the pri mary producers a price that we can justify on the market price- of oui 'shares." Mr. Pollard commented: — "Merrily the company , pro ceeded to do that, because it is the big boy in the industry." HE then turned the spotlight on Creseo Fertilisers of South Aus tralia. Crescc was the subject of intense take-over competition by two big American con cerns — WF R. Grace & Co. and Esso Standard Oil. In. the course of the bidd ing Crescc's shares rose from . $5 to $9. Mr. Pollard commented:— "Is anyone going to tell me that a company that pays $£ for shares that were pre viously $5 and. originally $2 is . not going to get its pound' of flesh by increasing the cost tc primary producers of this qountry?" Among the other foreign monopolies with extensive interests in' the Australian fertiliser industry, named by Mr. Pollard, were BORAL, Conzinc Riotirito, . British Petroleum and Mitsui. One of the pioneer com- i panies in the fertiliser in dustry i,s Cuming Smith & Co. On. July 27, 1966, Cuming Smith- confirmed a 15 per „ cent annual dividend rate. Mr. Pollard strongly crit icised the Holt Government for failing to utilise i.ts powers under the 1963 Act to inspect" the books and accounts of the fertiliser &lt; companies. He. pointed out that an enquiry ordered by the Bruce- Page Government in 1929 proved that the fertiliser com panies were overcharging by 50c a ton. Mr. Pollard concluded that he was not satisfied that the Holt Government had inves- . tigated the price rises in the thorough manner which is justified and provided for in the Bounty Act of 1963. These two photos direct from Wave Hill Station in the Northern territory and exclusive to TRIBUNE show glimpses of the aborigines whose courageous Struggle against economic inequality has made national headlines. (Above) the striking stockmen and (below, left) a group of some of their children. 