 Looking at the tax lurkers j Artful dodgers are all well-heeled By a Special Correspondent |ARLY in October the report of the Commissioner of Taxation was presented to Federal Parliament. There are reasons why this year's report has particular interest. The Australian last month reported the NSW Deputy Commissioner of Taxation as stating that the number of false income tax claims had noticeably increased this year and his department was tak ing offenders to court so that the public would realise that falsifying claims could bring heavy penalties. Most of the falsifications, he said, were in claims for life insurance and medical bills. It is a well known fact that many workers because of ignorance of taxation laws, constantly fail to claim de ductions to which they are entitled. For many years the trade union press and Tribune have featured special material to assist workers in claiming max imum deductions. In a period in which the cost of living is soaring higher and higher, workers can ill-afford not to claim their full entitlement under Taxation laws. Wealthy The Commissioner's Report reveals that it is the wealthy groupings— which least need tax deductions — which provide the bulk of the illegal tax dodgers in Australia. Workers are conspicuous by their absence. Investigations finalised during the year had resulted in a total of 8,948 taxpayers being charged $7,290,000 in increased tax assessments. A much smaller number have details of their cases published in the Report because the Total Additional Tax Charged (i.e. fines) exceed a certain figure, and a certain percentage of tax avoided. These are the big fish. Within the 606 there is sharp differentiation. Thirty-nine tax payers, .43% of those charged Additional Tax represented 20% of total Increased Tax Assessed. Of these 39, seventeen are graziers, company directors, investors, property owners and. pastcralists. The description of their occupation by many of the remainder would suggest they are smaller business and pro fessional people but this in formation is obviously far from being exact or correct For example, of the very few who give their occupation as falling into the working- class category, there is one who describes himself as a "clerk". But this "clerk" over a period of seven years under stated his taxable income by $83,240, making it obvious that the bulk of his income came to him from something else than being a simple clerk. While there is no doubt that anyone can make a mistake that could land him in trouble with the Taxation Department, the above figures show that the biggest tax-dodgers are to be found among the wealthy. 