 Leading question for the Pull Bench What odds for margins lift? ALTHOUGH Commissioner Winter's examination of "work-values" in the metal industry will affect only margins in the Federal Metal Trades Award, the results of this case will also serve as a basis for applications in relation to margins in other awards. Consequently a large body of" workers are asking "What are our chances of increases and how much will they he?" The answer to this question will not be finally known until Mr. Winter's report is final ised and the Full Bench — Judges Wright, Moore,. Gallagher and Commissioner Winter — have announced their decisions on this report. Two problems immediately confronting the unions in this margins case are: the traditional method used to determine work value, and the results of this revealed in a number of decisions. Onus On the first problem the unions have the onus of show ing that the skill, responsib ility and conditions associated with the work have changed in such a way since the last work . value assessment as to warrant an increase in margins. Mr. J. Robinson, counsel for the Metal Trades Employers, has served notice that he will insist on this traditional method of assessing work-values and compel the unions to prove changes warranting increased margins. Opposing the Union's claim for $6 industry allowance for GMH workers Mr. Robinson spoke of work-values in relation to those workers and said: "... The majority of em ployees were engaged on routine tasks, tasks which at the time of the making of the 1953 award, had been more skilled, more onerous and carried out under less pleasant physical conditions." He sub sequently added " . . . many classifications . . . have cur rently a lower skill content and therefore a lower work value as compared with 1953." These same arguments will undoubtedly be used in the metal . trades case and, if the employers' contentions were to prevail, then clearly there would be no increase in mar gins—or very little— for a large body of' workers in the metal industry, and also in other industries. But the employers do not have to prove a case. They only have to "knock over" the unions' case. The onus of proving a case for increased margins rests upon, the unions. If the trad itional method of measuring work-values— that is skill, res ponsibility and the circum stances in which the work is performed — is applied in the metal trades case the unions Will have to prove that the State of affairs is the opposite to that put forward by Mr. Robinson in relation to wor kers at GMH. Varying Three examples will suffice to show how this . measure ment of work-values is applied with varying results. Last September Senior Com missioner Taylor dealt with a work-value margins case for locomotive enginemen. He con cluded that changes had occurred in the work of steam and diesel locomotive drivers and gave them $2.20 increase. No changes had occurred in the work-value of suburban electric train drivers but be cause they were covered by the same classification as loco drivers, he also gave them $2.20. He re-valued the work of a fireman qualified to act as a driver and gave him 20c a week more. But he rejected claims for all other grades, that is the lower paid, because that work had not changed. In June this year, a west Australian Arbitration Commis sioner extended the circum stances in which the work was performed . to "include the whole context of standards ana values in the community . . Applying this criterion, he concluded that because other workers had received increasea margins in work value cases the skill of metal tradesmen was under-valued in the com munity and he awarded $4->u increase. Nothing Non-tradesmen got nothing. More recently still hank Officers received varying in" creases on the basis of w"a was called "comparative work values". In fact, these increases were a "spill-over" from in creases awarded to taxation officers. With these problems to cope with, the answer to the wor kers' question, "What are o chances of increases and no much will they be?" rema very uncertain. 