 SHARP BATTLE OVER MP's SALARY GRAB Bitter debate in Labor Council JYDNEY : A deputation from the Sydney District Committee of the Amalgamated Engineering Union to a State Inquiry will strongly oppose any salary increases for Members of the N.S.W. Parliament. Other union leaders at last week's N.S.W. Labor Council also voiced strong opposition to the proposed salary increases. The AEU's views have been submitted in writing to Mr. B. H. Matthews, a retired Queensland judge, who has been appointed by the NSW Government to inquire into parliamentary salaries. Some of the reasons for the union's strong objection to in creases for MLA's include the failure of the Government to safeguard workers living stand ards, to control prices and to grant reasonable increases to public servants. Increases up to 47 p.c. State MLA's now receive a basic annual salary of £2650 and .an electoral allowance ranging from £750 to £1050. They are seeking salaries which could exceed £5000 — a 47% increase. The Premier's salary is ex pected to rise from £7950 to somewhere near £10,000 — a little more than a 25% increase. Ministers' salaries, now from £5350 to £5650 are also expected to exceed £7000— almost a 24% increase. In contrast with the expected salary grab by politicians was the NSW Public Service Board's 1 recent increase of 6/- a week for men and 4/6 for women Public Servants. Public servants in NSW were refused the 14% marginal in crease granted by the Common wealth Arbitration Commission in June last year. The State In dustrial Commission recently decided to extend this increase to State Awards. Labor Council debate The NSW Labor Council last week demanded that any per centage increase granted to MLA's must automatically ap ply to all Government work ers. Council called on the Askin Government to support the Aus tralian Council of Trade Unions' application in the' basic wage and margins cases set down for hearing next month. Concern was expressed by Council with the present policy of the State Government, partic ularly its failure to honour election pledges to rectify wage anomalies of its own employees and to deal with the serious economic situation developing because of unrestricted price in creases. A heated debate followed the proposal from the executive that "no good purpose would be served in a declaration by the Council opposing increase in salaries." The AEU had asked the Coun cil to make such a declaration. The executive decided not to declare opposition to parlia mentary salary increases be cause the NSW Parliamentary Labor Party supports the salary inquiry. "Need a fighting stand" Mr. S. Lewis (president, NSW Teachers' Federation) moved an amendment that no increased salaries be given to Members of Parliament "until such time as the State Government take steps to see that its employees are granted salary justice and ceases its economy drive in the Public Service of NSW." Mr. J. Heffernan (Federal sec retary, sheet Metal Workers' Union) also opposed the execu tive proposal. He said: "With the lowering of- living standards, increased bus fares and rising prices, the situation has been reached where' the labor movement could roll back the Liberal Govern ment in NSW. "We need a fighting stand and must give Labor politicians a lead to fight this salary grab as the Queensland trade union movement did. "The Liberal Government is on the run and if the labor movement condones these sal ary increases we will lose the initiative. "Labor lost the last State elec tions because of a loss of faith and now is the time to regain this faith. "It's cowardly not to oppose the salary grab," he said. Mr. J. Kenny (Labor Council secretary) said no good purpose would be served by opposing salary increases. "To say no increases would be a negative approach. "If Askin refuses to adjust wages of public servants it is time they stood him up," he said. Mr. K. Miller (secretary Plasterers' Union) said he was opposed to any move to assist the Liberal Government. "The Government should do something to increase the wages of workers in this State. If it's not prepared to do this, we should say 'go down to the Arbitration Court where the workers are forced to go', and just see how they like it." The executive proposal was carried by 109 votes to 69. 