 800 PUBLISH BIG PEACE APPEAL jELBOURNE : Over 800 Australians including many distinguished in academic life, the arts and the professions have taken a page of the Melbourne Herald to call for peace in Vietnam andj the withdrawal of Aus tralian forces. They have signed their names to a statement appearing in the New York Times on June 5 last. The US statement was signed by 6400 distinguished Ameri cans mainly from the universi ties, churches and professions. They included two Nobel prize winners, two Presidents of uni versities and 20 deans. The statement called oh the US Administration to "disen tangle ourselves from this in tolerable situation in Vietnam." It further called, on the US Government to stop all bomb ing and other offensive opera tions in Vietnam, to indicate that it will negotiate with the South Vietnam National Liber ation Front, not to interfere with the free exercis.e of pop ular sovereignty in Vietnam and— " — To evaluate seriously whe ther self-determination for the Vietnamese as well as our own national interests would not best be served by terminating our military presence in Viet nam". Reproducing this advertise ment the Australian signatories say they call on the, Australian Government also to disengage Australia from its "intolerable situation" in Vietnam. They say such a course would ac cord with the mood of an in creasing number of Australians. The list is headed by some 120 staff members of Melbourne and Monash universities. They include Professor R. Jackson, C. Mohr, Sydney D. Rubbo, Jacob Smit, D. Tribe, G. Yule, R. Barden, R. H. Day, Trevor Jones, D. H. Monro, Noel Murray, and lecturers Nina Christesen, L. Church ward (Reader), J. W. Legge (Reader), S. Murray-Smith, Alan Roberts and Ian Turner. There follows a further list of some 60 staff members of interstate universities, includ ing Professor L. C. Birch (Syd ney), R. B. Ward and ,C. 'M. Williams (New England) and the late Professor S. E. Wright of Sydney University (whose death last weekend in Sydney was a tragic loss to the peace movement). The list of clergy includes two bishops— D. A. Garnsey of Gippsland and the coadjutor Bishop of Melbourne, Dr. Felix Arnott. Notable also is Rev. Gordon Powell, formerly of St. Stephen's Presbyterian Church, Sydney. Representatives of the crea tive arts include painters Arthur Boyd and Clifton Pugh and Harry Seidler, of Sydney is among the well-known archi tects. Allan Ashbolt, David Martin, Oriel , Gray, Max Harris, Tony Morphett, Myra Roper and Ray Taylor are in the list headed literature, journalism and broadcasting. 