 Askin's court ballot scheme condemned by trade unions By The Industrial Roundsman SYDNEY: The proposed legislation by the N.S.W. Liberal Gov ernment to provide for Gourt-eontrolled ballots In State union elections is seen by unionists as a further attempt to interfere in the domestic affairs of their organisations. The irony is that Liberals, both State and Federal, show "great concern" for unionists whose officials may he communists, left-labor, or militants. UHAT is concerning unionists is not their union ballots or officials, which they have democratic ally elected, but high prices I and the lowering of living I standards. | If Premier Askin. really wants a I crusade to clean up improperly I run organisations, he could devote 8 his time and efforts to the numer- 8 ous companies that have gone I broke, sending the savings of 8 small shareholders down the I drain. | Why not tighten up on company laws? or have Court-controlled bal lots in employers' organisations to prevent the public being robbed by price increases. And while the Premier is at it he could well improve the method of elections in the Liberal Party. But it was an election promise to give unionists full democratic con trol of their affairs. If this is the Government's inten- ' This is not all correct as they have not made any such categorical statement. In their Calcutta Con- tion, the proposed legislation is the direct opposite to this promise. Unionists would have been better served had the Premier carried out other promises like no increase in fares, wage justice for Public ser vants and improvements in educa tion. xne .premier nas saia notning nor does he intend to do anything about I the anti-union penal powers in the State Arbitration Act, under which unions can and are heavily fined for seeking higher wages and improved conditions. Unionists have been campaigning for vfiftrs hn Tiava thAsp. nnwsrs ta- moved. This is a real issue for unionists not how they run their own union ballots. No complaints Mr. E. Boatswain (acting N.S.W. secretary Building Workers' Indus trial Union) adds to this when he said that over the past 20 years there have been no complaints by any member, even unsuccessful candi dates, as to the conduct of their union ballot. "We can only interpret that a Court-ballot imposed on our union would be intereference of the union conducting its own affairs." Mr. T. Wright (N.S.W. secretary Sheet Metal Workers' Union) said the State Government is now trying to tighten measures against unions in line with the Menzies' Government's legislation. "Menzies legislation has been con demned by the whole trade union movement and I'm sure State unions will also oppose any attacks and in terference in their internal affairs," he said. ACTU opposition , In 1954, Australian Council of Trade Unions' president (then, secretary) I Mr. A. Monk published, pamphlet setting out the trade union move ment's policy on Court-controlled ballots. This policy adopted at the 1951 ACTU Congress declared that the biieii cuiieiiuaiieiiLQ uu wuo Commonwealth Arbitration Act "are designed to interfere in the internal organisation of the trade union move ment." i Congress said . . . "by imposing conditions for the taking of ballots which interfere with and deny the democratic control of the organisa tion, as already provided in the regis tered rules, would subject the trade union movement of this country to the control and' direction of' the Government and/or its appointees." Askin's proposed legislation is not aimed to do a service to unionists, but is on behalf of people outside the movement who hope to weaken the unions' opposition to employers' policies. 