 Askin under fire over nolice "tribunal" SYDNEY: Following a year in which serious allegations of brutality and corruption were levelled against New South Wales police, the Askin Government is coming under heavy fire for its blatant attempt to fob the whole matter off by appointing a "tribunal11 without real power. ALL the recent allegations were investigated by the poiice themselves and almost without exception those charged have been exonerated. With only half of the first month of 1965 gone there is a police in quiry into allegations that a senior detective(sergeant. has been assist ing criminals with thefts. Youth shot The last day of 1965 saw the fatal police shooting in the head of a 17-year-old youth at Merrylands, a Sydney suburb. He jumped and ran from a stolen vehicle and the policeman con cerned said he was firing over his head and killed him by accident. This does not alter the fact that a young man was killed for an offence that had he been arrested and convicted, would have meant only a fine, a bond or at worst a short sentence. One of the most notorious cases of 1964 was that of William Leonard Stinvics. He alleged through the press that he was savagely bashed in a police cell. He was admitted to hospital haemorrhaging badly and doctors performed an emergency 2 £ hour kidney operation on him. Then, mysteriously, he declined to repeat the allegations. A police inquiry "revealed" that Stinvics was not bashed at all. What really happened was that a 20 stone policeman had fallen on him! The N.S.W. Premier, Mr. Askin announced last Friday that no criminal charges would be brought against the police involved. Mr. Askin said he had received advice from the Crown Solicitor (Mr. McKay) on the results of his independent examination of re ports and evidence concerning the case. It has taken the Crown. Solicitor.... two months to arrive at these con clusions. The police inquiry took J more than a month. j The Public Solicitor could only j base his findings on a report by I the police into allegations made I against their fellow officers. j Now the N.S.W. Government has decided to set up a tribunal which I will decide whether criminal pro- | ceedings can be taken against j police after complaints by the pub lic. I This step could indicate some j concern in Cabinet circles for grow ing lack of public confidence in the police and police inquiries. But the proposal is that the actual investigation of complaints should remain with senior police officers appointed by the Police Commis sioner. Criticism mounts A tribunal consisting of a retired judge or other suitable person act ing as a Commissioner of Rights, would decide on the basis of the police reports, whether criminal pro ceedings .'should be . taken against any policeman. The Leader of the State Opposi tion (Mr. J. B. Renshaw) said that the Premier was "vacating his Ministeral responsibilities" by set ting up the tribunal, i "I am a great believer in Minis teral responsibility. A Minister is subject to questions in Parliament. "A tribunal such as that proposed would be insulated and isolated," he said. Mr. K. Buckley, honorary secretary of the Council for Civil Liberties writing in the Sydney Morning Herald, says that the Government's proposed move "does not really get to the heart of the matter." TTo coisl frViof in Sonfomhor 1QR9 the police Department investigated allegations that Terence Waterhouse had been bashed by police, "This investigation was as pro tracted, secret and questionable as the current police inquiry into Stinvics' complaint," Mr. Buckley says and adds that public dissatis faction with the Police Commis sioner's report on the case led the. Premier to refer this report to an independent authority, Mr. J. J. Davoren, Q.C., for an opinion as to whether criminal proceedings should be taken against police. Mr. Davoren supported the Police Commissioner's view that no charges should be laid. This was a foregone conclusion, Mr. Buckley says. "The Evidence before Mr. Davoren in the police report consisted of statements by a number of civilians and police men. "Waterhouse himself was unable to identify his alleged assailant and the policeman involved denied any assault. "The statements were unsworn and untested by skilled cross-ex amination. Of what value were they?" Mr. Buckley asks. "Investigations of complaints against policemen should be taken out of the hands of the Police Department What is needed is an independen. tribunal with power to initiate and carry out its own in vestigations in public," Mr. Buckley says. 