 [?] Whether it be the tiger in the tropics ...! By The Challenger HETHER it be the "tiger" in the tequila, the rarefied air of high | altitude, or the torrid heat of the tropical zone, "expbrt" and sports fan alike, can look forward to some surprises at the Olympics at Mexico City in 1968. A casual glance at a world map, will show that Jamaica and Mexico City lie at approximately the same latitude in the north ern hemisphere, Jamaica 1 being about two degrees nearer the Equator — both lie in the torrid tropics. The just completed Com monwealth Games at Kingston, Jamaica, dealt destructively with some of the seemingly dogmatic views that the sporting world held regarding the conditions necessary for the setting of world rec ords. In Jamaica, sporting sci ence experienced some valuable lessons in the ef fect of heat and humidity; in Mexico City which lies up to 15,000 feet above sea level, much no doubt will be learnt about the effect of altitude. In Jamaica much em phasis was placed upon the exhausting effect of the high temperature (around the 90's) and high humid ity yet in the swimming, where the water tempera ture was about 16 degrees above the accepted normal of 72 degrees, 10 world records were broken by the Australian swimmers. - Also, in some of the most gruelling of the track and field events, it was the competitors from the temperate to frigid zones of climate that came through successfully. Scotland's Jim Alder won the marathon from Englishman Bill Adcocks. Englishman Ron Wall- work won the gold medal for the 20-mile walk and Peter Buckley from the Isle-cf-Man took out first place in the 120-mile cycle race. Some of the results at the Jamaican Games seem to indicate that some ath letes are stimulated to greater effort when con fronted with vastly differ ent conditions. A June issue of Soviet Weekly reports that Soviet sportsmen are training in a variable temperature and pressure chamber in Mos cow's Central Stadium, to prepare themselves for Olympics in Mexico City. The chamber simulates the conditions of Mexico City's climatic conditions and regular training, has shown good results. "Some athletes have improved on their own records", reads the report. Yes the Mexico City Olympics may indeed be very surprising. What do you think? THE cold facts are: Bal- main's first grade play ers had little incentive to risk injury to win its match against West last Sunday and played accord ingly. Balmain now have a fortnight's spell to do all the things necessary to play a hard semi-final and I coach Harry Bath, has the I know-hpw plus material to 1 work with. | I'll repeat my early sea- 1 son forecast to Tribune readers that St. George \ will win its eleventh con- secutive final grade prem- 1 iership by beating Bal- I main in the Grand Final. I Six of St. George's play- | ers represented Australia 1 this season — five are ex- ' internationals. Of these, uiay sun worries uie rep resentative halves and Ed die Lumsden has nine tries to his credit, only two less than Test winger and club mate Johnny King. As Tribune goes to press, I expect that one extra day's spell and the goal kicking form of Bob Lanigan could be sufficient for Newtown to defeat Wests in the play off Tues day for the semi-finals honours. I expect that Manly's forwards' strength plus their dependable backs with high scoring Bob Bat ty to be too much for their opponents, who will be playing their third hard match within the week. I will not attempt to forecast the winners of the Reserve and Third grade premierships, though wish ful thinking would cause me to settle for the Tigers. However, exper ience proves mostly that minor premiers are the form horses and Souths have an advantage of not having their team affected by possible first grade re placements. An interesting point scoring side-light is pro vided by the record of the former Newtown speed ster, Ray Preston in the 1S54 season. Preston scored 34 tries for the grade season and his co-winger scored 21 in the same period— a tally of 55 tries between them, which is more than any first grade side has scor ed this season. For the same club and during the same season, Gordon Clifford topped 163 points from one try and 80 goals— five points less than Newtown's Bob Lanigan's tally for this season. , it is little credit to North Sydney that Ken Irvine, the world's bes winger, was only able to score 13 tries in this sea son's grade matches. I 