 a Dead silence from the Cricket Board I By The Challenger f Decent Australian citizens are no doubt ashamed of the Aus- j tralian Cricket Board of Control's weak-kneed and servile at- j titude to the insult to the African people, during the present Australian cricket tour of South Africa. REPORTS in the daily press last week said that Africans had been humiliated and insulted when officials barred, them from tne ground where the Australians played in the coastal city of East London (South Africa). Indians and people of mixed blood had been separated into separate viewing enclosures. Africans have protested, to the local papers and sportsmen inte rviewed have agreed that the ban .....was an insult and could only be interpreted to mean that Africans "are not persons and are void of all human feelings and aspirations." Said one spokesmen' for the Africans: "I think the Government is going too far with its insults. This " i-vju muun iui any peo ple to stomach. "Africans have attended matches and watched tour ing sides. Now they are j debarred from watching , j international cricketers in 1 j action." 1 The Australian manager E Jj Bill Jacobs is reported to I w have declined to comment I j and the Australian Board 1 of Control hasn't said boo. | The Board well knows S of the Australian public I j resentment some time ago | I over the possibility of the E exclusion of Graham | Thomas from the Austra- 8 lian side to tour South I Africa. I Nor should the Board I $ need reminding that the | International Olympic \ Committee has banned g | South Africa from the 1 j Olympics until such time g s that it alters its racist apartheid laws. To bend the knee before j the oppressive government of South Africa, as the Australian Board is doing, is not only a negation of sportsmanship but in any man's language, plain gut less. It is a denial of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the Unit ed Nations. A real football fan WHATEVER the code of I football is you follow here is an opportunity for you to further get the col ors of your team known. . A very keen football fan in Czechoslovakia wishes to correspond w'th Aus tralian fans and to obtain the club badges of the first and second division clubs in Australia He is willing to exchange gifts for the badges, so as to add to his collection of badges of all world clubs. Although he made many Australian friends during the war, when he was in England recuperating from wounds, he has not one address to write to. Here H is his address: B Joseph Knahl, I Dvur Kralove M/L I Heydnkova 1052 — Okr. H Trutnov B Czechoslovakia. 1 „ 