 A Communist from Italy SENATOR GUILIANO PAJETTA, a 50-year-old leading Italian communist, was a recent visitor to Australia as a delegate to the council meeting of the inter-Parliamentary Union. He is a member of the I Italian Communist Party central committee and a vice-chairman of the Ital ian Senate foreign affairs : committee. Senator Pajetta made an impressive contribution at the political committee of the Inter Parliamentary Un- )ion, and very few of the M.Ps present realised his real background. The Pajetta family have a special place in the hearts of the Italian people for their courageous struggle against fascism, and in the interest of -the Italian nation. Giuliano became acquaint ed with Mussolini's police in . November 1927 at the age of 12. Detectives raided his home and took away his father, mother and elder brother Gina Carlo. (Gina is | now a member of the poli tical bureau of the Italian Communist Party). This left Giuliano at home with his younger brother Gaspare, who was killed by the Germans during the par tisan war in 1944. The reason behind the raid was not only to arrest his father and mother as known anti-fascists, hut also to put pressure on his elder brother, who was a leader of the il legal Young . Communist League in Turin. His parents returned in a few days, but his brother was kept in jail for two years, but they were 'unable to make him hand over the names of the Turin young communists. Giuliano joined the Italian Communist Party in 1930 at tne age of 16 and in the same year was jailed by ; Mussolini for two years. When released towards the 21 nof 1931 he left ItaJy ft- „i5 y anc spent five years «kroad in prance and the Soviet Union. 1 . to 8 beginning of the «ivU war Giuliano went to Spain where he be- ePolitical leader of the | J-&lt;Hh Brigade. I ou&lt;LJuly 193? he was seri- 1 wa&lt;? yilljured to Brunete and I out of action for some time. As soon as he was well again he continued to fight against Franco forces and' was one of the last Inter national Brigade members to leave Spain in February 1939. He crossed into France il legally where he was arrest ed at the beginning of World War II. Eeaping in 1941 from a French internment camp in Des Milles near Marseilles he carried on work among Ital ian migrants against the fascist war in Toulon and Nice on behalf of the illegal Italian Communist Party. ' Again arrested in May 1942 near Nice he was kept in jail until February 1944, when he escaped as result of a simultaneous attack on the central jail (Nimes) by prisoners inside and from partisans outside. Giuliano and the others who escaped went with the guerillas to the French mountains, assisting in sab otage of factories and rail ways and ambushing of Ger man fascist soldiers. In May 1944 Giuliano said goodbye to the partisans in France and walked over the Alps to Italy and joined the partisans in Milan. Arrested by the German S.S. in October 1944, he was first tortured and then sent to a concentration camp in Manthaus, Austria. He returned to Italy in 1945. Of the 300 who left on his train for the concentra tion camp, only 12 were alive to make the journey home. Giuliano says he owes his life to the illegal organisa tion of the communists in the concentration camp; they protected him so that he could work as a member of the illegal anti-fascist com mittee and a representative of the Italian prisoners. After the war he worked among young people, was active in the peace move ment and elected a member of the central committee of the Italian Communist Party in 1945. Giuliano was first elected to parliament in 1946 and be came a Senator in 1963. 