 ON THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE ' 7%: A poor man's guide to the tax lurks JT S tax assessment form time again. A tax consult ant has provided these points to help Tribune readers make the .most of their entitlements: Working people do not have the same scope for taxation deductions as do companies or business people but, even so, most taxpayers underclaim on deductions. Claim what you think you are entitled to and let the Depart ment disallow it if you are wrong. WORKING WIVES AND CHILDREN: If your wife or child has worked for part of the year and been wholly main tained by you for the rest, you are entitled to a partial claim for the rest. (See directions Page 3 of form. Claim highest amount.) It sometimes pays to split claims with working wife for keep, medical, dental and school expenses of children. A husband claiming for two children may deduct $182 for the first and $130 for the second —total $312. If the husband claims for one and the wife for the other, each may claim $182— $364. EDUCATION EXPENSES : The maximum amount which can be claimed for the educa tion of a child is $300. Government assistance in the form of a scholarship covering books, fees, etc., no longer reduces your claim for a student child, but government assistance in the form of maintenance of the student child continues to reduce the amount of the dep endant's deductions for that child. You are entitled to claim for school fees, books, stationery, fares, school clothing, and so on. if a bicycle is used for travel ling to school its upkeep can be claimed. Even if it is not compulsory for your child to wear a school uniform, but the school has a recognised uniform (and most schools have), your expense on this item can be claimed. You are also entitled to claim for music, dancing and other lessons provided they form part of the school curriculum, and for expenses connected with school sports, plays, etc. MEDICAL: The total amount paid for medical and dental ex penses for yourself and depend ants may be claimed, as an al lowable deduction. Medical expenses include hos pital, dentist, therapeutic treat ment ordered by doctor, artifi cial limbs, eyes and appliances such as hearing aid prescribed by a doctor and also amounts paid to chemist for drugs and medical supplies. If your wife is working and 5 medical expenses have been heavy, it may save tax if she pays some of the accounts, and claims them in her return AGE ALLOWANCE: A single male over 65 or female over 60 can earn up to $988 and a mar ried couple (if- one of them is of pensionable age and supports the other) can earn up to $1872 per year between them without having to pay any tax. FARES, FARE ALLOWANCE AND TRAVELLING BETWEEN JOBS: The High Court decided that fares to and from work are not deductible. However, some workers re ceive fare allowance and, in these cases, the fares or part of them can be deducted. Fares incurred in travelling between jobs, that is, for travel direct from one job to another, are also deductible. MIGRANTS: If wife is living abroad and taxpayer intends to bring her to Australia, he should make a claim and set out the facts in a letter pinned to his return. WORKERS' COMPENSATION: Workers' compensation paid in one amount is NOT taxable. If paid weekly, fortnightly or in regular amount, full tax MUST be paid. LONG SERVICE LEAVE AND- HOLIDAY PAY: You are tax- ' able on 5 per cent of any amount received in a lump sum payment at the termination of your employment, whether it be long service leave, holiday pay or an amount paid to you be cause of legal proceedings. UNEMPLOYMENT: Benefits are not taxable and should not be included. SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL CLAIMS: Certain workers are entitled to make special claims such as dry cleaning of uni forms, sharpening, repair and replacement of tools etc. If in doubt you should con tact your trade union on these mBtt6rs TRADE UNION FEES: Fully deductible. NON - LODGEMENT: Some workers may not have lodged ( a return for many years. This generally means they have lost money in refunds. Therefore, a sum of money may be waiting for them to col lect. | 