 [?] JUST LEAVE IT TO THE GIRLS By Challenger At the Commonwealth Games to be held in Kingston, Jamaica, I in August, Australian women will be once more called upon to provide the proof that Australia is a great sporting nation. Australian women have always been to the fore in upholding the prestige of Australian sport m international competition. Names like Marjorie Jackson, Shirley Strickland, Betty Cuthbert and Dawn Fraser are household words not only in Australia but in all sports minded coun tries. Since their introduction to international sport Australian women's standards have been consistently high. The standards for the com ing Commonwealth Games will prove to be no excep tion. This will be so especi ally in women's athletics. It is estimated that Austra lian girls should win the 100 yards, 440 yards, 80 metres hurdles, high jump, discus and the sprint relay. On present form, Judy Pollock should have no pfob- lems in the 440 yards; Pam Kilbom should prove super ior in the 80 metres hurdles; Michele Brown, who has set a Commonwealth record of 6ft and a i inch in the high jump, should win that event and there is a possibility that Jenny Lamy, Diane Burge and Joan Henriksen could make the 100 yards an all-Australian final. The sprint relay is also considered to be as good as won. However, all this optimistic forecasting may be just wish ful thinking unless the Aus tralian games team of 120 competitors and officials are actually able to make it to Jamacia — and this is, pro vided the necessary finance is raised to get them there. Because of the Federal government's lousy approach to the provision for sport, the burden of meeting the costs falls to John Citizen and according to latest re ports he has fallen down on the job in N.S.W. .by so far subscribing only about $100 of the N.S.W. quota of $40,000 needed. However . this charge can not be laid on the Sydney wharfies (surprising, as the government tries to charge them with everything). The Sydney branch of the Waterside Workers' Federa tion is organising a sports . programme to take place on Thursday, midday, June 2, so as to raise finances for the Commonwealth games athletes. The sports, described as the "Little Games" will con sist of three events. A walking race with a prize of two return tickets to either Melbourne or Bris bane by T.A.A. A 130 yard sprint with a gold watch as a first prize and .the "Hungry Mile" race with a first prize of a trip for two to Tasmania on the Aus tralian Line ship, the Em press of Australia. Merv Crispin, treasurer of the W.W.F. Youth Com mittee told Tribune, that an entry fee of 50 cents is be ing charged and that entry is open to any Maritime Worker — watchmen, tradesmen, tally clerks, Maritime Service Board employees, etc. Entries should be in early, but will close at the post, said Mr. Crispin. Enquiries should be made at the Waterside Workers' Federation, Sussex Street. It seems somewhat ironic that some of the main sup port for the Commonwealth Games success, should come from two sections of the community, that are most penalised — women and wharfies. If one finds that a bit. vague, try reading up on the industrial history of nurses and wharfies in struggles for wage and job justice. Worth noting (By "PEGASUS") Since arriving from New Zealand last March, Apa (by Gabador from King's Lady) still has a long way to go before his form can be compared to the form he showed last January, when winning the Auckland Cup. Apa came to Australia with the Sydney Cup as his target. For preparatory races he ran in the Tancred Cup carrying 9.1, the Autumn Cup 8.11 (Warwick Farm), and the . Autumn Stakes with 9.3 at Randwick.. He finished tenth, thir teenth and. fifth respectively. His run in the Sydney Cup was also discouraging. He carried 8.7 and finish ed fourteenth of fifteen run ners. However the local handi- cappers have not treated Apa with much kindness, for he always carted his full share of weight around the race track. After the Sydney Cup, he ran in the Cumberland handicap at Randwick carry ing 8.8 and finished fourth, beaten by only 2-1 lengths. Apa's last race was the Rosehill handicap in which he carried 8.7 and again finished fourth. - While perhaps not getting any closer to the winners' enclosure, he is certainly getting down in the weights, and so it should not be too long before his class shows and he pops up a winner. Mystic Glen (by Parma from Eastern Pearl) is still a rather backward 2-year-old ' galloper, but undoubtedly has potential and will improve with each race. He ran nine races for one 5 win, three seconds and one third, thus being unplaced in only four races. Mystic Glen is bred to | develop into a stayer. (j His owners look upon him j as a bright prospect for next year's Derby, and cer- f tainly his breeding entitles ' him to great respect for the \- stayers' classic. Mystic Glen is definitely one to follow, and don't b.e put off by his seemingly in- y consistent runs, for it's amazing how trainers have the knack of turning an un- - h settled horse into a settled one almost overnight. 'I Rugby League ! (By JIM SHARROCK) j The "match of the day" & at Sydney Cricket Ground | last Saturday, between I Balmain and South Sydney 1 will be talked about for a | long time to come. | It was in the last moments | that Balmain snatched vie- \ tory from Souths in what f was near the impossible. f With Balmain trailing 7-8 David Bolton had a speck kick at a field goal that went wide, and to the surprise o£ Souths and Balmain players and 35.000 spectators Yow Yeh Balmain's centre went through, collected the ball, and scored. No excuses can be offered j for Souths defeat, for at the time that Yow Yeh scored his amazing try, Souths should have had a commanding lead. They won most of the scrums had more than their share of the penalties, but with possession of the ball for most of the game they did not put on one try. Their eight points coming from goals by Kevin Long- bottom . . . failure to pene trate the Balmain defence under conditions made for them Souths will have to do some thinking, especially about their centre positions, and their tactics in general. Their defence held well for most of the game, a little too much fiddling with the ball at times from the play the ball position, but personally I would like to see them using the kick, grubber and making more use of their speed. Balmain played solid foot ball defended excellently, made good use of the ball with little use they had of it, and cashed in on Souths mistakes, and with Keith Barnes not kicking the best showed that they can win matches without his "Golden - Boot". BETTY CUTHBERT, the "Golden Girl" sport won't forget. 