 / WILL NOT COMMIT ATROCITIES FOR US J y Letters to the Editor (ft ; mmn « r % hi lb Wc publish here a letter sent by a reader to the Registrar for Compulsory National Service, the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Federal Opposition, a num ber of leading newspapers throughout Australia, and all TV Channels in Western Aus tralia. T?>l mm! II. j->J; I HAVE no desire or ambition to be party to this undeclared war of invasion of Asia. If you poke a stick into a bee-hive you get stung! .If you play with fire you get burnt! 'The Government has no clear mandate for conscript ion in peacetime. Conscription has been rejected previously .when put to a referendum. Why not a referendum now? I will not take part with the American gangsters in thr atrocities being com mitted in Vietnam. The Amer ican invasion of Asia is im perialist expansion to gain "territory, cheap labour and markets for American exploit ing millionaires. I will, not be gun-fodder for the profit of armament manufacturers. These atrocities committed in Vietnam are as bad as those committed by Fascist Germany and Japan in World War II. I do not wish to take the risk of being in volved in criminal acts against humanity for which charges of war crimes may later be laid against me, as they were against war crim inals after the last war, for crimes against Peace and humanity, under Article 6 of the Charter of the Internat ional Tribunal. Hitler and the German Fascists conscripted their youth for a war of expansion. Remember how they fared? Humanity will win over in humanity. I say — get back to the Geneva Agreement wnich the Americans agreed to observe and then violated!- I was unable to obtain suitable employment in South Australia and wish to inform you that I have now moved to Western Australia at tho stated address. I filled in your Compulsory Registration form in South Australia under threat of loss of civil liber ties, but as yet, I have not received a certificate. Per haps a draft card burner found it. I hear a lot of talk about the free world, a free country and. freedom of the individual. Where is MY freedom? Does this mean freedom to invade other people's countries, killing mothers and. babies in their beds? How many deaths will it take before you know' too many people have died? Many renowned and famous people from all walks of life, as well as the vast majority of ordinary people in the world, are opposed to, this dirty American war in Viet nam. So am I. I am no coward and will fight willingly for the - rights of Australians and for others, for that matter, in defence of their national independence, and .the right to elect our own Government. I want to give the same right to other people. Should there be any real threat of invasion of, or in- ter ier en ce witn, Australia, l will be in the: fight in de fence of my country. Yours faithfully, \ Douglas Bradley, Leaderville (W.A.) 