 Holt's trip weighed . . . and found wanting By our Parliamentary Roundsman CANBERRA: If Federal Cabinet Ministers were disappointed at the lack of public response to Mr. Holt's trip to South Vietnam they must now be very gloomy indeed. Since Holt's visit last month the whole political 11 rl via mbb — M 1 quinary situation , mere Kas rapidly deteriorated. Naive explanations in Holt's report to Parliament hiave been contradicted by the words and actions of Saigon's Marshal Ky and, above all, by the renewed i?asfl reJolt of the people in South Vietnam's cities. The people of Danang, Sai gon, and Hue have reaffirmed their intention of getting rid of the Ky regime. Civil war has broken out in Danang. Ky, unleashing military ac tion against military and civil administrators in his own ter- ITTJ' more than confirm- Gwn admissions that the oni38 of early eiections was niy a manoeuvre. nr. tJ thieved to have acted frnJ: ,„bas!s of secret advice Washington, who wants the pledged election abandoned because the pro-US forces could not win except by a too-easily discernible fraud. Mr. Holt told Parliament that "the military situation in South Vietnam had now been secur ed," that "the recent political disturbances had only a minor effect on the military situation," and that "despite the war life goes on as usual in Saigon." Holt's statements were flatly contradicted by the evidence before the US Senate Foreign Relations Committee on May 12 by Mr. Robert McNamara, US Secretary of Defence. Mr. McNamara told the Sen ate Committee that there was no reason for great optimism (in South Vietnam). In fact political disorders in the South were primarily responsible for a 50 per cent reduction in the numbers of Viet Cong killed in action for the first three months of this year. As for "life going on as usual", Australian pressmen with Holt reported back that American and Australian diplomats live in homes surrounded by high steel fences and barbed wire guard ed by armed sentries and savage dogs. They added that "on the day Mr. Holt arrived in Saigon, American fighters were strafing a Viet Cong hideout in scrub country fringeing the city." (A Hanoi report, published on page 9, indicates that the Americans suffered a major re verse at its Pleiku airbase that same morning.) Mr. Holt's statement that the political and military situation in South Vietnam requires a strong executive government ap pears to be an admission that the Australian Government wants the Ky military regime to remain in office, irrespective of Ky's promise of elections. In the debate on Mr. Holt's "dull, flat travelogue" (Mr. Cal- well's words), the deputy leader of the opposition (Mr. Whitlam) stung the Government when he indicated that two years ago, in Washington, the present Army Minister (Mr. Fraser) had "ap palled" US officials by suggest ing that the bomb should be dropped on Hanoi and the rice- fields drained by destroying the dams irrigating them. (Mr. Fraser hotly denied it). The Government, under heavy pressure, may have hoped that by "conceding" the vote to a limited number of 20-year-old servicemen serving overseas, it would regain its equilibrium. But this announcement pass ed almost unnoticed, for it in no way alters the fact that neither these young men nor any other sections of the com munity have been given the op portunity of voting on overseas conscription or the Vietnam in volvement. But the strongest blow against the Government's public case for being in South Vietnam was struck last Saturday by one of its friends, the Sydney Morning Herald. Stung by the clear decision of the Federal Labor Caucus for withdrawal of troops from Vietnam following the return of a Labor Government, the Sydney Morning Herald in an editorial last Saturday said "far and away the strongest reason for sending Australian troops to South Vietnam is the need to preserve and strengthen our alliance with the United States." The same point was repeat ed next day by the Sun-Herald. This is a clear admission that the Government's talk of "ag gression from the North" and "threats to Australian security" is a mere cover for the hard fact that what the USA wants, goes. So there it is. No matter what military adventure or acts of aggression that the US under takes, Australia is expected to follow blindly and support them irrespective of Australian casu alties and damage to the future security of our country. This point will certainly not be lost on the electors next December. The Australian Cabinet had placed great hopes on the Prime Minister's visit to the Austra lian troops in South Vietnam, as a means of stirring patriotic feeling to the point where they ' could launch a counter offen sive against the opponents of their unpopular Vietnam war policy. They even visualised the trip as the first blow in the Decem ber Federal election campaign. Now the whole structure of hope has collapsed around Holt's ears. 