 NAZIS RISE AGAIN IN WEST GERMANY Bv the Foreign Editor £X-NAZI Kurt Kiesinger's selection as leader of the ruling Christian Dem ocratic Party in West Germany and its main contender for the chancel lorship marks a new stride on the road to complete nazi restoration. It means that instead of having to bore, in from the out- side, as the former nazis did, 35 years ago the new nazis already have their agent planted in a key "inside" position in the ruling apparatus. Kiesinger doesn't apologise for his nazi past, but tries to minimise it. He was "just a conservative young man" in 1933, so he joined the nazis when the the brown shirted storm troop gangs were roving the streets, bashing, beating up and rush ing into concentration camps thousands of Jews, commun ists, socialists and other anti- nazis. He only "objected" to the party leadership, by his own account, when, in 1934. the chief of these butchers, Rohem, was gunned down by his rivals. Even then, however, Kiesin ger was picked to serve in Rib- bentrop's foreign office, where pro-nazi loyalty was indispens able. He was there from 1940 onwards, when the key task was diplomatic preparation for the intended invasion of Britain and the actual invasions of the Balkans and the USSR. Gains Kiesinger was backed for the new job by the notorious Right- wingers ex-war minister Strauss (a former Hitler army lieuten ant) and Gerstenmaier. His election as party leader came as the new and old nazis, now openly organised as a poli tical party (the National Demo crats), won important election gains. The success of the neo nazi National Democratic Party in winning eight seats and eight per cent of votes in the Hes- sen Lantag elections has caused alarm in Germany and abroad. This followed significant Nazi gains in Bavarian and Hamburg elections. Bonn gave all facilities and encouragement to the Nazis but is now concerned at the . effects the Nazi advances may have on their campaign for nuclear armaments. Like the old nazis the new ones are reaching for power with the covert aid and pro tection of those supposed to be opposing them— the official West German Government leaders and their friends and supporters in other western Governments. Nobody in the "National Democratic Party" has a worse record than the nazi officer who on July 23 1941 signed an order for the hanging of Sov iet partisans. He is General Count von Kielmansegg, commander of the NATO forces in Europe, central sector. He commands 23 divisions including the Brit- ish Army of the Rhine and US Canadian and Belgian units. No wonder the west Ger man Government that em ploys him and promotes him to the highest job does little to hamper the National "De mocratic" Party though it has banned the Communist Party. The West German president himself, Heinrich Luebke, constructed a string of con centration camps and slave labor camps for the nazis. Accused of this, with docu mentary evidence in support, by German Democratic Rep ublic authorities, Luebke re plied in September 26 last that it was "beneath the dig nity of the head of State to reply to accusations from such a source". 