 I Developing the national TRIBUNE fl "|RIBUNE earlier this H year completed 43 B years of uninterrupted | publication — for the first 1 6 of which it was named Workers' Week ly. This is an outstanding re cord of achievement in Aus tralian press history for an independent newspaper of the working people. Over that period, it has reflected the struggles of the working class and other . people for better life, peace, national independence and democracy and it has con-, sistently advanced the need for the socialist transform ation of Australian society. TRIBUNE has always circulated in all states. In addition, during the 1930's associated weekly news papers were established in several states. Outstanding among these were the Guardian (Vic) and the Queensland Guardian, which have long been honoured for their fearless presentation of truth and the cause of social advancement, and as defenders of the interests of the people. A number of new factors have appeared which now open new possibilities of development of the socialist oriented press in Australia. Firstly, the national out look of Australians has be come much more pron ounced, while the separate state outlooks have become less distinct. Secondly, reliable and relatively inexpensive means of fast freight transport to all states have been dev eloped. Thirdly, during this year the technical production of TRIBUNE, using new offset equipment, has been mast ered to the point where it has become recognised by experts as one of the best- produced newspapers in Australia. It is time to take fuller advantage of these changes and to move forward boldly; Discussions have — as already announced in Victoria and MBMIIIIilll"""— Queensland — led to agree ment that the Victorian and Queensland Guardians will cease publication at the end of this year and merge with TRIBUNE. TRIBUNE will become the sole national weekly of the communist, working class and broad progressive move ment, circulating widely in all states and incorporating Guardian (Vic) and . the Queensland Guardian. TRIB UNE'S coverage of major issues in all states will be | ensured by its correspon- | dentc, including full time editorial workers in Mel bourne and Brisbane. This important step for ward will make available to all Australians a readable, attractive national weekly printed with the latest techniques. It will be a paper of nat ional and international out look that stands firmly for socialism in the developing contest of ideas about Aus tralia's future. It will publish exposures of the truth behind the "news", exclusive facts of activity of the people for their political and economic aims!, comment and analysis of trends in all classes of Australian society. . The national TRIBUNE will appear on Tuesday, Jan uary 10, and will then con tinue to be published on Tuesday of each week in stead of the present Wed nesday. Beginning at 12 pages, it will subsequently be expanded. It is not easy, in a mon opoly capitalist society, to produce, distribute and sell in large numbers such a publication that is indepen dent of, and indeed opposed to, the big financial inter ests which stand behind the major daily newspapers. The National TRIBUNE will rely more than ever be fore on the thousands of voluntary supporters among its readers, including those who have staunchly sup ported the Guardian news papers, both for the major part of the selling and sales- building and for the essen tial raising of finance for the national press fund and other activities which will be detailed later. It will rely, to no smaller degree, on interested people I in every field and in all I states for creative ideas and if particularly contribution of ji information and articles 1 dealing with significant 1 national, international and 1 local issues. B The development outlined | is ?, truly cooperative Aus tralian project which will, we are sure, have great and growing significance to the task of building a free, pros perous, socialist Australia 1 living in peace and friend ship with all other nations. M The new off-set press at Quality Press in Sydney. 1 