 "My sons WON'T be going to V ietnam !" AN Australian marine chief engineer who recently returned to Australia after two years in the Vietnam war zone will advise his three sons to refuse to be conscripted for Vietnam. j Mr. Bruce Thompson, who was chief engineer on the "Kingston" ply ing between Hong Kong and various ports along the coast of North and South Vietnam, is at present holidaying in Australia. During an interview with press representatives in Syd ney, Mr. Thompson said he felt ashamed to know that his countrymen are a party to the evil being perpetrated on the. Vietnamese people. "For the life of me I can not understand why we are there! "What have the Vietnamese done to us? "The Vietnamese want the election that was promised for 1956; they don't want this blood shed of brother killing bro ther. ."I think they should he al lowed to ' work out their future without interference from any foreign power," he said. Mr. Thompson, who has three sons aged 21, 18 and 16, said he was not against national service training for the defence of Australia but strongly opposed conscription for Vietnam. He will advise his sons, par ticularly the two under 21, to destroy any draft cards they may receive. "I believe that as I am their legal guardian any action they, take from my advice will make me responsible. "I don't want to see my sons, or any other father's sons, give their lives in the skullduggery of' Vietnam," he said. Mr. Thompson said he served five years in the RAN during the second world war and would offer his life again if the cause was right. Over the last two years Mr. Thompson also visited many Chinese ports as well as ports in both North and South Vietnam. ! "I am one of the few Aus tralians to see the situation from both sides," he said. Ho does not believe that China is an aggressor. "I . have seen their preoc cupation in , building up their own country and I have not seen one Chinese soldier out- sido his own country."'' Mr. Thompson expressed the fear that China might come into the war in answer to a plea from North Vietnam. "This could lead to a world war," he said. He said he had seen big United States B52 bombers taking off at dusk on bomb ing raids. "This means they indiscri- mately bomb in the dark." He said he had also seen young North Vietnamese girls fire at U.S. planes with rifles. "I saw many flash American ' cars in Saigon as well as poverty and beggars — but I didn't see one beggar in the .North," he said. MR. BRUCE THOMPSON 