 There were no tears — only laughter By Roger Milliss WE were waiting in the offices of the United Democratic J&lt;eft (EDA) in Athens to see Betty Ambatielos, English wife of the famous Greek resistance and seamen's leader, when a fall, handsome man rushed up and shook us heattily by the hand, speaking volubly in fluent Russian. He was Charilaous Florakis, a longstanding member of the Greek Communist Party and for mer resistance hero, "We had last ' seen him in the Athens prison hospital, into which we had been illicitly smuggled by officials of the Association of the - Families of Political Prisoners, on, a previous visit to Greece eighteen months earlier. Florakis was then one ot the «3 victims of political persecution, all of them prominent figures in the antifascist and democratic movement, still languishing in Greek jails. He himself had spent virtually all of the last twenty years in prison, Now, Florakis told us excitedly, he was free — having been re leased the day before with a group of other prisoners. With successive releases from lail Over the past few months, only 29 of the long-term political, prisoners still remained inside. The small office rapidly filled with other newly liberated prison ers, greeted en.thusiast.ica J iy by their friends and comrades, most of whom they had not seen for a dozen years or more Betty Ambatielos came in, ; joined shortly afterwards by her husband Tony, himself released less than two years ago follow ing the prolonged campaign waged by his wife after 18 years in jail. And Manolis Glezos, hero of the Acropolis, a former long-term political prisoner and now one of the leaders of the EDA." A few minutes later, in a hall upstairs, we were privileged to attend a reception given by the EDA to welcome their long-suffer ing comrades back to freedom. The full complement of the newly released were there. They included four women — Avra Partsalidou, Roula Koukou- lou, Elli Erythriadou and Chry- soula Gogoglou — who had been imprisoned in 1954-55 on trumped- up charges of "espionage" fol lowing their return from abroad to take up political activity, The reunion of the ex-prisoners with their old friends, accom panied by much delighted em bracing and pumping of hands, was a gay and happy affair. There were no tears, only laughter — these people had all suffered too much individually for anything, but rejoicing, and all were aware of the great task that still Icy ahead of them. In welcoming the ex-prisoners on behalf of the EDA, Manolis Glezos emphasised this fact. Their release, he said, was a re sult pf the concerted struggle of the Greek people, together with their friends abroad, and thus constituted a great victory for the forces of democracy. It was of special importance, he added, as the prisoners had been used as hostages to black mail the people. But, he said, since the fall of the Papandreou Government last year the struggle for democracy in Greece had entered a new phase, with reaction seeking once again "to intimidate and frighten the people" and constantly threatening to resort to fascist dictatorship. A key part of the struggle to resist the drive towards fascism lay in securing the legalisation of the Communist Party, he added to enthusiastic applause. "As known members of the Com munist Party," he told the released prisoners, "you have played your part in the struggle for democracy and the people are waiting for you to join them." Avra Partsalidou replied on be half of the ex-prisoners; 57 years old, grey-haired and youthfully yivacious, the last forty years of her life dedicated to the revolutionary struggle, she had been jailed three times — first under the Metaxas fascist regime and last in 1955. when she was given a life sen tence. The former prisoners, she said, were "deeply moved to be at long last among you." They recognised that their release was an important step towards the return to democratic life in Greece. They pledged themselves to work in the ranks of the EDA for , the release of the remaining prison ers, the return of the thousands of political refugees still abroad, and for democracy and peace "in Greece, this tortured and suffering land." The release of the long-term prisoners has come at a time when Greece is moving into an ever-deepening Governmental crisis. Since King Constantine forced the resignation of the Centre Union Government last July fol lowing Prime Minister Papan- dreou's attempts to reoganise the key Defence Ministry, the facade of political stability has only been maintained by a hastily contrived regime of Ceritre Union defectors and the right-wing National Radical Union under former Centre Union Minister Stephanapoulus. Massive demonstrations, led by the Centre Union and the .EDA, Jiave been held up and down the length of Greece calling for imme diate elections to solve the crisis. This demand the Government and the King have steadfastly re fused to grant, and the right wing has openly admitted that if such elections were held, they would undoubtedly lead to an over whelming Centre-Left majority. The Stephanapoulos Government which is fully backed by the USA and Great Britain, is going to in- credible extremes to hang, on to the crumbling ledge of power. Opposition Deputies have been offered enormous bribes to defect and join the . Government — the ZJentre Union has alleged in a mo tion of censure that amounts of over $120,000 have been paid to defaulters from their ranks. The EDA contends that the crisis has been precipitated directly by US imperialism, which is seeking to establish a viable reactionary regime in Greece as an instru ment in its Cold War plans in the Balkans, as well as in the Middle East, where it is common know ledge that the US has been long intriguing to topple progressive leaders such as President Nassar of the UAR. Cyprus is the key factor in this overall Western scheme. The Americans are trying to force a "NATO solution" of the Cyprus problem on President Makarios, whereby the island would be virtually partitioned/with NATO bases in the eastern part under Turkish administration. President Makarios lias so far resisted such efforts, and has in particular refused to accept the Greek nominee, the fascist General Grivas, as Commander of the CypTiot National Guard, insisting that it must be under Cypriot com mand. In Greece itself, the Americans and the right wing are embarking on a deliberate campaign to "iso late the left." They have appealed to Papandreou to declare himself anti-Communist and join in a so-called "Govern ment of National Unity" consist ing of the Centre Union, the National Radical Union and the right-wing "Progressives". If this proves impossible, then they are prepared to set up an open military-fascist dictatorship, which the pro-fascist groups and press have bieen openly counsel ling. As part of this campaign, the Government is re-introducing the methods of terrorism and intimi dation employed under the Kara- manlis regime but suspended by that of Papandreou. EDA supporters have had their identity papers checked as they enter party offices. There have been several bomb and shooting outrages. And as the long-term political prisoners are released, their places have been taken many times over by new victims on ludicrous charges of "sedition" and "plan ning to overthrow the Govern ment" — some even for merely Singing Resistance songs or shout ing the words "Democracy" or "Elections". Consequently, even though it wholeheartedly welcomes the re lease of the long-term political prisoners, the VEDA sees the readi ness of the Stephanapoulos Gov ernment to take this step as part of its move to "isolate the left". The prisoners have long been a national — and international — embarrassment to Greece, for the campaign for their release has provided a tailor-made platform for unity of all democratic forces. The EDA is fully aware of the threat of a military-fascist take over in Greece and ready to meet it with the strength of the people, amongst whom it has con siderable and growing support. The danger, however, is so great that the situation . calls for the greatest vigilance by friends of Greece throughout the world if democracy is not once again to be trampled underfoot "in this tor tured and suffering land." Students demonstrating for democratic rights, in Athens in early March this year. 