 Builders angry on breakawau C YLrNEY : The Building Workers' Industrial Union has strongly criticised the Australian Council of Trade Unions' executive for disregarding the de cisions of its branches and breaking its own rules to give a breakaway building union affiliation to the ACTU. By eleven votes to five the executive on August 31 granted affiliation to the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Join ers of Australia. The BWIU said this is a most amazing decision after the pro posal had been rejected by three Labor Councils and an overall majority of voters. ACTU president Monk had also earlier informed federal officials of the BWIU that the proposal had been rejected and gave them to understand that he would rule that way when the matter again came before the executive. The dispute over affiliating the ASC and J arose following the ACTU executive's decision to do so last February. Federal officials of the BWIU said that the decision was a change of existing ACTU policy and as. such required the en dorsement of a majority of six St&t6S Both the 1852 and 1953 ACTU Congresses declared opposition to the registration of the ASC and J and that Labor Councils should not grant affiliation to any branch of this breakaway organisation. Building unionists point out that the ASC and J was estab- lished by the discredited In dustrial Groups and came into existence as a breakaway from the BWIU. The new union was formed when the BWIU was deregister- ed by the court during an in dustrial dispute in Victoria. The ACTU executive at its re cent meeting refused a request for a BWIU representative to address the executive or to have the matter recommitted. "This means that the execu tive has chosen to disregard the decision of its Branches and is in complete breach of its own rules in respect to making or altering policy," the BWIU said. The union points out that the ACTU rules provide for: Transformation of the Australian trade union move ment from a craft to an indus trial basis. O Grouping of unions in their respective industries. Amalgamation of unions with a view to the establish ment of one union in each in dustry. "Dual unionism is a curse to the trade union movement. It is a benefit to the employers. It is contrary to the trade un ion principle of strengthening the unity of the workers," the BWIU said. 