 It was a good year for Mikhail Sholokhov BILL SUTTON is the author of many short stories and lives in Queensland. Last year he visited the Soviet Union. MIKHAIL SHOLOKHOV, author of 'And Quiet Flows the Don," has been awarded the Nobel Prize for Liter ature. During my visit to the Soviet Union this year I was able to secure rare tickets to the two-day cele brations held in Moscow on May 24-25 to commemorate his 60th birthday. So far as I can ascer tain I was the only Australian pre sent, and on the first day was hon ored with a seat on the Presidium. What is the source of Sholokhov's success? In the main, he lives in the Don village of Veshenskaya, where he finds strength, inspiration and locale for the major portion of his writing. It can be said that his success springs from his great tal ent, his untiring striving for literary honesty and perfection and his un bounded faith in humanity. Regarding Sholokhov's talent, one of his contemporaries, Kuliyev, wrote in 'Soviet Literature (Sept. 1965): "The springs of creativity flow deep and the superficial eye of mediocrity is unable to find them. One must be able to hear the wat ers rippling underground. This is not so easy and is not given to all. This is why talent is so precious." ? SHOLOKHOV was born on the 24th May, 1905 in the village of Veshenskaya in the Donets district formerly known as the region of the Don army. His father was a discontented member of the middle class, who consistently changed his jobs till the day he died; he was a cattle dealer, a farmer on bought Cossack land, a salesman, manager of a steel mill, etc. Sholokhov's mother, the daughter of a serf, was half Cossack and half peasant. She learnt to read and write when her son was sent to a high school, so that she could write to him. Until 1918 Sholokhov attended var ious schools. During the civil war he lived in the- Don region and started work in 1920 in this area as a grain requisitor. He began writ ing in 1923 and has been a statistics clerk, primary school teacher, steve dore, food inspector, bricklayer, ac countant, journalist. He is almost entirely self educated. In 1941 he joined the Army with the rank of Regimental Commissar. For four years he was a war corre spondent on various fronts; as a result of his war service he wrote 'Science of Hate' and 'They Fought For Their Country.' In 1957 he wrote his short novel 'Fate of a Man' which achieved world wide popularity. He is well known for his work at the Soviet Academy of Science, of which he became a member in 1939, and he has been a deputy of the Supreme Soviet (National Par liament) since 1936. He is also a member of the Soviet Peace Com mittee and of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. ? SHOLOKHOV has never been afraid to criticise what he considered wrong. In the 1930's he sent letters to Stalin complaining of the bad treat ment of some of the Don Cossacks; although this was later proven tp be correct these letters were side stepped by Stalin, who said that Sholokhov was viewing the situation in a one-sided manner. The conse quences were tragic. A number of Sholokhov's stories in 'Tales from the Don' were also critical, sometimes in a satirical manner, of the over-zealousness of supporters of Soviet power; but always his was a constructive cri ticism, which signified his support for the socialist revolution. In honor of Sholokhov's birthday the fourth edition of his collected works is being published. The first volume of this nine volume edition will contain a com plete collection of his stories and newspaper articles during the period 1923-1927. 'And Quiet Flows the Don' will occupy the next four volumes, the sixth and seventh volumes will be 'Virgin Soil Upturned' the eighth 'They Fought For Their Country' (in full for the first time). The final volume will contain mat erial written during the period of the second world war and post-war years, and his two works 'Science of Hatred' and 'Fate of a Man', plus speeches. In the great amount of literature produced by Soviet prose writers contemporaneous with the revolu tion, Sholokhov appears to be re garded as one of the big three, the other two being Maxim Gorky and Alexei Tolstoi. The Soviet newspaper Izvestia re ports that Sholokhov's works have been published in 41,000,000 copies in the past 40 years. His works have been translated into 73 lang uages. It took him 15 years to write 'And Quiet Flows the Don' and nearly 30 years elapsed before he completed his two volume 'Virgin Soil Upturned.' When 'Virgin Soil Upturned' was first published in 1932 by the Soviet literary magazine Novy Mir (New World) most people thought that it was complete, but the author an nounced that he was beginning the second part. However, the work on this novel of the collectivisation of farms had to take second place to his major masterpiece, 'And Quiet Flows the Don.' 'Virgin Soil Upturned' was not completed until 1960 when it was awarded a Lenin prize. Sholokhov's mother was killed and her cottage damaged by nazi bomb ers during the war— when the sec ond part of the manuscript of 'Vir gin Soil Upturned' was destroyed and had to be completely rewrit ten. HIS 60th birthday cele brations took the form of a hall reception on the first day at the House of Trade Unions, and on the second day a dinner in the Blue Room of the Moscow Hotel. Writers from all over the Soviet Union, and other countries, attended both functions. A delegation of Australian writers who had been attending a world conference of writers in the German Democratic Republic was expected to fly to Moscow at any moment, and join in the celebrations, and undoubtedly because of this an air of expectancy existed on both days. Unfortunately this group of writers was held up and did not arrive until after the event. We were early to the celebrations at the House of Trade Unions, tele vision cameras whirred and indi viduals standing at the entrance to the hall begged in vain for any tickets that may have become avail able. Konstantin Fedin, on behalf of the Soviet Writers' Union, gave the introductory speech. He was fol lowed by Yuri Lukin, a Soviet lit- | erary critic, who read a short testi- j monial to Sholokhov. ! Many writers then paid brief but j enthusiastic tribute to Sholokhov ! and heaped the stage with gifts for j him. The Chilean poet, Pablo Neruda (who read one of his poems of appreciation), Faiz Ahmad Faiz, a Pakistani poet, and Martii Larni, a Finnish writer, were among those writers from outside the USSR who paid homage to the Soviet author. Martii Larni's wife presented Sholo khov with a portrait of himself which she had painted for the occasion. He was awarded the Order of Lenin and other awards, then met the members of the cast and tech nicians who had worked on the film version of 'And Quiet Flows the Don.' At the celebration dinner the crowd was very animated. From the body of the hall toasts were being continuously moved, and an all-women orchestra was perform ing on the stage. A tall, striking-looking woman, another secretary of a Republic Writers' Union (who, we found out later, was the mother of 10 child ren) rose and proposed a toast to the guest, and mentioned that she would like to kiss him in greeting, but could not do so as it was the custom of her Republic that the women did not run after the men. Sholokhov strode quickly up the room and embraced her. Sholokhov is not a big man phy sically, his hair is greying, as is his moustache. He has humorous, penetrating grey eyes and dresses plainly. His wife, who was at his side during the celebrations, is a quiet woman, who seems content to take a back seat to her husband so far as literary or any other fame is concerned. With these celebrations plus the Nobel Prize, it has been Sholokhov's year in the literary world. Sholokhov with Alexander Korneychuk (left). , - L>5r/ 