 VIETNAM IS MAIN ISSUE - CALWELL "DEFENCE and foreign policy would transcend all j other issues in this year's Federal election cam- j paign," ALP Leader Mr. A. Calwell told delegates I at the South Australian conference of the party. Linked with them was Aus tralia's involvement in the un declared war in Vietnam, with the related evil of the conscrip tion of Australian youth, he said. He declared that the vote cast by the Australian people on these issues would have a most significant effect on the fate , of the nation. Mr. Calwell' said other Fed eral election issues, would -be education, housing, health, social services, the "war on poverty", and wage and salary justice. There .would also be the issues of the massive take overs by foreigneres of estab lished Australian industries and the development of the North. Crucial issue Mr. Calwell said: "Labor has opposed Australia's participa tion in the Vietnam war from the time this country was first committed to it. . "We will continue to oppose the dispatch of any Australian troops to Vietnam, whether they are members of the Regular Army or conscripts." The war was the most crucial issue which had faced Australia for many years. The Prime Minister (Mr. Holt) had become terrified be cause he knew the mass of Australian people opposed his nnliioc fViof Via Vio/1 tin uuu miau no iicvu IIVJ mandate to pursue them. The fact was that neither America nor Australia had ever clearly defined the terms on which they wished to end the battle. Fear election "They know that if given the choice the vast majority of the Vietnamese people would choose Ho Chi-minh. "That is why America by backing first President Diem and now Air Vice-Marshal Ky, helped to prevent free elections in Vietnam. "There is no shortage of proof that America's and Australia's present policies cannot bring freedom to Vietnam. "We cannot be the friends of America we have always been and always wish to he, if we accept every action taken by the Johnson administration blindly or uncritically." In Sydney, Mr. Calwell was given a standing ovation at the N.S.W. conference. He appealed to the Prime Minister,' Mr. Holt, to bury his pride, admit his mistake and stop "this senseless killing of Australians, of Vietnamese and of other allied soldiers." He said the A.L.P. had reiter- ated that no Australian troops I should ever have been sent to Vietnam and that troops already there should be withdrawn. "Naturally, a Labor Govern ment, when withdrawing con scripts, would do it in such a I way as to ensure that our other fellow- Australians, the Regulars and C.M.F. personnel, are in no way endangered," he added. ' The A.L.P. believed that the U.S. should cease bombing North Vietnam. The party also believed the Australian Government should take the initiative for further attempts to obtain a ceasefire and for negotiations for peace. Mr. Calwell said the cease fire should be on the basis of the military realities in Viet nam then existing. j 