 Hungary moves away from one-candidate system |_|UNGARY'S parlia ment last month adopted a new electoral law which will abolish the system of ' list voting in favor of direct voting for constituency candidaties. Up till now voters have been invited to endorse, in one block, all the candidates in a given "county" or, in the case of the capital, for the whole of Budapest. Though the elected MPs later divided the large area into individual areas of re sponsibility, this did not im pose on them the strong ties of direct election. Deputy Premier Antal Apro told parliament that the basic characteristic of the Hungar ian state was socialist demo cracy, which was more and more permeating public life, and the proposed reforms fitted into this process by helping to broaden socialist democracy. Recall Under the new law, MPs would be expected to report regularly to their constituents. If the people lost confidence in him, they could recall him. A nominating meeting of the Patriotic People's Front would be held to select a candidate. If it could not agree on one, more could be nominated. There would be one party, the Socialist Workers' Party, which organised and led the struggle to build a socialist society, said Mr. Apro. "Our society consists of friendly classes and strata equally interested in building socialism. "History has developed in such a way that to introduce parties of several political trends would be a step back wards. "In some socialist countries there are several political parties operating, but they co_ operate on a. joint platform of building socialism, "What capitalist countries will do when they come to build socialism will be decided by the people. But it can be assumed that in those coun tries where classical parlia mentary democracy has a great tradition, several part ies will be active .in building a socialist society." Ruler Mr. Antal said a multi- jj&ui ayoteiii wao uu uiilcj. of the existence of democracy. Under the Horthy dictator ship there had been a multi party system, but this did not meet the requirements even of bourgeois democracy. In capitalist countries of today there were often several different parties but one real ruler, capital. Elections were mainly to decide which party would maintain government and ensure exploitation. Capitalist critics abroad were worried not so much by the fact of there being only one party as by the fact that it was a communist party. The democratising process would continue, Mr. Apro em phasised. The right of work ers to be consulted in the running of factories and workshops would be broadened and trade union jurisdiction extended. HUNGARIAN PREMIER KADAR Broadening the base. 