 NAILING A FEW ILLUSIONS OF "AFFLUENCE" — and suggesting a way forward JYDNEY : About 1500 delegates to the NSW Living Standards Conference in Sydney Town Hall last Saturday — represent ing some 200 public organisations throughout the State — decided to ask all political parties to include the Conference decisions in their policies for the coming Federal Elections. Discussion at four morning seminars — on Social Services, Education, Housing and Aus tralian Economic Policy — had earlier shown that: The standard of social ser vices in Australia had wor sened greatly in comparison with many other nations, im posing great hardship on pen sioners and others dependent on social services. Purchasing power for the ordinary people had dropped, leaving many families in eco nomic difficulties many on the verge of poverty. The country's educational system was in a state of crisis, requiring emergency financial allocations and other drastic relief measures. Thousands of people are in need of cheap housing as the rate of housing construc tion had fallen. Detail Speakers at the individual seminars set forth in detail exactly what Australia needed if all its people were to have a decent standard of living. Thp seminar nn Snuinl Ser- vices declared that every indi vidual was entitled to receive an income at least adequate to meet his own and his fam ily's "reasonable needs". The seminar also demanded the introduction of a national health scheme to provide each citizen with free medical, hos pital and dental treatment, as well as a "living allowance to the family of the breadwinner when incapacitated". It called for the maximum pressure to be exerted on the Federal Government to accede to these demands. The Education seminar ex pressed grave concern for the current serious shortcomings in essential areas of public educa tion services in NSW. In particular it called for immediate action to remedy the critical shortage of school ac commodation at all levels, for a reduction in class, sizes and the implementation of the Mar tin Report on Teacher Train ing, which, it claimed, was be ing ignored. It also called upon NSW Premier Askin to take the init- iative in convening an emer gency Premiers' conference to discuss the needs of public education. The seminar on Australian Economic Policy called for a radically different attitude to economic affairs. Welfare This attitude, it said, should be one "which will, place its main emphasis on the welfare of the workers, farmers, pen sioners, handicapped people, people on fixed incomes — the vast majority of our popula tion." It stressed the need for full use of public funds on "peace ful construction" — such as housing, hospitals, schools, irri gation and public works. It also supported firm price and profit control, higher wages, equal pay, increased pensions and an end to the means test. Amongst other hard-hitting decisions, it called for the na tionalisation of monopolies and essential services, and advocat ed the establishment of an Australian National Shipping Line. NSW Teachers' Federation Vice-President Miss Elizabeth Mattick addressing the Liv ing Standards Conference. 