 CPA protests to Sukarno on death sentence The Communist Party of Australia this week cabled president Sukarno of Indonesia protesting at the death sentence imposed on Indonesian Communist leader, Njono. jHE cable to Sukarno said — The Communist Party of Australia registers its empha tic protest at the travesty of justice perpetrated by the re cent military trial and sent ence of death on Njono, mem ber of the Political Bureau of the P.K.I. and secretary of SOBSI. The military trial of this brave Indonesian patriot took place in an unprecedented atmosphere of anti-Communist violence and terror organised by sections of the military and reactionary elements which cost the lives of tens of thousands of Indo nesian citizens. We know and appreciate your efforts to pre vent this terror and restore un ity of the Indonesian people. We petition you to exert every effort to prevent the planned ex ecution of Njono, strike the trial from the records and ensure the release of all others now held in prison as a result of the recent terror. L. Aarons for Central Committee. Two big Australian unions have protested at the arrests and murder of trade unionists and citizens in Indonesia. The unions are the Seamen's Union of Australia and the Sheetmetal Workers' Union. A stop work meeting of sea men last week in Sydney un animously condemned the brutal arrest and murder of tens of thousands of citizens by Indo nesian reaction. . A telegram has been sent to the Indonesian Embassy in Canberra protesting "against the criminal and arbitrary ac tions against members of trade unions and democratic organis ations." Horror The seamen said they viewed "with horror and intense anger the slaughter and oppression that has recently taken place in Indonesia in flagrant viola tion of the basic principles of democratic rights laid down in the Atlantic Charter. "We draw attention particul arly to the violent actions against our fellow trade union ists, members of SOBSI (in ternationally recognised trade union centre of Indonesia), and the court martial of SOBSI of ficial Mr. Njono, who is under sentence of death." The seamen called for the re lease of all imprisoned trade unionists and the restoration of democratic liberties in Indo nesia. Mr. E. V. Elliott (Seamen's Union Federal secretary) said that Mr. Njono is also an exe cutive member of the World Federation of . Trade Unions. The Sheet Metal Workers Un ion in Sydney has asked the Indonesian Government to re lease all detained unionists and other democrats and restore liberties and trade union rights in Indonesia. Ransacked "The Sheet Metal Workers Union which has always been a staunch supporter of the In donesian people from the time of the struggle , for independence from Dutch domination, is very concerned at recent events in Indonesia" says the letter. "From the World Federation of Trade Unions and from other sources we have learned that the headquarters of the Nation al Council of SOBSI and those of its unions in different parts of Indonesia have been ransack ed and destroyed" the letter adds. "We have learned, further, that a great number of leaders and members of SOBSI and its unions, and numerous other workers and democrats have been grossly ill-treated and many killed and arrested. "Our Union can do no other than condemn these acts of violence against trade unionists and democrats." The letter is addressed to the Indonesian Ambassador in Can berra. Another letter from the union I to the US Ambassador protests against the visit of vice-presi dent Humphrey and the pres ence of US forces in Vietnam. 