 Instant $1200 salary rise QN the same night that the Brand Government in troduced -legislation to abolish, quarterly adjust ments of the basic wage, State Parliament took one minute to pass the Bill for a $1,200 salary rise for iuderes. This rise was more than half the total income of a basic wage earner who is expected to tighten his belt while indus try continues its profit bonanza. Some luxury Cost of living adjustments are "a luxury the State cannot afford in its efforts to get ahead in a common market, said Lab our Minister O'Neil introducing, the . Industrial Arbitration Act Amendment Bill in Parliament. The day before, "Manufactur ers had a record year" was a heading in the . "West Austra lian's" business and industrial review. The article' quoted Swan Brewery's record consolidated net profit for 1966 of $1,873,543, which lifted the ordinary divid end to 13 per cent. The 1965-1966 profit of the 'West Australian" was. the highest ever made by this com pany, which modestly omitted to mention its dividend rate. Swan Portland Cement was able to lift its dividend from 10 to 11 per cent. H. L. Brisbane and Wunder- lich earned a record consolidat ed net profit, and although it lifted its dividend from 10 to 12 per cent, this was covered twice by the net profit. Metropolitan Brick Holdings profit rose by a juicy 46 per. cent even after steep increases in tax and depreciation provi sions and although the dividend was raised to only nine per cent, the earning rate rose from 11 to 16.3 per cent. Pretax profit of Sheet Metal Holdings and subsidiaries in creased by -27 per cent to a record $171,588. Net profit of Hadfields (W.A.) Ltd. eased -slightly but the dividend was unchanged at 10 per cent. Net profit of Hawker Siddely Building Supplies jumped and represented a return of 16.6 per cent on average capital, al though no dividend was paid because of further expected heavy capital expenditure. Boans Ijitd. earned a slightly higher net profit and' paid a steady dividend. Carlyle Hold ings had a record profit and . W. Drabble Ltd. a substantial lift in overall profit. Two big fopd firms, Peters Ice Cream (W.A.) Ltd. and Pas- siona Bottling Co. made higher profits. Peters was a record and Passiona made a handsome extra whack out of increased deposits on bottle alone — $21,107 to be exact. In the torrent of profits, the big companies will scarcely feel Brand's increased stamp duty. But while workers' real wages are reduced by inflation and the proposed end of quarterly adjustments, they are forced to pay out more in direct and in direct taxation, fares and other imposts. 