 As ye sow ... Rm n staff Writer who recenth visited South Africa. COUTH African fascist Prime Minister, Hen- drick Verwoerd's assassin ation last week, as he sat in the citadel of his own precious white-supremacist, power, flowed straight from the climate of terror and violence he himself had . helped to create in his tragic land of race tyranny. A certain misplaced sympathy is being express- I ed by the world's more j reactionary leaders for | this architect of apartheid, and some sections of the press are going out of their way to paint a hum ane picture of this Hitler- loving, Jew-hating, Black baiting Boer fascist. This is hardly surpris ing in view of the support the Western powers, espe cially Britain and the U.S.A., have given to South Africa, particularly by sup plying it with arms and I refusing to join in the | trade embargo decided I upon by the U.N. General Assembly. Our own inglorious former Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies, made another contribution to the vocabulary of double- talk when he expressed his "personal admiration" for the deceased Doctor's "intellect, courage, cour- tesy and integrity". It is difficult indeed to see any evidence whatso ever of, "courage" or "in tegrity" in a man who devoted his life to driving the races in South Africa completely apart and in tensifying the oppression and exploitation of its twelve million Africans and Coloureds. Or to detect any great signs of "intellect" in one who firmly believed that Africans had only the abil ity to be "hewers of wood and drawers of water" for the white man. Verwoerd put the finish ing touches on. the prison in which the African peo ple of South Africa have been confined ever since European rule" began over 350 years ago. The eight years of his rule saw the progressive disappearance of any relics of political rights which the non- white people pos sessed when he came to power. South Africa was turned into a naked police-state in which all opposition .and dissent — whether from African organisations or the more liberal sections of the white population who could see where Ver woerd's insanity was lead ing them— were ruthlessly crushed. The gaols were filled with the opponents of apartheid, white and black. Torture became common place. South Africa's De- tention-without-Trial laws —at first for 90 days and recently extended to 180 days— became the laugh ing-stock of the world. Verwoerd wrote his own epitaph with the blood of the 70 fleeing Africans massacred at Sharpeville in 1960 when police fired on a peaceful crowd de monstrating against the Pass Laws — on which oc- . casion his only comment was to praise the police for their "courage". He died last week as a result of the tensions and neuroses his regime had produced— at the hand of a white man, who, accord ing to press reports, thought Verwoerd was do ing too much for the Afri can at the expense of the "poor- white" element. What lies in store for South Africa with Ver woerd's demise is still not I" exactly clear. I His . assassination has | not solved any of the I South African people's | problems. But it will cer- | tainly give them new heart | . as they see the cracks in I the apartheid state widen- I ing and deepening: 1 