 Growing dilemma of Ky the killer From Rupert Lockwood in Moscow The Ky regime in Saigon is undertaking bloody reprisals against Da Nang, Buddhists and other rebels and Hue citizens are rushing to arms to fight off puppet and American troops. All this underlines the insoluble crisis now confronting Washington in Vietnam. Both the 1st and 2nd' div ision of former puppet troops have now joined the Hue rebels. Their tanks' and artil lery units have taken up pos- " itions to fight the Ky forces now being transported by the Americans. . Hue students, senior school children and boy scouts have joined special youth detach ments1 and >they patrol the streets with rifles and! gren ades while women help build barricades and road blocks. Hue radio is appealing for resolute struggle against Ky and the invaders and for Ky's overthrow. Determination in Hue to fight and solidarity in other cities have thrown the Ky clique and' the Americans into confusion. The chasm dividing the puppets from the people has widened and Saigon is no longer considered a safe American base. According to Tass newsagency General "VV'estmoreland!s decision to withdraw his headquarters, and 12,000 military personnel from Saigon was prompted by grow ing patriot attacks and gen- eral discontent over American behaviour. Tass says it was not with out grounds that Senator Ful- bright recently accused Amer ican soldiers of "making Sai gon a brothel." Tass points out that Ky's marines who broke into Da Nang landed at the American Da Nang base in American transport planes. The Amer ican base commander threat ened that if a single rebel shell fell on the base American marines would storm Da Nang. But all is not over in Da Nang. Gunfire and explosions are heard in the city over which American nlanes circle. Mutinous soldiers of the 1st Army Corps are fighting Ky's marines along with students and Buddhists to whom they issued rifles. The New York Times Saigon correspondent says Ky's actions have destroyed possib ilities of peacefully establish ing a civilian government. The New York Times charges that the US Government bears a large share of responsibility for aggravation of the South Vietnam political crisis. Churches bombed The Paris paper La Nation compares the South Vietnam situation with a rope stretched so tightly that one cannot tell at which spot it will snap. On May 11 American planes bombed a theological academy of the Catholic Church in a North Vietnam province, killing a student and extensively dam aging the academy. On May 5 a seminary was bombed and a clergyman seriously wounded. Nguyen Syoan Oan, director of the Saigon Bank said rec ently that "inflation keeps growing inexorably. The real value of money has diminished by half and life is becoming increasingly hard due to the aggravating financial crisis." 