 The Soviet Union in 1966: MORE consumer goods! MORE housing ! MORE money to spend ! From RUPERT LOCKWOOD in MOSCOW 0EFORE deputies as sembled in the Kremlin from all over the USSR, Deputy Premier N. K. Baibakov gave the Soviet people an account of the social gains they could expect in 1966. I. iqcc o — -i.- -ii an isuu ijuvici citizens win buy two million more dom estic refrigerators than in 1965 — an increase of 32 per cent — and they will buy 17 per cent more television sets. They will also buy more milk, cheese, vegetable oils. fish, bakery products, confectionery and canned foods. They will wear more fash ionable and better quality suits, dresses and shoes and there will he fewer shopping trials in buying this increased flow of foodstuffs, clothing and household appliances. Planning leader Baibakov told the Minister of Trade and other respon sible authorities that in 1966 they "will have to improve shop services, study requirements of buyers more fully and distribute goods more rat ionally". Surviving rural disabilities in goods buying will end—no freight surcharges on' goods sold in rural shops will be permitted in future. Urban and rural prices must be the same and public services in the countryside must be quickly brought up to city standards. The supply of extra goods is as sured by concrete measures to expand light industry by 22 per cent, to bring into cultivation another 600,000 odd acres of irrigated land, to drain vast areas of overwatered lands in north west Russia, Byelorussia and the Ukraine and to provide many more canal digging machines. Wage rises Perhaps the two most welcome of the New Year benefits emerging from the budget speech were wage rises and a new housing boom. The 11.6 per cent increase in hous ing brings the total for next year to 90 million square metres of living space, equal to about 3 million new flats. That is enough to rehouse Aus tralia's entire population on the basis of one flat to three and a half people. Real incomes of the Soviet people will rise on the average by 6i per cent — double the average annual in crease of the last seven years — while those of collective farmers will rise 12 per cent during the next year. More billions are provided for pen sions. medical services, education, kindergartens and other social ser vices. Factory and office workers will in crease by 2.9 milion to 80 milion and the total work force will rise by 3.6 million. In his speech Baibakov criticised shortcomings in agriculture, delays in commissioning new capacities and In mastering new techniques, under- fulfilment of plans in fertilisers, plas tics and other chemical products and Inadequate shopping services. But despite errors and deficiencies, Baibakov, who is Chairman of the USSR State Planning committee, was able to report an 8.5 per cent in crease in gross industrial output. Bad weather cut grain crops, but in this difficult year for agriculture Soviet farmers greatly increased pro duction of meat, butter, eggs and milk and improved livestock herds. Heavy industry, transport agricul tural machines, chemicals and other basic industries received the ex pected increases in budget alloca- , tions. 