 Art Affairs with Noel Counihan The Artist under the shadow... What effect has the age of nuclear warfare on creative imagination? CAN we look forward to exciting new work appearing at home or abroad this coming year? Shall we see painting of a quality beyond the "interesting"? A feature of the vitality shown by Australian art over the last twentyfive years lias been its deve lopment within a descending curve in the aesthetic levels of world art. During this period it seems to me that nothing has appeared in either the socialist or capitalist worlds of the memorable and definitive stature of "Guernica" mural. Only posterity will decide whether the one national art move-; ment to influence art beyond its national borders, over the last quarter of a century, American action painting, will have left be hind one similar masterpiece to become enshrined in the heart and mind of man. It is possible that the period we have been living through, shadow ed by the threat of total destruc tion, with intellectual life confined and normal human relationships frozen by cold war, has been too much for the artistic imagination? Not yet quite free from inhibition in the socialist countries, and in the capitalist world sadly divorc ed from the mass of the people, art appears to be struggling, gal lantly but still desperately, for a new upsurge of life and higher standards. ? A depressing exhibition currently touring Australia is the collection of American watercolour abstracts ed by Frank O'Hara of the Museum of Modern Art, New York. Here is frightening evidence of art turned in on itself, losing vital ity and substance in the process. The watercolour sketch, like drawing, is so often the most spon taneous, intimate expression of burgeoning thought, imagery in the making. But here, with few exceptions (Jenkins, Kanemitsu, Lilly Brody) where at least the decorative ele ment emerges more strongly, the splashes and spatters of colour communicate little, suggesting nothing of the tapestry-like rich ness of the best Pollock enamels, the simplicity of Rothko or the drama of Motherwell. Hanging near at hand during the Melbourne National Gallery's display was John Olsen's tapestry "Joi© de vivre". Its simple gaiety and carnival spirit left these more pretentious essays for dead. ? NEARBY also was a sparkling display of inter national posters from the National Gallery's own. col lection. Lovely examples of Toulouse- Lautrec, Braque and Leger. led up to brilliant contemporary Japanese, Italian, Polish, British and Dutch posters, often so delightfully im mediate in communication, and so many of whose artistic forms ori ginated initially in that inexhaust- able furnace, the mind of the Com- munist, Pablo Picasso. ? WHICH brings me again to the continuing, smear against the great Spanish artist, his alleged "Con- fession , in which Picasso is purported to admit that when alone he dared not consider himself a true artist but merely, a charlatan, a professional comedian ; ' grown rich through catering to the whims of a novelty seeking world. This canard was exposed by the famous French painter Edouard Pignon in 1963, as a forgery first published in 1952 in a book of imaginary interviews with celebri ties by an Italian named Giovanni Papini and entitled "The Black Book." This concoction, touted in many parts of the world over and over again as Picasso's personal confes sion, is repeated without any acknowledgement as to its source in an article on "The Cartoon" published in "The Journalist's Craft", a new book sponsored by the Fed. Executive of the Austra lian Journalists' Association. The author of this article, cartoonist Dan Russell of the Adel aide News, lets himself in again by ascribing the famous cartoon "I think I hear a child weeping" to David Low instead of its actual creator Will Dyson. A poor performance in a book presented as authoritative. Public correction on both counts is called for, one would think. 