 Bait defied Ministers sell Vietnam pamphlet jUELBOURNE: Three hundred copies of r the pamphlet "American Atrocities in Vietnam", were sold in fifteen minutes on a city, corner last Monday. The sales were made by 12 ministers of religion in defiance of the Victorian Police Vice Squad who had seized the pamphlet from bookshops on. Thursday. . . .. Lunch time crowds, queued six deep at times to buy the pamphlet at the corner of Eliz abeth and Collins Streets. , Immediately the ministers be gan selling the pamphlet a crowd gathered, and within a few minutes several hundred people were milling around, blocking the footpath and par ticipating in lively discussions on the Vietnam war and the merits of the ministers' action... Not all people present were sympathetic to the ministers. But those who jeered were quickly challenged by others who said they at least wanted to read another viewpoint. Gave notice In advance letters to the police, press, and television stations, the ministers gave notice of their intention to sell the pamphlet. Copies of the letter were distributed to the public by the ministers as they sold the pamphlets. "Wc believe the pamphlet to contain such important infor mation that j,t deserves, not suppression, but the widest possible circulation", the min isters' letter stated. "The pamphlet can be con sidered offensive only in a political sense, and we are afraid that political lather than moral considerations, may have led to the ban." "We shall continue to dis tribute the pamphlet as long as we are able", the ministers stated. Five plain clothes police headed by the Chief of the Vice Squad Det.. Sgt. J. White head, and five uniformed police stood by until the pamphlets had been sold. They then re quested the ministers to sign . statements to the effect that they had sold the pamphlets. Det. Sgt. Whitehead told a Guardian reporter that his squad would report its findings to superior officers at Russell Street Police Headuartexe pending further action against the ministers. 