 Students wrongly attacked over New Guinea work visit GOVT. MISMANAGEMENT By JIM COOPER JYDNEY : Political discrimination and mis management by the Federal Government lie behind the unjustified attacks made last week on Australian university students who went on volunteer work in New Guinea recently. The students deeply resent statements by Mr. John Pasquarelli reported in the daily press on March 5 that some of them were "bludgers and bums". Early in January, during the university vacation, about 350 Australian university students, travelling at their own ex pense, went to New Guinea to work on a number of projects in various parts of the ter ritory. Arrangements were organised between the National Union of University Students and the Ad ministration. Each volunteer was required to fill out a questionnaire which, among other things, closely ex amined the "political affilia tions" of the applicants. This conformed to administra tion policy of screening those who want to enter the territory, notable past exclusions includ ing Professor Max Gluckman (anthropologist), progressive delegates from the United Nat ions and Soviet journalist Yuri Yasnev. The "permit" system has ex cluded Australian trade union officials who are considered to have "left" views. The students were allocated their projects by the Adminis tration. In some cases, very bad official organisation prevented them from doing the jobs set down. For example, it is understood that in one case promised earth- moving equipment to clear a site never appeared. In another case, a party of students, sup posed to be erecting a building, were supplied with only a couple of saiwis and a hammer. Last week's remarks by Mr. Pasquarelli represent the atti tude of vested private interests that do not want any intrusion in New Guinea which would tend to expose their exploita tion of the people and the re sources. It can be safely said that Mr. Pasquarelli's reference that some of the volunteers' politics were "redder than Santa Claus' nose" arises not from any per sonal knowledge of the students' politics, but from his desire to keep them out of New Guinea altogether. It is reported that Mr. Pas quarelli was absent from New Guinea for the duration of the students' visjt. Contrary to Mr. Pasquarelli's outburst, the South Pacific Post (January 19, 1966) gives rather a glowing account of the work of the students, stating that the work schedules were completed as planned even though the tropical conditions caused a lot of them to come down with stomach upsets, dysentery etc. Back in Australia some of the students have stated that the behavior of the group was good. Published statements by Dr. Gunther, assistant administra tor, and Mr. Gaudi Mirau con firm this. What is greatly resented by the Australian white racists in New Guinea is the students' fraternisation with the New Guineans. "While officially there is no discrimination, private apartheid is the order of the day; "the native hEis to be kept in his place", they say. Many of the students would have none of this, so they were attacked. The exploiters of New Guinea don't want a world exposure of (jheir methods to. influences which could advance the under standing of the mass of the New Guinea people. 