 JUDGE CALLS FOR TANKER TALKS: FOREIGN FIRMS RULE THE ROOST — Seamen's jobs threatened By our Industrial Roundsman JJYDNEY : The Deputy President of the Arbitration Com mission, Judge Gallagher, last week called on the Federal Government to arrange a conference 'to seek oil cargoes for Australian shipowner R. W. Miller. Maritime unions have no il lusions that the foreign oil monopolies can and do dictate to the Australian Government. They also know that if Mil ler is forced out and the oil monopolies are allowed to re vert to their old methods, 700 Australian seamen will lose their jobs. Judge Gallagher's call was made following a conference between the maritime unions and the Department of Ship ping, which he had convened in an effort to resolve the tanker dispute. Black Earlier tugmen members of the Seamen's Union and the Firemen's and Deckhands' Un ion had black-banned tankers, immobilising eight in a matter of days. This action resulted from the men's anger at the Federal Gov ernment's and foreign-owned oil monopolies' attempts to drive Miller's Australian-owned tankers out of the trade. Already the "Miller's Cano- pus" has been sold to a Philip pines company and the "R. W. Miller" has been without an oil cargo for 12 months. The third tanker, "Miller's Macarthur" went out of commis sion last weekend and is now also tied up without a crew. In a frank judgment last week, Judge Gallagher said the action of Miller in bringing an Australian manned tanker onto the Australian Coast, "constitut ed an important development in the maritime industry. "The entrance of Miller into the industry . . . eventually resulted in the whole of the coastal trade being carried out .under Australian, conditions," he said. This fact is well known to Australian maritime unions. Boast This situation was forced on the Government and the oil monopolies by the Seamen's Union and R. W. Miller acting together. "Miller's Canopus" was in fact "illegally" imported onto the coast in 1963. Seamen's Union Federal Sec retary, Mr. E. V. Elliott, has many times put the record straight when the Government seeks to boast about this trade now being conducted in Austra- i lian manned ships. Now Judge Gallagher has ' also gone on record to say the trade would never have com menced had not Miller came onto the coast. \ Judge Gallagher also said the Government had made it clear that it could not guarantee any i particular operator or any par- ticular vessel would get oil j cargoes. j "This attitude calls for fur- ther consideration and the Gov- 1 ernment could at least bring j the parties into"coriTerefi'cie," he' j said. 1 The conference may be held I this week. 1 In the meantime, the Austra- 1 lian Council of Trade Unions j has informed the Seamen's Un- | ion that Shipping Minister Mr. j Freeth, has given an assurance j that Australian manned tank- j ers would continue on the Aus- I tralian coast. 1 At the same time, the ACTU I has not declared whether it is | prepared to accept the. Minis- I ter's assurances. I 