 I CIA pilot tells Tribune I | jJURDEROUS activities I of the American Cen tral Intelligence Agency in Vietnam have been re- vealed by an American pilot, Chuck Bartos, now in Australia. At a press interview he told Tribune writer Harry Stein how, for years before last year's intensification of the Vietnam war, the , CIA was active in nor,th I and south Vietnam. I It was air-dropping saboteurs into north Viet nam and abducting and murdering south Vietnam ese patriots. Mr. Bartos himself flew some of the planes taking part in the work. (See story Page 11.) Diary of a pilot who tells TRANSPORTING CIA ASSASSINS AT $20 A TIME (From page 1) SYDNEY: How he helped to transport American agents in Vietnam to murder Vietnamese patriots for 20 US dollars a time has been described by an American air pilot recently in Vietnam in an interview with Tribune writer Harry Stein. "My name is Chuck Bartos, I am an American pilot. I have been an agricultural pilot for eight years" he told Mr. Stein. He came to Vietnam "in an accidental way", his employers asking if he would take a two years contract in Vietnam with the Vietnamese Air Transport company. This was supposedly a Viet namese company, staffed at the top by Americans but, said Mr. Bartos, "after a time I found out through various passengers of mine that it was really a cover or front for a CIA oper ation that was going on in Viet nam . . . "Various military, state dep artment and government people that I was hauling on various trips— and the CIA people— just came right out and told me. "Most of these were retired military people — US navy, air force, army. Some of them were retired lieutenant commanders, colonels and so on. It seems that the military take care of .their own. so when they retire or are" in reserve and when a good deal comes up overseas they contact you and offer you a job at anywhere from 25,000 to 35,000 dollars a year. The CIA, the pilot continued, "had many Vietnamese that had fought with the French in the Indo-China war" and were "very buddy-buddy" with the Americans. They had "set up" many sab otage operations in North Viet nam. In South Vietnam they were trying to plant agents in side the National Liberation Front "and there was also an assassination team" which would "go out and assassinate various Vietcong leaders. "They knew who they were he- cause the Vietcong had a paral lel government; there was a South Vietnamese province chief and a parallel Vietcong province chief. They knew who he was, so it was very simple to assign an assassination team the job of killing this guy . . . "I flew many of these people. They would tell me to go to a certain village, town or airstrip or something like that and I would take them there." The assassins would talk about their mission, Mr. Bartos con tinued and once "the head of the CIA identified himself to me. He showed me a package of pictures of the victims who were murdered. He said he sent out his assassination teams and they would not be paid until they brought back a photograph of the victim. He had to be identifiable. "They couldn't just blow somebody's head off and say, this is Buddhist chief so and so. It had to be identifiable. Mr. Bartos said the assassins were paid $US20 per murder. If a team took part, each murd erer would get $US20. He added: "Several times the CIA had Vietnamese tied up and said they were Vietcong prisoners or suspected of Viet cong activities." "Several times I suppose they were sure they were Vietcong, so they asked me to climb to a much higher altitude with a view to opening the door and throwing the man out. In other, words, killing him. "I would not allow this to be done. I told them I was com mander of this aircraft and there was not to be anybody thrown out of my aircraft. To back it up I pulled out my submachine-gun and aimed it . . . "There were three different occasions that this happened, once in 1963 and twice in 1964." Other US pilots had taken a similar stand, Mr. Bartos said. "But several of the army heli copter crew. I knew blabbed to me that they had in fact thrown prisoners of war overboard and killed them. They thought this was a great game. They said that their commanding officer winked at such activities . . . "Shortly after that the West moreland command issued orders to all helicopter person nel that they were not allowed to torture, interrogate or throw overboard any prisoners what soever". This order, said Mr. Bartos, led him to believe the practice was quite widespread, since, if it had not been, there would have been no need for such an order. Mr. Bartos said that the first group of pilots employed by the CIA's bogus company were Turks — chosen so that if they were shot down and captured the US would not appear to be involved. For the first 18 months Mr. Bartos said he flew for Viet nam Air Transport, but then transferred to another company called Air American, another front for the CIA which "has been active in south east Asia all these years and is becoming much more active." 