 [?] "MASS SLAUGHTER" OF MINERS: UNION PROTESTS FATALITIES : — Immediate inquiry sought SYDNEY: The Central Council of the Miners' Federation last week in Sydney demanded that the NSW Minister for Mines (Mr. Lewis) hold an immediate public inquiry into safety and health in the coal industry "with the object of rectifying what is tantamount to mass slaughter". Council made this decision under the shadow of 19 deaths in NSW coal mines so far this year. Only a few hours before the Miners' Council commenced its meeting, a miner was crushed to death at the Australian Iron and Steel company's mine at Appin on the NSW South Coast. Three other miners were in jured and only escaped death by inches. This latest tragedy followed the recent death of five men crushed at the Wyee State Mine, South of Newcastle. Last September, 300 miners at the Kemira Colliery on the South Coast, ended a 50-day strike because they refused to I work in high concentrations I of coal and rock dust. "Cavalier" The AI and S had earlier suspended men for refusing to work on the dusty side of a machine. This stand by the Kemira men forced the company to back down. It is just over a year since four miners were burnt to death in the Bulli mine. Following an inquiry, Judge Goran said the management had adopted a "cavalier attit ude" to the problem of gas. He said the management had "ignored the fundamental prin ciples of ventilation" and "tol erated concentrations of noxious gas which drew complaints from the men." The Miners' Federation at the time said the A I and S had ignored safety principles in the interests of production. Dissatisfaction Guilt was proved but no prosecutions were made. "Something has to be done. Someone has to be forced to do something. Miners President W. Parkinson told the Council last week. "We must express our com plete dissatisfaction with the Mines Department in the way it is endeavoring to police the Mines Regulations." Mi'. Parkinson said that con sidering the lesser number of men in the industry today, the fatality rate is at least double the rate in the old pick-mining days. Killer A Central Council resolution said the coalmining industry is the third largest killer— only being exceeded by deaths from heart diseases and malignant cancer. It far exceeds the road fatal ities on a per thousand of population basis. For the last five years to the end of last month, 65 mine- workers have been fatally in jured in NSW coal mines. "These figures do not in clude mineworkers who die each year as a result of dust disease and heart injury," council said. In demanding a public in- quiry, council jsaid this must be "distinct from the depart mental inquiry which does , not command our confidence. "Unless effective trade union action is organised and taken, workers in the mining indus tries must face an even higher death, accident and disease rate," council said. Reasons The following factors were listed by the Council as the basic reasons for the present situation: The continuous application of heavier and more intensely produc tive machines, the tremendous rate . of extraction, the accompanying problem of roof control, the hazard . of increased dust concentration as a result of rapid extraction, and little, if any, regard to safety and health factors associated with these mach ines, unless fought for by the Miners' Federation. 0 The intensive competition, both domestic and overseas, among col lieries supplying the non-captive Australian trade and export trade, &lt; with safety and health considerations becoming secondary to high outputs and price cutting. The need of captive collieries to provide cheap coal and high out puts per man to steel, cement and power plants. The maintenance neglect of collieries. 0 The total absence of conserva tion measures such has stowage, The neglect of methods find ing increasing use overseas such as hydraulic mining which could provide quieter methods in pillar extraction. 0 Mines Department failure to police the Coal Mines Regulation Act and to act effectively as the statu tory authority in the industry. 