 — — — . m-t- _ - - _ „ I I /yn QOVERNMENT back benchers in Canberra are critical of an incident flowing from the contempt their leaders have for many of the people and dele gations who travel to Can berra to see them. They are critical because the Iiabor Party MP's came out of the incident so well at the expense of some of the Liberal-Country Party big-shots. All attempts by representatives at last week's conference of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations to meet with leaders of the Govern ment were knocked back. The delegates representing 300,000 members weren't exactly happy when they were told that they had been rebuffed by Messrs. Holt, McEwen, McMahon and Senator Gorton. But 10 Labor MP's, including Mr. Calwell, spent an evening listening to the problems that ACCSPA was discussing at its conference. On Thursday, Dr. Cairns and Senator Wheelden spoke to the conference and were welcomed by the chairman, who contrast ed the way they had been re ceived by the Labor" Party with the rebuff from the leaders of the Government. Oh, well, what else can you expect from a Government I which has had its head buried in the sand for years. Big Brother WE recently discovered a NEW organisation "The Account Recording Asociation Pty Ltd." which answers 2,000 enquiries every day about the financial transactions be tween John Citizen and the firms he does business with. Trying to head off the forma tion of a new credit bureau, They're just bad mannered they sent a circular to all mem bers of the NSW Parliament. It said: "There are 50 incom ing telephone lines, 20 outgoing and our staff of 40 handle up to 2000 transactions daily. "In the files there are ap proximately IJ million records, incorporating some five million transactions currently main tained." They say that they service enquiries for 70 different con cerns "comprising retailers, wholesalers, finance institutions, financiers, power undertakings, gas companies and local coun cils." The dangerous way personal information can be used can be seen by another circular sent out by the Australian Credit Register. They supply informa tion on bankruptcy. Under the heading selections of staff, they say: "It may be inadvisable to make appoint ments when they have an indi vidual or a, family history of bankruptcy." Big brother is keeping a watch on us, all right. Wot about the diggers? "yHE "MV Jeparit" left Sydney last Friday for her second trip to Vietnam. In one of the holds is an all- white latest model Holden. Ky just got a new luxury-equipped plane, maybe he wants a Holden to go with it, or could it be for the use of the troops? Both the. "Jeparit" and the "Booneroo" were supposed to be taring comforts to the Australian troops there. We know that be cause some of the politicians and sections of the press put on a great act when the seamen first refused to man the "Booneroo. They were denying the troops comforts that they so badly needed. When the "Booneroo" and later the "Jeparit" arrived in Vietnam they were chock full of military gear but not one bottle of beer for the troops. 