 Two protests to support anti-war demonstrators SYDNEY: Two demonstrations will take place in Sydney next Friday, May 20, in opposition to Australia's involvement in the Vietnam war. The first demonstration, a protest against the prosecu- tion of two young men on draft-card burning charges, will be held outside the Fed eral special Court in Phillip Street a,t 10.45 am. The young men are Wayne Haylen and Robin Melrose., The demonstration will be in the form of a poster parade and distribution of leaflets out side the special Federal Court in Phillip Street, between Hun ter Street and Martin Place. A similar demonstration will be held on the following Fri day, May 27, the date set down for the hearing of similar charges against Messrs. Barry Robinson, John Marchant and Pat Dawson. The second demonstration will take place outside the US Consulate in Wynyard Street, City, at 5 pm. It will be in protest against the actions of Marshal Ky, with the tacit sup port of the USA, in suppres sing the civilian population in South Vietnam. A similar demonstration was held in Sydney last Monday evening. More than 80 people, predominately youth, carried posters 'in a parade outside the US Consulate. Meetings on Vietnam sched uled for the near future in clude:— Tonight, Wednesday, May 18: Balmain Town Hall. Speaker, Federal Opposition leader A. A. Calwell. Sunday, May 22: civic Hall, Cabramatta, Deputy Opposition leader -E. G. Whitlam, Dr. J. F. Cairns, MHR, 2.30 pm. Thursday, May 26: North Sydney Council Chambers, Miller St., North Sydney. De bate between Collaroy Young Liberals and Mosman ALP branch, 8 pm. Friday, June 3; Porta Villa Hall, Pittfwater Rd„ Deewhy. W. C. Wentworth, Senator J. Wheeldon, Mr. A; Carey of the NSW University, 8 pm. Friday, June 3: Town Hall, Granville, Dr. J. F. Cairns, Mr. T. Uren; MHR, and others, 8 pm. On Wednesday, May 25, the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament will hold its annual general meeting at Federation House, 166 Phillip St., on the 7th floor, at 7.45 pm. 