 Big protest strike over wage decision LL Boilermakers and blacksmiths throughout Newcastle held a 24-hour strike last Monday in protest against the low basic wage increase. The stoppage involved about «hhj men who are demanding an increase of not less than $5. A mass strike meeting sent a protest telegram to Mr. Justice Wright, the chairman of the wage commission. A demand was also made on Federal and State Governments to take immediate action to control prices. The men said they would now step up the struggle for over award payments and higher margins. A flood of protest telegrams against the wage decision has also been sent from other un ionists throughout the New castle area. Trade union leaders have branded the national wage deci sion as being "completely un satisfactory" and "dangerous." Further attack The $2 a week basic wage in crease granted last Friday by jbe Commonwealth Arbitration Commission falls far short of 'be unions' claim of $4.30 plus a $5.90 increase in tradesmen's bjargins and shows the futility i relying on arbitration. The case for the unions' claims was unanswerable and Mr. Hawke, the A.C.T.U. ad- this&te t00lC a(vanta£e of A serious aspect of the deci sion is that wages will not be aajrsted at quarterly intervals o .. jmpensate workers for gal loping price rises. Since the Commission abolish- ea these quarterly cost of living W tments in 1953» workers dollars611 robbed of millions of Each adult male worker in Sydney has lost about $574 dur ing this period. In Melbourne the loss is $1276, Adelaide $654, Hobart $1304, Perth $1360 and Brisbane $762. Acting secretary of the NSW Labor Council (Mr. R. Marsh) said the decision is "a further attack on the living standards of the people generally. "By the time the Federal Gov ernment took their part of the $2 in tax there would not be such a great deal left for work ers to spend." Mr. Marsh added that in view of the attitude adopted by the Commission, it may be necessary for the unions to consider other ways of obtain ing wage justice in the form of more collective bargaining. Mr. P. Clancy (NSW secretary, Building Workers Industrial Un ion) said the decision was un satisfactory as it did not even compensate for the increased cost of living since the deci sion in 1964. "The cost of living has gone up more than $4.60 in the last two years not counting the series of recent price increases such as milk and cigarettes." He said the decision to defer margins was also an attempt to split up the unions to argue "work values." "A dangerous clear warning is also given to employers to absorb the $2 increase in over award payments now being made. "This should be met by the complete opposition of the trade union movement. "The decision shows the futil ity of reliance on arbitration as a means of getting real wage increases," he said. Mr. A. Horsburgh (Chairman of the Amalgamated Engineer ing Union's Commonwealth Council) condemned the deci sion "as not measuring up to the rapid deterioration of work ers' wages. "Much more will have to be done by the active unions to seek direct negotiations with employers to bridge the gap be tween wages and high prices," he said. (Continued on Page 12) Workers a,t the Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide plants of the giaqt chemical monopoly, Imperial Chemical Industries, are on strike in support of a $4 a week wage increase. Mass meetings last week decided to continue the strike pending satisfactory negotiations. {Pic tured are some of the 1000 Sydney workers during their meeting last Friday. BASIC WAGE CASE DECISION (Continued from Page 1) At least sections of the wealthy press have the honesty O evaluate the decision as a victory for their side. The Financial Review head lines that the "national wage decision" is a "victory for em ployers." The reaction has been the pre dictable one of "crocodile tears" fiom employers and "not enoughs" from the trade unions, the Review said. It should also be added that the employers only offered a paltry 60 cents increase. But despite this, a $2 in creases is seen as "a victory for the employers." The decision to grant a spe cial interim "relief" for low wage earners does not apply in the case of anyone being paid over the award, nor to females or juniors. Jn fact very few workers will be affected by this almost ficti cious "interim relief." Notice has also been served that the Commission intends to adopt the employers' total wage concept in future wage cases. Paltry as the $2 decision was, it is still much more than the v0 cents granted in 1965. This time $2, and not another 60 cents, was in fact forced from the Commission by the weight of trade union action. Few in the labor movement today would publicly deny that all wage applications and court arguments must be backed by struggle outside the court. Such widespread struggle was a feature of this case. The heed for struggle, as the best way to achieve results, is shown by the airline pilots' 'hreatened stoppage and the militant overtures now being made by bank officers and other white collar workers. In Queensland 150,000 went on strike in one day in support of higher wages. In Sydney 10,000 workers, and 5,000 in Newcastle demonstrated for higher wages and lower prices. Demonstration also took place in Melbourne and other centres. The Commission was also fac ed with the growing hostility against the so-called impartial arbitration system following the scandalous 1965 decision. Unions will now be seeing the need to back their margins claims by vigorous struggle. Failure to do so will result in a pitiful handout by the court. The NSW Labor Council's Liv ing Standards Conference on July 30 in Sydney will now as sume greater importance. Such matters as the decline in social services, housing, education and the need for a change in economic policies are topics of the conference which are already drawing wide pub lic support. 