 Vital questions for movement Elections in review —Political C'ttee CPA , statement -"HE 1966 general elections marked a significant change in Australian political alignments and issues; it may well be a watershed in Australian political struggle. Certainly, the outcome poses vital questions before the whole labor movement, and not less before the various emerging radical-democratic trends which reject the status-quo of Liberal- Country Party political domination. The Liberal-Country coalition won a sweeping victory in seats, although it received only fraction ally over 50 per cent of the votes (the first time since the war it had reached this figure). The Liberal Party finished with 61 seats (out of the House of 123 seats) for only 40 per cent of the votes; the Country Party with 21 seats for 10 per cent; the Labor Party has only 41 seats for its 40 per cent. So the parliament will by no means correspond to popular feeling, which can be pro perly expressed only through proportional repre sentation. The result was a striking example of the ideolo gical power of the Australian Establishment— its control of the means of manipulating public opinion and the skilled projection of "good" and "bad" images, and its ability to exploit backward senti ments and conjure up nightmare fears of Asia, and its ability to count upon a certain basic con sensus with powerful groups in the Labor Party. IRRATIONAL By exploiting irrational fears and fanning racialist prejudices, the conditioning atmosphere was one of "better fight them there than here" and "All the way with LBJ". The Opposition was branded totally irresponsible at best, and possibly traitorous at worst. The contrasting economic and social policies were swept aside; the prime requirement was the unde clared war. In these circumstances, perhaps the most signi ficant result was the refusal of 42 per cent of electors to be stampeded, voting for parties opposed to the Government's Vietnam policy and conscrip tion, and advocating new directions in both home and foreign policies. This 42 per cent of Australians is the solid and probably irreducible popular oppo sition, maintaining a national division unprece dented in time of war. Since glaring contradictions of Government policy will soon be revealed in unpopular measures ines capable because of the Vietnam war, this substan tial minority can be transformed into a political majority. . &lt; Most political analysts suggest that young voters gave majority support to the Liberal Party. This is said to herald a new trend to the right in Australian politics, which would most suitably be met by a move to the right by the Labor Party. This 'would mean a Republican-Democrat two- party system, reflecting politically the trend towards United States economic, cultural and diplomatic takeover of Australia. Deeper causes for political conformism among the younger generation are the acceptance of the empty values of modern monopoly capitalist society, under pressure of the monopoly-controlled economic and cultural environment and the distortion of social realities possible in a period of relative prosperity. Vital decisions face all those trends in the labor movement concerned with challenging capitalist society and alive to the terrible dangers for Aus tralia of the foreign policy dominated by the "all the way with LBJ" commitment on Vietnam. They have to hammer out fundamental policies for modern conditions with a. view to socialist transformation. The siren voices of moderation only lead back to old paths of conformism and bi-partisanship on everything but minor issues, allowing for debate on methods but not aims, on how monopoly capitalism should..be administered, on tactics of how to support US policy in Asia, but not on challenging the whole foreign policy. It would mean acceptance of the loss of Australian independence and initiative in almost every field. EXTREME The new government will quickly force the issue. Its policies and its leadership will move further right, with a much more powerful Liberal parlia mentary representation, including a strengthened extreme right grouping. The threatening attitude to Qantas pilots heralds a tough- line to trade union demands, already building up to a new high level of struggle for wage increases and a challenge to managements "sacred rights". More troops will be leVied for Vietnam, and new financial burdens will be placed on the people to pay for the war. National development, education and social needs will suffer in the process, receiving only the minimum possible piecemeal attention demanded by public pressure. The consequent political and industrial issues will call forth continued industrial and political resistance to monopoly and the Vietnam war. The broadest movement of opposition is needed, uniting all the diverse trends and actions, A strong movement can uncover many serious policy divisions and strains within the Conservative coalition. Efforts to suppress the opposition move ment outside parliament, almost inevitable in present political conditions, can be met and defeated by determined unity of all opposing the Government. UNITY The Communist Party will make every effort to play a constructive part in developing unity of the diverse social and political groupings opposing the war in Vietnam, conscription, and the Government's accompanying economic and financial policies. The P&rty campaign in the elections was waged at a high level of enthusiasm and efficiency, despite the political censorship exercised by monopoly and Government controllers of the mass media. The Political Committee thanks all the party and non party workers whose devoted and enthusiastic activity overcame this censorship and took the party's message to the people. The 1966 elections have confronted the labor movement with a new situation and new tasks. Like every other part of the movement, the Communist Farty has to review its analysis of Australian society and formulate new policies to meet the new situation. Serious examination and vigorous discussion of party policy in preparation for its National Congress are indispensable for this review. The Political Committee appeals for the most vigorous and far-ranging discussion and debate, in party meetings, in public hearings and in the special journal to appear early next year- View points, opinions and criticisms in the party should be expressed without reservation or inhibition, in party and public discussions. The party will welcome contributions to the discussion from outside its ranks, hoping to provide a forum for the much-needed creative discussion of socialist ideas and the forms of militant action needed today. Contributions to the first issue of the discussion journal should reach the Central Committee, Com munist Party of Australia, 168 Day Street, no later than January 31, 1967. 