 spm/STS —7 ' ' 1 ' 1 i Opperman again ! Australia's involvement in the Vietnam war has once more drastically affected sport. Last week the Federal Government squashed Australia's chance to hold, for the first time, the world table tennis championships next year. The Federal government refused to admit players from the Democratic Rep ublic of Vietnam. The president of the Aus tralian Table Tennis Associ ation (Mr. Ron Jones) re ported last week to the In ternational Federation that he had been informed to this effect by the Minister for Immigration, Mr. H. Opper man. As a result the president of the International Table Ten nis Federation (Mr. Ivor Montague) announced that Australia will not be allow ed to stage, the world champ ionship next year. The International Federa tion ruled in 1951 that all countries wishing to parti cipate in the championships should be free to do so. In view of this, democra tically-minded people every where will oppose any at tempt to hold the champion ships without the Vietnam ese. Australia has been prepar ing for the world champion ships since 1961. Mr. Ron Jones estimates that 10,000 dollars has been spent on preliminary arrangements. This attitude of the Feder al government to sportsmen from Peoples Democratic republics is their general rule. At the beginning of the year, Mr. Opperman was guilty of imposing repug nant conditions on the entry of table tennis players from the German Democratic Rep ublic. They were not to be allow ed to wear their national col ours, fly their flag or play their national anthem. Such nonsense is part and parcel of the Federal gov ernment's ideas of good for eign. policy and democratic ideals. After all the Federal gov ernment recognises the cor rupt puppet Ky of South Vietnam and his hero was Hitler. (Hitler walked out of the 1936 Berlin Olympics be cause the American negro runner Jesse Owens won too many gold medals and des troyed the Fuhrer's idea of a super race.) It all reminds one of the old saying: Tell me who your friends are and I'll tell you who you are. Jap sports car, The goods AT present Australia's veteran race driver Jack Brabham, would probably be not too popular with Australia's established car monopolies. In the automobile indus- :i try, legislation has been ii brought in to introduce a. : tariff on Japanese cars be- cause they are proving too good in competition with 1 local British and American makes. With the Japanese car agencies claiming their pro duct to be better-priced and of higher quality, Brabham seems to be intent on prov ing it. During the past fortnight Brabham and his team have won two international races in the Japanese Honda car. The first win was at Good wood in England and the second in France. The wins pointed out that Hondas now pose, a sharp threat to Brit ain's long term racing sup remacy in these races. A fond farewell By "Pegasus" I HEAR that owner Mr. W. Bradley is earnestly considering retiring veter an galloper River Seine (by Tsaoko from Missis , sipi) to his Dunterry pro perty. River Seine although never a true champion is still well- known to all racing punters. The old gelding— he's now — nine years old, had his best season in" 1965 when he won the Sydney Cup with 8.7 and then the Doomben Cup with 7.11. River Seine has retained his form remarkably well over the years and only the other week was a surprise 16/1 winner in the Cumber land Handicap at Randwick (Sydney). Much of the credit for the old fellow's success, must go to Neville Prendegast his trainer. However, at the age of nine (most gallopers retire be tween the ages of four and five) and after a successful racing career for owner and stable, I feel that River Seine deserves his retire ment now, before he breaks down. I'm sure that Messrs Brad ley and Prendergast will agree with me, when I that for River Seine to break down on the race-course would be an unworthy ena for such a genuine fellow as 'Old River". . And so I urge Mr. ley to make the noble deci sion and retire River Seme forthwith. Last week I tipped Went worth. However, he was a non-runner, which was Per' haps just as well, becaus his trainer Tommy Smitn has been having a lean speu just lately with his gallopers- It may be a good idea to wait until the stable regains form before following them- Smith's horses have ready won over $200,000 m stakes this season. He seems all set to break his own Brit; ish Commonwealth trainers record which stands a $302,608. . i ct , Tribune regrets that las week two "by-lines" were omitted from the Sports Comment. They should have been: Are You Right, Jack by Jim Sharrock and Back ing a winner? by "Pegasus 