 NIGERIA: back where it started? Bv Roger Milliss, who recently visited Nigeria. «WE don't know where we're going," a leading Nigerian newspaper editor told us in Lagos earlier this year, "but we do know where we've been". He was expressing the uncertain but generally optimistic mood prevalent in the Nigerian capital at the time. A few weeks previously, in January, an army coup had overthrown the corrupt and conservative government of Sir Abubakar Balewa, based on the feudal Moslem north, and installed Major-General Johnson Irons! as head of a new military regime. Ironsi had even at that early stage taken firm steps to lead Nigeria out of the morass of tribal and regional strife into which the pro-Western Balewa had steered it. Where the army regime was heading it was difficult to say, but tc most Nigerians its rule could hardly have been worse than that of Balewa. But events over the last two weeks make it look very much as if Nigeria is hack where it started before Ironsi took power. A new military coup, led by an obscure Colonel named Gowon, has ousted Ironsi— reported by Moscow Radio to have killed in the process — and appears to be planning | to reverse Ironsi's progressive moves. For several years after its independence in 1960, Nigeria was hailed as a shining example of Western "democracy" in Africa. In actual fact, it was saddled by the British with a ludicrously cumbersome "Federal" Constitution under which the Central Government had little real power to legislate for the welfare of the nation as a whole. The most blatant form of commercial -capitalism was rampant,. Nigeria's various tribes battled it out for supremacy, with the powerful Hausas from the North— Moslem and feudalistic — coming out on top. As Prime Minister, Balewa was generally regarded as a front man for the powerful Sardauna of Sokoto, the Hausas' "spiritual" leader, and graft and corruption became rife. With the pickings going to the North, resentment boiled in the South and after fraudulent elections in the Western Region late last year, violence and terror brought Nigeria to the verge of chaos. Ironsi tried desperately to stamp out these evils and destroy Northern hegemony, particularly by strengthening the powers of Central Government. While banning all party political activity, he pledged himself to re-introduce civilian ride at the earliest opportunity. He took action against racketeers, cut retail food prices and attempted to get pigeon- , holed public works under way. In addition, he expressed interest in the possibilities of- socialist development as a way out of Nigeria's crisis — the: general mood, when we were there, being that as capitalism had been tried and found wanting, all other alternatives; should be examined. Likewise, Ironsi also took steps to remove: Nigeria's excessive reliance on the West and improve relations with the socialist countries. Ironsi's moves were tentative, and Nigeria's huge problems remain. Though it possesses enormous natural wealth — vast oil fields have recently been discovered in the Eastern Region— it is incredibly poor. It has one doctor per 30,000 people, and Lagos, its festering capital, contains some of the worst slums imaginable. What Colonel Gowon will do remains to be seen. It has been reported that he has already released some of the racketeering politicians jailed by Ironsi. If he resorts to the policy and practice of the late Sir Abubakar Balewa, there is little prospect of stability in Nigeria or of progress for its people. Nigeria , North and South : (left) a mosque in the Northern city of Kano, and (right) slums in the centre of Lagos , the capital. 