 EDGAR ROSS RETIRES Miners' Editor leaves the pits £YDNEY : For 42 years one of Australia's best known "coal miners", Mr. Edgar Ross, has "sweated over a typewriter" Last week: he "put to bed" his last issue of the miners' newspaper, "Com mon Cause", to take a well-earned "blow". He was still at his type writer, tying up some loose . ends, when Tribune sought him out for an interview. The story of Edgar Ross is the story of working I men — of their struggles, joys, sorrows, victories and defeats. As a young man of 20 he first became part of this struggle when he began writing for 'the "Barrier Daily Truth" in 1924. At that time it was owned by the Broken Hill Branch of the Miners' Fed eration. Although he has been a member of the Australian Journalists' Association since 1922, he also joined the Miners' Federation in 1929 to levy 14 per cent of his wages to support strik ing miners. The miners' paper "Com mon Cause" has a long history in the life of the Australian working man. First appearing in the 1920 's it later merged as a supplement of the "Labor Daily." It was later revived as an independent weekly with Mr. Ross as its editor in 1935 and which played a major role in strengthen ing the union following the 1929-30 lockout. "Common Cause in those days, backed by a new union leadership, raised the morale of miners. The "fights" known as the "First and Second Rounds" resulted in winn ing a 40 hour week and the restoration of the wage cuts imposed during the lockout. During the Second World War, "Common Cause" took up the call for in creased production for the war effort. Recalling the 1949 gen eral miners' strike, Mr. Ross said that contrary to prop aganda, the leaders of the Federation did everything to prevent the strike. All that the miners wanted was for the Gov ernment to live up to its "New Deal" promises. Mr. Ross said the strike was allowed to take place because Prime Minister dhifley said): "The Reds must be taught a lesson." Mir. Ross said that hist ory has proved' the miners right. Having devoted his work ing days to a fighting union newspaper no one knows better than Edgar Ross the value of such a paper to the working man. Without their own "voice" 1 the miners would have been left to the ipercy of the wealthy press. 1 Not only has "Common pause" championed the cause of all workers but has played no small part as an organiser. Edgar Ross all his adult life has fought for a soc ialist Australia. He believes that being a Communist s since 1933 has greatly as- sisted him to find the correct ways to fight. Most workers will wish Edgar Ross well in his retirement and say thanks mate for a job well done. EDGAR ROSS at his desk. 