 nesdi : ; NEW STRUGGLE FOR THE NORTH Behind the strike at Wave Hill When about 80 Aborigines walked off Newcastle Waters Station in the Northern Territory last May they were protesting against a decision of the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission not to grant 1 them equal pay with white workers on the station for three years. But they did more than that — they made trade union history ana cney are stiu on striKe. Two weeks ago when they were joined by about 200 Aborigines from the giant Vesteys' station, Wave Hill, the biggest strike in the history of the Aborigine people's struggle for equality had begun. Here noted Australian novelist Frank Hardy, who has been in Darwin for over two months, writes of the situation in the Northern Territory in an exclusive Tribune article. Revi\ ft THE ide to; revive the Coil iio came from Phillip Rot fc;-; People whs aye read Douglas Lockworid's ;l k the Abor iginal" or-'say le-film of it made by Cecil' Hoi £cwill need no in troduction Phillip. He , still works 4 the. medical field, travelling' ar id the Territory treating/; the' ckiJ amongst his people andiiit htag: them health consciousness ids hygiene. We met) At I house in a Dar win _ suburb; ism man of ex ceptional; qufies) amongst any race of tiielt intelligent, sincere, with anrieini Kndence of mind rare in &lt;th«® Meso&ny where,, and t" llklnlr ta paradoxical con- , "My perjip;. ready to fight," he said.iff'lfejjhad yarned for a while. f''EWbre: 'ready to fight for the iferofci'jand they have to be givenftf io opportunity to fight". If First thing wtpi reorganise the Rights C6urt®tould I help? I had ? coififos the Territory on a sentiiwtfdurney— and to write, but the fate of the Abor igines gripped me. The next Aboriginal I got to know was Dexter Daniel's brother Davis. Where Dexter is lean and impetuous, Davis is chubby and apparently slow-moving. But he was to prove persistent and ener getic in the weeks ahead. Davis and Phillip Roberts asked me to write a program for the Council. I had to say I knew top little. But they insisted. "We can tell you what to put and you write it," they said. Well, they told me what to "put" and I agreed to do a draft for their consideration. I brought the draft to Phillip's house, an eight point pTOgram, beginning with the demand for equal pay. Present were Phillip, Davis, Dexter, Clancy Roberts, Walter Rogers and three other Aborigines. They worked over the draft for two hours altering every paragraph and adding new points. It is perhaps significant that points they added were: the de mand that the use of abusive terms of racial prejudice, such as "nigger" be made a criminal offence; that Aborigines be given full control and ownership , of their reserves and tribal lands, and that their women be protected from abuse by white men. Meeting "pHEN came the mass meet ing at Rapid Creek pic nic ground on Sunday, July 24, which was reported in Tribune at the time. After a lunch of grilled steak and goodies supplied by the Council, Tuciawaan took tne micro phone off an amplifying set given to Dexter Daniels by the Wharfies during his trip South but since unused until that day. "Come on there, you mob," Bobby said. "What do you think? We came here just for fun? Come on. over here for the meeting." So they gathered round and Phillip Roberts opened the meet ing. It was an inspiring affair, the program was debated and adopted unanimously and a new Committee elected. A decision was taken to produce a leaflet and to meet again after the Sydney Wages Conference. Tudawaali, famous as the star of the film "Jedda" arid TV "Whiplash" series, was elected Vice-President. I had met him before the meet ing and since have got to know him well. He is tall and just as lean and wiry looking as before, but his beard i,s grey and he is prematurely aged by the ravages of tuberculosis, a spell in a box ing troupe and perhaps some hard living. After the meeting, he said: "Now that my people have shown they still believe in me I will pull my self together and fight for their rights." He has kept his promise by becoming one of the Council's most reliable and active members and is at Wave Hill as I write assisting the strikers. The Aboriginal people are cap able of standing on their own feet, as they showed by the all- Aboriginal demonstration outside the N.T. Legislative Council last week and the ready way in which they have responded to Faddy Carroll's proposal for a joint dis putes Committee of the Aborig inal Rights Council and the N.A.W.U. Robert Tudawaali I 