 B with NOEL COUNIHAN j The two Soiiet writers | The recent public state- | ment by the general secre- | tary of the Communist Partv of Australia, Laurie I Aarons, criticising the I conditions of the closed i trial and harsh sentencing of two until now obscure writers in the Soviet ! Union has the full support I of this column, which I stands for artistic and literary freedom. I The persistence of a censor ship mentality in official Soviet circles is of deep concern to all friends of the Soviet Union and to many, especially in worlds of art and literature, who have responded warmly to the great liberalisation of Soviet cultural life since the Stalin era. Such trials belittle the vast j strength and unity of the USSR. (They undermine confidence in Soviet democracy when anti- | democratic practices in the im- | perialist countries are more I than ever under fire from pro- ! gressive people. i Moreover, the ultimate vic tims of these trials are on the one hand Soviet art itself and f on the other the democratic I principles of the world com- munist movement. L I ? 1 THE painter brothers Arthur I and David Boyd are well known I for their consistent opposition to war an% Aildermaston marching. They were.ngi t.hose who demonstrate jj ionth out- side Australhiiri London, against the jjg| of Austra lian troops -tetri on. Added sigucelwas given this demonshybj the parti cipation ofiwfeii known artistic persiespsar remov ed from tl(ft?rls Robert Hughes and-'Olsen, as well as composejcoldi William son, poet feTclrter, and Shakespearictor4 Leo Mc- Kern. i j If BRISBAMultbSr George Luke pro\tep||$&sive evid ence of hiswefyttality with his secondboure exhibi tion withinpniimonths, fol lowing an a show at Bris bane's Joto: Galleries. This sftoiifcpnciuded at the - Austrfleaus, Calling- wood, consiifcSsfotirely new work, marldifferent from that showntapsjy, charac terised bye Imaginative generalisati(OUfcjthe human condition, &ingiprincipally steel and cfAtometal. Movemenstiiig, upsurg ing and asi'Asthe essen tial elementheae dynamic expressions wan|s struggle for the reahof his com plete huma'h'-1® LandscapLvidi Armfield who sharedpalleries with Luke has also had a highly pro- | ductive year. ! Of especial interest was the | greater breadth of much of his new work and the evidence of | two forces active within it, one | attracting him towards objec- I tive interpretation of the more j intimate aspects of landscape | and the other pulling him to- ! wards low-toned flat patterned j rhythms. j ? j POP art attacks the condition- ! ing of public attitudes to life j by the cliche-ridden imagery of | the mass media and commercial ! advertising. I It sends up the corruption of i the human image, the debase- | ment of sex, the onslaught on j real human values by the news- I paper strip, the TV commer- ? cial, roadside hoardings, lingerie J ads etc. I In the twenties and thirties j the Dada artists and photomont- ! age specialists like John Heart- | field did something similar. j Phillip Morris International I have sent to Australia a shew I of Pop silk-screen prints by S eleven American artists, sv I rather light weight collection J now on view at the National j Gallery , of Victoria. | It is at its best where the S sardonic and satirical element I is evident and at its worst j where the artists remain, with j out any critical viewpoint, on j the level of the photo and ihe | commercial cliche itself or on I the level of technical novelty. j 