 23rd Congress for peace, socialism From Rupert Lockwood, Tribune Special Representative. ii OSCOW: The 23rd Congress- of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union was' perhaps, the least dramatic, but it was certainly the most business like of the post-war era, concentrating on speedier : economic, social; and cultural advances. This enhanced socialist strength to follow the 23rd Congress will not only lift living standards at home, but help peace and libera tion. Very few fraternal Commu nist Parties were missing and some 85 were represented. China, Japan, Albania and Indonesia were not there, but South and North Viet nam and North Korea sent delegates. Vietnam was salut ed by standing ovations and i pledges of increased support;" Report to Congress stressed I extended democracy and re- \ pudiated any suggestion of | "return to Stalinism." I | Warmly applauded were i proposals to restore the post | of general secretary which I existed under Lenin, and to rename the Central Commit tee Presidium the Political I Bureau, as i,t was known until j the 19th Congress. First Secretary Brezhnev | delivered the five-hour main | report on behalf of 12,471,000 ! CPSU members for guidance I of the most youthful of the \ world's great powers — for | over half the Soviet popula- | tion is aged 26 years and | under. Brezhnev reaffirmed the Party's adherence to the 20th and 22nd Congress lines. He made these points on econ omic and social issues: Instead of the present six-day 41-hour week the five-day week stttl of 41 hours would be introduced. ® Increased wages — in-- j comes will rise 30 per cent.' I in five years — will be accom- j- panied by retail prices cuts. The five-year plan would substantially reduce gaps be- I tween industry and agricul ture, town and country living standards and heavy industry and consumer goods outputs | ® Collective farmers' pen- I stons would be brought up to I urban levels. K hags in agriculture must I iffcerC0me and C'0P yields Special emphasis would be placed on accelerating scientific and technical pro gress. Brezhnev, in reaffirming peaceful co-existence and good neighbor policies, said: "The principle of peaceful co existence cannot be applied to relations between oppres sors and oppressed, between colonialists and victims of colonial oppression." Brezhnev firmly warned Americans whose threats to widen further the war in South-East Asia were "fraught with the most dangerous con sequences for international peace." The Soviet Unioii, he said, resolutely declared that esca lation of the disgraceful war against the Vietnam people meant the aggressors "will meet with ever-increasing sup port to Vietnam on the part of the Soviet Union and its other socialist friends and brothers." The CPSU First Secretary reaffirmed the deep convic tion that the conclusion of the international Communist movement that it was possible to curb aggressors and stop a new world war retained validity.. Brezhnev issued a strong appeal for complete inter national Communist unity. While noting that relations between socialist countries had become "richer, closer and more cordial," Brezhnev said that relations with the parties of two socialist coun tries — China and Albania — remained unsatisfactory. A new bilateral to-level meeting in Moscow or Peking would be useful to examine jointly again existing dif ferences so as to find a way to overcome them on the basis of Marxist-Leninist principles. On the question of another international conference of Communist Parties, the First Secretary said: "We are for a new conference when con ditions are ripe for it." Loyalty to the general line forged by the 1957 and 1960 conferences was "the true guarantee of unity and fresh successes of the revolutionary movement. "The CPSU is against any hegemony in the Communist movement and stands for truly international equal rela tions among all parties." Other points made in Bre zhnev's report included: The criminal killings of Communists in Indonesia must stop. Imperialism was "weav ing a web of conspiracies against newly-free States" and recent events were evi dence of growing reactionary activity on the African conti nent. L. I. BREZHNEV addressing a recent meeting of the USSR Supreme Soviet in Moscow. MR. A. KOSYGIN. 