 pdtltgfTtnsi N&tu-Gumea Bishop bounces RSL on Buka copper grab By Jim Cooper JHE proposed give-away of the copper resources on the island of Bougain ville has caused very wide discontent among the Buka people there. This is clearly reflected in the public argument voiced by various observers. A group on New Britain led by Mr. I. Tobunbun, president of the Rabaul Workers's Asso ciation, castigated the Bukas for not accepting the decision of the House of Assembly to pay ground rent for the area occupied by the Conzinc Rio- Tinto mining company, and R.S.L., playing its customary reactionary role, attacked the Bukas and the Bishop of Bougainville, Most Rev. L. L. Lemay for extending Roman Catholic Church support for the people's claims. Letter In a letter to the Bishop, a copy of .which was forward ed to the press (South Paci fic Post, Nov. 18), the R.S.L. stated: — "If the natives of New Guinea are prepared to accept the huge financial assistance given by Australia, surely it is not unreasonable to expect them to accept the law as laid down by that country. "Let there be no nonsense about native customs and laws. Their customs ... are outdated in the modern world." The letter then lists what they claim are the shortcom ings of the Roman Catholic Church in its operations in New Guinea and, in particular Bougainville. But no comment is made on the origin of the Mining Ordin- ance and the fact that it was introduced in. New Guinea without any consultation with New Guineans and in direct conflict with British law on which the Australian system is patterned. Bishop Lemay (SPP, Nov. 23) stated in reply that his action was not inviting rebel lion, rather it was trying to stave off what would surely happen if the attitudes, out looks and methods of 40 years of domination did not cede to the more humane one of granting basic rights to the country's people. Colonial After describing the R.S.L. 's attitude as one of "We pay the piper so we are entitled to call the tune", the Bishop stated: "I cannot help but state that the quotation from your let ter is a very concise, clear cut exposee of that attitude. I may be wrong but personally I am convinced that it is precisely this colonial mental ity which is counteracting Australia's largess to the Ter ritory. "In spite of Australia's gen erous contributions," he con tinued, "the anti-Administra tion feelings in the Territopr (even where the Catholic Mis sion of Bougainville exerts no influence at all) are due in a great part, according to many observers, to this colonial spirit of domineering, over riding superiority implied in the Administration's reluct ance until recently to let the natives speak." Accepting Bishop Lemay stated that the R.S.L's attitude was one which cut across any rights of the New Guinean people to protest if they found the laws unjust. Asking what rights the R.S.L. considered should be granted to the in digenous people, he replied: "Only one according to your letter, that of gratefully ac cepting the laws laid down by Australia." Meanwhile, in the House of Assembly, New Guinean member Mr. Legun renewed his demand for a share of the royalties which would be col lected when mining operations commenced. His motion calling for 5 per cent of royalties was carried 30 votes to 21 in the face of strong and determined opposi tion by the appointed mem bers of the House. It said that this Bill if as sented to by the Minister will mean that about $25,000 a year will come back to the indigen ous landowners. In my opinion, the royalties, amounting to the equivalent of H per cent of production, are far from adequate, and they should be at least doubl ed to give reasonable com pensation to the country in return for the loss of its mineral wealth. 