 DAIRY FARMERS WONT COP ASKIN'S SOPS Tribune Correspondent ISMORE: One thousand dairy farmers from all sections of the New South Wales north coast crowded into the city hall here last week, for the largest protest meeting ever held in Lismore. The meeting was organised by the Richmond district Primary Producers Union, and North Coast Factories Association. The meeting censured the Askin Government for an nouncing a 1 cent a pint in crease in the price of milk and its rejection of the offer of the North Coast dairy farm ers to supply 10 per cent of the Sydney Milk Board's re quirements on the basis of nat ural increase at 10 cents a pint. They instructed their fivle Country Party MLAs to leave the party and become inde pendent Country MPs if the Government refused them ac cess to the Sydney milk zone. Speakers attacked the NSW Government for failing to carry out their 10-point plan for the North Coast dairy in dustry as promised in order to get the dairy farmers to vote forr the Government can didates at the last elections. A copy of the Milk Act was burned on the steps of the city hall before the meeting com menced. Explosive The Minister for Housing and Member for Byron, Mr. Stephens, who is one of the five MLAs. in the district, re ported to the Country Party leader (Mr. Cutler) that the situation was explosive and that something would have to be done. He said that he was in favor of the establishment of one milk authority for the whole of NSW. Cabinet yesterday heard a brief , report from Mr. 'Ste phens and postponed detailed consideration until next Tues day, as Cabinet had to dis cuss the results of the meeting of the Loan Council and the Premiers' Conference. Since the situation has flared up on the North Coast, negotiations with the inde pendent member for Manly (Mr. Darby) have been speeded Up and he has now agreed to rejoin the Liberal Party. There is talk that at least one of the five MLAs is pre pared to leave the Country Party. The NSW Government could find itself in difficulties if it attempts to ride out this storm. Chairman of the meeting, Mr. J. A. Stockdale, explained the essence of the North Coast dairy farmers' problems when he said that a recent economic survey showed that the net income of most North Coast dairy farmers were far below the basic wage, and relatively few made a. reasonable living. Dairy farmers within the milk zone also can. point out that life isn't exactly peaches and cream for them. They have a very high cost structure, and that since 1953 registered dairy farms in the Sydney milk zone have dropped from 5,495 to 4,887. Resistance They anticipate following the increase this week in the price of milk there will be an in crease in buyer resistance to milk. Last year, despite a fall of 8.5 per cent in milk produc tion within the zone, there was always more milk than what could be sold. A NSW spokesman for the Communist Party said this week that there could be no solution to dairy farmers' pro blems while the Government took a piecemeal approach to the industry. 1 He said there should be one Government authority for milk covering NSW. It should take over the physical handling and distri bution of milk, and purchase and distribute it on a non profit basis. They should then pay to all producers a price which would ensure a reasonable living for the family. Local producer co-operatives should be protected and major processers and distribut ors employed by the milk auth ority as agents. Also that the Dairy Products Board and Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee should apply the same price principle to all other milk produced in the State for the manufacture of butter, cheese and processed milk products, using the $27 million subsidy paid for this purpose by the Federal Gov ernment. 