 Packer and Co. get done in teachers' vote By our Industrial Roundsman C YDNEY : The results of recent elections of Councillors of the NSW Teachers Federation was a crushing rebuff to a smear campaign by Sir Frank Packer's Telegraph and Liberal parliamentary Rightwinger, W. C. Went worth. ' A press statement issued by the Federation's president, Mr. S. P. Lewis, said the elections were "made the basis for a campaign of disruption against the Federation seldom exper ienced in any trade union or professional association in this country. "The campaign has been con ducted by leaflets and other documents with the support of the Daily Telegraph and the Sunday Telegraph and the use of the forum of Federal Par liament by Mr. W. C. Went- worth, well known for his op position to progressive organi sations and activities," he said. Brazenly Mr. Lewis said the group which conducted this campaign "brazenly called itself the NSW Teachers' Federation Reform Committee". Of the 158 delegates for the Council, 102 were elected un opposed. Of these about three are self-admitted members of the so-called "Reform" group. In the elections for the other seats on Council the leaders of the "Reform" group who stood for election were heavily de feated. During the campaign Mr. Wentworth made outbursts in parliament against Mr. Lewis' and used such terms as "cor ruption", "liar" and "traitor". A meeting of the Council on November 5 unanimously con demned these "scurrilous per sonal attacks made under cover cf parliamentary privilege" and affirmed its belief in the per sonal integrity of Mr. Lewis. Council also warned members Li. i. Gil. . mmIHmmi i Cf-\ 1 f tuai me giuup utuiuig lfacxi the NSW Teachers' Federation Reform Committee is not a bona fide organisation within the Federation. "Its activities, carried on in side and outside the Federa tion, with the assistance of the Daily and Sunday Telegraph and Mr. W. C. Wentworth, are inimical to the interests of teachers, pupils and public school education and disrupt ive of the unity of the Federa tion", Council said. Mr. Lewis said that part of the stock-in-trade of the group was to smear Federation offi cers and executive members- people who have devoted years of their lives to working lor the welfare of the people of this country. Mr. Lewis has informed Coun cil that correspondence, ad dressed to this "Reform Com mittee", has been sent to the Federation from Rhodesia. He said other literature has come from the "Racial Preser vation Society" and the racialist newspaper "The British Inde pendent". TEACHERS' LEADER LEWIS Victim of the big smear. 