 LIB. MP ADMITS DANGER OF BOMBING CHINA CYDNEY : "If you wanted to start a world war, bombing China would be , the way to do it", Mr. T. E. .F. Hughes, Liberal Party MHR for Parkes, admitted in a debate on Monday sight. He was seeking to justify the present US course to an inter- jector who suggested that the logical inference from blaming China for the war was that China should be attacked, not Vietnam. Mr. Hughes was speaking with Mr. T. Uren MHR (Labor, Reid) in a debate organised by the Boilermakers Society in the Boilermakers' Hall. Mr. Uren praised Mr. Hughes for his willingness to face the workers. He suggested that if the Federal elections were to be won, the workers must know how to talk to Liberals and other "uncoverted" people. Mr. H. Grant, Sydney secre tary of the Boilermakers' Soci ety said that if the Liberal Party would like to arrange a similar debate, the Boilermak ers' would be glad to take part in it. Last week Mr. Uren spoke in a debate at Campbelltown with Liberal MHR H. J. Bate. COMING Organised by the Camden ALP branch, the meeting at tracted an audience of 128 on a very wet night. Here again Mr. Uren received warm support as he put the case for a return to the Geneva agreements, refuted stories of "aggression from the north" end called for the withdrawal of foreign troops. Among the coming organised discussions on Vietnam are these: Next Friday night, May 6, in the Teachers' Federation Hall, 7th iloor, 166 Phillip Street; 7.30 p.m. H. J. Bate MHR, Francis James, Michael Darby, Barry Robinson. Organised by the Men's Teachers' Association. Tuesday night, May 10, in the Wallace Theatre, Sydney Uni versity. 6.30 p.m. to 11 p.m, J. F. Cairns MHR, T. Hughes MHR, Gregory Clarke, Owen Harries, Barry Robinson. Mr. Barry Robinson and Mr. John Marchant will appear in court on May 27 on charges connected with alleged draft card burning. Mr. Robinson was reported as saying that he was summonsed after it became known to the authorities that he was propos ing to visit Vietnam. 