 Open secret Up they go again! By our Parliamentary Roundsman rANBERRA: The anti- Labor premiers of NSW, Victoria and Queensland have reach ed a secret agreement to push State charges - and taxes aa; high as they can go. Publicly they (on occasions) blame the Federal Govern ment. But in Liberal-Country Party conferences they say they fully understand the dif ficulty of the Federal Govern ment's position due to the Vietnam war. NSW premier Askin told the Liberal , Party convention in Sydney last week that "taxes and charges will be increased in the coming state budget and every state Government will have to raise taxes." Despite the loud noises made by Federal Treasurer McMahon about the state premiers' faulty "arithmetic" he is really en couraging this trend. He wants to woo the elec tors in November, when the Federal elections , are due, as the Treasurer who did not in crease taxes in the Federal budget. He hopes! In this way he hopes to break down criticism of the Holt Government by blaming the state governments for increased charges and taxes. Yet the fact remains that four of the six Australian states are governed by Liberal or Liberal- Country Party cabinets who fully support the squandering of a large part of the Federal budget.on the Vietnam war. . As Mr. Askin told last week's Liberal Party convention "in addition Mr. McMahon has the worry and- responsibility of financing the increasing war ef fort, and let me make it crystal clear that the State Government is right behind our Federal col leagues in this effort."' A flop Canberra political circles be lieve that the coming meeting between premiers Bolte and Askin and now possibly Nicklin and Prime Minister Holt to dis cuss state finances will be a flop. There can be no change in the tax-reimbursement formula to the states until the premiers' conference next year. And by then all the new state, taxes and charges would have oeen in operation for months. ju.The?. is also growing opinion political and financial circles uiat the Holt Government, if „ urned, is certain to introduce punitive supplementary bud- Set as they did before. 