 f|, March 8 is ' Interiiaiiondl Women's Day ' They fight for the right to live! DEMONSTRATIONS for peace have reached levels seldom seen before in Australia since the outbreak of the Vietnam war. And for this few people deserve more credit than the secretary of the Vietnam Action Committee, Mrs. Mary Greenland. Talking to Mrs. Greenland, h is easy to see why she is interested in peace. It is part ui her basic philosophy— not just a campaign she is in terested in at the moment. "Peace concerns everyone — it is a way of life, necessary for the development of fully founded, cultured personali ties," she savi in a Tribune in. cr view. She thinks that young people should be educ ated to live in such a society. Urgent Issue But of course, as she says, peace is not just something for the future but an urgent, im mediate necessity if humanity is to survive. As a member of a family of nine brought up .by their parents in the depression days she soon learned the need for justice for the working people. urUr.4- u j. WAX tXh JLJfAov dWUlS.C ilCJT tU lull political consciousness, how ever, was the campaign for the prices referendum in 1948, when as a young wife and mother she joined in the move ment to win price-control powers for the Federal Gov ernment. That campaign took her into the ALP, where she is still a member. A divorcee, Mrs. Green land has had the responsibility of raising a young family in dhfcult times. How well she has done this, while earning her living as an office worker, may oc judged from the fact that her elder son is graduating with honors in Arts at the University while her daughter is just taking up a Teachers' ociiege Scholarship. Another boy is at primary school. Tribute to youth As a leader of the struggle for peace, Mrs. Greenland sees the value of it for young people and the important part they are playing in it. She paid many tributes to their enthu siasm in marches and rallies. Naturally, also, Mrs. Green land looks for support particu larly among women of the working class, of whom she is proud to be one. She greatly values the contribu tion of non- working class women, who often have many useful qualities — confidence and facility for self-expression, for instance. She had just come from the Australian Labor Party women's conference in Sydney There, resolutions had been carried opposing the Vietnam war and all hydrogen bomb tests. She was obviously pleased about this. As an Australian she realises how deeply rooted in Australia's past is the desire for peace. Build schools (She had with her P. J. O'- Farrell's biography of the early Australian and New Zealand pioneer socialist, Harry Hol land, who was virtually driven from Australia because he refused to register his son for military training). "The Vietnam war is a threat to youth both here and there" she said. "We should be building schools and homes and hospitals for the people of Vietnam, not destroying them". ? £HRISTMAS, 1965, was notable in many ways, but for many upholders of world peace it will be re membered largely because of the successful campaign in Australia against the sale of war toys. Not that the toys were banned from sale but, as Mrs. Dorothy Bendick of Turra- murra says: "We made this a subject on which people had to have opinions; "Even shop girls would say 'Do you think it is right to buy war toys'?" The rights and wrongs of buying war or Other horror- toys for the young was argued up aim uuwii tut: ictiiu — uii TV, on radio and in newspapers and periodicals not usually devoted to such subjects. One of those responsible for this remarkable result was Mrs. Bendick. Born in USA She is an American who came to Australia some five years ago with her husband and son as "refugees" from the war-hysteria sweeping the USA. It did not seem the right atmosphere in which to bring up children, she told the Trib une. War hysteria, said Mrs. Ben dick, dominated the press and all the mass media of comm unication in the USA. "It was not a question of whether, but when, the bombs would fall," she said. She knew personally of some 10 other Americans who had limilany migrated to the "more relaxed" atmosphere of Aus tralia. A tireless participant in pos ter parades, Mrs. Bendick supports the peace cause most effectively perhaps as writer and speaker. A recent poem in Oz magazine was another example of her abil ities. The New Theatre's current show "You've Never Had It So Good" owes something to the skill of her "satirical pen. It was last June that she took up the campaign against war toys and is naturally pleased with its success. "Morally wrong" "My theory is that people know, deep down inside them selves, that the Vietnam war is wrong — morally wrong", she told the Tribune. "When they speak out against war toys, they find in this a socially acceptable form of protest. It is our job to channel the protest onto the proper target. "If people will realise it is wrong to play with weapons, surely they can understand it is wrong to use them in earn est". Mrs Bendick was at Mr. Francis James' Gordon meeting which was attacked by fascists. Undeterred, she was in the poster parade against the Viet nam war. outside the US em bassy the following day. Mrs. Bendick is not satisfied yet with the results of the peace campaign but is going ahead with it full steam. "What else can you do?" she asked as she prepared to board the bus for Canberra to meet Vice-president Humphrey. ? AN author and playwright with a firm faith in the power of women to in fluence public opinion for peace is Mrs. Jan Symons, of Cremorne. "Women are supposed to to be the fiercest fighters for their young, and they would realise what the threat of war means to children". Mrs Symons has spent her adult life practising what she preaches. As a girl in Adelaide she soon became aware of what was happening in the world, helped by her mother, who was secretary of the Ur.ited Nations Association. CAAT support She was a warm supporter, for instance, of the the Com mittee Against Atomic Testing (CAAT) which is attempting to arouse the public to the dan ger of the projected French atomic tests near Tahiti. She points out that General de Gaulle would not spend all that money to let off "only" one or two bombs. He aimed to make a perm anent base there, she believed, and if this were to happen, the southern hemisphere's at mosphere could become just as polluted with fall-out as the northern. Mrs, Symons was a foundat ion member of the Sydney branch of the Women's Inter national League for- Peace and Freedom. Active in Canada In 1960 she went with her husband to Canada and there participated strongly in peace activities in both Canada and the USA. She was a foundation member of the Voice of Women in Can ada and joined many times in peace pickets at US embassies around the world. In Boston USA, she saw a polaris nuclear missile on dis play. Suddenly she found her self among young members of the committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy as they plast ered the missile with peace posters — "Bombs or Babies", "Arms Bane or Human Race" and the like, — melting away before the police could take action. About this time she managed to penetrate the US iron curtain round Cuba and was the second Australian (and the first Australian woman) to visit Cuba after its liberation. She found poverty in Cuba as she had found it in Mon treal and Mexico, but what she saw in Cuba, in contrast to the other countries, was a "surging confidence and hope" ' which she found inspiring. Later she spoke at many meetings in the USA, Britain and the continent to tell the people some facts on Cuba J being hidden by the. US press, and in US became an object lf' of distaste to the John Birch Society, j Back in Australia Mrs. Sy- i mons flung herself once more i ' into peace activities and has ' been in most of the demon- '' strations against the Vietnam '\t;. war. '' In every thing she does, Mrs. Symons gets the help of' her husband and family, She brings to the work a great deal of experience gained as nurse, teacher, librarian and author. As Jan Nesbit (a cousin of the famous English writer of children's stories) she has just had a play published in Drama in Action (for second ary schools), issued by Thomas Nelson (Sydney & Melbourne). Called Bunyip Corroboree, it \ tells how a war between Abor- i igine men was stopped by the women ... . j: MRS. GREENLAND WOMEN IN THE PARK, received flowers last year in | Sydney from members of the International Women's Day I Committee. This year, too, the main Sydney activity will be in the city's Wynyard Park on Thursday, March 10, although the day itself falls on March 8. All women arc invited to be the guests of the Building Workers Women's Committee for morning tea at 10.30 a.m. Vine House, 535 George Street, Sydney, near Trocadero. Next will be a walk through the city to Wynyard Park, where a panel of prominent speakers will address the meeting on peace for Vietnam and today's burden of increasing prices, 4, The Waterside Workers Women's Committee will be lj$ hostess for afternoon tea and entertainment a,t the WWF | Union Rooms, 60 Sussex Street, Sydney. 4 The Communist Party's own special IWD functions will f include: SYDNEY: Cabaret at 168 Day Street, Sydney, on March ' 13. Dancing, items, a special supper to suit the occasion and a surprise "floor show" will be provided for 10/- ' r donation. (Bring your own refreshments.) Invitations are available from the party's branches and sections and at ' 1 vj 168 Day Street, Sydney, or phone 36-3161. NEWCASTLE: Evening function on Saturday, March 5, 8 p.m., at 368 Hunter Street, Newcastle. Mrs. Ray Watt, recently returned from two years' visit to the Soviet Union &lt; and African countries, will speak; there will be entertain ment. 1 ' (SEE ALSO IWD STORY, PAGE 8.) MARCH 8 IS THEIR DAY f 