 Conference says 4No' to poll tax plan BROKEN HILL: The Local Government Association Confer ence, recently concluded here, by an overwhelming majority rejected as unconstitutional the proposed poll tax levy as a means of raising finance for local government in NSW. The resolution opposing the tax submitted by the Broken Hill City Council, was strongly supported by Alderman Lock- wood and Carruthers of Banks- town Council. The poll tax if it becomes law, will levy a tax of $10 per annum on all persons over the age of 18 earning more than $1000 a year. Those exempted from pay ment would he the wives of ratepayers and non-ratepayers, unless they too were earning I more than $1000 a year. Old- > ago pensioners would also be ' exempt. i A qualifying clause that would have gone before the . Royal Commission on local j Government, which Iras been investigating finance and plant ! evaluation since September 1965, was that the tax would be levied at the discretion of the local council. It has been estimated that $14 million in additional re venue for local Government would have been derived from the tax. In submissions to the Com mission, the Communist Party opposed the tax and initiated a campaign in the trade unions and local government against it. The proposed tax was bit terly opposed in Broken Hill by the City Council and the Barrier Industrial Council, as well as many other municipal councils. Opposing the new tax in the Broken Hill Conference, the delegate from Sutherland, Councillor A. T. Geitzelt, des cribed it as an income tax, not a land rating tax. He forecast that it would be unworkable and that it was against all principles of local government. Introduction of this item into the finance making sug gestions at the conference had weakened the whole proposal, he said, and played right into the hands of the Federal and State Governments who would use it as an excuse not to extend futher aid to local government. Alderman A. R. Harvey of Broken Hill moved the resol ution of protest, which the con ference adopted in the form of an amendment, excluding poll tax from the finance proposals. 