 THE CANBERRA COLD-SHOULDER people own the air" is the by-line of the Newsletter of the Australian National Television Council, formed last year after a con- ference in Sydney of people interested in making TV a worthwhile medium. Unfortunately, as the first two issues of this new hard-hitting quarterly publication make plain, there's not much truth in the assertion as yet. But if that is the case, it's not the fault of the ANTC. The Council, which has famous Aus tralian novelist Morris West as its President, and Professor Rob in Quentin of the University of New South Wales Drama Depart- , ment as Vice-President, is wag ing a staunch campaign to im prove TV standards and particu- larly to encourage the presenta tion of more Australian material on our foreign-dominated screens. The Council defines its first object as "to give effective voice and direction to public concern over the nature, content, stand ards and control of television pro grams in Australia". Its second object is "to provoke and encourage public discussion of the nature, content, standards and control of such television programs". What sort ut response has the Council been getting from official quarters in its efforts to carry out these worthy aims? Judging by reports in the ANTC Newsletter, very little — if any at all. For some reason best known to themselves — totally un connected, of course, with the lobbying power of the major com mercial TV groups— Government leaders have met overtures made by the Council for a better deal for the TV public with the long- familiar Canberra cold-shoulder. An ANTC deputation consist- ting of Messrs. West, E. St. John, J. Nossiter, Professor A. J. Stout and ANTC Secretary Doug Broad- foot went to Canberra early last year asking for a full parliament ary debate on the Vincent Report. The only reply they could get from Postmaster-General Hulme was that as he did not regard the Report as an official Government report, he could not promise that it would be debated, but hoped to make a statement on it "before the end of 1965". Though this was well over a year ago, the Newsletter reports that as yet Mr. Hulme has still not pontificated on the subject. The latest issue of the News letter reports similar treatment of the important Weeden Report, which advocates the establishment of a special authority to handle the production and dissemination of all educational television pro grams. The Government deliber ately tabled this Report, claims the ANTC, late in the life of the last sessioif of Parliament, thereby virtually ensuring that it will join the Vincent and Vernon reports in a parliamentary pigeon-hole. The Newsletter also publishes a parliamentary speech by Senator D. McClelland in which he quotes the result of a recent survey of a week's TV programs in Sydney showing that of 72 hours of drama programs, 61 were of American origin, 10 British and only one hour Australian. (ANTC Newsletter can be obtained from the Secretary, Australian National Television Council, 166 Phillip St., Sydney.) 