 NOT SUFFICIENT TO DELVE INTO THE PAST WS0fe&' to the Editor l|$£ DALPH Gibson's book "My Years in the Communist Party" has received both commenda- tion and criticism in Tribune's letters section. I would also like to add an opinion and further comment on the letter from Len Fox (Tribune, August 24). Firstly, in my view the book is both interesting and valuable with its lovely pres entation . of many of the im portant struggles of the past 30 years. Some of the criticism ap pear to me to be based on the assumption that the book is an authoritative historical and final political estimate. The author makes no such claim. In criticising the book, Len Fox raised some other issues some of which in my opinion have not . been properly ex amined and certainly over looks some important facts. On this latter he wants an exam ination of "Mistakes made in the 1950's that resulted in E. Hill becoming a top leader of the Party." According to my understand ing Hill became a "top leader" (a term I personally do not like) when he was working with Jack Blake in the Victorian State organis ation. As far as Jack Blake and Jack Henry being mainly to blame for post-war leftist errors, this is neither said in Gibson's book nor is i,t the view, of the Party. As I under stand it, Blake was undoubt edly particularly responsible for some leftist errors. I have vivid recollections (I was secretary of the Sydney District Committee of the CPA) of one proposition he made — that peace committees were embryonic Soviets and also at that time a one-sided "struggle against economism". But this is not to say he was responsible for the general "leftist" trend and certainly still less for such mistakes that I and undoubtedly many others have made. The Com munist Party has recognised this as a general problem and Ralph Gibson specifically refers, to this in his book as follows:— "It. was also revealed clearly that the ("left") leaning was not his alone. In point of fact it was partly based on a wrong view held, at that time by the Communist Party as a whole." (P. 150). However my main disagree ment with Len Fox is about the question he poses, and the. issue on which he ' would stake the whole future of the Party. He writes: ."It is possible for the Com munist Party of Australia to regain the prestige it lost in the 1950's ... the whole future of the Party depends On a thorough self-critical ex amination of the leftist mis takes of the 1950's." In my opinion this is not the question. Rather, should we not ask— What are the main tasks for the Commun ist Party that will best serve the interests of the working people? To assist in every way possible their constant struggle against the growing ppwer of. monopoly capital ism, to further advance their economic and political in terests which are directly allied to the fight against the . war in Vietnam and in de fence of democratic rights. The Communist Party's fu ture depends most of all upon the capacity to develop pol-, icies. and ideas which thor oughly correspond to present Australian reality and can assist the working class and democratic movement, -thereby showing that Marxism is the method and theory which can more effectively guide the activity of those who want to change society. The study of past mistakes is valuable insofar as it helps the Party tackle this task. It is not sufficient just to delve into the past. The need is always to develop our mass activity. To successfully carry this out we must be- fully attuned to present-day happ enings and constantly devel oping our ideas for the future. In my view it is a question of Marxism and Reality. The other approach appears to me to be dominated by an air of unreality. Harry Hatfield, Sydney. 