 Bankstown Square— the biggest of them all By a Town Planning Correspondent yFTER much . noisy publicity, Bankstown Square opened last week to strains of "It's the Biggest! It s the Great est!" — and it is hard not to be infected with the excitement of such a large project. But the calm words of famous English novelist E. M. Forster seem appropriate: "It is the vice of a vulgar mind to be thrilled by bigness, to think that ten square miles is better than one square mile, and a thousand square miles is almost heaven." The significance of this massive retail outlet is best considered in the light of the regional planning proposals put forward by the old Cumberland Council. In 1951 the Cumberland Planning Scheme became effective. It was an attempt to rationalise Sydney's rapid growth and to anticipate certain trends. It was real ised then, and it has since been proved many times, that the administrative mach inery available 'to local gov ernment is totally inadequate to play an effective part in planning on this scale. So we find that where the planning proposals have con flicted with the needs of commerce, planning had to go! So Roselands is built on an area zoned as recreation and the surrounding quiet residential area is fragmented and disrupted by traffic. Location One of the virtues of Bankstown Square is its location next to an existing thriving shopping centre, whero traffic routes for public and private transport are well established. This conforms approxim ately with the Cumberland Planning Scheme. It will help to advance Bankstown as a regional centre providing its people with a wide variety of consumer services in a convenient location away from the congestion of Sydney. There is no doubt that the Square will "work" efficiently — pedestrian and vehicle movement have been planned to create' the least inconven ience. Having praised some of the planning achievements of this development it is vital to re member that the whole thing is really an altar to Mammon. All the facilities, all the extras, all the convenience, are in order to make you buy things you don't want at a price you can't afford. The soft music, the gaiety, the security and safety of the building are all aimed at lulling the customers into parting with their money. No doubt generous credit facil ities will be available for the customers with no money to spend on extras. It is claimed -that shops have been located within the Square in such a manner that competition will be en couraged and the customer benefit. What really happens is that monopoly conditions thrive in such a place. Once into the Square it will be a tough and energetic shopper who is prepared to critically buy only some of her needs there and then walk the few hun dred yards to the "old" shopping centre to complete her shopping. Therefore if the customer can be per suaded into the building, price-fixing between retailers in the same lines is easy. Bankstown Square has some excellent design features— the servicing of all shops is carried out from an under ground service road with a continuous loading dock. Research A series of lifts takes the goods direct to within feet of each shop. By this means there is no danger to the public from delivery trucks, and the servicing is not delayed by pedestrian hold ups. Within the concourses the play equipment for child ren is sturdy and imaginative. We are told that five years of study and market research went into the planning of this centre, before the $17 million were invested in it. It is a tragic reflection of our society that not even a fraction of that time and en ergy goes into- assessing the real needs of the district in the way of youth centres . social facilities, improved public transport, and a frac tion of that amount spent on such things. It may be claimed that Bankstown Square will cater for community needs, but it appears that the only facility outside shopping hours will be the restaurant, and this is nowhere near the social needs of Bankstown's 170,000 population. But this was not the aim of the Square, and the im portant fact is that it is no body's aim and no authority's duty to provide more than what is directly provided. 