 Thanks to the "Lion" JYDNEY: The South African Dance Bal let, due to leave Aus tralia this week for home, will take mem- | ories of some bad treat ment here but also a high regard for Aus tralian trade unionism. |N fact, they have bestowed the honored title of "Lion of the Plains" on Actors Equity general secretary Mr. H. , Alexander. A case before a Commonwealth Conciliation Commissioner in ' Syd ney last Thursday (not reported by the press) dealt with the problem of money owing to the performers by their manager-cum-producer,, a white South African. The dance group of 11 girls and eight men have been, playing both m Australia and New Zealand since last August under contract with En tertainments Corporation of Austra lia, one of Mr. H. Wren's organisa tions. They came back to Sydney for their last performances after being "laid off" for three weeks in New Zea land — for which they received a half week's pay. Actors' Equity of Australia took up their case in Sydney when the per formers expressed concern about their wages and who was to pay their fare home. The case was settled and the per formers were paid last Saturday (about £28 each). Mr. Herbert, the manager has promised to repay all the money he deducted for many reasons from their wages during the tour and pay travelling expenses. The union is also insisting that he pay holiday pay. Mr. Wren's organisation has now also booked and paid their fares home. Mr. H. Alexander (secretary of Actors' Equity) said his organisa tion plans to do something about Continued on Page 12 AFRICAN | DANCERS ! Continued from Page 1 j the kind of contracts that Mr. Wren j had signed by Mr. Herbert in South I Africa. j As one of the chorus girls told j Tribune: "In South Africa, Mr. Her- ! bert pays us as little as £7/10/- a j week." j What astonished and delighted the African dancers when in Aus- J tralia was the opposition of trade | unionists to the racialist policies of j the South African Government. ! They tell of seeing the Six Hour j Day march in Newcastle where many j unions carried banners opposed to j apartheid. They were also delighted to see in court, a white trade union leader j (Mr. Alexander) defending colored j artists against white employers: ! hence his title of honor. I 