 !®MLT1JE INDUSTRIAL SCENE ARBITRATION MUST BE BAD! —Even Riordan nf.t.ntke By a Special Correspondent SAVAGE attack has been launched on the system of com pulsory arbitration by Mr. J. Riordan, Clerks' Union Federal Secretary and ACTU Executive member. Mr. Riordan's attack is a welcome addition to those already made by other leading spokesmen in- the trade union movement. However, many workers will find reason to wonder about the cause and purpose of Mr. Riordan's outburst and not many will be misled by it. Mr. Riordan is widely known for his rightwing views. His criticism follows a deci sion by the Arbitration Com mission rejecting an appeal by "the Clerks' Union against an earlier decision of the Public Service Arbitrator concerning salaries for taxation officers. The Arbitrator's decision gave increases in salaries ranging from $236 to $782 per year. The appeal, in which Mr. Riordan appeared as advocate for the Clerks' Union, concern ed only a portion of the taxa tion officers— not the lower sal aried groupings— for whom Mr. Riordan claimed the increases were inadequate. The Arbitrator's decision was based upon a re-assessment of "work values" of the duties of Taxation Officers and Mr. Rior dan's main contention was that the "work value" of these duties had been inadequately assessed. He sought a re-assess ment and higher increases. This appeal was opposed by other organisations covering taxation officers including the Administrative and Clerical Of ficers' Association— a Common wealth Public Service body. It is known that these organisa tions were afraid that any re assessment of "work' values" would carry the danger of some reductions. In these circumstances Mr. Riordan's criticism of the Arbi tration Commission is very much the angry outburst of a disappointed and unsuccessful advocate. Such outbursts in the same circumstances are typical of those union leaders who place sole reliance on the arbitration system. In 1954 following the aboli tion of .the system of basic wage adjustments and rejection of margins claims, the ACTU Executive was equally strong in its condemnation of the Arbitration system. The same body repeated this condemnation in 1960 following rejection of basic wage- and three weeks' leave claims and in 1965 when the Commission refused a basic wage claim and made a decision favoring the employers. . Justified But at the 1965 Congress ACTU President Monk made clear that there was no ques tion of departing from the pol icy of arbitration. In 1956 following an adverse decision in the Pastoral Award and at the time of a strike in the industry AWU officials shouted abuse at the arbitra tion system. But they are still strictly "arbitrationists." Condemnation by the unions of decisions adverse to the workers is natural and justi fied. But such condemnation is of little consequence if it is not really meant and stems solely from disappointment. Mr. Riordan speaks of altern atives to arbitration and refers to processes of mediation being favoured by the Federal Gov ernment quoting as examples conferences on air pilots and waterside workers' claims. But he neglects to state that both the air pilots and water side workers backed their claims by substantial forms of direct action. Mr. Riordan is opposed to such actions and has been known to join in condemnation of them. The rejection of his appeal shows once more that not even the very "best behaviour" and strongest support of the arbi tration system can guarantee favorable results for workers from its use by trade union. Much more than a policy of adherence to arbitration is re quired to serve workers' inter ests and Mr. Riordan's criti cism, welcome though it is, must be judged in the light of what he proposes should be done about what he criticises. 