 [?] A nice little lurk for the oil boys By Jim Stevens A COUPLE of weeks ago the Building Workers Industrial Union s INSW conference called for urgent Federal Government action to ensure that natural gas is used to benefit the Australian people» and not to further en rich local and foreign monopolies. Recent press- reports, par ticularly by the Financial Re view, threw some light on the behind-the-scenes struggle by wealthy interests to erab this cheap fuel. Despite the initial high cap ital cost to pipe this gas to main . centres, it is estimated that it could retail to private consumers s for about one- quarter the present cost of electricity. Esso— part of the American Standard Oil kingdom — and BHP at present have their hands on big commercial quantities'" of natural" gascli5=-- covered off the Gippsland Coast The Victorian Gas and Fuel Corporation want to control this gas. And now a consortium of twelve companies, including the Australian Gas Light Co., has told the Federal Govern ment and Governments of NSW, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia that it is prepared to finance, build and operate pipelines to each capital city. The wealthy oil groupings would like to clean up big on natural gas, and the BHP in partnership with Esso would --have-a- -cheap JEuel- But the oil companies have a two-fold purpose in their efforts to control this gas and dictate its price. They also see gas as a com petitor for their fuel oil mar kets. This is why Esso, according to the AGL general manager (Mr. W. Pettingell) is de manding between 55 to 70 pence per million BTU (British Thermal Units). "Twenty cents per million BTU is a good international price. "City gas prices must be in the order of 25 cents per mil lion BTU", he said. Mr. Pettingell is also chair man of the consortium which f includes Gas and Fuel Cor- | pora.tion, AGL, ICIANZ, AMP I Society, MLC, T&G, Colonial 'h Mutual and National Mutual, i Bank of NSW, National I Bank of Australasia and the | ANZ Bank. | kere we have the big chem- % ical and finance interests, which themselves control large sections of industry, exposing the planned plunder of Australia's natural re sources by the Esso-BHP team. The worst aspect of the sit uation is how the Federal Government is giving away Australia's resources as a gift to monopoly. Original geological surveys are made by government de partments and then the com panies "exploring" for oil or gas are heavily subsidised. Subsidy In the three months ending March 1966, 65 applications were approved for subsidy. Esso alone received $497,068, plus an additional undis closed amount. To cap it off, Esso doesn't even do its own drilling. They pay Global Marine Australas ia Pty. Ltd. to do this, with the taxpayers' money. And when gas is found it belongs to Esso. The South Australian Labor Government has stepped in to prevent the big boys "clean ing up" in that State. It is seeking a $40 million Federal loan to finance a pipeline of Moomba and Gid- gealpa gas to Adelaide and to be controlled by a non profit making State authority. As yet no decision has been reached on the price Delhi- Santos (who control the gas) 'will charge the South Austra lian people for this gas. Here again this company, the "discoverers", have been heavily subsidised and Drilling Contractors (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. have been paid out of tax payers' money to do the dril ling. 