 GOVT. SUPPOmflKTHOr Hb BMf lmm IB Si H HI H Ha hH IBbb BH Hi Bag kbs HH HTh H bmI :.&lt; mbh v MBe '.jl HH H H8H hS m9 IBH H H HAH hh mhHh| H fig .HnBMBfei Hh fifi wn ran Hj ' khhH fiS Hn Hfi HUH MuRH HH fifi£ B9 « H ng HH Hfi l» H hh Hh HhH Hj HB SYDNEY: Overwhelming opposition to the Vietnam war was shown by the 700 or more Sydney University students who packed the Wallace Theatre for a Teach-in on May 10, organ ised by the S.U. Vietnam Action Committee. It was the best forum on Vietnam so far at this university. The students gave a fair hearing to Mr. T. E. Hughes, Liberal MHR for -Parkes, Mr. J. Howard, of the Lib eral Party State Executive, ' and Mr. O. Harries, lecturer of the University of NSW. But they could not restrain frequent outbursts of derision and indignation at the crude pro-American warmonger i n g and red-baiting indulged in by the pro-war speakers. Mr. Hughes had to be given an extra five minutes speaking time by the chairman (Dr. D. W. Crowley) since this was the estimated time he had lost by trying to deal with heckling. A speaker from the floor who said he was an officer in the CMF was heard patiently for a while as he defended conscription, but his final re marks were drowned by cat calls and slow handclaps. Mr. Howard was also listened to carefully, but his statements also led to sustained outbursts of hostile comment. # # # BY contrast, the storm of cheering and handclapping that followed the anti-war speech of Dr. J. F. Cairns, Labor MHR, and similar sup port for Mr. Barry Robinson, of the Youth Campaign Against Conscription, and Dr. Peter King, of Sydney Univer sity, showed eloquently the audience felt. Dr. Cairns made an impres sive call to stop the slaughter which he said had so far cost U million Vietnamese lives. He pointed out that a basis for peace existed in the atti tude of the Democratic Repub lic of (North) Vietnam and the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam. As reported by Mr. William Warbey, British MP, who had visited Vietnam, the conditions for peace talks sought by the Vietnamese were that the US must in principle agree to the withdrawal of its troops in conformity with the Geneva Agreements of 1954, which said that all foreign troops must leave Vietnam. The National Liberat i o » Front must also be regarded as one of the principals in the negotiations. To Dr. Cairns these Condi tions posed no insurmountable oubstacle to negotiations, -but he recalled the South Vietna mese Premier (Marshal Ky) had said on January 29 last that his Government was not ready for peace talks. Ky had admitted that there "many social injustices in South Vietnam" and that the "Viet Cong" were "closer to the peo ple than his own Government." While Ky and the military junta remained in power there would be no chance of peace, he said. # ., # . £)R. CAIRNS noted that the average income per head in South Vietnam was less than $50 per head. The Government refused to acknowledge the need for soc ial change or the legitimate re sentment at the presence of foreign rule by people who had been subjected to it for about a century. More than 90 per cent of the national liberation front's war effort was made by the people of South Vietnam. The US Government was spending $12,000 million a month and still could not win. This showed the South Viet namese people felt they were lighting for something substan tial. # # # MIDST loud applause, Dr. Peter King, lecturer in Government at Sydney Uni versity, said that money should be spent on helping the pea»s- ants of south-east Asia in stead of killing them. "We learn that it cost $350,000 to hunt down and kill each 'Viet Cong' so far killed. Let us now decide to spend $350,00)') on helping each peas ant in Thailand", he said. Dr. King said he thought communism was inevitable in south-east Asia in the long run and it would .pose no threat to Australia, The threat could arise because of the Americans' violent react ions to it. Referring to critics of China's "aggressive" policy, Dr. King noted that China had entered the Korean war but had withdrawn all its troops when the war ended. # # jyjR. BARRY RpBINSON, quoting official figures, said that 137,000 men had volun teered for the armed forces in the past five years but more than 70 per cent had been rejected. The voluntary sys tem had not failed. Denying a threat to Austra lia, he said the only foreign troops in Vietnam were the 250,000 Americans and their allies. Australian conscripts were being used to make good the desertions of Vietnamese from the South Vietnamese Government's armies. Mr. Owen Harries surprised by admitting that there was no present military threat from China. "Chinese strategy does not envisage invasion from the north or the pouring of Chin ese forces into south-east Asia," he said. He said that the Chinese "threat" was./ political. PHOTO shows the audience in the Wallace Theatre at Sydney University for the Vietnam teach-in. 