 It could be about existence BY OUR THEATRE CRITIC Y oung Sydney man-of- many parts Rod Milgate — formerly a schoolteacher, then actor. TV announcer and avant-garde aritjst — has entered yet another field with some distinction, with the pro duction of his play "A Refined Look at Existence" at the Jane Street Theatre, Kensington. Milgate, it will be remembered, made one of the classic evasions of the year when he reportedly said about his Blake Prize-winn ing painting "Ascension" a month or two back that "it could he religious". Such a cautious statement might well he borne in mind when con sidering his new play. It is diffi cult to say with any exact degree of certainty . what it's really about, particularly if— like me — you don't have an intimate fam iliarity with the Dionysian myth, on which it i,s irreverently but . closely modelled, even the charac ters' crazy names being puns on those of the mythical heroes. Very, very briefly, young Donny Smith— the latter-day Australian Dionysius — returns with a mission and a message to his home town of Di,rch River, where seventeen years earlier, as he discovers, his mother's husband Jovey— pointedly not his father— had killed his mother in a fit of jealous rage. Donny is now a pop idol — a sort of rock 'n roll singer and mystical hot-gospeller rolled into one. In a hilariously frenetic scene at the local School of Arts, he tells the local yokels of . their own loneliness, emptiness and general unworthiness. The only way to overcome the essential pain of the human condition, he says is by a kind of universal love, which he sees as the world's great need. Milgate's view of the world appears to he a pretty negative and elitist one, seemingly owing much to the ideas of dramatists like Harold Pinter and Samuel Beckett. He shares a fashionable obsession with the inability of human beings to communicate: some of the funniest — and cruellest —moments in the play occur when the characters engage in pointless conversations about nothing, often at complete cross-purposes, in which no understanding takes place and they finally resort to reading newspapers aloud to keep up the small talk. Similarly, Milgate's heavily ro manticised panacea of universal human love— which seems to be drawn vaguely from Shelley and even Norman Lindsay— sometimes almost turns into its opposite by his pygmy portrayal of people. But nevertheless this play is one of the most unapologetiically amusing and entertaining plays to hit the Sydney stage for months, with Milgate showing a brilliant touch for dialogue and high comedy. He subjects the sacred shibboleths of the affluent society to a merciless spoofing — commercialism, keeping-up-with- the Joneses and more than obliquely the Vietnam war. He is aided by Robin Lovejoy's superb production, full of the in ventiveness and originality we have come to expect from him, together with a fine cast headed by Rob Inglis, Frank Lloyd, Mar tin Harris, Kerry McGuire and Ross Thompson as Donny, as well as David Copping's highly effect ive settings. r. m. 