 U.S. housewives force down prices EW YORK: Housewives, in three cities have reported success j in supermarket boycotts in consequence of which a number / of stores have cut prices. I Their success has encourag- ed women in many other cities to orgamse boycotts of high-priced goods so as to force prices down. In Denver, reports Time Magazine, irate women organ ised a large-scale boycott of major grocery stores and chanting female pickets help ed persuade two chain stores to cut some prices by as much as 20 per cent. "Emboldened by their suc cess, similar groups popped up in such cities as Buffalo (Wyoming), Baton Rouge (Louisiana), Detroit, Daytona Beach, Dallas, Houston, Albu querque (New Mexico) and parts of Los Angeles County. "A group of Denver wom en, led by Mrs. Ruth Kane of suburban Aurora, set up a National Housewives for Low er Food Prices (organisation) and filed incorporation papers with the Colorado secretary of state." Shoppers in Phoenix, Ari- 1 zona, announced they had succeeded in forcing down bread prices. In Portland, Oregon, some 30 store man; agers fought a price-war touched off by consume? pressure, cutting prices by asj much as 40 per cent for some lines. The Denver boycott whose ' organisers claimed 25,000 sup porters, was directed at five chain stores, the women threatening to buy only from " independent stores until chain stores cut their prices. One Colorado chain gave in i tn m aavtuiue &lt;«iu -- cut food prices in all its 4b stores. Profits In Snohomish County of Seattle, Washington State, tne Women For Lower Food Prices have already obtained 2500 pledges to observe a boy cott of chain stores. They aim to get 100,000 before launcn- ing the boycott. At the other end of America the HELPS— Housewives Ex pect Lower Prices— organisa tion of Little Silver, New Jersey, has written to John son to complain of "outrage ous food prices". A New Mexico housewives leader said: "We've been brainwashed into thinking w : need the chain stores. But w is the chain stores that need us." Helping to anger the women are the record profits being made by US industry, includ ing firms profiting from tne Vietnam war. Newsweek magazine com ments: "What is going on is inflation— a vast erosion of values that pervades the uo economy right down to tne soles. It has been a growing force for only a year. Bus most Americans are only now beginning to feel its full ex- fects "Behind the complaints is a rising tide of bewildered re sentment that the mighty U economy, churning at record levels of prosperity; is rack" ed by a fever that nobod„ seems able to cool". SYDNciX'S BANKSTOWN SQUARE Above the common touch? CTION to check rising prices is one of the main demands of Ihe Australian trades union movement in the coming Federal Elections. In the USA women have already been in action to impose thei.1 demands for lower prices on the chain stores — with results shown in this recent message from New York. 