 fes : Patterm of; politicalpoliceactwn . ;&lt;t I Special Squad flees from CPA delegation gRISBANE: Police political-squad men spying on the Queensland state conference of the Communist Party of Australia drove off in confusion when confronted by a special protest delegation elected during the conference. This episode is the latest of a series of acts of police interference in Queensland with meetings of anti-conscriptionists and trade unionists. Before the conference, the Party wrote to the Police Commissioner (Mr. Bischof) telling him that the conference was being held and asking that the Special Squad be instructed not to attend outside the con ference. But, on the Friday night, all day Saturday and throughout Sunday morning, up to eight plainclothes men were lolling in two cars outside the hall — at a time when overworked other police were trying to catch the New Farm rapist, who had at tacked a woman on Thursday only a mile or so away. Fed up, the Party confer ence on Sunday unanimously endorsed a protest statement. Then the conference decided that a deputation confront the police outside. At 3 o'clock, the deputation emerged into the street, where two carloads of Special Squad men had been hanging around. Shot through The squad men shot up from their slumped positions. Car engines revved. First one car, then the other shot forward. They were off, in haste. To add to the police humila- tion, their retreat was witnessed by daily press and TV report ers, who gave it publicity. The party conference issued a press statement which strongly condemned the police repetition of its previous at tendance outside state confer ences. "There is nothing secret : or unlawful about our Conference. All newspapers and Brisbane T.V. stations were invited to at tend it, and a number of non- Communists have attended as observers," the statement said. "We protest in the strongest form to the Nicklin State Gov ernment and its Minister in charge of Police (Mr. J. C. Pizzey) against the intrusive, anti-democratic activities of this Special Squad, whose hand was so obvious also in recent cases of manhandling of young anti- conscription demonstrators. ALP statement A few days earlier, a news release issued on behalf of the Queensland Central Executive of the Australian Labor Party stated: — "The Australian Labor Party (Queensland branch) strongly condemns the unnecessary and shameful use of force exer cised by members of the Queensland Police Force in con nection with the recent anti- conscription rally. "This, coupled with the pro vocative action of the Police Force in preventing a Queen's Park meeting, and the intrusion of . police officers into a legi timate trade union meeting at Rockhampton, clearly indi cates the march forward of the Police State of Queensland. "We believe that the inci- dents referred to coma noi take place without the ap proval and instigation of the Government. "The successful operation of the Police Force in the in terests of tne community, de pends on public co-operation, and we warn the Minister that the actions of his Special 'Political Branch' of the Police Force are not calculated to produce respect and harmony between the people and the Police Department. ' "We call upon the Govern ment to take urgent steps to allow freedom of speech, free dom of assembly, and peaceful demonstration, and to curtail the activities of the Special Branch, whose sole purpose seems to be the harassing of trade unions and their mem bers and to provoke peaceful demonstrations into retaliatory acts of violence." T & LC action The Queensland Trades and Labor Council president (Mr. J. Egerton) and secretary (Mr. A. Macdonald) recently sent a telegram to Premier Nicklin and Police Commission er Bischof following recent police actions against activities on prices, wages and peace and particularly against a youth anti-conscript protest in Bris bane. In Melbourne, a Common wealth security policeman tried ! to snatch a camera from a student during a recent anti- conscription demonstration. When the student hung on i to his property, the security i policeman punched him, cut- ; ting his face. A plainclothes man was seen snatching and tearing banners r from demonstrators. PROTEST deputation (above) emerges from the Max Julius Memorial Hall, Bris bane, sent by the Communist Party's Queens land state conference to confront prying political police , , and BELOW : One of the oolice cars abruptly departs. 