 — — — - - i -700, 13 men won't be unlucky on Saturday Though not necessarily hitting the headlines, news of vital importance to all grades, shades and codes of football was made last week., Football news ranged trom the Second Rugby , League Test and World Cup Soccer to a Soviet sci- Ientist's academic opinion of Australian Rules. In the Second Rugby League Test at Brisbane's ; Lang Park last Saturday, the . home team managed a 6-4 win over the Englishment in a very rough game. The Englishmen played one short just after half time, Bill Ramsey their second rower being ordered off the field because of foul play. t I Their performance under ; I this one-man down condition i I must make them favourites . 1 for the final test to take . I place in Sydney next Satur- ! I day> ! A prominent aspect of the game was that the tourists even though short1 one man, frequently enjoyed an over lap in their runs. Another thing to consider, is that although Australia had greater possession of the ball, this was due quite con siderably to the fact that the English pack (being one man down) was the lighter of the two and was a number of J times pushed off the ball. In Australia's favour for the next Test is the stand taken by the Australian Rug by League officials of forbid ding any members of the Australina team from play ing in club matches before the big game. This is how it should be, all efforts and energies con centrated on the one goal.- Carnival time T AST week in Sydney the 1966 Interstate Soccer Carnival of the Government Transport Association took place. The carnival was held over ten days and took in three Tests between the N.S.W. and Queensland Transport Workers teams, N.S.W. win ning the series the Trans port Union shield a cup. The time between the three games was spent in showing the young Queensland play ers, (whose average age is 19 years, to a good time. When Tribune visited the young team at their city hotel, most were preparing to paint the town. All agreed that the carnival was a great success. Mr. Don Schimgeourc, sec retary of the Australian Transport Soccer Association said that next year the car nival would be held in Bris bane. "There are only three of the states involved in the car nival so far, South Australia being the other," said Mr. Scrimgeourc. Other states were being encouraged to participate, but the problem is finance, he said. This was the reason South Australia had only sent three repres entatives to the present car- nival, to maintain interest said Mr. Scrimgeourc. ' The manager of the Queensland team, Mr Jaek Badger said that the carnival was a great success and help ed to create further inter- state interest. In the light of the need to cultivate young sportsmen not only in soccer but in other fields also, the great I benefit of carnivals such as the Transport worker? should be considered. What's with the doctor? JF the Sydney Morning Her ald report that Dr. M. A Lavrentiev, vice-president of the Soviet Academy of Sci- 1 ences said in Melbourne, that 8 Australian Rules football | was "stupid" is accurate and I if the doctor was "fair dink- S um" when he said it,, then | the following conciusoins I must follow: I Either the doctor has motel courage than sense or has a| lot of both and has reason! for his statement. As a local I Aussie Rules fan put it when 1 asked to comment: I "Publicity wise, he's a clever bloke. Saying a thing like that in Melbourne, the very centre of Aussie Rules, he knows that everyone knows it (Rules) to be a ter rific game and couldn't take much a criticism seriously. Notice he didn't elaborate? And he got some mention of his own line of work into the report." World Cup I 'pHE eighth World Soccer i championship for the | Jules Rimet Cup kicked off g to a good start last week in I England. Referred to in soccer par lance as the World Cup, this great international football tournament is considered the greatest international sport ing event outside the Olympics. Figures certainly indicate this. To last weekend the aggregate attendance at the 16 matches played to then, was well over 650,000. | The 16 teams playing this J final stage of the tournament I are the survivors of elimm-g ation play commenced on 8 world wide basis about two years ago. North Korea quot ed as a 100-1 chance in the present series defeated Aus tralia in the early elimina- j tions. However odds are certain ly no worthwhile guide to ascertain a team's chance. Already there has been a change in the order of fav ouritism. Brazil by its sur prise 3-1 defeat by Hungary has conceded the number one position to England. Taking into consideration the great progress made by the Soviet Union in recent years many sports fans are no doubt interested to see how well they play in tne World Cup. . They have reached quarter finals of their group and many tip them to be fin alists. j Uruguay, Italy, Brazil win Germany have been the oruy countries to have won tne Cup, and many no doubt are I wondering if the USSR I take it out this time Some of the young Queensland soccer players: From left to right, G.. Home, B. Taylor, G. Winnett, A. Redfern and J. Gilbert. ... . . 