 50-day strike at Kemira over \A/OLLONGONG : Miners at the Kemira Colliery on the NSW South Coast ended their 50-day strike last week to return to work under medical supervision to check the efect of hgih concentrations of dust — the cause of the strike. A condition of the return i,s that the men working a dis puted machine will do so under direct medical super vision. The strike of 3000 men re sulted when miners were sus pended by Australian Iron and Steel Ltd. for refusing to work on the dusty side of this machine which the company had recently introduced into the pit. Kemira miners had earlier told Tribune that by a slight modification the machine could be successfully operated with out causing a dust hazard. This in fact was proved with a similar machine at the South Bulli pit. However, the Company arro gantly answered this proposal , by instructing the men to work in the dust. The Commonwealth Arbitrat ion Court last week ordered the men to return to work. Violation of this order, sought by the A. I. and S., could have carried heavy fines against the Miners' Federation. The Federation still has to pay the high court costs in curred during the dispute. Following an earlier dispute the men challenged the dust tests being taken in the mine. In a period of two hours, 24 tests were made but the machine was not operating when 20 of these tests were 'taken. The Miners' Southern Dis trict Board of Management re commended the return to work on the understanding that Dr. Outhred (Medical Consultant of the Joint Coal Board) will supervise the whole of the Board's dust counting staff. Dr. Outhred will remain at the colliery for at least two weeks to thoroughly investigate dust concentrations. The Joint Coal Board has also agreed to immediately in vestigate the practicability of modifying the machine in dispute. The Miners' Southern Board of Management regarded these developments as part of the struggle to ensure that the maximum degree of health is maintained. The findings of the proposed investigations will be fully examined by the Federation, 