 SUM With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman ACCORDING .tto the / \ C J 1 bydney press week, the Federal Gov ernment is planning a new branch of the De partment of Labor and National Service to deal with so called "communist disruption of defence establishments and Aus tralian dockyards". This announcement followed last week's strike by 3000 at Garden Island and 1000 at Williamstown Naval Dockyards. These workers have been fobbed off and pushed around by the Navy Department since 1963 over wage and other claims. If anyone is "disrupting" the dockyards, it is the Govern ment and Navy Department. ? nHE first act by Federal Treasurer, McMahon fol lowing Saturday's elections was to threaten striking Qantas ;; pilots. These pilots are on strike for increased wages and against a proposed cut-back in operation safety. What must nark the Govern ment is that the Australian Federation of Air Pilots have long withdrawn from the clutches of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This means their organisation cannot be fined and intimidated by the penal clauses. ? A BOUT 30 workers from Mar- ri.ckville Margarine atten ded Holt's Rockdale meeting last week in Sydney and de manded a "liberal" policy on margarine. Several hundred at the meet ing signed a petition calling' on the NSW Premier. Askin to lift margarine quotas. These petitions were confis cated by the Liberals running the meeting. They were later collected from ' NSW Security Chief, Longbottom. ? rpHE pay claims of nursing sisters at Concord Repat riation Hospital are now to be re-opened. | And pending the outcome, the j sisters have withdrawn their I resignations. | About 100 sisters planned to | resign on November- 30 in pro- 1 test against a new award which I lowers their wages. | The militant stand by these I lasses forced the Public Service I to re-open the case and the j sisters will be expecting a | better outcome next time. I 1 "ROE Cowie, lodge secretary of I , the Burwood mine up j North, tells the story of his | complaint to the mine manager J about a miner not receiving j water money for working in 1 the wet. "He doesn't need the money, he's got a wooden leg," replied the manager. To which the miners quipped: J "Then he should get half." 