 Granny bestows a rare honor On January 4 the Sydney Morning Herald departed from a long-standing practice of reviewing books in its Saturday magazine pages and reviewed Dr. Cairns book "Living with Asia" in its lead editorial. The leader writer went to great pains to discredit Dr. Cairns' point of view on Australia's foreign policy in Asia and said that he lacked "intellectual distinction and deep knowledge. . ." However, whatever the Herald's opinions may be, with an editorial review of the book it bestowed a singularly rare distinction on Dr. Cairns and highlighted the need for all Australians who do not agree with the Herald's or Menzies' poli cies on Vietnam to read the book. Author of "Big Red" (the Aus tralasian Book Society's latest pub lication) Leslie Haylen wrote to the Herald pointing out that Dr. Cairns' book had achieved a notable breakthrough. "In the first place, he records a strongly held point of view among many Australians, and secondly he gets his book re viewed in the first editorial of your edition of January 4. "To say 'the Left may well groan at such a champion' is to be mani festly unfair to Dr. Cairns' ability and dedication. "What Dr. Cairns says is that we must learn to live with Asia. If his conclusions are different from the general run of the terrible con formity of ideas which is paralysing thinking in this country, should we not be cheering instead of sneer ing? "The second breakthrough for Dr. Cairns would be to get people talking frankly about Asia, and Vietnam in particular, so that Aus tralia would be able to join the llAaujr AAlJ. AAAVJJ.IO \JJk 11 J. blio world who have come to the con clusion, despite their affiliations, their background and their poli tics, that it is time the world got rid of the dirty war in Vietnam and began to worry about world peace and what the Asian aspiration really is." Mr. Tom Uren, MHR, also wrote to the Herald challenging the edi torial statement that Dr. Cairns "repeatedly fails to distinguish his own position from that of the Com munists" made in reference to cor respondent Wilfred Burchett. Mr. Uren asks "What did Dr. Cairns actually say? 'It was not long before the Diem Government forces and the revolutionary forces were in conflict. Writing from the revolutionary side, an Australian- born journalist W. H. Burchett says,' etc. Does not your newspaper call the revolutionary side in Vietnam the Vietcong or the Communist forces? "Your editorial said: 'Communist writers.' Who were the other so- called 'Communist writers' that Dr. Cairns quoted? If W. H. Burchett is a Communist, surely this was balanced by the 75 other authorities given. . " Incidentally Wilfred Burchett was awarded an international prize by the International Organisation of- Journalists for his factual reporting of the war in Vietnam. "LIVING WITH ASIA", pub lished by Lansdowne Press, will be reviewed soon in Tribune. 