 ran NUN By MARK GREGORY !; s f BOB DYLAN is perhaps America's most con- \\ troversial and tal'ked about young singer and \ poet. He is now in Australia on a conecrt tour. LI IS made up name, his purposely rough voice, his Woody Guthrie har monica and his mysterious past all point, to a carefully I planned public image. We first heard of Bob Dylan in connection with Peter, Paul and Mary's hit, "Blowing in the Wind," and then heard Seeger talk so much about him. His third record ("Times they are a Changin' ") was the first we heard, and it just knocked us down to think one mind could write all those songs which meant so much. Now we are used to them we- may not think so much of them but they were a revolution and a revelation not long ago. For years we had believed in Seeger's sentimental pacifism and all our peace songs were of a 'mass participation kind, a sort of Uto pian chorus. Dylan changed all that. He dared say things we thought "sectarian" and made us think again. By now he was the hero of the folk-singing world, a folksinger's James Bond, and no one wrote sentimental peace songs any more. His fourth record ("Another Side of Bob Dylan) caused a bit of consternation and open letters to Sing Out! were IN. . Everyone piled in trying to sort out Dylan, who of course got left out. Dylan kept to his "other, side," however, and soon became fair game for the folk-ideologists. He even talked to John Lennon and wrote rock songs which got on the charts. So the big guns attacked, the most important, and perhaps most ridiculous, attack coming from Ewan McColl, ' England's great ballad singer and himself a good songwriter. Meanwhile Dylan continued to get rich and was interviewed and photographed for every big maga zine, including Cavalier (upper- class pornography) and Esquire. His fifth record, "Bringing It All Back Home," and his rock and roll band at the Newport Folk Festival finished him in the eyes of many in the folk field. "Bringing It All Back Home" uses semi-rock and roll music to complicated thought-words and says more about Dylan than any of the other records. "Tambourine Man", is beautiful. "She's an Artist" is erotic. "Bob Dylan's 115th Dream" is L. S. D. to music; "It's All Right, Ma," is an existentialist poem, and "It's All Over Now, Baby Blue" breaks you up. In "It's All Right, Ma" (which seems to be his most important song) Dylan says; — "Advertising signs they con you into thinking you're the one that can do what's never been done, that can win what's never been won. Meantime life outside goes on all around you." And he says: — "While some on principles bap tised HBHHnnBaaHHHnnMBBBKBHBl to strict party platform ties &lt; (social club in drag disguise), outsiders they can freely criticise feel nothing's up to them to idolise, and God bless him." | And: — "and Lady judges watch people in pairs limited in sex they dare > to push false morals, insult and J stare I while money doesn't talk it J swears I obscenity who really cares \ propaganda all is phoney." In his sixth record, "Highway 66 Revisited" - (Highway 66 is a song on his first record), Dylan has really consolidated his rock music, and his words explore even more of the world. Dylan doesn't give answers, he just pokes everything around a bit so you see things you didn't notice before. Dylan's voice and music make you listen to his words and his words make you think. Dylan is a poet speaking to everyone and not just an intellec tual elite. He is not a folksinger nor a tin-pan alley creation. Dylan's philosophy is that nothing is permanent and nothing is absolute, "but it's alright, man, it's life and life only . . ." 