 Jews in the Soviet Union J READ with considerable interest the questions addressed to Eric Aarons concerning the position of Jews in the Soviet Union (Tribune, DonatviUAM 1£\ On this subject matter I suggest that the motives of some who com plain about the situation of the Jews in the U.S.S.R. are identified with their opposition to socialsm. The political mistakes made and the serious violations of socialist legality during the last two decades of Staling life have furnished the opponents of Communism with argu ments they manipulate to confuse the . minds of the general public. On the other hand those who are genuinely concerned with the general well-being of the Jews in the Soviet Union will, in my opinion, appreciate the approach and attitude to this question contained in the article re ferred to above and the booklet entitled "Soviet Jewry — A reply to I. Leibler." I contend that this healthy critical approach is .a continuation of a pro cess that received considerable impetus nearly a decade ago. Prior to this a situation developed in the world Communist movement where loyalty to the cause of socialism was synonymous ' with Stalin and his standpoint. . For example, at the time of the so-called doctors' plot in 1953, I be lieved that a case had been made out . against the doctors. It did not occur to ine that they were' innocent victims of those who had violated socialist law. Today the position is different While recognising that the U.S.S.R. has and is performing a tremendous historic service to humanity by show ing what socialism . can achieve, it does not automatically follow that every administrative act they carry out warrants emulation or is beyond criticism. It should also be recognised that not every Soviet writer and scholar has a Marxist outlook. The nonsense contained in Kyctoko's "Judaism Without v Embellishments" could do a lot of harm to the Communist move ment and its complete repudiation was essential. It is to the credit of Australian Communist Party leaders that they offer points of constructive criticism wherever it can be of assistance. I also maintain that the outstand ing service which N. S. Khrushchov rendered was the renunciation of the erroneous ideas of the Stalin perso nality cult and of actions perpetrated during this period in contradiction of Leninist principles. History and contemporary political activity at all levels reaffirm the principle that departure from Marx ist-Leninist, principles decelerates the struggle for Communism and furn ishes our opponents with facts they can misuse for their own ends. Bernie Rosen, (Kings Cross). 