 5 ; I ti n i a r t r i k n n a " [?] JHE raindrop fell to earth once more. It | seeped through the ground and was caught there by the roots of a tall gum-tree. The drop rose up through the tree trunk and reach- ed the leaves, bringing them minerals from the soil. No plant can live without these minerals. H HELLO, Junior Trib une Readers! Thank you for send ing in your entries to the colouring competition and for your letters. I was very pleased to hear from you and know that you will continue to join in our competitions. This week we publish the names of the winners of the two sections. Keep those letters rolling in. — DINEWAN. THIS WEEK'S PUZZLE UERE is a scrambled mes sage, one that needs de coding, which is very im portant to all of us. It may look difficult, but once you unscramble the first few words, the rest will be easy ... FETYAS RITSF VESAS VSELI OKOL OT ETH TIGHR DNA KOOL OT EHT TLFE, NAD UYO LILW EVERN, RVENE EB URN REVO The neatest, correct entry received before noon on Wed nesday, 16th February, 1966, in the Junior and Senior sec tion will receive the prize of 50 cents. When you send your entry in, enclose your idea for a future scrambled message com petition. COMPETITION RESULTS SENIORS 1st Prize: Ian (N.S.W.). Special Mention: Ruth Fow- ler, Mt. Hutton, N.S.W. JUNIORS 1st Prize: Karen Taylor, Edithvale, Vic. Special Mention: Debra Shar key, M&traville, N.S.W. Congratulations to all Junior Tribune readers who sent in entries, you gave the Judges a very difficult job. When the little drop reached the leaves it turned into vapour again and evaporated into the air. There it found itself in a cloud again. And so the water journeyed back and forth between the earth and the sky. On its way it watered the wheat in the fields and the grass in the pastures, it filled the ponds and wells, children swam in it, and grown-ups went rowing on it. It's really difficult to tell you all the adventures it had. The water seeped into the soil in tiny trickles; it jour neyed far in (he underground darkness until it was finally able to burst forth into the light again as an icy, crystal clear spring which was the source of a brook. The brook flowed into a river; the rivex flowed, down to the sea; there the wind took it back to the shore ... Where does this story end? p That's just the point — this is a story without an end. Year in, year out, from cen- tury to century, the water || journeys in a circle; from the ocean to the land, from the | land back into the ocean. | By knowing all the ways and paths water travels, we learn how to control it better and ! | how to make it our ally in- || stead of our enemy, for if the water is permitted to have p its own way, it can be very destructive. During the floods it can | flood a city if its path is not | blocked by an earthen dike. It can sweep away a bridge, if | the people who built the bridge did not know the % water's strength. So you see, | engineers must also know f nature's alphabet. | —From "Do Your Know", by I M. Ilyin and E. Segal. 1 