 Meetings in Newcastle to support big wages drive E W CASTLE : Trade unionists in New castle will hold street meetings through out the district next Saturday (March 26) in support of the union' national wage | demands and for price control. This was decided last week by a trade union; | committee representing about 50 workshops in New- :? castle. The street meetings will also be part of a drive to gain signatures to the prices peti tion issued by the NSW Labor Council. Newcastle unionists are plan ning a large deputation to the State Parliament when the peti tions are presented by the Lead er of the Opposition (Mr. Ren- shaw) early next month. Many workshop delegates at last week's meeting said that the feeling on jobs and work places was for some form of stoppage to 'back up" the un ions'. wage claims. A mass demonstration of un ionists in the district is being planned for next month. Mr. P. Clancy (NSW Secretary Building Workers' Industrial Union) who reported to last week's meeting, said the em ployers' propaganda against the wage claims still follows tire same old line. "They pose as protectors of our economy and scream about wage rises causing price in creases." Mr. Clancy said wages are continually chasing prices and not vice versa. He said this trade union view was substantiated by Dr. H. C. Coombes (Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia) dur ing a speech in Adelaide in 1360 when he said: "Scope for price reduction" "It is clear that for a wide range of goods throughout the economy, prices are determined by management rather than by market prices. . "This has developed by the emergence of strong monopol-. istic elements in our economy characterised among other things by 'gentlemen's agree ments' on pricfe policies and the successful take over bids. "In addition there appears to he a general reluctance to pass on to consumers the advantage of lower costs achieved through higher productivity despite . the fact that, in the manufacturing industry especially, there have been very significant reductions in unit costs of production. "I do not find it difficult to conclude that there is consider able scope for price reduction in many fields of production and distribution." Mr. Clancy said the Federal Government's policy of con tinually rising taxation, both direct and indirect, to finance its expanding military expendi ture is an important factor in price rises. "It is significant that the ad ditional money raised by in direct taxation in the 1965 Budget equals almost exactly the additional amount to be raised for military purposes, specifically for extra expendi ture caused by participation in the Vietnam adventure. "The Government's decision to increase the number of troops in Vietnam to 4,500 will mean further taxation burdens and further price increases," he said. 