 1 JUNIOR TRIBUNE Hello, Tribune Juniors THIS week we begin a serial entitled "Patchie the Spaniel" by the Russian writer Vitaly Bianki. It's about Tanya, a girl in a village in the Soviet Union, who unexpectedly gets a new puppy. PATCHIE THE SPANIEL Tanya was sitting on the porch step and watching the sun sliding slowly behind the ice-coated, lake. All of a sudden she saw the school master coming toward her with a pup she had never seen before running ahead of him. Where could it have come from? Tanya had never seen one like it before. Stubby- legged, the pup had floppy ears that nearly reached the ground and a tail like a tiny ctnmn Tf nine oil ttrViifn Vkiif w vuiiiy au YY HQ Cfcl YY Aluv UUb for the several black spots on its back and one over its eye, like a patch. As soon as it saw Tanya the pup tripped straight up on the porch, sat back on its haunches and raised one shaggy paw, as if to say "hello". "Look at her! She knew straight off who she belongs to"! said the schoolmaster, laughing, "she'svour little dog now, you know, Tanya! Comes straight from Lenin grad. A present from your Uncle Petya. I brought her. She's a spaniel. Here's a letter for your Mother." Just then Tanya's mother appeared on the porch. She said "hello" to the school master and began reading the letter. "My dear sister," wrote Uncle Petya, "I hope you won't be angry with me for sending you my little dog. I can't oossiblv keeD her in town. "I live on the sixth floor and I'm' away all day what with work at the plant, so there's no one to take her out. "And she's a truly fine little dog,' of good breed, knows all sorts of tricks, and affec tionate, too, She's been taught to fetch and carry and will make a nice playmate for Tanya. "When I come over to the village this summer I'll take her out hunting with me. "I've decided to become a hunter. There's the dog, and I hope to save up enough money by summer to buy myself a gun. "As for the game I bring in— you'll have it all." "He doesn t even ' know which is the shooting end of the gun," said Tanya's mother with a smile, "and here he is making big promises. Funny man!" She glanced at the pup, and her hands dropped to her sides. "Good heavens! What an H .ugly, tailless mutt it is, to be I sure!" I (To be continued) | 