 Four more for the top r of the pops 1 pouR more contestants I have entered the Popular 1 Seller competition: Red Lob- I ley, Clarrie Lobley, "Jannali" I and Bruce Steele. I At the same time, there's j news that one of our real stal warts will be missing from this i year's, names. Em. Shadwell, undefeated national champion I of previous competitions, will not be standing. This seems the appropriate time to pub licly congratulate Em and her committee for the outstanding work they've done for Tribune, raising hundreds of dollars and developing many new sales in ' the course of popular Seller competitions. Their work ad ded greatly to the interest and effectiveness of the whole con test and so helped Tribune— the aim of all our popular sel lers. Thanks a lot, Em! (By the way, I understand Em has offered to help New castle's candidates this time, so their progress will certainly be worth watching!) This week's point score: SYDNEY Paddy King (Maritime) 16,364 Bill' Sanderson . (Petersham) ' 2,136 Bruce Steele (Bankstown) 1,200 Jannali 530 Jack Dye (Kogarah) " 400 NEWCASTLE Clqrrie Lobley (Wallsend) ' 300 Red Lobley (Seamen) 200 SOUTH AUSTRALIA Joe- Brazel (Adelaide) 2,000 Ted Dyer (Rail) 600 Pat Flintoft (Enfield-P'pect) 500 Lorraine . Loyden (Semaphore) 600 Edith Semmler (Cheltenham) 300 Jeff Thomas (Marion) 300 Vol Burns (Norwood) 200 To show readers what a pop ular seller looks like, I'd be pleased to receive photos of contestants handling the paper. Any news' items about the sel lers and their campaigns will also be appreciated. On The Ball! A reminder for all the danc ing enthusiasts— and those who just want to be in on the year's best night out— book your tickets for the Tribune Ball as soon as you can. With only nine weeks to Saturday, August 20, bookings are coming in daily and the State Ballroom only holds about 400 people.' Come fo The Fair! With June almost gone, it's high time all our Tribune Fair enthusiasts were busy in the garden, at the sewing machine, in the workshop or wherever they turn out the goods for Sydney's Tribune Fair. Within a week or two I, hope to give you details of date and place, but in the meantime can assure you the 1966 Fair is definitely on! Our man on the waterfront- Ernie Brlemle selling at /the Wharfies' pick-up in Clarence Street. 