 US prepares to move into Laos and Cambodia By A Tass Correspondent Intensifying bombing of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, widening the intervention in South Vietnam, American imperialism is now getting ready to commit a new act of aggression by carry- ing hostilities into Laos and Cambodia. In Laos, the United States increasingly and openly sup plies arms, ammunition and military equipment to the right - wing groupings and prods them to new attacks against the patriots. Taking off from bases in Thailand and ships of the US Seventh Fleet, American aviation makes barbarous raids on areas controlled by Neo Lao Haksat and the patriotic neutralist forces, killing peaceful residents of Laos and. depriving them of homes and. food. American officials no longer con ceal the facts of bandit attacks on Laotian territory. However, their references to "communication lines" allegedly going through Laos as well as to the imaginary presence of "troops from North Vietnam" there, is a smokescreen long since used by Washington to cover up and justify its policy of brazenly interfering in the domestic affairs of Laos. The Government of the Democratic . Republic of Vietnam and Neo Lao Haksat spokesmen repeatedly ex posed the falsity of these American contentions. Dean Rusk (US Secretary of State), at a press conference on December 9, 1965, said that the United States feels itself free from commitments to observe the 1962 Geneva Agreements on Laos. This exposes Washington's intention to refuse to observe an international agreement which carries its signa ture. How lightly the ruling quarters of the United States trample upon international law and customs! The American press reports that similar plans under the same false and hypocritical pretext are being worked out by Washington with regard to Cambodia. This is confirmed not only by the increasingly frequent armed clashes along the Cambodian frontier which are inspired by Americans, but the press openly writes that American officers in South Vietnam have already "got permission" to carry hostilities into Cambodia. Pentagon's strategists have already convinced themselves of the impos sibility of achieving a decisive turn ing point in the Vietnam war by means of the 180,000-strong army of might of the Seventh Fleet and interventionists supported by the Guam-based squadrons of the Stra tegic Air Command. Now by every indication they are banking on ter ritorial expansion of aggression. How can this be reconciled with Washington's "attempts" to find ways "to achieve peace" in Vietnam about which American propaganda has raised such an outcry? United States aggression is aimed not only at crushing the patriotic struggle of the South Vietnamese population, but also at suppressing the National Liberation Movement in neighboring countries. Today the interventionists bomb the territory of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, commit crimes in South Vietnam, encroach on the sovereignty of Laos and Cambodia. What about tomorrow? Tomorrow adventurism and expansionist as pirations of America will threaten the freedom, security and peace of other Asian peoples. United States aggressive interven tion is fraught with dangerous con sequences. The full burden of responsibility for these rests on American ruling quarters. 