 China and UN T WOULD like to suggest that it's about time that the Soviet Union and the other European communist powers took some decisive action to ensure that . People's China is admitted- to the United Nations. I've always been too busy with immediate concerns, and too divorced from sources of information other than the daily press, to be in the position to offer an opinion on the U.S.S.R.-China dis pute at any time until now. Yet it has seemed to me lately to have become quite obvious that the rights and wrongs of the case cannot be decided on the technical ities of the conflict such as who first thumbed his nose at the other; or even on which nation is behaving better now, either in the domestic or international sphere. The position seems to be that the Soviet Union has been largely accepted into the community of Western nations, sufficiently so to enable the U.S. to concen trate its drive for markets on South-East Asia, while at the same time China finds itself snubbed and under the sharper pressure. To strike a metaphor, the Soviet Union finds itself rich and strong in the world and inside the building with the other guests while China re mains on the doorstep. Well, we Jiave all seen friends set out in life — one makes good while the other is left in the mud — . and know it's no use the success ful one calling out: You're going the wrong way about it! The man in the ditch will only reply: Clear out chase your fat friends! What I'm referring to, of course, is common psychol ogical situation between haves and have-nots. What is required from the Soviet Union is surely the realisation that no conference of nations can consider any question at all in the round, so long as any great nation, and in this case China, is left outside. It would seem to me that some act of imagination and generosity is required of the Soviet Union and its sup porters to demonstrate solid arity with a nation that has received even less justice than they; and I would suggest the total boycott of the U.N. and all vital Western con tacts until such time as China is accorded the respect it un doubtedly deserves, irrespec tive of whether China is thought to be right or wrong " in the dialogue between the conflicting sides of the com munist camp. The exclusion of China from the U.N. is a basic injustice from which many crimes have sprung, a negation of democracy in the U.N. itself and in all those countries which support the exclusion of China. Until such time as China is admitted, the Soviet Union will appear to the man-in-the- street such as myself, to be riding along unwillingly with an unjust situation created above all by the U.S. On the other hand, the entry of China into the U.N. will permit all cards to be. placed on the table, and give all concerned and China in particular, the opportunity to . come to grips with the total international re lationship — and therefore reality — for the first time. Max Brown, Lithgow, (NSW). 