 In State Parliament ... THAT WAS THE WEEK THAT WAS TUESDAY WEDNESDAY BLACK FRIDAY SUNDAY ...a real bottler, in fact By our State Political Roundsman LAST Tuesday afternoon shortly after the House had met, Mr. S. Einfeld, (Labor, Bondi) rose to move a motion of privilege. He read to the House articles from the Daily Mirror which said: "A powerful landlords', organisation today threatened to step up proceedings to evict tenants of controlled premises in Labor-held electorates if new rents legislation is not approv ed." : The article also stated: "Landlords were prepared to visit the homes of parliamenta rians to find out if they were on controlled rents." The Attorney General, Mr. MqCaw, on a point of order during Mr. Einfeld's address, said "This is a motion seeking to silence those outside the House who have, or think they have, the right to speak." The Chief Secretary, Mr. E. Willis, continually took points of order as Mr. Einfeld spoke. When Mr, Einfeld alleged that Mr. H. K. Cook, Secretary of the Home and Property Own ers' Association, had said that the association would "step up the campaign of evictions" in the electorates of Labor Mem bers voting against the legisla tion, Liberal MLA Mr. Mead— a former Chief -of-Staff of the Daily Telegraph — interjected: "He is entitled to do that, is he not?" Propaganda The Speaker finally ruled Mr. Einfeld's motion out of order on technical grounds, but not before the Government had once again revealed its liaison with the landlords. At 2.45 p.m. last Wednesday Mr. Punch, Country Party mem ber for Gloucester astonished the House when he moved for the dissolution of the Parlia mentary Select Drought Relief Committee. . Members of the Committee were set back on their heels by this move, for the chairman of the Committee, the same Mr. Punch, had notified them that they were to meet again that very day at 3.30 p.m. As Mr. Punch was going over seas the next day it seemed that the Government by hook or by crook was determined to wind up the Committee. It was known that the chair man of the Milk Board, Mr. J. Ferguuson, as well as the com sumers' representative on the Board and also outstanding water conservation experts. Professors Renwick and Munro, all wanted Nto give evidence; Apparently the Government was scared that with Mr. Punch out of the way the Com mittee might get out of hand. The Government instituted the Committee some time after the drought had begun and was apparently interested at the time in its propaganda value. However, as Mr. Renshaw, Leader of the Opposition said in the debate: "If stock, sheep and cattle could have eaten propaganda they would now be mud fat." All NSW now knows what happened on Black Friday. The Government deliberately did not break the news about all the increases until late Friday, so that they could have a quiet week-end free of people's pro tests, Now a week's stay in hospital in a public ward will cost about twice as much as the adult basic wage. Higher bus, train and ferry fares will take a con siderable amount out of the family wage. The Government has also served notice that in the com ing Budget and in the future their deficits are to be met bv those least able to afford, it. No doubt about it, last week will be remembered in NSW. Cabinet Ministers and Liberal ' MLA's expressed sympathy with a -landlords wrgainsatioh's -at v1; 'tack on Labor Ms'-awd- tenants / " f The Government abollshed the Select Parliamentary Drought Committee; The Government announced . ' drastic inoreases in rail and bus" , fares, ratt freight charges, Gov.- ; ernment ferry fares and hospital fees (36%). r 1 1 It was announced that the newU Budget would . contain higher ! charges to sock the jpeople an ; additional $3 million, a year- ,'/ \ v 