 R YAN: bring patrons back pEOPLE today are forced to use their own cars because of the poor public transport services. If the services were improved it would go a long way toward attracting public patronage to the buses which would reduce the car congestion, slowly strangling the city. This comment was made by Mr. Pat Ryan NSW secretary of the Bus Employees Union, when interviewed last week by Tribune. The public was entitled to receive greater comfort and convenience from the transport administration, he said. "Passengers, particularly at peak hours, are being forced to travel under bad conditions. "People are entitled to a seat but in many cases obtaining a seat in a bus is a complete lux ury." The number of standing pas sengers on a single deck bus (now 27), should be drastically reduced. "The frequency of bus time tables are also inadequate and should be improved." Because traffic conditions have reached saturation point, buses are not able to maintain the tight time table schedules set by the department. This traffic congestion to gether with one-man operation is causing great strain on bus drivers. "Heart and allied complaints are increasing among drivers." Mr. Ryan said the Govern ment's policy of extending one- man bus operations is not in the best interest of either driv ers or the. comfort and con venience of passengers. He also suggested that spe cial traffic lanes be provided for buses. "I believe that public trans- sport is a public utility of great importance and the question of costs should not be the main consideration. "The Government should take every step to provide a proper and adequate service for bus travellers." Mr. Ryan pointed out that the promises to improve bus ser vices made by the Askin Gov ernment prior to the last elec tions have not been imple mented. "It is true that the industry is faced with staff shortages but to solve this problem great er consideration must be lV® to improving job conditions attract and retain staff. "Public enterprises, in ma2J instances, compete for labor by pr.ying over-award wages a - the Transport Department win have to move away from policy of paying minimum wage standards/' he said. Mr. Ryan 