 In brief . |p: brief In brief "In/brief! &lt; ' - x - > r &lt; - « v. /' t 4 ' - , ' i 1 FAREWELL STERLING From Rupert Lockwood gURMA'S withdrawal from the sterling zone has caused a flood of protests in the Brit- ish press and a campaign of anti-Burmese black mail. Britain is bringing pressure on some of Burma's trading partners in an attempt to prevent them buying Burmese rice. Neither dollar nor sterling bloc leaders relish the demon stration by a relatively minor economic power that it is possible to advance without national financial and com mercial transactions being tied to either dollar or ster ling. A commentary in the Soviet paper "Izvestia" points out that Londoni, s "afraid lest Ran goon's decision should start a chain reaction among the other members of the sterling zone which in conditions of a permanent crisis of Britain's balance of payments could in the end lead to disintegration of this zone." The Burmese press shows that by building up gold re serves and leaving the sterling zone Burma has made her currency more stable and will be able to preserve better gold and hard currency re serves and have greater free dom of action in foreign mar kets. Support- for sanctions ALL African states and all freedom loving peoples were urged to support full compulsory sanctions against Southern Rhodesia's racist government in a resolution of the Organisation of African Unity Ministerial Council at Addis Ababa. The OAU also called for a boycott of individuals and companies trading- with the Smith regime. Negotiations between the British Government and the Smith regime were denounc ed as "A conspiracy designed to recognise the illegal inde pendence of South Rhodesia." The Ministerial Council took a significant decision to send a military mission to visit Angola and Portuguese Guinea to contact liberation forces. Trade with China? A MERICAN trade with Hong Kong of which China is a principal supplier has increased sharply, Soviet newspaper "izvestia" points out. United States trade with Hong Kong, whose population is three million, reached $534 m. last year— an eightfold in crease over 1955. Total US trade with the Soviet Union, Poland, Czecho slovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Rumania and Bulgaria— total popula tion over 300,000,000— amount ed only to $278m. "The fact that Hong Kong and Macao are China's trade gates is no secret," says "Iz vestia". "In 1965 the goods turnover between China and Hong Kong amounted to $418 m.— a little less than the goods turnover between Hong Kong and the US. "Ten years ago US trade with Taiwan was double that with Hong Kong, while today the opposite is true. US trade with Macao has also increased sharply." America also has other go betweens for this trade not recorded directly, such as through American firms in Japan and elsewhere. ; 