 GOVT'S SLY H.PJ ACT WILL HIT WORKERS HARD By the State Political Roundsman JYDNEY : The sneak action of the New South Wales Liberal Government in giving the green light for a big rise in insur ance rates for motor vehicles on hire purchase will hit hardiest at those people in the lower income bracket. The Government (in what State Opposition Leader Renshaw described as an "act of stealth") decided to repeal the standing Regulation restricting these insurance rates a month before its quiet an nouncement in the Government Gazette on March 25. People on lower incomes, al ready milked by wealthy hire purchase firms through inter est as they scrape to buy and maintain a vehicle, now lose the very limited protection they had on insurance rates. They face a jump of 20 per cent or more in premiums, without any option, since hire purchase is impossible unless the vehicle is insured. There is now nothing to prevent insurance companies increasing their h.p. policy premiums even beyond the level applying to paid-off ve hicles since the 20 per cent in crease in rates last November. In that event the insurance monopolies would be soaking the workers harder than the wealthier section that can af ford to buy for cash. Nationalisation Because of the number of workers using motor vehicles today, this must place the question of nationalisation of - insurance and hire purchase firms (often interlocked) on the agenda of all organisations of the labor movement. The Government's action con sisted of gazettal of an amend ing regulation which omits Regulation 5 under the Hire Purchases Act. Regulation 5 was introduced by the then Labor Government. It sets down limits for prem ium rates on motor vehicles purchased under hire-purchase agreements. A statement giving the Gov ernment's reasons for lifting the regulation was prepared in the Justice Ministry, but the in struction was given that it was not to be released unless there was an enquiry from the press. The move was so secret that even the Government Insurance Office knew nothing about it. When contacted by the press the manager of the Government Insurance Office (Mr. R. M. Porter) said he knew nothing about it, and had not been con sulted. Mr. Renshaw last week criti cised the Askin Government for having tabled the amending regulation in the last days of the Parliamentary session, with out adequately publicising its intention to do so. He pointed out that the Min ister of Justice (Mr. Maddison) had, last November 10, assured the House that he would be taking no action to permit an increase in the premium rates concerned. Mr. Renshaw said that the Labor Opposition would move for disallowance of the amend ing regulation at the first op portunity. As the Opposition have a majority in the Upper House, they are in a position to move successfully for the repeal of the regulation when that House meets again in August. This is the third time the Government has acted at the instance of the insurance lobby. The first was the attempt to abolish juries in accident cases. The second an attempt to amend the workers' compensa tion bill. H.P. celling Mr. W. Brown, NSW secret ary of the Communist Party, condemning the government's action, this week said that com munists would support a move by the Labor Opposition to re introduce a ceiling on h.p. ve hicle insurance rates. "But in the process, the labor movement should raise the demand necessary to give real protection against the insur ance sharks— nationalisation by the state government of all in surance and hire purchase and an all-round reduction of inter est rates. There has also been wide spread criticism of the Govern ment's actions by motorists, the motor industry, and in some Country Party circles. The president of the Auto Chamber of Automotive Indus tries (Mr. B. V. Clifton) after an emergency meeting said tne Chamber could not protest strongly enough against the Gov ernment repealing the regulation without consulting the motor industry. 