 A chip off the old block tBMHn era jMBHBmnnaMnnaaBHH (with a difference ), and — HBKHBBHIHBHQ A YOUNG MAN OF TODAY Victorian Guardian Editor MALCOLM SALMON presents a profile of BRIAN POLLITT pRINCE Charles's path and i mine never crpssed dur- J ing that rugged spell he had I at Geelong Grammar's Tim- I . , . t I bertop earlier this year. ' But still, as far as meeting | Distinguished Young Englishmen I Visiting Australia in 1966 is con- 8 cerned, I reckon I'm on the I right end of the deal: I have met I and interviewed Brian Pollitt. 1 Now on a short stay in our 1 country, 30-year-old Brian Pollitt 1 already has under his belt the . I distinction of being the only I Communist ever elected President I of the . Cambridge University's I Union Society, a Cambridge B.A. 1 (Economics Tripos), and three i years spent working with his Melbourne-born wife Penny in the Cuban countryside on research. into agrarian conditions for the ' Cuban Government. " r It is no exaggeration to say f . that his last activity has made a contribution of note to the dev elopment of Cuban revolutionary institutions: it was as a direct result of the Pollitts' work that the Cuban Government last Sep tember founded its Commission for Social Studies, of which the Pollitts are technical directors. Part of the fruit of his exper iences in Cuba will be the raw material for a thesis for a doctor ate of philospohy. Tall and spare, quite unlike his stocky father, the late Harry Pollitt, long-time leader of the . Communist Party of Great Brit ain, Pollitt the Younger is a man of exceptional powers of intel lectual analysis, forthright and . articulate to a formidable degree, but, possessing a depth of insight into human, motivation and a maturity of judgment not always associated with men of his years. In view of hia family background, I v don't suppose one would need to be excessively offhand to- feel that there is little that is particularly exciting or interest ing about the fact that Brian Pollitt is e Communist. Authentic BUT the big fact that emerges from a con versation with Brian Pollitt is that his communism is far- from being a simple family legacy — it is his own. He is as authentic a product of his time as his father was of an earlier day, , It is obvious that Brian Pollitt owes, and warmly acknowledges that he owes, to his parents an orientation, a disposition, towards communism. But the position he ha? reached is his own. The pattern of independence within unity in the family relation- ; ship is stamped upon his whole life. After unsuccessfully trying to break into journalism, and . later working for Unilever, he qualified for university studies and in October. 1958, entered Kings Cross College, Cambridge. Part of Brian. Pollott's University career is already well known: the story of the bashing he received from the fists and boots of un known assailants while sleeping in his room , at the university one night in June 1962, on the eve of his final exams and of the election he was contesting for President of the Union, made headlines ' across the globe. Also known is the fact that despite the bashing, he was still successful both in his exams and in the election to Cambridge's i most prestigious student post, t But the whole world of pride and prejudice in which the com munist. son of Britain's major communist leader had to move at Cambridge remains only hinted at. Let us just mention the fact that the Cambridge police, when investigating the assault on Brian Follitu, were concerned above all to establish that communists had done the deed in order to gain sympathy for their cause. Indeed, the first question these guardians of the law asked the doctor after Pollitt had been, dis covered unconscious in his room, was "Is it possible that he could have done this to himself?" In the circumstances, it i,s not. surprising that no charges were ever laid. Perhaps a group which could have been more profitably investigated was a small band of Cambridge followers of the Brit ish nazi, Colin Jordan, who were likely enough to have been determ ined to prevent Pollitt's academic success (the exams began the day after he was attacked), and his election as President of the Union, (voting took place two days after). A number of members of this group were later convicted of other crimes of violence. Interest URING his University years, he had acquired a keen interest in the economics of under-develop ed and developing countries. Cuba especially appealed to him because it had. the problems of a very under-developed country going through the first stage of sccialisi revolution— a phase of a revolution which, as he says, is "almost completely undocumen ted." . In October, 1963, Brian the economist and . Penny the trained sociological investigator, set out for Cuba together. There they took up -the work which they have been doing ever since and on which they are still engaged: the collection, tabulation H and. analysis of a series of 1500 H interviews in depth with Cuban . BH . peasant families, designed to reveal H e picture of revolutionary Cuban H spciety at the grass (or sugar- H cane) roots level. H After Cambridge, Brian Pollitt H found Cuba . ( as he put it) "a H i bloody good "cold bath". H The description is apt enough. B Brian reckons that often enough B he and Penny and their research B associates have lived' "just a little B worse than the peasant families" B they were doing research into., B The rigors of the experience on H at least one occasion cost Brian H his health: for a period ' of six H months, during his time in Cuba, H he could not work through illness. H Marxism B JHE Pollitts' activity is a BH living example — - car- H ried out in circumstances not open to all, it is true - — of B the kind of "concrete study BH of concrete facts" which H Lenin has recommended as B . the "living soul of Marxism". IB It also accords pretty well with HH Brian Pollitt's deepest convictions mU about Marxism. H Of the present state of Marxist BB analysis' of contemporary .capital- W ism, for example, he said: "I BH just don't think we have satis- H| factorily analysed or explained B| the development of capitalism over, the past two .decades. I HH think we lack the appropriate H tools of analysis. H| "This in my view is the result fl| of not doing what Marx did HB throughout his creative period of BH . writing — ransacking the .works of. HH all the prominent philosophers, « and economic and sociological Bfl thinkers of the day. |B "Marx took from others, where- H ever he could find them, all ideas BB or concepts that accorded with BB the . Marxist view of society, and H rejected and exposed, in. detail Bh those he saw as wrong. The H custom seems to have died with H| Marx and Lenin." H He went on: "In my view there BH &lt;vis a growing recognition of the HB need to interpret capitalist society HB realistically, and a growing ack- B| nowledgment that, our intellectual " SB tools are. too crude. Too '.often .we h! use sledgehammers and chisels to HH operate on concepts which need B8B r. surgeon's knife . . . " BH If intellectual power, moral BH toughness and devotion to the |B cause of socialism are any help, ' BH years ahead, for him should see flj him living according to the stan- EBg dards he has set himself. HB 