 US admits it "might" have bombed China ATTACKS ARE DELIBERATE POLICY TO SPREAD VIET WAR By the Foreign Editor "THE US Administration admitted last Tuesday that its planes "might have" intruded over Chinese territory on September 9 and 17 as alleged by the Chinese Government. „ It claimed that if so, this was a mistake which it re gretted, and denied that Chiiiese villages had been attacked. After last week's denial by the US military that troops had burned down two Vietnam villages (which US pressmen, with their own eyes, had seen them do) such a "denial" must count for very little. And these "mistakes' happen too often for the rest of the world to believe that they are not part of a deliberate policy. The same 'excuse was put up last April when again a US war plane "mistakenly" strayed, over China in a way very familiar to students of American brinkman ship. It was shot" down. j The "mistake" story is hard to reconcile with the re peated American assurances that such a thing could not happen due to their fool-proof fail-safe techniques. KILLED IN ERROR Despite such assurances, nobody will consider the American aerial bombardiers infallible — - least of all the American ground troops who have so often paid with their lives for their own side's unfortunate errors (six were killed and 23 injured by such errors in two days of. this week). All the more grave is the responsibility taken by the US when it deliberately, assigns these pilots to rove round the borders of China and Cambodia (which also suffered a "mistaken" bombardment just recently). It is alb too, clear that these attacks, whe ther or not followed by "denials" and "regrets" or not, are in fact part of a deliberate policy of provocation by the world's most reckless militarists. They must be seen in the context of a new US cam paign to keep China out of the United Nations and new plans to escalate the Vietnam war after last week's elections (see story, page 3). AN URGENT ISSUE Communist Party general secretary Mr. Laurie Aarons said the repeated American incursions into Chinese territory, and the bombing of peaceful villages, Were immoral acts and dangerous war provocations. I If China reacted as recklessly as the Americans, the world could be plunged into war. This was a most j rpnt for Australians, since Holt had - already given I DTMSon a hlank. cheque with his "All the way with I CBJ pledge. Australia s national interests demanded protests against US provocations. The Communist Party stands solidly with China in nee of its independence and territorial integrity, yespect for which is essential if peace is to be ensured in Asia. China i8 a socialist, country, which is being attacked y t e American imperialists. All Communist parties, e8.pi te their deep ideological differences with the mese party, condemn US imperialism for its a8gresslVq threats to peace, 