 ALARM AS SAIGON REGIME CRUMBLES By a Political Correspondent The insistence of Australian Prime Minister Holt on visiting Vietnam and the Washington visit last week of External Affairs Minister Hasluck are evidence of growing alarm of the Government at the Vietnam situation. The visits suggest that the uovernment is urgently seek ing reassurance that it will not be embarrassed even more than it is now by the con tinuing nation-wide Buddhist revolt against South Vietnam dictator Ky. The Government's alarm is shared by the pro-Government daily press in Australia which clearly fears another blow to US prestige like the overthrow in 1963 of dictator Diem, to whom the US was closely com mitted. With the political upheaval in South Vietnam still simmering it might be expected that Holt would postpone his visit, as was done earlier by President Johnson's press secretary Moy- ers, and by some New Zealand MPs. But Holt faces an election this year in which Opposition Leader Calwell (supported by the whole labor movement) has declared conscription for Viet nam to be the main issue. Further disintegration of the US position (to which the Aus tralian Government has com mitted itself) could spell elec toral disaster for Holt. It is therefore believed that Holt is unwilling to trust his fate to the judgment of US generals and diplomats. Apparently perceiving Holt's purpose the Sydney Sun warns in an editorial: "This country looks to Mr. Holt not for reas surance but for frankness with out fear or favor." A collapse of Ky (despite a weekend boost for him by Has- luck who said he had "done a good job") could have worse results for the US than the fall of Diem in 1963, since Johnson linked himself closely to Ky at the Honolulu conference only two months ago. Ky is also supposed to be the premier at whose request Aus tralian troops, including con scripts, are being sent to Viet nam. Some papers openly fear that the elected national assembly in south Vietnam (if Ky keeps the promise . recently forced from him) might tell both Austra. lians and Americans to get out. Thus the Sydney Morning Herald notes editorially that the only Saigon general with any popular following is General Thi, who was ousted by Ky. "If the time ever comes when the populace feels more in sym- Continued, P. 12. GOVT.'S ALARM Continued from P. 1. pathy with the National Libera tion Front than the Government in Saigon, then the whole Amer ican and allied effort will have proved in vain ... "Vietnam's political future remains heavily clouded," adds the editorial. Carrying the same idea fur ther the Sydney Sun's editorial on the same day notes that Australia is "confused and un happy" about Vietnam. "we are lighting there as al lies of America which finds it self heavily committed in a country whose political future it is totally unable to predict," it says. Over the weekend Mr. Has- luck, after- urgent consultations with US State Secretary Rusk, issued a rather dismal appeal to Europeans to take an inter est in a war which, as he ad mitted by implication, they shunned involvement. But Asians too are unwilling about the war even when they are official US "allies". The Sydney Sun-Herald has report ed that the South Korean Gov ernment has delayed sending re inforcements to Vietnam pend ing political clarification. The Filipinos are similarly hesitant. In the USA itself Senator Richard B. Russell said on Good Friday that the US should leave Vietnam if the South Vietnam ese majority shows that it does not want her there. Reporting this, the American Worker notes that "Washing ton's fear of a civilian Govern ment in South Vietnam became even greater on Monday (April 11) when the Buddhist leaders of the mass opposition made it clear that they would not bar members of the National Liber ation Front from the civilian Government they are demand ing and that they might negoti ate with the NLF for peace". All this must be viewed with . alarm by the Holt Government as it prepares to face a general election campaign on the issue of conscription for Vietnam. The conscription issue was i lifted sharply by Opposition Leader Calwell in Launceston and again in Adelaide last week. Making Labor's position clearer than ever before, he declared that a Labor Government would immediately recall conscript troops to Australia. This produced an agitated outcry from Government lead ers and the anti-Labor press | but has raised anti-conscription | enthusiasm to new heights j among the mass of the people. J 