 New Sy, if, .chamber group Th&colour of a qua ity quintet With their concert at the Cell Block Theatre on Sunday night, the New Sydney Woodwind Quin tet. established itself as one of the most important musical groups to emerge here in recent times. Here to the vibrant sounds produced by fivef of our best wind musicians blended in the music of composers who know intimately the diverse capabilities of tone and articulation peculiar to -each separate instrument, and can draw most from the expressive use of solo flourish, combination or full ensemble; I was fascinated anew at the analytical thorough ness, the group understanding and tho exacting self -discipline that go to make a great musical perform ance. The instruments of the Quintet are stubbornly individual, differ- ing widely in shape and composed of a variety of materials; slender flute of gleaming silver; oboe and clarinet of black ebonite encrusted with an intricate maze of silver keys; the tall bassoon known also as faggot or bundle of sticks, and the circular French horn with its flaring bell of brass. Each of these is sounded in a different way and requires its own fingering techniques. The problem of the quintet is to tame these stubborn individ uals into harmonious agreement. To this end the members of the Quintet, individually known throughout Australia and in im portant musical centres overseas, function democratically as a group without leader or conductor; their aim is to bring the finest of chamber music to the Australian public, played by Australia's most accomplished musicians, and to include other than wind players. Associate artist for Sunday night's concert was the well-known concert pianiste Joyce Hutch inson, who joined four of the wind players in a sparkling per formance of Beethoven's early Quintet. The five wind instruments were heard in a performance of a quintet written by Danish com poser Carl Neilsen, while the Ros sini Quartet provided an opport unity for a display of the virt- uoso capabilities of each separate Instrument, and the concert came to a good humoured close with a sextet for five winds and piano by Poulenc. Performances of this standard should do something to break down the policy of established or official musical bodies to rely . too much on imported groups and musicians for important en gagements while many of our own artists are insufficiently employed. — H. McC. hwl trick Brislan French horn John Cran Bassoon Donald Westlake Clarinet David Woolley Oboe Neville Amadio Flute 