 MR. PRESIDENT, YOU ARE CHARGED. . . £RIMES which led to the indictment of top nazi leaders at the Nuremberg War Crimes Tribunal may be alleged against the present heads of the US administration by the Tribunal being sponsored by (Earl) Ber- trand Russell in Paris next month. The NSW Vietnam Action Committee is discussing the holding of a section of the trial in Sydney in association with next weekend's visit of, President Johnson. The key section which, it may be claimed, applies to US actions in Vietnam reads: "The following acts, or any f them, are crimes coming within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal for which there shall be an individual respon sibility: a) Grimes against peace: namely planning, preparation, initiating or waging of a war of aggression .... b) war crimes: namely, violations of the laws or customs of war . . . plun- , der of public property, wanton destruction of cities, towns, or villages or devastation not justified by military necessity. c) crimes against humanity: namely murder, extermin ation, enslavement, deport ation and other inhumane acts committed against . any civilian population before, or during, the war ..." — Article Six of the Charter t)f the International Milit ary Tribunal under which the top nazis were tried at Nuremberg after the second world war. As supreme Commander in Chief of the US forces in Vietnam and elsewhere, Lyn don Johnson bears the main responsibility for what they are doing there. Evidence Evidence against him at the future trial Russell speaks of will come from American as well as other sources. Some may come from the New York Times correspon dent Charles Mohr who wrote or September 5, 1965: "In a Delta province (in South Vietnam) there is a woman who has both arms burned off by napalm and her eyelids so badly burned that she cannot close them . . . . The woman had two of her children killed in the air strike which maimed her last April, and she saw five other children die." . And this, also from the New York Times, of June 6, 1965; telling how the US planes had just killed some 500 Vietnamese in Quang Ngai: "The Americans con tend they were Viet Cong soldiers. But three out of four patients seeking treat ment in a Vietnamese hospital afterwards for burns from napalm or jellied gasoline were village women ..." The USA has never signed (though Australia has) the Geneva protocol of 1925 banning the use of gas in war. But in 1921 it signed the US-German Peace Treaty (in stead of the Treaty of Ver sailles) which included Article 171 of the Treaty of Versailles. This prohibits the use in future of "asphyxiat ing, poisonous or other gases and all analogous liquids, materials or devices". Support Gas was first used in Viet nam by the USA by a local commander. On October 8, 1965, General Westmoreland, the US Commander, officially authorised its use in a massive "search and destroy" operation, "the first . time authorisation had been given since the world outcry last March", noted the New York Times. Westmoreland would not have done that without the support of his commander in chief and the Adminis tration. They must therefore be called to account for the consequences, noted by David Hilding MD professor of medicine at Yale Univer sity medical school in the New York Times of March 26, 1965: "Can anyone imagine any greater bitterness than that of the parents of little children choking away their last few moments after being poisoned by the 'humane' nauseating gas spread by our military leaders? The weak est, young and old, will be the ones unable to withstand the shock of this supposedly humane weapon . . . There is absolutely no possibility that everyone sprayed with the poison gas in the civil ian villages of Vietnam es caped permanent harm". (Most of the above quot ations are from American Atrocities in Vietnam, pub lished by the NSW Vietnam Action Committee). 