 Station owners' diet for Aborigines DRY BREAD AND SALT BEEF, BUT IT IS ENDING (An exclusive, story from a Tribune correspondent in Darwin who interviewed the Wave Hill Aborigine strikers). "No money, me fella got no money for some- times two months, sometimes tnree montns. inen we get, might be, $40 or $60. "We get no fresh beef longa Wave Hill Station, that Old Tom Fisher (manager of Vesteys station) he give only dry bread and salt beef. "We want wages all same white man." These statements in "pidgin" English from a few of the 250 Aborigines who have walked off the huge Wave ,ldill cattle station in the Northern Territory, owned by the foreign beef monopoly Vesteys, graphic- | ally tell the reasons for the spreading strike movement of the Aboriginal workers for equal pay with whites. Poignantly, they also tell a story of exploitation, privation and cruelty with few parallels anywhere in the world. f The strike at Wave Hill is the second in the Aborigines' fight for equal pay with white station workers. Last May about 80 Aborigines, includ ing stockmen, women, chil dren and the old people walked off Newcastle Waters Station. They are still on Strike. the strike movement follow ed an Arbitration Court deci sion earlier this year that Ab origines should be paid equal pay, but; not for another three year#, The disputes Committee of the North Australian Workers' Union and the Northern Terri tory Council For Aboriginal Rights sent a truckload of food to the Wave Hill strikers last week. The support and dona tions from trade unions in the South made the trip possible and if a reader of this article has contributed to the appeals for financial assistance or in tends to, they can rest assured, it's helped more than can be measured in money. The truck arrived at the strikers camp at about 8 p.m. on Sunday, and was greet ed with wild cheering and great excitement by the strikers and their families. No room in the front They are not living in luxury and they are also supporting their diets on whatever bush food they can catch or spear. The people are camped on the «and in the bed of the Victoria River in their family groups. They have their swags laid out along the bed of the river for a distance of about half a mile. The camp is quite orderly and the strikers are keeping the area clean and tidy. They have an area set aside as a toilet area. Earnestness ftie obvious impression one I Rets when talking to these peo- | Ple,.;,vis the earnestness with I the matter is discussed. | They have the desire to im- I Prove their lot and attempted I a strike some years ago. I However, the trade union 1 veinent did not hear of this I ' r ?,rt and no support was I forthcoming. I The strikers were on that oc- I cas.on, forced back to work 1 through starvation. They have I lne support now and have | grasped the strike weapon with both hands. | They are solidly united in enevr purpose. They will not sv back until their demands are met. men are a ffne hard ly , type who are experts JJ their field. They ought to be, ?mce the lads are in the saddle ps norse tailers (some with no 1 pay whatever) from 14 years old. The pastoralists maintain that only a handful are worth employing yet in this case every man and boy employed is well worth full award wages and more. For the first time in over 80 years, a white man was seen chopping his own wood at Wave Hill this week . . . No one comes running when the white missus of the station rings her little bell now . . , Vesteys are going to make her lot a little easier now with washing machines and gas stoves ... There aren't any highly train ed waitresses to wait at table for the important guests . . . For the first time in the his tory, an aboriginal worker who returned to the station from his job (he has since joined the Continued on Page 12 Stockmen's strike Continued from Page I strikers) was invited to sit at a table and have a meal, (under the circumstances he declined the invitation.) Four generations walked away from the station last week, most have never been to school since the school, ten miles from the station, has only been established a short time. Most of the people have never been off the area excepting to the local race meetings. Vestey's even make a profit from the race meetings since , the practice is to lease the privilege of operating the store at the meeting to travelling hawkers. The Aboriginal workers got one of their rare pays just be fore this meeting. Some of the articles I saw were 25c rings for $2.50, 5c hair clasps for $1.25, cotton dresses worth $2.50 for $10, $1 chain store cameras for $7. One lad stayed behind, he is the manager's car boy. This means he rides around in the back of the utility and opens the gates. He is of course, not allowed to ride in the front. No aboriginal is allowed to ride in the front of any vehicle. The lad will one day be sent into the stock camp, he is quite bright but he will have no op portunity to learn anything other than stock work . . . The Aborigines are quite cap able of running and operating their own station on this land. The land must be returned to nHHBBBBBKnnBMni them Vestey's have made their pile from the sweat and blood of these fine, hardworking peo ple. Quest-ions Here are some of the ques tions I asked the Aborigines and their answers: — Q. Do you want more money than the white men? A. No, all same white man, we want same wages. Q. Did you get fresh beef on the Station? A. We get no fresh beef long Wave Hill Station, that 'old Tom' he give us only dry bread and salt beef. Q. What about the other day, didn't he offer to get you a killer? A. Vincent he say, "We don't want your killer. We don't want your rations. We want nothing from Station. We wait for Dex ter." (the North Australian Workers' Union organiser.) Q. Does the Welfare help you? A. That Maluka (Manager of Wave Hill Welfare Branch) he feed them children at school, that Maluka he good bloke. Q. How do you want your wages paid? A. Every two weeks. Q. Will you go back to sta tion if they pay you the same wages as white man? A. Yes. Q. Will you go back to sta tion if they pay you full money in two months time? A. We go back to station if they give us same money as white man straightaway . . . 