 Until 1933, Hitler was "just crank..." Out comes the whitewash as jackboot goes hack on BY THE FOREIGN EDITOR BIG cover-up is be ginning in High places in the West as the upsurge of nazism in West Germany in a new "democratic" guise be comes clear to the world. An example is British For eign Minister George Brown's statement that fear of Ger many is "out of date". He said this on receiving the news that the new-nazi party (National Democratic instead of National Socialist) won 15 seats and over 7 per cent of the vote in the Bavarian election last week. "It would be unrealistic to think that Germany could even think in terms of milit ary aggression," Brown said. Here for the record are some of the leaders of the new-nazi National Democratic party whom it is "out of date" to fear and who couldn't pos sibly even think of aggression: Leaders George Keoerner, 58 nazi since 1929, Hitler Labor Front high official; Otto Hess, 51, nazi since 1930, captain in the brownshirt organisation of specialists in bashing Jews and militants; Horst Schwei- mer, nazi since 1932, former counsellor in Ribbentrop's foreign office; Bernard von Gruenberg, 63, nazi fcince 1931; Emil Maier-Dorn, 57, nazi since 1930; and a "Strength through Joy" move ment official; Walremar Schuetz, 52, a rank and file storm troop thug; Otto Brou- wer, nazi since 1931; Wilhelm Gutman, 65, who joined the nazis in 1932. Australian journalist T. S. Monks, now in London re cently named these nine in a Sydney press article as among the executive members of the new party. They all joined the nazis before Hitler achieved power, indicating the strength of ' their nazi convictions. Accordingly to Monks they not only think in terms of military aggression but bel low for it, repeating all Hitler's demands for territory now part of Poland or Czech- oslavakia and calling for war with the German Democratic Republic. Their war-cries at mass rallies bring "roars of ap proval, the brutish sound of thousands baying in unison" says Monks. They must fell happy as to their prospects of restor ing the nazi dictatorship in West Germany. They are getting all the en couragement—and toleration — they need within and with out West Germany. Chancellor Thne fho IU7ocf navmon In. terior ministry has assured them that no legal action will be taken to ban them or in terfere with them in any way. Prospective Chancellor (Prime Minister) Kurt Kie- singer, also an ex-nazi, is ready to help them from in side the Government at its very \top— an asset they didn't have when they joined up with Hitler's Nazis in 1930-32. Kiesinger in turn is backed by ex-War minister Strauss, Christian Social Union leader in Bavaria who served with Hitler's forces in the ; USSR. Commanding the German and other Nato forces in central Europe is General Keilmansegg who murdered Soviet civilians during the invasion of 1941-45. The west German rulers have done for them already what the pre-Nazi Weimar Republic never did for Hit ler — ban their most resolute and consistent opponents, the German Communist Party. Outside West Germany the new nazis are getting the same support from western Governments that Hitler got at the same stage — as Brown's cover-up indicates. It was the same story 35 years ago. The nazis were en couraged by the declarations of Rightwing Labor leaders in Germany and elsewhere that they were no danger to the workers. ("One thing is now clear" wrote the Vienna Rightwing Labor Arbeiter Zeitung in November 1932. "Germany will not be fascist". "The Hitlerite movement has passed its apogee" wrote Harold Laski, British Labor's leading theorist on the same occasion. "The day when the nazis were a vital threat is gone"). The main source of confid- ence for today's democrats is not Mr. Brown's assurances but the strength of the USSR and other left forces in Europe — immeasuarably greater now than in Hitler's time. The attack the new nazis would like to mount on the USSR would have to start not from the Lithuanian frontier but from the River Elbe. The German Democratic Re public, where nazism has been extirpated as required by the Potsdam Treaty stands ready to bar the path to the new generation of Hitlerites. Be hind her stand all the War saw treaty powers. However, elimination of -west German war threat remains the concern not of ' some, but all the nations which fought Hitler in the last war. 