 The arts and Gunner Holt NOEL COUNIHAN'S ART AFFAIRS -THE return of the Holt Government can only be regarded as a disaster for the fine arts in this country. "All the way with L.B.J." means the green light for more money and conscripts for destructive and immoral military adventures in Asia, commencing with that in Viet nam, and the red light for education and the arts, the creative elements in our society. Increased numbers of art ists and writers have put their names to public pro tests against the prosecution of the Vietnam war, but now that the deadliest reaction aries in the country are tak ing encouragement from the election results, heavier res ponsibilities rest on artists and intellectuals of all kinds to play a greater part as citizens in defence of the Australian mind as well as the bodies of its younger men. The attacks to be expected on both will need to be met ' with renewed and jnuch greater vigor. ? IT is to be hoped that printmakers and their groups and societies in New South Wales and the other states will throw their weight be hind th\e Print CounciL of Australia, now one year old. Its establishment in Mel bourne was merely the open ing initiative of a national movement to enlist the aid of collectors, patrons, galler- ies, teachers, as well as of the printmakers themselves, in the promotion of greater interest in the art of the print in Australia. The original print, pro duced in editions numbered and signed by the artist, as distinct from the mechanical reproduction of a painting or drawing, is the most demo cratic of art forms and the one nearest to the citizen. Council membership is now 150, on an interstate basis, and with an executive com mittee of 16. A constitution is being pre pared for presentation to the first annual meeting to be held at the National Gallery of Victoria's Print Rooms at the end of February. Five separate exhibitions of prints current in Melbourne commercial -galleries, as well as the National Gallery, lend weight to these print init iatives. 