 ON THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE BOON AROO SAILS AS "PEACE SHIP" SYDNEY: The Boonaroo sailed for Vietnam last Thursday draped with these slogans along its sides: "This is a peace ship— Y Dy 4 Ky— sack Holt!" Union attacked The Kurraba, one of the tugs which took her out from the wharf also featured a large sign: "End war in Viet nam, negotiate not anni hilate!" say the Firemen and Deckhands Union. Prior to its sailing, about 200 seamen, their wives and mothers, together with water side workers and other union ists demonstrated outside the wharf at Walsh Bay. Police had refused the demon strators. admission to the wharf The Seamen's Union had de cided to man the Boonaroo under strong protest after the ACTU directed the union to do so. The union's protest action, endorsed by special stopwork meetings throughout Australia, is directed against the Holt Government's involvement of Australian merchant seamen in the undeclared war in Vietnam, against conscription of youth and against the war itself. Civilians conscripted Not only has the Government conscripted 20 year-old National Service Trainees to fight and die in this war, it has now virtually conscripted civilians. The stand taken by the sea men in opposing the conscrip tion of Australian youth con forms with the stated policy of the Australian Labor Party, ACTU and wide sections of the Australian public. Seamen have declared their willingness to man ships, with out pay, to bring the Australian troops and conscripts home from Vietnam. It was also in this same spirit that the men refused to allow a 15 to 17 year-old deckboy or a 19 year-old ordinary seaman to be rostered onto the Boonaroo's crew. Supplies Sections of the press, radio and television ' have tried to make out that the Seamen's Union was preventing supplies going to the Australian troops. The union has declared it has not and is not preventing these supplies to Vietnam. Supplies have been going in overseas and naval ships, spe cially constructed for this pur pose, ever since the Australian forces have been in Vietnam. Mr. B. Smith, the seamen's Sydney Branch secretary point ed out this fact at last Thurs day's meeting outside the wharf at Walsh Bay. He said the huge navy supply ship, HMAS Sydney arrived in port at the same time as the Boonaroo. "This ship has space, speed, refrigeration and is manned by experienced personnel. "It was not the Boonaroo that the Government was con cerned about, but to have a crack at the union. "But attacks against us will not weaken our resistance. We will continue to oppose the cream of our youth being con scripted for the American dol lar," he said. War materials Mr. J. Benson (the union's assistant secretary) said it's not beer and cigarettes being car ried on the Boonaroo but war materials. "Opposition to this war is the policy of the ACTU and Labor Party but the ACTU threatened us with expulsion if we didn't man the ship. "If Australia was being at tacked we would be the defend ers — the people who would con stitute the 'Vietcong' of this country," he said. Mr. B. Anderson, one of the Boonaroo's crew members and a union delegate, told the meet ing he was proud to be a mem ber of the Seamen's Union. He said his mother didn't think about the Vietnam war until she learnt her own son was going into the war zone. "We have to make sure that all mothers as well as trade unionists think and do some thing to end this dirty war," he said. The boys on the Boonaroo have already begun to be a thorn in the side of the Govern ment's reactionary foreign pol icies. Their presence in Asia will also help create a better Aus tralian image to our Asian neighbors. The sailing of the SS Boon aroo: (Top) Seamen line the rail under an anti-war banner, and (Lower) union members demonstrate outside the wharf. 