 D»rliamenfarv delegation sounds warning f NEW CONSCRIPT BATTALION FOR VIETNAM FRONT AMERICAN military leaders in South Vietnam are confident that whatever the Holt Government is now saying, another battalion of Australian troops will be sent there soon. This has been stated by Australian parliamentarians just back from a visit to South Vietnam, according to last Sunday's Brisbane Truth. One of these parliamentar ians, Mr. Manfred Cross, Labor MHR for Brisbane, predicted that Prime Minister Holt would soon announce the despatch of yet another Australian batta lion to Vietnam. Mr. Cross denied reports that he favoured reversing Labor's policy of bringing Australian troops back from Vietnam. He said he favoured bringing the entire Australian force home, not conscripts alone. Mr. Cross said that while in Vietnam "I got the impres sion that a battalion increase in the Australian forces was not merely a hope but an ac cepted fact". Secret His statement suggests that ? Holt has already given a secret promise to the Americans to send more Australian troops to fthb bottomless pit of the un- winnable jungle war in Viet nam. - After returning from his two visits to Washington this month, Holt declared that the question of increasing the Australian forces had not been raised. However, on past form, there would be nothing unusual in Americans knowing more about the Australian Government's intentions than the Australian people know. The original Australian deci sion of 1965 to commit troops was communicated to the Amer ican Government and broadcast by the US radio before it was announced to the Australian Parliament. A senior minister, Senator Gorton, told the senate he had no knowledge of it at a time when it was already being wide ly publicised by US news ser vices. The Brisbane Sunday Truth says the announcement of a further increase in Australian troops in Vietnam "would be certain to create a major up roar". This is no overstatement in view of the revulsion wide spread in Australia over Holt's "all the way with LB J" pledge in America. Condemned Last week the newly-elected Archbishop of Sydney condemn ed it in the first press state ment he made after his elec tion. "It's a blank cheque and I don't like blank cheques", he said. Archbishop Loane, who only last Easter joined other coad jutor bishops in the diocese in a special statement favoring conscription for Vietnam, last Thursday said that now "the situation is much graver" than at Easter. He admitted to "a sense of perplexity" and said he would like "a clearer picture of what the Government is doing to bring about the end of the war." The following day the Austra lian Council of Churches, in a letter to Holt, protested at his "all the way" statement, oppos ed the recent extended bomb ing of Hanoi and Haiphong and condemned US Ambassador Clark's threat of more such bombings. Weakening Weakening further the John son-Holt world position were these events: The World Council of Churches conference in Geneva condemned the "massive and growing" American involvement in Vietnam and warned the US against revenge attacks over American POWs. Changing her previous stand after visiting Moscow, In dian Prime Minister Mrs. Gan dhi said the US should stop its bombnig of the north as a preliminary to a Vietnam peace conference. The Vietnam newsagency reported that last Wednesday and Thursday 21 more Ameri can planes were brought down, bringing the total to date to 1233. i >.» t"T M-m 