 Court' s no' to GMH workers' pay claim JyELBOURNE : Refusal of the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission to grant a wage increase to workers employed by the giant American monopoly, - General Motors Holden, has brought an angry reaction from trade union officials that will be reflected by thousands of GMH workers. Main features of the Com mission's decision . handed down last Monday are: A flat "no" to the unions' claim for a weekly increase of $6 for all GMH employees as a form of industry allow ance. Rejection of productivity in an individual industry or enterprise as a ground for... in creased wages for the workers., employed. Rejection of profits of an individual employer as a ground for increased wages for the workers employed even though profits may be con sidered excessive. A slighting reference to the part played by the workers in increasing productivity. A scolding of GMH by Commissioner Winter accom panied by a decisive rejection of the claim. In addition to its immediate and adverse effects for GMH workers the decision had dir ect implications for the whole trade union movement. Opposition of the wealthy steel monopoly BHP to a claim for a $10 industry allow ance is strengthened by the GMH decision. The decision further restricts the grounds available to unions on which claims can be sup ported before wage-fixing tribunals. CONTINUED ON PAGE 12 "NO" TO GMH WORKERS CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 . It adds one more proof of the dead loss for workers of a sole, or main reliance on Arbitration. The Arbitration claim for an industry allowance for GMH workers followed a strike that affected GMH plants in four states at the end of 1964. Recourse to Arbitration "was one of the decisions made by Australian Council of Trade Union officers when" directing a return to work during the strike. This proposal was given a mixed reception when they were submi.tted to mass meet ings of GMH workers. Workers at the Melbourne meeting were so angered that ACTU officials were unable to retain order. The meeting ended in dis order and without, a vote be ing taken on the question of resumption. This strike from the begin- ing was in the hands of the ACTU and its Victorian branch and this was extended inter state. \ This authority was marked by the failure of ACTU leaders to rally the support known to exist amongst other workers and sections of the public. The strike ended on the de cision of the ACTU without any satisfaction of the wage claim. As the Arbitration proceed ings were initiated by the ACTU, resulting in flat reject ion of the claim, workers will now expect the ACTU officers to come up with some con crete proposals for the next step. To workers these will be obvious. The ACTU executive meets again on September 29 and to live up to workers' ex pectations will need to more than merely criticise the Com mission, no matter how strong the terms used. Officials of the Vehicle Builders' Union share this re sponsibility with ACTU officials. The GMH workers' claim was just. Their case was well argued and supported. Conclud ing the case ACTU assistant re search officer said: "The em ployees demand it, the com- pany can clearly afford it and equity justifies it." In support of the claim evid ence was given by an official of the US Automobile Workers' Union that had had extensive experience of wage negotiations with GMH— General Motors Co operation. His evidence showed profit ability of capital invested and production per employee to be greater for GMH in Australia than for GMC in America. . Giving his decision in Mon day's case, Commissioner Win ter said, "there is not the slightest doubt in my mind that the profits made by the company are excessive". Scolding GMH he described its .attitude as being 'mercenary' and 'strictly business like'. "There can be little doubt that I am of the opinion, in all the circumstances that em ployees of the company have a moral entitlement to share in the extreme profits being made," he said. Despite these views he joined in a unanimous decision re jecting a claim aimed at achiev ing what he considered to be a "moral entitlement." 