 Rail men save public from "rust buckets" By our Industrial Roundsman JYDNEY : The recent stand by Chullora railway workshop workers, which prevented unsafe electric carriages being used for passenger service, was upheld by a Commonwealth Conciliator last week in Sydney. The NSW Railways Depart- ment had sought the conference to get a ruling on who had the right to decide whether a car riage was safe or otherwise. In effect, what the depart ment was saying was that the railways were in the hands of experts and the unions and the workers should mind their own business. During September a mass meeting of 500 workers at Chul lora Electric Car Workshops refused to allow a wooden car- ' riage to leave the shops for passenger service because of its deplorably unsafe condition. Subsequently, two other cars were banned. Union leaders and two State Labor MPs fully backed the workers' stand. The Minister for Transport, Mr. Morris, and the Depart ment later conceded that two carriages were unfit for ser vice. These were a wooden frame type with steel panels, . 1 : svK most of which were rusted through. Door weather strips were non-existent and the con dition of the roofs and ceilings "unbelievable." The Department however would not concede that steel carriage Number C 3230 was un fit for service. The railway workers had also banned this carriage because of extensive rust in the body work. Conciliator Mr. T. McClogh- ry, was asked by the depart ment to investigate and rule on this disputed carriage. Following his inspection last Thursday he recommended to the department that the unions should be permitted to request proper repairs be carried out. The unions had submitted that the railway workers had displayed a great sense of res ponsibility to the public and the future for a public enter prise, by defending a proper standard of safety, comfort and general appearance of car riages. They also stressed that pro per repair of carriages -would help stop the loss of jobs, now disappearing at the rate of 2000 a year, from the railway induntry. PHOTO shows rust on a rail carriage objected to by Chullora railway workers in Sydney. 