 Health funds: boons or bandits? You have to be UNluckv to win it By JOYCE STEVENS "J"HE proposal made in Tribune (September 21) for a central ised public health scheme under Government control deserves the widest support. Even those who believe that hospital and medical funds are a better method of organising health services than govern ment control certainly could not justify the present exist ence of more than 80 differ ent fund organisations in Aus tralia. Each of the funds with its own organisation, a number with large buildings and staffs, and expensive advertising campaigns is duplicating ser vices which must add thous ands of unnecessary dollars onto our medical and health bills. The hospital funds in Aus tralia have over 3?i million members and the medical funds over 3 million. As a fam ily is counted as one member, it could be safely estimated that well over half the Aus tralian people are members of a fund. " Support " It could be concluded from this that the Funds have the support of the majority of the people, but a far more likely conclusion is that most people believe that they cannot afford not to be in them. But how: UNLUCKY do you have to be to come out in . front? In the medical fund a fam ily paying the lowest rate (40c weekly— and many would pay on a higher scale) would need to have 13 visits a year to a local doctor OR 6 visits to a local doctor plus 1 recom mended visit to a specialist and two subsequent visits to a specialist for treatment OR 4 visits to a local doctor plus 2 pathology tests, plus 2 x-ra.ys, just to receive back the same amount paid into the fund. It is only the families lucky enough to have a maternity claim, unlucky enough to need surgical treatment or who require more than 13 visits to a GP who would come out in front with the medical fund. It could be said that no in surance scheme can afford all members to receive back all they put into it, and this is true. But the above figures only show how many visits to the doctor are required for the member to break even— all the money- does not actually come from the medical bene fit fund. Approximately two- fifths of all monies paid for medical attention comes from the Commonwealth and in anyone's language this is a fair margin for reserves and expenses. Consoling With the hospital funds all you have to do is ensure that one member of the family each year spends one week in hospital and you can break even or a little better. If you are a healthy family the only consoling thought is that you might be unlucky enough to have an accident. It may appear from this that most families, at least, would be better off establishing their own medical and health funds into which they should make their weekly payments. However, knowing how dif ficult it is for families to establish a fund that cannot be dipped into for other "emergencies" this could only be suggested for the most single-minded. Another grossly inadequate aspect of the present system is the way the government part of the fund payment is made. This part of the fund payment is officially describ ed in the following terms "the principle of the scheme is Commonwealth support oi voluntary insurance". In plain words, except in some exceptional circum stances, if you don't belong to a fund then NO Common wealth payment is forthcom ing. Undemocratic This surely is a most unde mocratic use of tax money, with the taxpayers being un able to draw government as sistance for such vital com munity needs as hospital and medical care without being a member of an insurance scheme. The position is even more onerous when it is considered that both Federal and State Government policy has re sulted in taxpayers' money be ing used to help the growth of more than 80 different or ganisations to provide ser vices that could much more adequately be supplied by one organisation or government department. With even heavier hospital charges and fund payments looming in the near future, as a result of the Askin Gov ernment's Budget, many peo ple are going to be faced with the decision to increase or not increase their pay ments into the Fund. As things are at present whatever the individual de cision it could only be de scribed as a calculated risk. This risk could and should be eliminated by a centralised public health scheme under government control. Contributions to such a scheme should be reorganised in such a way that large families and those on low in comes are assured hospital and medical care at a nomi nal fee. 