 What |fj ppened to the ehlists ? &lt; I'S As the dying reverberations of the annual controversy over the Archibald Prize Award fade, the walls that so lately shone with the varnish ed images of 50 chosen human faces have been stripped to make way for a display of the paintings, drawings, prints, sculpture and Other objects of art acquired by the Art Gallery of New South Wales during 1965. This exhibition will not draw such: crowds as the competitions. It lacks that stimulation to comparison and the urge to pit one's own judgement against that of the official judges, which, is all part! of the game in viewing an exhibition with a prize. It is, however, a collection that offers comparison in many ways, of works from countries of widely different artistic traditions and! of works covering — though without continuity — some four centuries in time. For the purchase of works of art the gallery Trustees! and; the Director can dispose of a gov ernment grant and the income of several bequests. Also ' private donors make direct gifts of works. The purchases of contemporary and recent Australian work are of main interest to this sketchy review, but some very valuable acquisitions in other categories, which we hope will not be ban ished to the obscurity . of the vaults after this exhibition, call for passing comment. A collection of direct line draw ings by the sculptor Brodzky make, interesting comparison with a set of nude sketches by Aus tralian Rupert Bunny, a litho graph nude by Matisse and the immaculate etching by Picasso. An etching by Charles Keene and a cartoon for Punch drawn in 1882 by John Tenniel show the much higher artistic and technical skill required by illus trators of the past. Reluctantly skipping comment on Chinese tea bowls, primitive sculpture, ceramics and a portrait . of a Protestant Minister of Religion painted in Holland in 1563 as well as the fascinating collection of prints from Asia and Europe, we consider the the Australian acquisitions. The acquisition by gift or purchase of a number of works by Australian artists but recently deceased- provides an interesting opportunity for comparison with the work i feeding gen eration, L. J A cubist ME felt in the pastel-shac ggtes and del icate there sketches of the ®|8g;ert Bunny and drawBlffaphs by Jov Ewartiess some thing of ffl energy of frail and failing bj|5 « The W"t|ppd from the vounger ® AustraKan artiste ay Aus tralian I® ®tre?ton ,ense fH ,attempt to express Hte®ons. of the Aiistrali11 ||iah indirect TsWm Tch are aggressive fg| their own way. m Such Is fi s "Scar Theme jih?l0ys syn" thetic 45 ,steam namf- t#bt whether vieWetlKhnthe idea ffom t;heffthut some ...prompt1' 1| Fred Williams in his "Hillside II", one of his so-called "spot" series, tackles the scene in a different way but equally remote from the popular conception of what makes a landscape paint ing, and even the more abstract painters wish to invest their work with a deeper meaning. John Coburn says of his "Tree of Life", however, that he did not consciously think of the idea when he began the painting — "it seemed an interesting shape, the colors seemed appropriate to the shape, and the idea developed from there". Joyce Allen pictures a meta physical idea in her "Shape of Time", which would perhaps reconcile aesthetic purity with relativity physics. These works of course must be evaluated in their own terms, and without offering criticism We are left with the questions. Is the absence ctf any work of a socially realist direction from the gallery purchases—due to a lack of artistic activity in this field or does Gallery policy close the eyes of official buyers to its existence? OLD ACTOR. One of a set of drawings by Horace Brodzky. TORSO. A lithograph by Henri Matisse. Gift of Mrs. H. V. Evatt. 