 i i 1 i I Pfeace leads war way up there '0? By a Science Correspondent YHEN the USSR hit the moon with Lunik ! 1 in 1959 there was an outcry from the US military which has been taken up ,1 and echoed ever since by the politicians. t 1 In 1962 Johnson, theia Vice-president, declared ' T that "we must rush ahead with all determination into space so as to win it for peace before some other nation conquers it for war and destruction". j The same year Senator " Barry Goldwater, later the | Republican candidate for | Presidency, put the idea much more frankly when he said, v also in 1962: V-. "We must decide to dominate !;/ in space as we have dominated 11 in the air." 'rig 'm In the same year the vice- H chief of the Air Force said the 5/1 US needed "a complete weapons systems in space." Thus, the USA began the moon J race for military reasons. M And, as Soviet delegate Tsa- V rapkin indicated at Geneva last q, week, the NATO militarists I ''I have never given up the idea of making the moon their military base. 1 US lag ' U However, it was precisely the , "1 preoccupation with military plans that meant that the USA has lagged in space research, . a lag which was most recently demonstrated by the USSR's recent moon triumph. Soon after 1950 the US mill- » , tary leaders found that H-bomb . warheads were going to be >1| much lighter than they had : ja anticipated and would thus £ ifl need smaller vehicles— whether yi planes or rockets. Th In rocketry, the Americans /# ' concentrated on proliferating the smaller rockets and war heads; the USSR carried on with the larger rockets needed for space research. Hence the panic when the Soviet Sputnik went up in 1957 — and the desperate American efforts to catch up. Professor S. Lilley in Men, Machines and History, says: "The early American space shots, with their small satellites and high failure rates, had to be made with rocket combina tions built out of the essentially military types Jupiter and Thor, which were very inefficient and costly for this purpose. "Atlas" project "The first moderate successes did not come until the delayed 'Atlas' project at last reached maturity — with Glenn's flight in 1962 . . ." Professor Lilley says that the "Saturn" rocket, which was'" in the long run to put America in the picture, was a "descendant" of the V2 rocket created by nazi rocket expert Wernher von Braun and his team. The army chiefs had starved his project as being useless to them and nearly killed it. It was saved by being transferred to the civilian National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Following Soviet successes, the "Atlas" and "Saturn" pro jects were given a belated boost. At length, in 1964, Saturn orbited its 19-ton satel lite and its dummy Apollo space craft and put US capacity to lift big loads into space some where ahead of where the USSR had been in 1960. The Americans actually did not develop a program of their own, hut merely took over the German "V" program which had been interrupted by Hitler's defeat. The missile which topk. Colonel Shepard 113 miles up (but not into orbit) was called the "Redstone" — perhaps to make it seem American— but was in fact "V-6" on the Ger- man-nazi program begun by von Braun under the nazis and continued under the Americans. Besides the military, big busi ness interests had a hand in deflecting the moon research program. Success with a satellite could be seen by American Telephones and Telegraphs as a stepping stone to dominating world com munications, and perfecting- the Telstar satellite took resources away from the moon program. Military domination Ranger VII' s success in 1964 in sending back TV pictures of the moon's surface before it struck came after 10 other moon-exploration attempts had failed. The first US moon probe blew up within 77 seconds of launching. Military considerations still dominate the US space effort. A table prepared by Professor Lilley show that military satel lites far outnumber scientific satellites put up by the Ameri cans, and this military predom inance is growing. In 1962, 38 out of 57 satellites put up were military. In 1963, the figure was 45 out of 55. Professor Lilley explains the Soviet space program's stages: | "Two years were devoted to the j first three Sputniks, one year to the Luniks and then a year in which everything else was dropped to prepare the way for manned orbits. And only in 1 HCO «iiUah itl A Unn!/\ AVMH A9U4, wuui hiirs uaoiu jjiuuiciua of putting vehicles reliably into orbit had been mastered, did the Soviet program turn to scientific research (in outer space), in which field their effort has since considerably exceeded the Americans." In his book, Professor Lilley puts the USSR's space efforts in proper perspective: Safety factor "Before the US Gemini and Apollo projects could get be yond the stage of tests with dummy capsules, the Soviet Voskhod (Sunrise) carried three men oh a day-long 16-orbit flight on October 12, 1964. "Technically this flight repre sented a new leap forward. Rocket power was so much increased that, besides carry ing a heavier load, the vehicle could be provided with cabin conditions so good that space suits were not required, and with a reserve retro-rocket "The greater safety ' factor thus provided justified an orbit reaching the record height of 254 miles. "A new landing system using jets to slow the ship down was so effective that the ground where Voskhod landed was un marked. . . . And the ability to carry scientific and medical specialists, instead of relying on the part-time work of the pilot, should make it possible to speed up research, both on the physics of the upper atmo sphere and the further prob lems of a manned space flight." Since Professor Lilley wrote, there has been the "space" walk of Leonov, another Soviet "first." And now comes the soft landing on the moon. ... Lis The first mani to walk in space. The Soviet cosmonaut, Alex Leonov has just clambered outside his space capsule and takes a stroll in space. 