 IHHHI H iJ I 1 SJ Kfl 1 Iffl Ill HH f BL 1L I _ 1 I 1 8 ffl I 1 Mr. J. B. Beale, N.S.W. Minister for Conservation, made it clear in a recent statement to interested parties that unless the Federal Gov- ernment participated financially there was no hope for consummation of the proposed schemes. Another river storage scheme which should be high on the list of priori ties is that of the Clarence on the north coast of N.S.W. . This is an important river with an estimated average annual stream flow of 4 million acre feet. A storage on the Clarence would have a triple function of flood mitigation as part of an integrated water supply project for the north coast and a peak load hydro-elec tric generating station. These three projects — the Fitz- roy-Burdekin irrigation schemes, the Queensland-N.S.W. border rivers plan and that for the Clarence are ad vanced as part of an overall plan for northern development for which priorities must be established. These projects would be well with in the compass of the organisation erected by the Snowy Mountain Authority. Success would enable further pro jects to be planned and developed. Professor Munro advocates that any authority set up as a result of agree ment between the Commonwealth and the States concerned should have the power to build not only water storages but ports and rail ways essential to any scheme for northern development. More important is the need to commence data collection in maxi mum stream flow, soil occurence and suitability for irrigation, and the location of suitable storage sites. Accurate data availability could prevent any possible dangers arising from phenomenal rainfall on catch ment areas. But all plans for irrigation, flood mitigation, rail and port construction will not even get to the paper, stage unless the Federal Government pro vides the finance necessary. State Premiers Brand and Nicklin, Conservative Minister Beale and such eminent authorities as Dr. Patterson and Professor Munro all agree that this course is necessary in Australia's interest. An acre foot of water is the quantity of water required to cover one acre to the depth of one foot. It is approximately 272,000 gallons. 