 ;v. '« ms'S": " - : -?s; -mmsmmmmsmfm' ' On the industrial scene GRASSROOTS PAY CAMPAIGN CALL: MARGINS FREEZE RILES METALMEN — Stoppage threat SYDNEY: The 250)000 strong Metal Trades Federation of I unions has called on metal workers to launch a workshop campaign to demand full satisfaction of the unions' wage claims. The federation, which met last week in Sydney, issued a strong protest against the Arbitration Commission for its decision to postpone the hear ing of the claim for an in terim increase in margins. "Apart from the political significance of postponing pro ceedings until the Federal elections, thereby helping to conceal the Government policy of opposition to trade union wage claims, there is a growing volume of discontent through out the metal industry in re gard to wage standards," the federation said. All affiliated metal unions were asked to press the Aus tralian Council of Trade Unions to initiate an intense national campaign to include lunch- time meetings and protest stoppages on a wide scale. An early special meeting of metal unions will be called to review and further develop the wages campaign. Mr. A. Horsburgh, chairman of both the federation and the Commonwealth Council of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, said that the AEU has asked the ACTU to call pro test meetings. Delays He said that if the delays in hearing the wage claims con tinue, the ACTU has been ask ed to call a 24-hour stoppage of metal workers. Last week the ACTU execu tive, by 11 votes to two, re jected a proposal for a special ACTU Congress to discuss wages and prices. The executive's main argu ment was that such a Congress would be too expensive for the I unions. An ACTU sponsored confer ence of Federal Union officials in Sydney on October il had called for such a congress to consider the implications of the 1966 wages decision. Arguments supporting such a congress included: That the $2 wage increase Was less than half the amount claimed and did not even com pensate workers for the price increases since the 1964 wage decision. . That the $2 did not give the workers any share of the increased productivity. That the $2 had already been swallowed by increased taxation and charges in Gov ernment Budgets and by price increases. That the Arbitration Commission refused to restore quarterly cost of living ad justments. 1 