 ARE WE CONFRONTING CHINA ? / O'BYRNE CAUSTIC ON VIET POLICY QANBERRA: "To be quite candid, this war is simply a confrontation with China", Senator Justin O'Byrne, Labor, Tasmania, said in last week's senate debate on foreign affairs. "All1 the other excuses about fighting for the free dom of Vietnam are just so much eyewash. "The Government is not honest enough to tell the people that the war is, to all intents and purposes, confrontation between the USA and China". As Senator O'Byrne spoke the Chinese Government was asserting that Chinese fighter planes had fought two Ameri can jets attacking Chinese vil lages near the north Vietnam ese border. Emphasising , Senator O'- Byrne's warning were state ments in the Sydney Sun- Herald that "it is widely ac cepted" that the South Viet namese election "has given the Americans the green light to go ahead with any program for escalation of the war". (One form of that escalation, frequently mentioned, would be a. US invasion of north Vietnam, likely .to bring China and possibly the USSR into the war). . The Sun-Herald's Washington correspondent thinks the "big ger, harder" war could come | after the US congressional elec- ' tions on November 11. Senator O'Byrne commented that "it has been a traditional Labor viewpoint for the best part of a century that war gives the great armament firms their best opportunity for pro fits." Corrupt Profits being made in the | USA, Australia and Vietnam out of the continuation of the war were also mentioned by Senator J. B. Keeffe, Labor, Queensland. I He quoted the Financial Re- view as having said: "With Vietnam war orders pouring in and the economic boom con tinuing, US companies expect their 1966 profits before taxes to rise at least 6 per cent over lacf 1TOOY» " uob Jf uux Senator Keeffe quoted Fact newspaper as having said that young Liberal MHRs had the "comfortable assurance" that they did not have to go to Vietnam and that the system of national service deferment was so corrupt that there was little likelihood of the sons of Liberal Party and private busi ness bosses being called up. He told Senator Branson, Liberal, who interjected: "You are making sure that 20-year- old kids get shot down on your behalf." Senator Keeffe asked why the South Vietnamese had not enlisted soldiers in the forces in the same ratio to popula tion that Australia did in the last war. , "What are the others doing?" he asked. "Are. they moving about the streets enjoying themselves selling war mater ials to the Vietcong, making a quick quid?" Desertions Senator Keeffe said 113,000 had deserted the south Viet nam army last year, according to official figures, and the rate was higher this year— 67,000 by June 30. "The Government tells us these people are involved in a fair dinkum war but they are leaving the army at the rate of over 100,000 a year" said Senator Keeffe. The sale of the pamphlet American Atrocities in Vietnam had been blocked in Victoria and "you would ,have blocked it everywhere else if it would not have caused a political up heaval." When Senator Prowse, Lib eral, WA, asked whether Sen ator Keeffe backed statements in the pamphlet, Senator Keeffe replied: "I do not have to. This is supposed to be a free coun try." 