 A leader who learnt the hard way From PETER BUCKLEY in Darwin RECENTLY I had the good fortune to meet Captain Major, leader of the strike last May at Newcastle Waters Station in the Northern Territory. Now fifty years old, Cap- tain Major was born on Victoria River Downs, one of the huge stations belonging to the foreign-owned Vesteys combine. At the age of thirteen, he left Victoria Downs and "signed on" a droving trip, which took him away from home for several mouths. On his return, he learnt that his father had died and that his family had moved to Wave Hill station. In his own words, "I learnt to ride the hard way", and "I had to look after them cattle." It is significant that during his training period — which embraced six to seven years —he received no wages at all, end lived on a diet of salt beef and dry bread, with a little tea and sugar, and occasionally the luxury of treacle. His hours were from day light to darkness, and always while droving he would have to take watches with the other stockmen at night. The work was hard, and his calloused, gnarled hands and feet carry the scars of his struggle for existence. At the age of 25, .Major was employed as head stock man in the Gallipot stock camp, an out-statlon of Alex andria. There was no horse this, man could not "break" and ride. "I have only been thrown once," he said. He stayed on in this cap acity for thirteen years, and again received very little wages. He recounted the station manager's cry on pay days: "You bin booked too many things up last month". Frequently he would be given a sixpence or a few pennies, in exchange for a thumbprint dipped in ink. Until this year, Major had never received in excess of four dollars per week. Tucker He tells of deplorable con ditions in the stock camps while working at Newcastle Waters station this year as head stockman. "That tucker was bad, no good." He told of a weekly ration for nine men of one bag of flour, one tin of baking powder, one tin of treacle and salt beef. 'We were hugry, but Edwards (the station manager) said we would be okay." At the end of the pay period, once again no wages were paid. So, after consult ing with Aboriginal North Australian Workers' Union organiser Dexter Daniels, Captain Major led his men off Newcastle Waters station. "I had learned my lesson from the white man," he says. We all know the old say ing, "Once bitten, twice shy," but one point should be made clear. To the Aboriginal stockman, cattle are his tools of trade, and like any good tradesman, he goes out of his way to maintain his "tools", even if they are not his own .as in this case. The stockmen's outlook could thus be summed up as: "Why should them cattle suffer? This strike, pioneered by Captain Major and his men, has now spread to several other large pastoral prop erties, and will certainly snowball until the cattle owners and pastoralists are prepared to pay equal wages to Aboriginal stockmen, and certainly nothing less than the basic wage, to all other Aboriginal workers on these properties. I tip my hat to Captain Major, and all his counter parts, who have spoken out against the suppression and degradation heaped upon their people, who demand no more than the recognised rights of ordinary human beings. Face of a fighter — Captain Major and some of his men 