 [?] Legend to reality on the soccer field JMONG the surprises of the eighth World Cup Soccer Champ ionships recently held in England, was the emergence of the Democratic Peoples' Republic of Korea as a world power in soccer. Sir Stanley Rous, presi dent of the Federation of International Football As sociations described the I Korean Football team as a i "dark horse". Helping to explain fur ther, the Korean Central Broadcasting Committee's bulletin says: ". . . The rapid advance of Korean football is a product of our Chullima era. (Chullima, a legendary Korean winged horse, is said to have cov ered 1,000 ri a day. Now it symbolises the dazzling speed of development in the D.P.R.K.)." The Korean team won the qualification to play in the finals of the World Cup eliminations by defeat- ing Australia last Novem ber 6-1 and 3-1. The reason for the Kor eans' relative success should be seen in the light of its adoption of a trend of play that places the em phasis on attacking foot ball. This is a reflection of the European school of foot- hall as contrasted with the Latin American school which places the emphasis more on a defensive method of play. During the World Cup the European school of play was overwhelmingly successful. This method of play sees the main objec tive as the scoring of goals. Not only the forwards attack, but the whole team sees attack as the best de fence, and most effective way to win. This method of play in creases the tempo of the game and makes it a spec tacle worthy of big audi ences. It puts real life into the game. Australian soccer would do well to follow this trend of play. Past efforts when Australia adopted at tacking methods and was successful was recently against the highly rated A.S. Roma at the Sydney showground. By developing this school of play under the guid ance of a few good import ed European coaches, Aus- tralian soccer could verv well follow the Koreans in surprising the soccer world. The bigger, I the harder JAST week it was report- ed that a giant had been seen near a rubber estate near S e g a m a t, about 100 miles south west of Kuala Lumpur. The odds are pretty short that he has since turned up in Jamaica in the form of a heavyweight boxer. A heavyweight Goliath from Sierra Leone was I scratched from the Com monwealth Games boxing I because he couldn't be fit- I ted with a pair of gloves, so big are his hands. I Needless to say other I competitors in the heavy- 1 weight division would not \ have been too disap- 1 pointed. 1 This Jamaican instance I is but another example C drawing attention to the j need for the introduction 9 of another division in box- I ing— a kind of extra heavy weight division. The matching of boxers weighing about thirteen and a half and seventeen stone respectively can not be considered to be an equal match. Was it a test? U"OR ten rounds last Mon day night at Sydney | stadium, Rocky Gatteilari g pounded the American fly- 1 weight Ronnie De Loste g with sickening monotony, g before referee Vic Patrick g stopped the one-sided af- g fair. As a test upon which to base Rocky's future ring activity, the bout proved very little. While De Coste proved to be a tough little fellow, Gatteilari appeared to lack a really damaging blow, though certainly be ing able to keep a rapid fire pace. , The near capacity crowd was no doubt to a degree attracted to the fight by the presence of the ex- world heavyweight champ ion Rocky Marciano wno provided them with a of light entertainment oy answering questions from centre ring. Question to Rocky: Wh hit you the hardest during your career? . "Uncle Sam" said Marci ano jokingly referring l the tax on a fighter s Question: How would you have gone with u.s sius Clay? Said Rocky: "There are people here who wouldn believe me if I said that he would have beaten roe, g and if I said so, I wouldn t believe it myself". Some how the old Rock proved to the fans that at least in one department he was at loacf s«u the eaual of the Louisville Lip — Cassius Clay. A Korean footballer 