 : ; : — ' — - — — nip"1 "The Copper Crucible" - . ; . : ' i A STORY SET IN MT. ISA "THE COPPER CRU CIBLE", by Betty Collins, Jacaranda Press, $3.50 (plus 8c if posted), MOUNT ISA is in the red, sunbaked far north-west of Queensland, close to the Northern Territory border: Burke and Wills country. Mt. Isa is a company town, and a foreign-company town at - that. Mt. Isa Mines Ltd., trying to hold its labor force, uses a benevolent paternalism: "Let us help you, please; what can we do for you?" Then, when workers challenge its power to exploit as it pleases, it shows itself as ruthless and im placable: time and again, deter mined to defeat modest claims by workers, it has threatened to close for a year, or for ever, To have no mine would mean death to a town of 16,000 or so, Mt. Isa's hub of existence is the mine whose towering chimneys and surface works throw a shadow so heavy and so far. So conditions in Mt, Isa have a sharp tartness of their own, With this goes the mateshlp that is part of working people's relationships everywhere but which is something special In this faraway tropical company town, Mt. Isa thus provides a rich and colorful field for a working-class writer: as rich as the vast ore resources of this mine in the desert, as colorful as the talk that surges up around the bar and the bullring in the Top Pub. From all this, Betty Collins has produced a novel with humid heat, but freshened by the characters of the men and the women who make up the real Mt, Isa. Betty Collins' book is about workers, by a woman whose stand is with the workers, "The Copper CrOcible" has parti cular importance at a time when the embers of the bitter disputes of previous years are still smould ering. In fact, as one of Betty Collins' characters points out, at Mt. Isa resolving one dispute proves to be simply a stage towards the out break of the next, The dispute about which Betty Collins writes is one of many at Mt. Isa. Some have been short and bitter. Some have been long and bitter. Many of them have been over victimisation — the company's device to try to disrupt and intimidate workers' organisation. A favorite Mt. Isa Mines tactic over the years, when it finds lead ers arising among the workers, is to try to corrupt them by the of fer of staff-man's hat; if they won't put on that hat, then they cut off his head, and argue self-righteously that it isn't victimisation. There are variants. One, which Betty Collins brings out, is to trans fer men to worse jobs, in the smelter for example— in the hope that some of them will give it away, and that the example may discourage others. Betty Collins shows us the real face of the company, without the benign mask which it likes to dis play. ? IT'S not money that pro duces the wealth from the Mt. Isa mine. There's no ore dug by the chiefs of American Smelting & Refining, Of New York, who hold the deci sive control in Mt. Isa Mines. There's no ore dug, either, by Mt. Isa Mines' well-paid directors, in aireonditioned rooms, or by judges' wives or other shareholders. It is the workers, laboring often in hellish conditions, who win from the earth the copper, lead, silver and zinc that bring millions to Mt. Isa Mines. And it is on these men, and on the womenfolk of Mt. Isa, that Betty Collins focusses her book. In the centre of the scene are Nick and Julie. Nick is from a village in Greece, with the ideas that come from that environment. Julie is an Australian, a woman of independent spirit, Mt. Isa is a crucible for Julie and Nick too. Mt. Isa is no paradise today. It was even less so at the time in which Julie and Nick's story is set. Shanty-town dwellings, days in searing heat, often without water in the taps: women spending their days and nights in those condi tions, men coming home to that after a savage day of work in the mine conditions which Betty Col lins describes with such eloquent force. Women have had a special im portance in all the Mt. Isa strug gles. Without their support, the men could not have fought so resol utely. Betty Collins' book gives the human side of this. Mt. Isa is a town of many nation alities. At the time of the 1964-65 . dispute, there were said to be over 40 nationalities represented in the workers' ranks. Different origins, different back grounds, can occasion misunder standing, clashes of ideas and per sonalities between individuals. The conflicts between Julie and Nick, between Ruth and Gerry, and be tween others— some solved, others not-— are real and understandable, (even if the hook does dwell on some couples' problems, with com mitted sympathies). But, as Ml. Isa Mines has learnt, when it comes to a confrontation between workers and Mt. Isa Mines (as it did in Betty Collins book), national and racial differ- ences are fused into a common determination. Betty Collins' book possibly is lb first novel written about Mt. J«?&lt;i since Vance Palmer's Wollonda and it almost certainly is the first written from a working-class ap proach. "The Copper Crucible" has a spe cial place in Australian writing. Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. won't give it ¥ any awariUdh Setter recom- mendation; tha Lfluld there be to Australia pK Betty Cdiiinj I written an im portant book, I ,t'j- The publish Luanda Press, also deserve s | The pictorial cover, invw L gives a mag nificent impra IcLthe imper sonal vastneu, jflwilsa's mine. i'r), fpete Thomas p I Mount Isa Mines 