 WAR WORSENS FOR U.S. -DEATH TOLL UP |F the strength of the Vietnamese patriots was indeed decreasing, "that fact had not yet made much difference to the men on the sharp end of the war". This wry comment is made by the US magazine News- week on the fighting in south Vietnam during "Operation Atleboro" — described as the war's biggest so far because it involved 20,000 American troops. ' Newsweek was referring to a period in which every Aus tralian paper featured gigan tic "victories" for the Ameri cans. American sources started a rumour, said to be from mil itary intelligence, that' Viet namese morale was "crumb ling"; Part of the truth was admitted by Newsweek which said that among other events of the week the supposedly collapsing "enemy" poured 500 mortar rounds into a US Fourth Infantry camp — the heaviest Vietnamese mortar barrage of the war. Losses Next day a company of the 25th US division . suffered "heavy" losses in a fight with a Vietnamese battalion — and it was "the third company of the 25th to suffer such ; losses in the last several weeks". - Six miles from the vast American base of Da Nang a US platoon ran into a murderous storm of gunfire" and was "thoroughly battered". Time magazine notes that 126 US troops were killed in a single week and says this "brought to 5949 the total number of American dead in the war — meaning that some where last week, in pursuit of the elusive enemy, the 6000th American fell in Viet nam." Replying to US abassador Lodge's boast of "successes" ( in a recent US News and World Report article, a Soviet paper reminds Lodge how often the boom of Vietnamese patriot artillery — not just sniping — is heard from his official Saigon residence. These circumsttfhces pro vide the context for last week's pathetic attempt by UK foreign minister Brown to persuade the -USSR to help "bring north Vietnam to the conference table." The Vietnamese, north and south, are no nearer being intimidated by US militarism than they ever were into what would in effect be sur render talks. Bombing Commenting on the Brown visit, London New Statesmen' editor Paul Johnson said last week that the necessary con ditions for peace talks where those suggested by U Thant: (1) cessation of bombing in the north; (2) a scale down of all military activities; (3) willingness to open discussions with those actually fighting— that is, the south Vietnam National Liberation Front. "If George Brown is pre pared to talk on those lines in Moscow he might persuade the Russians to join with us in reconvening the Geneva powers. But is he?" asks Johnson. The demand to stop the bombing, which the USSR has voiced consistently, has been endorsed by Europe in general, according to an American survey just taken. The Chicago Sun-Times, quoted in last Thursday's Australian, said that, after Manila, Johnson sent envoys to all "key" Asian and European capitals to take soundings. Not one of the powers con sulted supported the US bombardment of Vietnam, envoys reported. The New York Daily News reported that while Johnson was on his Australian-Pacific tour, on which the coming "peace" initiative was loudly proclaimed, "his planners back at the Pentagon were busy estimating the bombs tonnage to be dropped on north Vietnam in fiscal 1968. "The Pentagon people are planning for more war, and plenty of It". The "Pentagon people" are acting as they are required to by the still more powerful "people" represented on the US Business Advisory Coun cil, described as the General Staff of American big bus iness, which recently met in Washington. U.S. WOUNDED BEING WITHDRAWN FROM "OPERATION ATLEBORO" Heavy losses getting heavier 