 UN acts for peace, | peoples' freedom I NEW YORK; Resolutions calling for a world disarmament confer- J j ence by 1967 and the inadmissibility of interference in the affairs | | of States were two of the most important carried at the 20th ! Session of the UN General Assembly. \ j "THE session which com- | pleted its three months I work on December 22, 1965 I had over 1 00 items on the I agenda. I It passed a number of constructive | decisions, including directives for I drafting an international non-proli- | feration treaty, the declaration of I Africa as a non-nuclear zone, recom- | mendations for the removal of mili- I tary bases from colonial territories, | economic sanctions against South | African and South Rhodesian racists | arid Portuguese colonialists, resolu- | tions on independence to colonial I countries and peoples of South West Africa, Aden, British Guiana, Oman and 26 small Oceanic Islands that are being converted into rocket and nuclear bases by the USA and Bri tain. There was a convention on the liquidation of all forms of racial discrimination. Independence The declaration on the inadmissi bility of interference in the domestic affairs of States, protection of their independence and sovereignty, adopt ed on the Soviet Government's initia tive, was extremely important be cause it is open military inter vention, that creates a situation fraught with extremely serious risks for the cause of peace in various parts of the world. American imperialism is effecting armed intervention in Southeast Asia, trampling underfoot Dominican soil, flouting the independence of other countries. The condemnation of Uni ted States intervention in Vietnam by dozens of delegates most eloquently I showed against whom the declaration ( was spearheaded. The final text of the declaration, the co-authors of which were 57 countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America, contains some' insufficiently clearcut provisions and formulas which bear the stamp of a compro- rise. But in the .course of the discussion that developed around tne declaration the delegations of non-aligned coun tries already rebuff the attempts of Western representatives to interpret these provisions to their own ad vantage and to make the term "sub versive activity" apply to national liberation movements. An overwhelming majority of States also supported the Soviet Govern ment's initiative. As a result the Assembly took up the question of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. A resolution was adopted calling upon governments to do everything they can for the con clusion of an effective international treaty without any loopholes. Militarist's hit The course taken by the interna tional organisation hits hard at the West German militarists who seek nu clear weapons through the so-called NATO multilateral nuclear force. Five years ago the General Assembly adopted the declaration on the grant ing of independence to colonial coun tries and peoples. Since then col onial regimes have been abolished on a vast territory with a population of 57 million. But over 85 territories with a popu lation of 50 million are still under foreign domination. The bitter lesson of South Rhodesia, the seizure of independence by the Smith racist regime, showed once more how illu sory were the hopes of certain repre sentatives of developing countries for gaining freedom for these territories without stubborn struggle. Struggle, unity The discussion at the session brought out the growing belief of the delegates from Afro-Asian countries that without such a struggle and unity of action it would be impossible to repel the counter-offensive against the young independent States the neo- colonialists are now launching. The adoption by the session of an international convention on the liqui dation of all forms of racial discrimi nation can also be regarded as an advance. The convention is not confined to a condemnation of apartheid, racial segregation and discrimination but calls for immediate measures to liqui date such a discrimination, including the ending of racial propaganda and racist organisations in spite uf obstinate objections by the United States and some Western powers. The General Assembly session which has just ended confirmed again that the United Nations can serve the interests of peace, freedom and inde pendence of peoples only when it finds strength enough to introduce the lofty principles of its Charter in international relations and to carry them into practice. 