 I B,i| ,BI' j IPIIIII I 1 11 """ III 1 I 111 11 1 | I ii(t LiiJ Hill! J JL II iiiiiil ill iiiiik iilliiil A space designer's tragedy . ... AGROUND 1957, when the first Soviet sputnik orbit ed in space, there were press "experts" who' claimed it was all being done by captured German scientists in Russia. This was by way of denying any real credit to socialist organisa tion and scientists for that first historic space gain. There came, in 1961, the next great breakthrough with Gagarin's first manned orbit; now comes the third — a successful, control led landing on the moon and two- way earth-moon communication. It is no disrespect to able American scientists to note that all three have been victories for socialist planning and organisa tion, for the concept of peace ful scientific development against the more restricted U.S. milita rised space science. But who are the outstanding men responsible? As with American space re search, few Russian names are generally known. But the man who undoubtedly was most responsible for the de sign of the space craft and cap sule involved in the moon land ing IS known. Tragically, he became known publicly for the first time only in mid- January when his death was announced — less than three weeks before his greatest triumph. He was Sergei Pavlovich Koro- lev, outstanding scientist and designer in rocketry and space exploration, highly deco rated and a presidium member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences. Engineer and dreamer VA/HAT kind of man was Korolev? In the book "Yuri Gagarin", by Wilfred Burchett and Anthony Purdy, appears this description (the name was never mentioned): "A dark-complexioned, rather severe looking man with mas sive features . . . chief designer of the spaceship, he had. some thing more in him than he cared to show . . . He entered the work shop and everything changed, somehow. ' "Gagarin . and his colleagues knew this man well; he lived on the base, and was a friend, as well as guide and instructor, to them. Every evening they would visit his home to have long talks which ranged far beyond the immediate future; for he, too, was a dreamer, as well as a practical engineer." "He gave each of the three, two small copies of the pennant that already lay in the silent dust of the Moon's surface, fired there by one of his rockets months be fore ..." Reluctant Prince? |>yJ.S.W. Premier Askin told a Channel 10 interview er that Prince Charles had told him that coming to Timbertop wasn't his idea. Now he was here, said Charles, he thought it not so bad. Askin's disclosure about tlie reluctant prince won't endear him to the Federal Government. He made it clear the prince is out here only to show the flag. Dr. Cairns and Vietnam |_AST weekend's Ballarat speech by Dr. J. F. Cairns MHR ; on foreign policy (see page I) is an important interpretation of ; the ALP platform, with special reference to the Viet nam war. : His clear opposition to United States extension of the war and to further Australian involvement will win wide support. On the other hand, his flat state ment' that ALP policy "does not require the immediate withdrawal of Australian troops ..." is open to debate and hardly helpful, even though he reserves the right for a future Labor Government to with draw troops. This element of confusion, close ly connected with the ALP's adher ence to the "American alliance", illustrates the deep-going contradic- 1 tion of class interests and the J resultant struggle over policies in- J side that party. J The small role of Australian J troops in Vietnam is quite differ- ,1 ent from the principal American role. In a military sense, nothing hinges on the Australian commit ment there, but it is a shameful thing morally and politically. Public opinion and action will be decisive concerning Australia's j \ future course in foreign policy. So far as the Australian nation- > al interest and the interest of the ! ' Vietnamese people and world I peace are concerned, the demand should be for immediate withdraw al of Australian troops from Viet nam. i Cost of a ! r.V/'-.i turning point ! gRITlSH Defence Minister > Denis Healey, leaving rj Canberra after secret talks | . with Prime Minister Holt I and other ministers, aired the view that the talks had been (among other thingjs) a , J . "turning point" in Australian j . J history. j 1 There were consistent reports of ? a big plan for integrated bases in j . our North-West, to replace the 1 "deteriorating" Singapore. One thing was hardly secret any i 'a more— Australia would spend more ( | on war preparations. ( \ Healey pointedly referred to the J fact that the UK spends 7.1 per ! cent of its Gross National Product; r the USA 7.7 per cent. Australia's f , current figure, according to the )&lt; Sydney "Herald" (3/2/66) is 3.5 per 1 >' cent. Healey's talk of "allies taking a : fair share of the common burden" could mean, for Australia, some- r'j thing near doubling the present £ J £400 million a year. ' But what basis is there to com- 1 pare the three countries? The USA ! ' and the UK are imperialist coun- t tries whose war spending is based t on their attempts to police the ( whole world in protection of their J strategic investments. The great majority of Australians think of defence in terms of the security and sovereignty of our own country and we want no pait of ranging the world for profit. Cuba and K Peking J DEUTER reports this week '>f|| from Havana quote /| Cuban Premier Castro as fJj sharply attacking the Chinese jf leaders for great - power f "blackmail, extortion, pres- fj sure, aggression and strangul- i .A ation" against small Cuba, 8 i fellow-socialist country. |! This report follows public criti |J| cism by Castro, in January, oi f||| China's refusal to maintain the !|I scale of the 1964 trade exchange f|jS agreement on rice and sugar. ||p In reply, a Chinese "trade offi- ||| cial" made a statement published pi on January 10 that Castro's state- ments were "at variance with the f| facts" and that he had spoken "un- p truthfully". He also spoke over || Castro's head directly to "the 1 Cuban people", i All this recalls other statements, | made not so long ago. For ex- ,| ample:— j-1 "The 7 million Cuban people, led !;1 by their great leader Premier .-t£ Castro, have demonstrated their revolutionary mettle of never sur- r| rendering to the aggressor or sub- pj mitting to pressure . . ." (Peoples Daily, Peking, 31/10/62). (J "As at all the decisive moments tg the Cuban revolution has faced in || the past, Fidel Castro, the great -|| leader of the Cuban people, ex- m pressed the revolutionary will of the Cuban people . . . the 650 mil- I lion Chinese people will always $ stand by the 7 million frateniaj J Cuban people in weal or woe . M (Peking People's Daily, 9/11/63) g| "Castro is one of the mighty g| men of our time." (Leader ot group in Melbourne supporting || Chinese policies, April, 1963.) pi __ S. P. Korolev . . . much of the credit is his. 