 SA chemical strike j unites workers I ADELAIDE : A week-long strike of 700 workers in the chemical and fertiliser industry last week was marked by a high level of unity and determination in the face of the use of staff men ! as strike-breakers and the threat of court orders against the ! unions. j The Trades and Labor Council had called a stop-work meeting to discuss j the making of a service payment demand on the employers. j The firms concerned were Adelaide Chemical, Wallaroo- Mt. Lyell Cresco and the Acid Plant (see footnote). The important feature of the proposal made was that it united the Fertiliser and Chemical Workers' Union and maintenance unions in a com mon demand and action for the first time. After the stop-work meeting unanimously authorised the unions to negotiate for ser vice payments of from $1 to $4 per week, workers returned to their jobs to find that staff and clerical employees had ' taken over production. Refusing to resume work the workers held a further meeting and resolved to "re main on strike as a protest. The TLC declared black all products of the companies and refused transport /to, and from their plants. The Seamen's Union refused to berth a ship carrying bulk' chemicals and the Government Workers' Union refused to sup ply labor to gantries to handle black materials. Fourteen unions became involved. The employers obtained a conference under Arbitration Commissioner Gough in which they sought to divide the pro duction workers and their union from other sections. This move iauea in the lace | of solid, unity and the Com- j missioner ordered a resump- ! ti.on of work under terms I which forced the employers to ! withdraw the staff labor. The men met arid decided to , return to work pending further negotiations on. their wages claim. Commissioner Gough subse quently refused to insert a no-strike bans and limitations clause in the chemical and fertiliser workers' award. A meeting of the Disputes' Committee of the TLC last Thursday decided to meet on March 17 to consider the em ployers' reply to the wages claim and to determine what action is necessary. This would include the holding of further meetings of the workers in the industry. Footnote: The fertiliser group has enormous wealth. Cresco is controlled by W. R. Grace, a huge US chemical combine. When Grace made its control bid, it was . challenged by Wal- laroo-Mt. Lyell and Adelaide Chemical, backed by Esso (Standard Oil, USA). WML and Adelaide Chemical offered $8m to Cresco. To make such an offer on the one hand and to refuse it on the other suggests that all parties concerned were well in "the chips." 