 The I dirtiest I war of all H W. A. WOOD reviews "WAR WITHOUT HI HONOUR by Gerald Stone (Jacaranda Press, |fl Brisbane ). $2.50. | "|Sy|ONE of the Americans B freed from Viet Cong B control has ever claimed to B have been brutally treated by B his guards." B Gerald L. Stone says this in his B book War Without Honour which H .has been deservedly well received B in the Australian daily press. B Nobody has tried to refute Mr. Stone's testimony as to the humane B treatment accorded POWs in the B hands of the South Vietnam Lib- B eration Front. As the Sydney Daily B Mirror's correspondent recently fl back from Vietnam, he knows fl what he is talking about, fl He accuses the Australian and fl American governments of playing | on the people's apprehension as 8 to what may happen to allied B troops captured by the NLF. B "The two governments might | well be accused of purposely fos- H tering this apprehension by deal- 8 ing in silence or half-truths on | the subject," he says. B The Australian Government has I warned that the "Viet Cong are | not parties to the Geneva Con- 8 vention on POW treatment," says 1 Mr. Stone. I "The Government, however, ne- I glected to mention a Viet Cong 8 handbook which lists quite de- I tailed instructions on the handling 1 of military prisoners. I "The document, issued to all I guerilla troops, gives special at- I tention to foreign nationals and I how they are to be processed into I the hands of higher authority. I "Maltreatment of prisoners is I expressly forbidden. I "The regulations require that all I personal effects, including money, I are to be kept intact, clearly I marked and delivered over with I the prisoner. I "The handbook even calls at- 1 tention to the fact that Western- I ers, being of larger physical build, I require a larger daily food ration I than that normally given to Viet- I namese." KAH- Stone is careful to say that he cannot vouch for what may be done on the rpot by frontline soildiers in the heat of battle. But POWs sent back from the battlefield "will receive whatever medical care is available to the Viet Cong themselves and will be fed at least as well as the guer illas. "There has never been a con firmed or even semi-confirmed report of an American prisoner being subjected to torture while in the control of the Viet Cong auth orities. None of the Americans freed from Viet Cong prisoner-of- war camps has ever claimed to ii»vc uccu uiubtuxy weatea oy ms guards." Those gu&rds, ifc must be noted, are very well aware of what would happen to them if they them selves were captured". As Stone says: "The Viet Cong themselves have small chance of surviving captivity by more than a few hours," when they are taken by the pro-US forces. Every day the Vietnamese pat riots see death and destruction poured down from the skies by the US on Vietnamese who a.re not even prisoners — on women and children and old men who just happen to be in villages marked to be napalmed. Yet they can restrain any natural urge to revenge when they get an American FOW in their hands. It would be good if the west ern authorities could learn at least in this respect to be as civilised as those they claim are menacing our civilisation. Mr. Stone's book has already been extensively auoted by the Tribune on other important ques tions he deals with. But his testimony on this point as to who really is observing the laws of war in Vietnam is in itself worthy of special notice. Available from New World Booksel lers, 425 Pitt St., Sydney, and other bookshops. 