 Bulli mine tragedy: 'Punish those responsible !' YDNEY : The Miners Federation has call ed for effective disciplinary action to be taken against those responsible for the mine tragedy at Bulli on the NSW South Coast. A recent meeting of the Miners' Central Council in Sydney said, "the blame for this tragedy must be sheeted home to those responsible, with effective disciplinary action. Whatever recommendations are made for improved safety must be immediately implemented. At the moment the Federa tion is awaiting the judge ment following the inquiry into the reasons for the fatal fire on November 9 last year in which four miners were killed. The mine is owned by Aus tralian Iron and Steel. The inquiry was conducted by Judge Goran. The Federation has decided to call lodge officers' confer ences to hear a report on the inquiry and the views of the central council regarding the tragedy. The miners' general presi dent Mr. W. Parkinson, said that the methods of work where the tragedy occurred "should never have been al lowed to take place. "It led to a build-up of gas with totally inadequate venti lation." He also severely criticised the management for allowing production to continue in the mine after the fire until the lodge chairman intervened. Recommendations made by the Federation for safe work ing include: The necessity for depart mental approval for all mine development plans (includ ing ventilation). Improved methods of testing gas. Deputies to be appointed by and under the control of the Mines Department without taking the real responsibility for safety from mine owners. More Mines Inspectors and Electrical Check Inspectors. Miners have been warned by the Council that "there will be more Bullis unless they them selves are vigilant in safeguard ing their lives and health. "We point out that this tragedy is a further vindi cation of the Federation's major demand for the nationa lisation of the industry so that the national interests and human welfare can take the place of maximum profits as the number one priority," the Council said. 