 Labor Council supports j La Perouse Aborigines JYDNEY : La Perouse Aboriginal people, for years the victims of Government neglect, I last week secured the unanimous backing of the N.S.W. Labor Council in their fight ! I against the Aborigines' Welfare Board attempt to evict them from part of the Reserve. ! | Strong suggestions have been made that behind die Board's move is a scheme to sell the Reserve to I : private developers. I j The Labor Council, at the I request of the Building I Workers' Industrial Union, I decided to make the strong- j est possible protest to the | Board. \ The secretary (Mr. J. D. | Kenny) will contact the La | Perouse Aboriginal Commit- I tee to give them all possible 0 assistance. | The Council's action fol- lowed a written submission to a joint parliamentary 0 committee two weeks ago by the Under Secretary of | the Chief Secretary's Depart- 1 ment and Chairman of the I Aborigines' Welfare Board (Mr. A. G. Kingsmill.) ! He said that the La Per- I ouse Aboriginal Reserve had I outlived its usefulness and | most of the residents would j have to find accommodation | elsewhere. j Mr. Kingsmill admitted S that a 1954 survey had shown I that 544 homes were requir ed to house Aboriginal peo ple living in fringe settle- ments and in unsuitable I housing. The cost would be | £1,632,000. S The Labor Council called on the Board to provide housing for the Aborigines at La Perouse of a standard comparable with that of the Housing Commission of NSW. The question of the real intentions behind the Board's move has been raised in a letter to the Superintendent of the Board by the secre tary of the La Perouse Ab original Committee (Mr. C. Cooke) . He writes: "Is there any truth in the annual report of the NSW Federal Council for the Advancement of Ab origines. from which I quote Mrs. F. Bandler: 'The people of La Perouse find them selves, by the growth of the city, occupying a most desir able piece of real estate, so the Randwick Municipal Council and the local news paper have suddenly dis covered that houses on the Reserve are sub-standard.' "The Housing Commis sion, they say, should prov ide new houses for Abori gines in suburbs further out and sell the Reserve to private developers!" In the letter Mr. Cooke says that the people on the Reserve want to remain, and would like the Board to im prove the housing. Improper supervision In another letter recently published in the Sydney Morning Herald, Mr. Cooke, > criticising Mr. Kingsmill's submission that the Board was faced with heavy ex penditure on the houses, says that this is because of improper supervision by the Board. The bottom of the Reserve has not had a penny spent on it since 1946. In that year three new houses were built, but they have never been painted, inside or out, nor have they had sinks or water taps fitted, he says. The other houses in the Reserve (there are approx imately 30 dwellings, hous ing about 160 residents at La Perouse) were built in 1933. They have never been lined on the outside, nor do they have, either sinks, water taps or baths. Last Sunday a protest meeting of over 100 people was hp>1r! at. t.h« T.a Pfirniififi Reserve. A petition will be launched at another public meeting next Sunday at 9 a.m. Leaders of Aboriginal or- j ganisations, trade union of- | ficials and citizens spoke at I Sunday's meeting. I Mr. Harold Stewart, chair- | man of the La Perouse | Reserve Aboriginal Council, | said that the proposal of the | Board had stirred and activ- I ated the Aborigines and all S who supported them to de- | fend their rights to the | Reserve. | The meeting decided that | the Council should present I evidence to the joint parlia- I mentary committee now in- | quiring into Aboriginal Wei- | fare. I Mr. C. Cooke said the j Board had been allocated g £36,000 to improve the 0 Reserve, but £25,000 of this | had been returned to Con- f solidated Revenue. 0 Mr. S. Sharkey, an organ- | iser for the Building Work- | ers' Industrial1' Union, told | the meeting that there were ! strong indications that the 0 move was to turn the | Reserve over to private I developers. I Mr. M. Prendergast, Build- 0 ers' Laborers' Federation, f said that the trade unions S had daily experience in deal- ( ing with the problems of the j wnrlcprs. As thp Ahnriennps J were part of the working j class the trade unions would | give them every assistance | and support. ! The Aborigine Reserve at La Perouse Sydney. 1 