 WRITERS IN THE NEWS LITERARY COMMENT BY JUDAH WATEN yWO instances this month of writers speaking out on social questions — one on Vietnam and the other on apartheid. The first is Meanjin editor Clem Christesen's letter in the "New York Times" on July 7, Published under the heading, "Dissent from Australia", it reads: "To the Editor, Most Australian writers, art ists and academics, plus the majority of decent citizens, entirely repudiate Prime Min ister Holt's public statements endorsing present Vietnam pol icy. C. B. Christesen, University of Melbourne." Perhaps for the first time the usually well-informed and influ ential readers of the "New York Times" have been told the truth about Australian public opinion. ? "JHE other notable instance is the famous South African novelist Nadine Gordiner's article in the "London Magazine" about Abram Fischer, Q.C., the South African lawyer who was recently sentenced to life imprisonment for his activities against apartheid. It is quite clear from her article that the Prosecution was not only determined to fit Abram Fischer with the aid of inform ers, but also to frame those three organisations which had helped the victims of the legal terror, the Defence and Aid Fund (and by association, Christian Action), the Christian Institute, and the South African Institute of Race Relations. Nadine Gordimer writes: "The leading Johannesburg morning paper, 'Die Transvaaler', gave the impression that the real enemy the State was after was the Reverend Beyers Naude, a former Broederbonder (a secret society which supports the Gov ernment) who incurred the strong disfavour of the DUtch Reformed Church when he asso ciated himself with the Christian Institute." Just as his mentor Hitler did before him Verwoerd is deter mined to stamp out all opposi tion, including that of Christian bodies, although he and his pals prattle about Christianity as though they were the very Apost les themselves. With characteristic courage Abram Fischer during his defence gave much time to exposing the Government's aim. He said: "It is a matter of deep regret to me that my trial which ought to deal with my political activi ties, has been used as a plat form from which to smear in nocent persons who have in no way been associated with me in my political activities, and whose only sin is their unpopularity with the present Government." And of Dr. Beyers Naude of the Christian Institute, he added: "It is hardly his fault that I hold the same views as he does about the dignity of man " He also told the Court to bear in mind that it was punishing men and women for holding ideas today that would be uni versally accepted tomorrow. I do hope that readers will send a card to the South Afri can consul in Canberra demand ing Abram Fischer's release. 