 \spM i i Aussie test fortune I change for the better j | "J"HE victory of the Australian Test Eleven in the Fourth Test j 1 at Adelaide certainly justified the selection. I THE first move in this direction seems to have been when Graham McKenzie was included in the team as a last minute replace ment for the Queens- lander, Peter Allen, who had to drop out because of an aggravat ed leg injury. tinder pressure of having to necessarily beat the Eng lishmen in the Fourth Test, the fielding of the Australian players has shown an in creased sharpness and deter mination. Right-arm . fast medium bowler McKenzie, up to the beginning of the Fourth Test, had as many as 25 catches dropped off his bowling this year. During the first innings, of the Fourth Test, however, Mc Kenzie took six wickets for 48 runs, four of his victims being caught. This was a great imrovement in the quality of the fielding. As though sensing that the mood of the Australians' batting should match the quality of their fielding, captain Bobby Simpson and Bill Lawry set the tempo. Simpson scored a magnifi cent 225. Lawry made 119. Graham Thomas main tained his good batting average by knocking up a solid 52 runs. Cricket has always been a game subject to the chance of many things— the state of the pitch, the weather, etc. . During the Fourth Test, Australian captain Simpson has shown his acute aware ness not only of this, but of little things, that could pos sibly put the Englishmen off their game. The English captain, Mike Smith, by polishing the worn ball against his trousers, broke a crick: t rule, which forbids this of everyone ex cept the bowler. At the request of Simpson England's right-arm medium I pace bowler removed sweat bands from his wrist. Simp son was obviously not going to be distracted by the flash of the while band. The Australians' excellent fielding and high scoring un doubtedly will do much to boost interest in the Fifth Test due to take place in Melbourne, February 11-16. ? . Soccer Lessons T>E SPITE the thrashing Sydney's Prague soccer team received last Sunday at the hands of Slovan Bra tislava, the touring Czecho- slovakian team (6—0), the experience gained for Aus tralian soccer from the Czechs' tour, on the whole, has been immense. Many Australian soccer followers may see' Prague's devastating defeat as un-l dermining the morale of the local players, but they should not forget the splendid fight put up by Pan Hellenic against Slovan Bratislava last Sunday week when they held the visitors to a draw. In last Sunday's game | Prague played an open . | game, which suited the vis- I itors, whereas Pan Hellenic, by adopting defensive tac- | tics, were able to hold them. During the tours of other crack continental teams the Australian teams at times have been able to produce spasms of brilliance to mo mentarily hold the visitors, as witnessed when the Moscow Torpedoes and Chel- sea Eleven were here last year. &lt;ii The big problem with Aus- tralian soccer is how , to pro- j| duce the likes of the Czech goalkeeper William Schroif, the man with in-built springs that earned hiim the admiration of many coun tries and the nick-name of "rubber"' and "black cat"; | also Jan Popluhar, the tall f blond giant centre-half, who is a fine tactician and fast, 1 The answer, is not, as some might think, in im- | porting such high standard I players 'from overseas, but in following the advice j that the Chelsea, (English) . team manager, Tommy Doc- | herty, gave when out here: develop the youth by giving them top-class experience. &lt; And if we can't send our I youth to Europe, what could j be better than to bring the European teams out here? Bob Menzies, A Study in Selfishness JN Australia, although many may not be aware of it, many a promising athlete is denied the opportunity to participate in sport because of the lack of sevenue made available by the Federal Government. But it can be readily found to bolster military commitments in the [Viet nam war. Regardless, the ex-Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies, is mindful that his own sport ing fancies are satisfied, as witnessed by his special use of an RAAF Viscount to fly to Adelaide for the fourth cricket test. It is reported that a lead ing aviation expert esti mated that the cost of fly ing a Viscount from Can berra to Adelaide and back would be about £660. This wanton misuse of public taxes by Menzies re veals not only a flagrant abuse of parliamentary pri- : vilege, but a selfishness that could deny some future ath lete a berth in the Mexico Olympics, as £650 would do i a lot to get one there. Jan Popluhar, team captain. 