 SOVIET CALL FOR A "FRONT" AGAINST A NEW WORLD WAR From RUPERT LOCKWOOD I I MSC OW: The Soviet Union sought creation of an enduring and dependable front of I opponents of a new world war, Soviet Premier Kosygin last week stressed to the 23rd Congress of the Communist Party. ? i i ! 1 l t ' I 1 I pERTH: A determined 1 I stand by four aged I Aborigine pensioners in I Roebourne, West Aus- ( I tralia has won the right I to receive their pension | cheque in their own ? 1 I names. Previously the Social Ser- | vice pensions were handled I by the Superintendent of Native Welfare, who doled out money and decided how it should he spent. The old people decided to go without their pensions, in some cases for several months, to force the issue on this dis crimination. They were supported in their stand by Federal officials of the Building Workers' Indus trial Union, who raised the matter with the Department of Social Services in WA. The Aborigine pensioners in volved are Alice Wadoo, Polly | Wadjua and Billy Williams" and i his wife Molly. Mr. and Mrs. Williams will now receive cheques in their own names for back pension Payments totalling $849.97. Mr. Don McLeod, an almost legendary figure in W.A. as a champion for the Aborigine People, praised the old people fr their stand. . h said: "They could have Je mney any time they \ to bend the knee in \ submission. \ "The broader it becomes the more difficult it will be for the enemies of peace to carry through their plans," he said. Kosygin said: "Any initiative genuinely aimed at preserving and strengthening peace will meet a positive response on our part. The aggressors must and shall be checked. A new world war can and must be averted." Soviet Foreign Minister Gromyko also emphasised that the door was open to peace negotiations. He repudiated the view that one should "close the door and not waste time and effort in negotiating with the western powers responsible for world tension." 5-year plan Among points made by Kosygin in his report on the five-year plan directives were: By strengthening further Soviet strength, the five-year plan would "secure further changes on the world scene in favor of peace and socialism. The majority of enter prises which had switched to the new reforms had sur passed their increased targets for production and profit, and earnings of their workers had risen. As the Soviet Union's economic positions grew strong er the task of" surpassing the richest capitalist countries be came increasingly realistic. Growth of labor producti vity and "rapid technical equip ment of the entire national economy" were important goals. Economic relations with socialist states which now accounted for 70 per cent of the Soviet's international trade would be further strengthened and increase of trade with all countries was of ' paramount importance. ® The lag in agriculture must be overcome with better farm ing methods to be ensured by greater supplies of machinery, fertilisers, electricity and higher farm incomes. Special atten tion would be given to the virgin lands where fields were very weedy and considerable areas were being eroded. All wages would be steadily increased, taxes on wages up to 70 rubles would be abolished and tax rates for other groups progressively reduced. Students enrolled in the USSR would increase in num ber from 3.8 million to 5 mil lion. Aid Vietnam Kosygin also pledged that the USSR would continue aiding Vietnam "in the necessary pro portions until the Vietnam people brings its heroic struggle against interventionists to a victorious end." Alexei Yedeshev, head of the Red Army and Navy's Political Department, told Congress "thousands of Soviet people, whole units of the army are expressing their readiness to go to Vietnam to fight as volun teers for the freedom of the Vietnamese people." Henry Winston (United States Communist Party), speak ing to the Congress, declared solidarity with the Vietnamese people and said: "Even as we sit here defoliation gas bombs are turning once green rice pad dies into deserts, napalm bombs are turning homes into ashes and warm, wonder ful, beautiful people who love life and who have rever ence for the rights of others into corpses." In a short summing up speech at the end of the congress, the general secretary (Mr. L. Brez hnev), said the main feature had been complete unity behind the political line of the central committee. This unity was observed on internal matters, on foreign affairs, on warm Bolshevik solidarity with all the socialist countries, with Communists of the whole world and with all fighters against imperialism, said Brezhnev. Speech by R. Dixon, president, Com munist Party of Aus tralia — page 8. 