 BEHIND THAT BOONAROO "HOME COMFORTS" JAZZ gYDNEY : There's not much sign of the Federal Government's much- vaunted "concern" for the plight of Australian troops in Vietnam, say "Boonaroo" seamen, pictured above, just back from the war zone. They told Tribune last week j that the first question the Aus- tralian troops asked them was: "Which hold is the beer in?" But they soon learned to their dismay that the cargo contain ed none of the "home comforts" the Australian daily press was proclaiming the ship would carry. What the Boonaroo did con tain was cement, trucks, barbed wire etc., — which inspired an American stevedore to ask the seamen: "What kind of goddam rubbish is this you're bringing here?" The seamen's experience in Vietnam confirms the previous ly held suspicion that the gov ernment deliberately used this ship as a political stunt to try and whip up public hysteria against the Seamen's Union and other opponents of its Vietnam policy. In the 5i days the Boonaroo spent unloading its cargo at Vung Tau, about 60 Australian servicemen visited the ship. The only Australian beer they got was the seamen's two cans a day ration which they shared with the troops. Everything they had was old Post Exchange (PX) Stores from the Yanks— no Australian beer, cigarettes, steak or any thing. They told of a big barge of West Australian Swan Lager up in Saigon but none of it had ever come their way. The troops said this probably went onto the black market which is rife in Saigon. Questioned about the "god dam rubbish"— the trucks and cargo the Boonaroo was carry ing—the Australian troops said there were so many US supplies in Vietnam they couldn't be counted. The seamen said that, with only one exception, all the Aus tralian servicemen . they spoke to wanted to come home. Thev didn't understand what the war was all about and re ceived very little news. They were told the whariies Ya& "held up the Boonaroo." Brian Anderson said he gave || one Australian soldier, his own Jh stretcher. The troops were ;ij sleeping on the sand. Two big trucks the Boonaroo M carried to Vietnam were left- y overs from the second world £ war, the seamen said. A stevedore told the seamen ft these trucks and some of the | other cargo would be given to | the Viet Cong to allow other | supplies to get through to Sai- 1 gon. I The stevedores work for a | private American company and 1 get $(US)3500 a month while | the Vietnamese wharfies are paid 75 cents a day for 12 hours' j work. The stevedores explained that the 50 mile road from Vung Tau to Saigon was controlled in three places by the Viet Cong. "We give them supplies and equipment, or else we wouldn't get through. "It's a kind of a road tax, a boss stevedore had told the sea men. . Another flight of fancy- by the press was the reported big tnoney" the Boonaroo men were supposed to be gettm for their Vietnam trip. The three men interviewed said the average wages for the seven weeks' trip was $700. This wage included about three hours overtime a day, pm working around the clock i Vietnam. "We would have got more than this working the sam hours on the Australian Coast, they said. 