 ISRAEL ON MAT FOR ATTACK ON JORDAN i "THAT both Britain and the USA were compelled to condemn the Israeli invasion of Jordan on November 13 is an indication of how serious and flagrant an act of aggression it was. From the start the US and British Governments have lined up solidly with the Israeli Gov ernment in its dispute with Syria, Jordan and the other I Arab countries. As recently as November 4 the US and British delegates were among the 10 who voted on the UN Security Council for a resolution which in effect backed Israel, and blamed Syria for recent troubles. The USSR, with Bulgaria, Jordan and Mali — France abstaining— voted against the resolution and thus defeated it. Their stand was vindicated last Sunday week when the Israeli authorities who had posed as the aggrieved and in jured party suddenly launched a massive attack in brigade strength on the Jordanian town of Samu. The invaders found no milit ary targets to attack— except one jeep — but systematically destroyed the homes of the 4000 people. So far from constituting a threat to Israel, the town was totally undefended. There were no Jordanian soldiers near it. A small detachment which arrived later was attacked by the Israeli forces and six killed. US Ambassador Goldberg told the Security Council that the Israeli action could not be justified. British delegate Cara- don could find no justification whatever for the "calculated, admitted and wholly disprop ortionate action" which flag rantly broke the UN charter and the Arab-Israel armistice agreements. As "The Australian's" corres pondent put it last Thursday, the Israeli forces "cut a wide swathe of destruction through the virtually defenceless Jordan ian border town". The troops sang as they destroyed the people's homes. Even a mosque was not spared. Excuse for the raid was that Israel has been "raided" from Jordan — Hitler's excuse for attacking Poland and starting the second world war. Unilateral action of that type has since been outlawed by the UN Charter to which Israel adheres. Blamed for the attack by "The Australian" correspondent are Israeli ex-premier Ben Gurion, whom it names as the leader of Israel's "war party," and General Moshe Dayan, who or ganised a similar invasion of Egypt in 1956, and whose articles on Vietnam are cur rently featured in the right- wing Sydney "Bulletin". Blamed The correspondent noted that in the past the Israelis had always blamed Syria for raids on their territory, never Jor dan. Thero is speculation that Israel would have liked to attack Syria but was deterred by a Soviet warning against it and by the recent signature of a Syria-UAR military alli ance. Apparently the Israeli leaders thought it was safer to attack Jordan, which is a feudal mon archy, banning Communism and supported by Britain and the US. Writing before the Israeli aggression London New States man correspondent Naomi Shepherd wrote of rumours that "a new Suez" attack by Israel was imminent. The fact that the USA "would obviously not be averse to Israel's toppling the Soviet- backed Damascus (Syrian) Government" had contributed to the rumors, she said. 