 He was no help to Govt, in TV debates 'NO DANGER OF ATTACK' : Hasluck gTATING in London last Friday that "there is no foreseeable risk of an invasion of the Australian mainland", Australian External Affairs Minister Hasluck knocked the bottom out of the Government's case on conscription for Vietnam. Quoted in the Sydney Daily Telegraph on Saturday, Has luck made the statement in explaining why Australia did not want a British base in Australia Without realising it, Hasluck also pulled the rug out from under those speakers who were doing their best to support the government's case in the "great TV debate" — or White Paper No. 1— on Channel 7 ATN on Saturday night. Army minister Fraser, Sir W- Kent Hughes, Dr. F. Knopfel- macher, Rev. Broughton Knox and a young Liberal speaker all based their statements on the assumption that Australia was in such grave danger as to warrant conscription for service in Vietnam. The challengers included Dep uty Federal Opposition Leader E. G. Whitlam, P J. F. Caims MHR, Bishop J. S. Moyes, Dr. K. H. Buckley, secretary of the Council for Civil Liberties, Mrs. Betty Gale, president of the Australian Branch Women's In ternational League for Peace and Freedom, and Mr. Barry Robinson, secretary of the Youth Campaign Against Con scription. Mr. Whitlam said that no SEATO or ANZUS ally had ask ed Australia to go to Vietnam There was no emergency facing Australia; there was "business as usual" for all except the con scripts. The Government had failed to secure sufficient volunteers for the forces because the peo ple had developed a healthy cynicism against the Govern ment's exploitation of the false issues of "Asian threat", such as the 1951 cry of "war in three years". Mr. Whitlam also said that a Labor Government would send no more conscripts to Vietnam, and those already there would be given the opportunity of withdrawing. Dr. Cairns warned that, if the present policy continued, all of south-east Asia might be come a battlefield and the Gov ernment had not even tried to calculate how many Australians might have to be sent there. "The Vietnamese people, op pressed for centuries, are try ing to emerge. The Government, trying to suppress that, is des troying the people— and Aus tralians won't stand for that." Bishop Moyes: "We and the Americans should get out and let the Vietnamese people find solutions to their own prob lems." Mr. Robinson: "We are coun tenancing war crimes in Viet nam and voteless conscripts may be treated as war crimin als." He also said the Allies had not proved aggression in Vietnam except their own. Police violence An introductory screening of anti-conscription demonstration pictures gave a glimpse of pol ice savagery in Brisbane. Peace supporters were shown being hurled to the ground, dragged and shoved into vans,. Channel 2ABN also featured Vietnam in its Four Corners program on Saturday night. A Saigon editor was shown as telling an ABN interviewer that to him neutralism is com munism. However another South Vietnamese told Four Corners that the young people wanted a quick peace and the old were tired of the war — leav ing, one gathered, very few real ly -in favor of it. This was followed by a brief debate in which Dr, A. G, H, Lawes of the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament, and Mr. Barry Robinson effectively put the case for peace against Mr. J. Macken and Mr. O. Harries. Dr. Lawes said the United States and Australian decision to go into Vietnam had been a "fundamental and tragic mis take" because it wrongly as sumed that political-economic problems could be solved by military means, it violated the Geneva Agreement, and the war was being waged in an inhuman and immoral way. The excuse of "aggression from the north" was a trick, a phoney argument to cover the error. 