 Something for everyone I THE CRUSADERS By Stefan Heym The background is the battlefields of World War II. Its people are the Americans and Germans who, brought to that war their ideals, their ' cynicism and , chance loves, their profits. Set in the latter period of -the war when the American tanks were seeping across France into Germany. The author went in with the tanks — therefore gives graphic realism, to' his story. $1.25 ($1.50 posted) — set of 2 vols. BOOKS BY AND ABOUT JACK LONDON By Richard O'Connor A living, breathing man inhabits the pages of this biography. The swashbuckling spendthrift, compulsive drinker, romantic revolutionary was yet a man of his times. The author shows him in all his complexities — and extraordinary para doxes. $4.70 ($4.89 posted). THE PAN By Jack London — edited and introduced by Arthur Calder- Marshall. A selection of short . stories and novels including "The Call of the Wild", "The Apostate" (which could be reason enough for Lenin's love of the author), "The Heathen", "Yah! Yah! Yah!' and "The Mexican". It has been said that whilst reading Jack London one experiences life — real life, as there is no distillation of truth. 80c (90c posted). WAR WITHOUT HONOR By Gsrald L. Stone. Gerald. Stone was a special correspondent in Vietnam during 1965 — representing the Mirror and The Australian. He attempts to analyse the background of the Vietnamese conflict and discusses Australia's role both in military and political terms. He is concerned with the fact that an ill-informed Australian public is exhorted to support, a conflict about which many are ill-at-ease. How. much of what the Government has said is based on true facts? The author suggests that it is no wonder we have been described as "the ignorapt led by the arrogant". $2.50 (2.60 posted, plastic cover); $3.59 ($4.08 posted, hard , cover). 23rd CONGRESS OF THE CPSU March-April, 1966. Contains the Central Committee's report of L. Brezhnev and A. Kosygin along with the resolutions on their reports, and on the five-year plan directives for. economic development. 440 pages. 30c (40c posted). New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., SYDNEY.— Phone 26-3941. 