 Snowball in Perth on war pERTH: Activity against conscription and the Vietnam war snowballed Here last week with: An hour-long "Save Our Sons" protest march through the busy city block on Satur day, with over 100 people par ticipating; | A meeting on the Perth Esplanade afterwards addressed by Senator John Wheeldon and Mr.- C. A. Clarke, organised by the S.O.S. | A packed protest meeting at the Applecross District Hall organised by South of the River A.L.P. Branches; | A northern suburbs pro test meeting organised by prominent Labor Party mem bers. The large number of young people in the city march showed the growing concern of youth at conscription for military action abroad. At the meeting afterwards, a resolution demanding a referen- uuiii . uji uuiiduiiptiuii waa passed without dissent. A university student 'urged the formation of a "Youth Against Conscription" committee, p Slogans carried included: "Holt for Hanoi,," "Peace pro phets not war profits," "End Horror War," "Vietnam for the Vietnamese" and "No conscrip tion for Vietnam." An S.O.S. leaflet distributed in the city urged amendment or repeal of the present National Service Act, especially clauses providing for long periods of compulsory service, engage ment in military action abroad and severe penalties for in fringement of the Act. Meetings of protest against the Vietnam war were being held all over the world — in the United States, Britain and Aus tralia and even in that part of Vietnam held by Marshal Ky, said Senator John Wheeldon at the Applecross meeting last Friday night. "The Australian people have 'a strong feeling of revulsion at .seeing our youth conscripted for such a war. There are many "stalwart supporters of someone (else going to fight— the stalwart nationalists and patriots would rather stay home themselves." | The argument that we had to assist the U.S. to ensure our safety in future difficulties was "blatant poppycock," he said. The U.S. would assist Australia only if it was thought to be- in the interests of the U.S. We had never been told what government of Vietnam or who had asked Australia to send troops there. 