 » V &lt; T"7 t. f1 ZTfT"1. 7'"' 'r - - « n „ ' I mil j iiif 1 1 life MrifiTO - Jin, i, mi m; if VffTilTfflBlri4 »"j &lt;- SPBhTS f ' JSSbBF v jtiSggSr 5 V, 4 ? v —a v . Jr) j. i J Sr .c. . u lu - -,&lt; ' A spell could spell test victoru jjEFORE crowd of 58,000 rugby league followers, at Sydney's Cricket J Ground last Saturday thirteen Englishmen demonstrated that a well coordinated functional football team, will always beat a group of good | individual players. An analysis of the score (17-13) helps to verify this law of league. Whereas Australia's total points can be attributed mainly to the "golden boot" of Keith Barnes capitalising on penalties and a somewhat lucky try by five-eight Gary Banks. The Englishmen crossed the try line on three occa sions, converted the tries and scored a field goal. The game helped to show how a well formed team adds to the ability of the in dividual player while on the other hand a poorly formed team detracts from the in dividual's ability to shine. It is hoped that the Aus tralian Rugby League Board realises this in plenty of time for the Second Test to take place in Brisbane in another three weeks. Australia has the players to take the Second Test, but preparation should be given serious consideration. Too many of the top players are being treated just like machines. This aspect of Australia's approach to winning the Tests has been shown by the way the Test team players are not only saddling up for the international matches on the Saturdays of the week but also for hard club games . on the Sundays. Australian Test team skip per Ian Walsh probably sum med up the feelings of most of the hard worked Test team when he said, as after St. George's bruising win over Parramatta last Sun day: "Thank goodness there are no rep games this week."! Walsh, it was reported was almost too exhausted to speak. More winners from "Pegasus" last week's "two to I follow", Forrest Piper (by Pipe of Peace from Forrest Chimes) and Garcon (Bawal- pindi II from .Festive Air) both duly obligei\ with two smart wins. Forrest Piper won the third 2 -year-old maiden handicap at Canterbury last Wednesday. He carried 8.3 and started at 3/1. Forrest Piper hit the front at the four furlong morkl and was untroubled to winl the six furlong race by two| lengths from the second horse Ness. As Tribune doesn't come off the press until Wednes day morning, "Pegasus" fol lowers who didn't get their copy early missed out on, this tip. However, things didn't: turn out too badly, as my other selection Garcon romp-; ed home an easy winner in' the Two-year-old handicap at; Rosehill (Sydney), on the fol-; lowing Saturday (June 25). ' He started at 7/4 but fully' justified this short price to win the 7£ furlong event (under top weight of 8.7) by an easy three lengths. Tommy Smith, Garcon's trainer, now has his charge; in peak racing condition, and so it should pay yet again to follow him. An ancient mariner "THE following item in "Sport in Rumania suggests that canoeists reach sporting maturity at a much later age than most other sports. Simion Ismailciuc, 36, » considered as the "vetera of Rumanian canoeists. Ten years ago he became 013 champion together with i Alexe at the Melbour Olympic Games. ... In 1956, he took the «« of European champion i» Gand (Belgium). One y later, he became champion in Prague, ana 1959 he won the title » European champion singles in Duisburg. . | After intense winter tra j ing, Ismailciuc is now tra | 1 ing for the world champion I ships at Grunau (Germ8 I 1 Democratic Republic). 1 He hopes to win a singi» I medal in the Mexico OlymPJJ Games. Such a win wouw make him repeat the P _ formance of Fredenkss (Sweden) who fa+v,e Olympic champion at age of 38. Valeri Brumel world high jump record holder, warm ing up on one of the many indoor training tracks that are available to the sports men of the Soviet Union. 