 Strange happening at the Way side By SUSE WOLF | SPENT an unusual and enjoyable Saturday night last weekend — witnessing "An Inevitable Happening" at the Wayside Theatre in Kings Cross. But the word "witnessing" must give the wrong idea, for at this particular pocket-size theatre, the audience is not just an observer but participates right in the show. It's no ordinary theatre, the Wayside— for this show it's become a Theatre Discotheque. The pro gramme lasts for four hours— from . 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Between four one-act sketches there is informal dancing to rhythm and blues, for cast and audience alike. Informality was the keynote of the whole evening. I sat perched on a kind of railed-in balcony with a clear bird's eye view onto the raised platform that was the stage, and onto the floor downstairs where the dancing took place be tween acts. The first short sketch was "En ticement of the Weed"— a satirical look at the brutal and unjust way police and magistrates treat sus pected drug-takers and pushers. A young man arrested on a drug- possession charge does not res pond as intended to the strong- arm tactics of a uniformed police man. So a plain-clothes man uses the "Do-the-right-thing-by-yourself" and "I'm-on-your-side" approach to try to get him to sign a con fession. This doesn't have the required effect either, but he is convicted nonetheless by an old fuddy-duddy of a magistrate (played by the youthful Alan Hardy), who takes one look at him and is convinced that he must be guilty of demon strating against LBJ and all sorts of heinous anti-social crimes. The second piece was less straightforward in its message. In fact it had no message at all as such. "The Blue Plastic Ball" was a semi-serious look at the feel ings of young people today— their yearning for the unobtainable, their spirit of aimlessness, diffi culty in communication and search for escape. The dialogue rambled naturalis- tically and left one gaping— won dering at the meaning beneath the pointless conversations. After another interval of danc ing came "Dylan on Dylan" — a "live collage" of Bob Dylan's poetry and songs accompanied by mimed and projected images. ? IT'S a pity that Jean Genet's 1 "The Maids" was left till last on the programme — 1 12.15 a.m., to be precise — when even' e most enthus iastic thei goer's atten tion must? gin to wander slightly. This was wi it doubt the most demanding « plays— for the cast, director i audience alike. In it the con! irsial French con victed murde and outspokenly homosexual '1 sr expounds his philosophies: a sickening at- I mosphere, I "The Mai iinot exactly the E most pleasai >r edifying play | ever written; I it is an interest- 1 ing> if son sick, study of human escap "om reality into fantasy. Directed & other pieces — by Jim SMj with an effec tively cla® lobie. hot-house cum boudoin >y Michael Rams- den, it featm Jslocated, smoth ering organ, ic composed by Richard Meal The WaysJ teatre is to be congratulated its imagination and talent-1 we audience sit ting on tv( | and above the tiny cm» '> the actors achieved ®acy> and a feel ing of lact with their audience. something to say, and say the idiom of to- I doubtless jnter-act dancing 1 attracted who otherwise would neve1 come to a live I theatre. Tl felf is a valuable I achievement. | g 