 Melbourne painters' Vietnam mo test NOEL COUNIHAN'S ART AFFAIRS NUMBER of talented artists responded immediately to the splen did initiative of Mel bourne's Princess Hill Galleries in organising at very short notice View- . point, a protest against the Vietnam war. While several of the ex hibitors, including well known Realists, already had ap propriate works available, others, Pugh, Grieve, Jones- Roberts, Skipper, Kitching, set to work at great speed especially for this show. They join a growing body of writers and poets feeling it necessary to express through their art itself their heartfelt opposition to this ghastly war and desire for its rapid cessation. Which artists, after vetting, will be considered not merely capable as official war artists for Vietnam but also reliable? How, when appointed, will they react to what they see there? Will artistic conscience perj mit them to become, like the wretched poet McCauley, apologists for the US general staff and for Holt's and Hasluck's servility? Or will they tell the truth? Hatred for militarism and invasion has produced much great art and literature, but military establishments, very little, if any. ? yHE great Paris gal leries, the Grand Palais and the Petit Palais will house for some months 1,000 odd draw ings, prints, paintings and sculptures by the artist who has been the greatest single u niversal artistic in fluence in his own time, not only in this but in any cen tury. The colossal display of Picasso's inventive and creat ive spirit has been organised by the French Ministry of Culture to honour his 85th birthday. This column wishes many mpre years of life and work to one who has become a symbol of mankind's longing for peace, freedom and sec urity as well as one who has steadfastly resisted all efforts to prise him away from com munism. ? "J"HE Chagall show at Melbourne's Nation al Gallery has taken two years to prepare, draw ing only from Australian private and public collec tions, a worthwhile task. There is so much to leam from his sense of colour, beautifully expressed in copious lithographs and etch ings and three most interest ing early paintings. Ir a world saturated in violence Chagall's love of life and above all his tenderness come through encouragingly in an art possessing vitality as well as delicacy. It is to be hoped that this fine show will visit all States. 