 PMG S WAGE-CUT PLAN : 8000 STRIKE "jpHE 24-hour nation-wide strike last week by 8,000 mail officers was in protest against the Holt Government's wage-cut policy on automation. Mass meetings in each capital city condemned "the uncompromising attitude of ,the Public Service Board and the arrogant and irrespon sible attitude of Postmaster- General Hulme." The meetings condemned the PMG Department's pro posed employment of female labor at greatly reduced wage rates on electronic sorting machines. This is seen by the Postal Workers' Union members as a deliberate attempt to "slash mail officers' wage rates". Mail officers are demanding: Retention of their present classification and salary scale for the new elec tronic work. Preference for all existing staff to train to operate the new machines. Parliamentary action to grant equal pay in the Commonwealth Public Service in accordance . with the ILO Convention. Protection for all staff made redundant by in troduction of automation. A shorter working week and extended leave as a share of the benefits of increased productivity. Mass meetings Last Friday's mass meetings in every State decided to hold a ballot to determine further action after 14 days if their demands are not satisfied. In the meantime they will work to regulations, and have declared black the new elec tronic machines now being as sembled at the Redfern mail exchange in Sydney. Meetings in four States also imposed a ban on working overtime. The Sydney meeting (picture Page 1) by 2000 votes to 1 called for a national stoppage of all unions in the PMG De partment. Monk criticised Speaking at the Sydney meeting the general secretary of the PWU (Mr. G. Slater) called for the full support of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in the dispute. "It seems incredible that Mr. Monk (ACTU president) has not referred the dispute to the ACTU executive, arid equally incredible that the ACTU Automation Committee has not met (since 1964", Mr. Slater said. In the series of negotiations led by Mr. Monk prior to the stoppage, the NSW executive of the union insisted that a delegation, including the only communist officer of the union (Mr. B. Carey) should take part. During the negotiations about 500 telegrams from mail sorters, linemen, drivers and postmen in NSW and Vic toria were sent condemning the attitude of the Public Service Board and supporting the union for refusing to com promise on the main issue. FOOTNOTE: Last Satur day the Department tejs,ted the union's overtime ban in Sydney by rostering 90 night staff women to work two hours overtime. All the women refused to work. Mr. G. Slater. Mr. B. Carey. 