 — — — ' 1 — : Man and the machines CAPITAL! fi . HAS NO ANSWER By J-. tROWN, Victorian, ite Sect etary, Australian, iways Union. AT its Cleveland, Ohio, plant, the Ford Motor Company has installed a new production line, 1,545 feet long, on which a rough cast engine block undergoes 530 precision cutting and drilling operations in a period of 14.6 minutes, without a human hand touching it. The same engine block was formerly produced in the old Detroit plant by a process, which although it was one of the most highly mechanised plants in the United States, took 9 hours. The enormous difference in the time taken by these two methods graphically illustrates the vast leapahead which has occurred in production in capitalist society with the introduction of new automated processes controlled by computers. These changes have become a feature of life through out the capitalist world— in the United States, Great Britain and the countries of Western Europe, and now they are extending to Aus tralia. The enormity of the problems that these highly automated pro cesses bring, has not yet been recognised here, but already, since July of this year, just on 1,500 workers have been displaced from the motor car industry. It is common knowledge that General Motors Holden, in Vic toria, is ready to move to more highly concentrated production, re quiring very much fewer workers than ever before, and the devel opment of the present slump in the motor car industry will, no doubt, provide an added incentive to GMH to make the changeover even sooner than anticipated. Steel 13 HP is acting in a similar way in the steel industry in Aus tralia. At Newcastle, one thousand men, working with .13 open hearth furnaces produced nearly ono million tons of steel per annum. Recently a new semi-automated process went into operation. Con trolled by computers, two basic oxygen furnaces and four open hearth furnaces are producing one and a half million tons per annum at present and production figures are expected to rise to two million tons p.a. in the very near future. This new process has wiped out the jobs of more than 400 men, and has reduced in classi fication a further 200 jobs. Fifty positions for seamen in the engineroom s® heen abol ished in a .nevj jlian passenger ship on the Aiu i Mi run, which has automatic j idols. A tanker, ,bi| ja France for the Shell Oil \ fipany needs only four peoplprun the ship. The engineer iffiarge, and the officer employeMTsteer the ship are the only&lt;m Irequired to be or- duty at rar lone time. The ship has closed television circuit on which they jm.-- observe the automatic: opera fan. -the engine rcom. f| The well-toady ((British column ist, CassandrayJLriting in the Sydney ' ' SUN ' '(fin" '/developments in. automationijmc ' relation to white collarvwfters said: "For American whitJajollar workers, the time of ure| ning has come ... By their.rtl ition of reason able compromi they are the moro defence | i': Cassandra gave figures; w. ! r showed that United steel: hnd Chrysler had sacked -.ten jpusand of their clerical staffii Swo years, and r. New Yoroj\prance company to have - rediceiii clerical staff from YlfMnomOO. WMtJjjollar TT is in rihei«ted ;collar field in Austialiffiiati- automation has had theasgftesfci (impact so far. 1 One large insurance company boasts that with one computer and six female punch card oper ators it has been able to dispense with the services of 220 copy typists. The State Electricity Commis sion of Victoria has moved over to completely computerised ac counting operations, . and hundreds of clerical jobs have been abol ished in spite of an 8i% annual increase in their number of cus tomers. The SEC has not resorted to sacking workers, but is allow ing natural wastage to trim the staff. By using these advanced tech niques, the State Savings Bank in Victoria, processes 22,000 accounts each evening, in ten min utes—posting all withdrawals and deposits . and calculating and add ing interest. The New South Railways has installed a computer complex in' the basement of Wynyard station, and it already handles many operations. One : example alone gives an indication of the magnitude of the changes that can be expected. It used to take the- NSW Rail ways three months to prepare their accounts for the Wheat Board. Five clerks and two comptometer operators worked on the job. Today, the whole process at the end of the harvest is completed in 11 minutes. . No wonder a survey conducted by the Sydney Technical College disclosed that more than 400,000 workers would he displaced or affected detrimentally in some way by automation in Australia in the next five to ten years. Education i fyHE greatest problem associated with the introduction of automated process and the use of computers in Australia is yet to be faced. The education crisis in this country means that we are ill-prepared and ill-equipped to meet this new technological era. Professor J. K. Galbraith, Prof essor of Economics at Harvard University, a world authority on automation, said i,t was essential that we educate as we automate. "To point the way to education is, the real and. only answer to the difficulties of automation and advancing technology", he said. But as every Australian citizen knows, the crisis in education here is as bad as anywhere in the world. Professor Connell of Sydney University declared: "Australia's education standards are very poor." In one of the 1964 B.B.C. Reith lectures, Sir Leon Bagrit, known as the father of automation in Europe, stated that "Education and automation are two sides of the same penny." It is clear that the Holt Govern ment has no intention of facing up to the problem of education and automation. It does a bit of window . dressing, and Senator Gorton, the Minister responsible for t Education says "There is no crisis in education in Australia." The outrageous statement is given the lie direct by the situat ion in one state after the other throughout the Commonwealth, where Australian children vare subjected to an education system , which is entirely inadequate. Schools are ill equipped and over crowded. Most lack even the minimum facilities required for decent education. Teacher short ages mean that unqualified people are teaching at all levels, including advanced secondary school sub jects. It is a sorry picture. Inept rpHE inept way the ACTU has , approached this -'problem means that the national trade union movement, although i,t has . at its disposal a wealth of infor mation on the effect of automation in the United1 States, and Great Britain and Western Europe, has never really got down to the job of preparing for automation in Australia. At last the ACTU has been forced to p. position where some thing positive had to be done, , and. it is to hold a national >> seminar in October, to discuss the question of automation. The discussions must , be fruit ful and lay down a real program for the trade unions to follow. It must not be just another piece of window dressing like the tactics and antics of the Holt administration and the various state governments on education. To prepare for automation and equip the Australian workers.. Jto. defend themselves against mass unemployment which is all that capitalism holds for them, is one of the most vital and urgent tasks confronting the Australian work- ' ing class. We must study now, we must learn now, arid we must organise the workers now to prepare for the new ' age that has already commenced. Ten years ago Australia had only five computers. Today there are 335, and. another 200 on order, and Proi'. Overstone, at the \uAdelaide Uuiversity at a recent investigation of the use of com puters in. Commonwealth Govern- . ment Departments, forecast that by 1974 there would be 3,000. computers . in operation iri Aus tralia. There is no time to delay, we must act. now. 