 i — i man ii— i— — MM—BBM H— — — W ACTU move violates Congress policy By the Industrial Roundsman JHE building Workers Industrial Union together with other I unions in the building industry are strongly opposed to a recent Australian Council of Trade Unions executive decision to grant ACTU affiliation to a "break awav" union. Union spokesmen regard last month's decision by the ACTU executive, to grant affiliation to the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners of Australia, as a serious threat to trade union unity. It is also seen as a serious indication that the executive is prepared to adopt policies sponsored by the extreme right wing. Building unionists point out that the ASC and J was established by the discre dited Industrial Groups and came into existence as a breakaway from the BWIU. The new Union ,was formed when the BWIU was deregistered by the Court during an industrial dispute in Victoria. At the time ACTU president, Mr. Monk, condemned the action of the breakaway group. Strong opposition The building unions' rep resentative on the ACTU executive (Mr. J. Anderson, federal secretary, Operative Painters) strongly opposed last month's decision to grant affiliation to the ASC & J. He moved as an amend- bent that a conference be . called between the BWIU and the ASC & J to seek agreement to establish one union. In Victoria a leaflet spon sored by the BWIU, Plum bers' Union, Builders' Lab ourers' Union and Operative Painters' Union has been issued in strong condemna tion of the executive's de cision, The executive's decision is also seen as a violation of ACTU policy established at the 1951 and 1953 Congres ses. This policy states ACTU opposition to the registra tion of the ASC & J and that Labor Councils should I not grant affiliation to any branch of this breakaway union. In defiance of this policy the N.S.W. Labor Council in 1952 decided to grant affi liation to the ASC & J. Federal officials of the BWIU say that before ACTU policy can be made or altered by the executive it requires the endorsement by a majority of the State Labor Councils. The N.S.W. Labor Coun cil last week by 114 votes to 73 endorsed the ACTU executive's recent decision. However, it is expected that strong opposition will come from Queensland, West Australia and Victoria on this issue — which would upset the executive's decision. Mr. P. Clancy (NSW sec retary BWIU) told last, week's Labor Council in Sydney that the reason Council gave for granting affiliation to the ASC & J in 1952, was to help bring about amalgamation. "It did not assist amalga: mati-on — but in fact the ASC & J, using its office and organisation, sought to form a breakaway brick layers' union, with the aim of further splitting the trade union movement." Mr'. Clancy said the ACTU | policy is for amalgamation and the elimination of dual unionism. Paying DLP? Victorian building unions in 1958 disputed an ASC & J balance sheet showng "pay ments to the ALP." The State Branch of the ALP at the time denied this and said: "The ASC & J so far as we can confirm, are affi liated with the breakaway group, now known as the DLP." A declaration issued by federal executive members ' of the BWIU last week said their union is ever ready to take part in discussions genuinely designed to streng then unity. "It is the responsibility of the ACTU to encourage and foster trade union unity and the ending of dual unionism and not, as in this instance, seek to impose on the other building unions a body which by its record has shown itself to be opposed to union unity and the normally accepted trade union practices." Mr. P. Clancy 