 ff » „ I g if n s in f p i i% ii I1-A- I 1,1 1 a j v 1 L IP " lie Received a lovely surprise in the mail, cards of Australian animals and stamps from the Salmon family of Queensland and also from Edward Salmon i his jig-saw puzzle. If any Junior Tribune reader has collected colour ed pictures of Australian scenes, animals or birds, etc., stamps, postcards or any other Australiana could you send it into me, as I would like to send it away to our young friends overseas in May. Seme of the large weekly publications have really good pictures in them, keep a look out for me. When you send them in, use a- large envelope, and you will not need to fold them several times. I hope that you will be able to help me for we have quite a long list there's Norway, Ger many, Poland, Czechoslovakia, and the USSR. Perhaps the older Tribune readers will be able to help us and also the Mums and Dads. I hope you like Sherie 's poem, I think it is very good. So come on you authors and poets send in your favourite poem or short, short story. Looking forward to lots more letters. DINEWAN. DO YOU KNOW . . . ? ? DID you know that the tongue of a snake is used to smell with, instead of using its nostrils to smell; its tongue (which is soft and harmless) darts in and out "catching" smell particles. The tongue is pulled into the mouth and the tip of it is pressed into a special hollow in the roof of the mouth. This hollow is sensitive to smell. That is why when a snake is hungry or annoyed the tongue will dart in and out rapidly. And did you know that a snake's eyes never shut because its eyelids are fixed? It is very hard to understand how he sleeps. Do any of our Junior Tribune readers have a pet carpet snake? The carpet snake is a harmless fellow and is a marvellous mobile rat and mouse trap. 1 COIN CORNER yHERE are many ways of making coin collecting interesting and inexpensive, besides collecting sequences of coppfer and silver coins. One of the most entertaining is the hunt for "varieties" (in other words "die faults") and overdated silver and copper coins. A strong magnifying glass is needed (an excellent torch mag nifying glass for $1.75), Here are some of the "varieties" — look for a 1933 penny. Now with the aid of your glass have a look at the | date and underneath the second | "3" you should be able to see the part of the "2." Now if you can find a 1928 penny, looking through your glass you may be able to see the "die fault." This is the broken bottom circle of the figure "8." Next week in coin corner we see how coins are valued. Here is a mathematical puzzle — can you solve it? Believe it or not, the answer is really quite simple. Can you divide this square into, four absolutely equal parts so that the sum of the numbers in each of the parts is tn same? AIRMAIL photo (from TASS) shows the presidium of the CPSU 23rd Congress in Mos cow during an address by first secretary L. Brezhnev. Mr. R. Dixon, president of the Communist Party of Aus tralia, is seated among fra ternal visitors eighth from right in hack row. 