 IN CASE YOU DIDN'T KNOW, THIS IS UTOPIA Letters JHunwrnnsa to the Editor | SMALL pamphlet entitled "Accent on People", a Liberal Party publication has come in- to my hands from which I quote the following excerpt : "The consequences of the change from class politics to the politics of an affluent society cannot yet he scienti fically measured, but .they have ' already created alarm . and dismay in the Labor Party. The 'working class' to which the ALP once looked for its strength is no longer a reality either politically or economically. It. has become a work force in which the un skilled component is rela tively small and declining." Such seems to be the Lib erals' concept of a sort of capitalist Utopia in which we, as partakers of the benefits of this new society (which seems to be an off -shoot of Presi dent Johnson's "Great So ciety") will be accumulators of wealth, which no one will be there to produce, the. "re latively small and declining" sector of the community hav ing become "no longer a real ity". Taking into consideration the etymology of the word "affluence" which means "wealthy", what one would like to know from these peo ple is how is the continual raising of prices and the low ering of living standards to be compatible with the develop- ment of this "affluent", share- the-wealth society? A simple analysis of this concept would reveal that a basic requirement, in order to achieve some measure of "af fluence" would be a substan tial rise in wages to cope with the ever increasing cost of living. As our pamphleteer states, this concept "cannot yet be scientifically meas ured". Taking into considera tion the Liberals' hostility to theory, one doubts whether this concept will ever be "scientifically measured". As this letter will probably show, any attempt to analyse the philosophy of the Liberal Party or any other brand of bourgeois idealism inevitably conducts us to absurdity, which in all probability ex plains the reluctance on the part of the Liberals to debate their policies with any of their opponents. One of the lessons of history which the Libs, have yet to learn is that in our day and age, Capitalism has been tried and found wanting, and will inevitably pass away as it ilready has done in about a third of the world. N.N., Fairfield (NSW) 