 THREE YmS IN THE GRVAT SOCIETY AN AMERICAN EXPERIENCE, by Alan Ashbolt (Victor Gollancz and the Aui- tralasian Book Society). $3 at New World Booksellers and other bookshops. Alan Ashbolt has written AN AMERICAN EXPERI ENCE as a result of three years spent in the United ) States. One can only marvel at the breadth of his obser vations in such a short time. s_ There is hardly an aspect of . American life that Mr. Ashbolt does not analyse and many of the results come as a revelation le to the reader. In the "preface he points out:— "Although this book is based ' on my experience of America " from May 1958 to June 1961, I u doubt whether its general ap- u proach is invalidated by anything that has occurred more recently. L. Without wanting to make immod est claims, I would even suggest that the extension of the war in a Vietnam, the military interven er tion in the Dominican Republic, ;es the racial clashes in Mississippi of and the riots in the Negro dis- ey trict of Los Angeles only confirm na my diagnosis of the American an condition." ne The position of the Negro in American society, fundamental to an understanding of some of the "ed most violent happenings, is treat- 5?1 ed sympathetically, in particular, ' Mr. Ashbolt shows the fear of white peoplfif f We South that integration® schools will not only lead'ddni national equality but to marrifli ten-writes:— »I rather lii jte remark of a seven-year-old itfegirl after her first day 'i at3 le"ly integrated school off '® AVenue. when she arrived jier mother asked how'®# ®udren were in the class; ir.'P 'answered the child. 'Andt® many', persisted the mother tch kind?' The child carried bsome careful finger - ar lthtfe Well, there are nine hoysl'fl girls', came the reply. Thisl 6frAcial preju dice in ChM f"the starting- point for- fh® acceptance of the Negroes'® the.white South knows it. Erophasid)is fcfcion the need W gep up th economic'1 tai pressures And Sucati0n one is amazed « that in some schools ,'jere award- ed to chI 5Kndertok de livery of hjr®- The use- e s. m connec tion with Undertakings in order e Congress- ' men' themcfev e 0f false advertiseDjrJV ana other media JL s ( America spends tw«H®'as much on advertising JFUcation) ( the car as 8 society and the role of automobile manu facturers are significant though more widely known, in under standing the USA. Mr. Ashbolt relates his fondness for a 1952 model car which he drove for three years, "Luckily (?) I was a foreigner, an oddball . . . whose idiosyncracies could be tolerated." The increased use of cars has led to almost every rail road into New York being on the verge of bankruptcy. . In analysing the prejudices of the American, he points out that the population of the US is divid ed into very tight groupings on a political, religious and ethnic basis, and a great deal of pre judice on all sides. He says of the simple task of renting a sum mer holiday cottage: "Study the real estate adver tisements. 'Churches nearby' pro bably indicates that Jews need not apply. 'Protestant churches nearby probably means that Catholics are barred. A Jew should look for a house with 'Churches and Synagogue nearby', or else for one that is proudly advertised, usually in the liberal New York Post, as being an 'un restricted district'." Some people in reading this book will have their illusions of the "Great American Way of Life" shattered. "Altogether pro_ bably about seventy-seven million Americans are living either in poverty of the submerged one- fifth or on incomes scarcely ade quate for maintaining the basic decencies. In other words, Ame rica has not,- in terms of eco nomic and social justice, pro gressed beyond the situation in 1937, when President Roosevelt saw 'one-third of a nation, ill- housed, ill-clad and ill-nourished'." One reader of the book, recently in America, remarked that "Mr. Ashbolt has covered a very wide and varied number of subjects and in view of my own experiences in the US I feel he does this very well." The book is not, of course, all- sided. Particularly in the period since Mr. Ashbolt lived there, the role of the many forces opposing the Vietnam war, including par ticularly the Communist Party of the United States, the trade union movement and many other group ings, penetrating to the Congress itself, has had an enormous ef fect on American thinking. However, Australia is now so closely tied to America as a re sult of the Federal Government's foreign policy that Mr. Ashbolt has done a great service --in re vealing many aspects of American life which certainly substantiate -the growing public pressure here for an independent foreign policy and development of Australia's own culture.— P.D. and J.M. 