 STOP GERM WAR IN VIET: CALL IGNORED jwlEW YORK (TASS) : The US War Department will ignore the appeal of 22 prominent American scientists who called on the US to stop using chemical weapons in Vietnam. Tn n letter to President Johnson, published on Sep tember 20, the American scientists, who include seven Nobel Prize winners, warned against the dangerous results | for the whole of mankind of i the use of chemical and bac- r teriolpgical yreapons. , it became known last week that the US air force had started working over the de militarised zone separating North and South Vietnam with I toxic agents. It is reported from Saigon I that on the Pentagon's (US I War Department) orders tons I of toxic chemicals were I sprayed over the demilitarised K zone on September 23. I "Desert" A United Press Internation al correspondent said that the US wanted to turn this part of Vietnam into a "desert zone". In Washington, a Defence Department spokesman said that the US air force not only would not limit the use of toxic agents but planned a considerable expansion of their use against the South Vietnamese guerillas. . The American command re gards chemical weapons as the most effective and practicable being used by it in Vietnam. According to the press, Ame rican planes sprayed about li million gallons of toxic chemicals over South Viet nam in the first half of this year. Now the American com mand ha-s been ordered by the Pentagon to prepare to treble their use. Nor is the Pentagon limiting itself to chemicals. Terrible bacteriological means (germs) specially designed for war are being prepared in laboratories on its orders, Secret .A new plague bacteria im mune to all existing anti biotics has been prepared in the secret military laboratory p in Fort Detrick, . in the town of Frederick, Maryland. The secret, which was care fully guarded by the Pentagon, has become known to the pub lic. American scientists, includ ing bacteriologists, point with alarm to the tremendous danger of the use of bacteria for military purposes. Dr. Alexander Langmeier, epidemiologist of the US .pub lic health system, has said that now "there exists a real dan ger of biological war". , The American Federation of Scientists has protested against the use of chemical and bacteriological war. The New York Post said on September 23 that alopng with nuclear weapons, gas and germ weapons may become an ex tremely dangerous means of mass annihilation. It would be practically impossible to stop, a germ war once it had begun, the Post added. The real teeth of Soviet aid to Vietnam — a Soviet instructor briefs North Vietnamese trainee pilots before a training flight in MIG-21 supersonic interceptors— now being sunnlied in increasing numbers to the DRV— on an airfield somewhere in the USSR. (Photo— Novosti Press Agency.) 