 Put Snowy men on big new works SYDNEY: Every farmer and farmers' organisation, every worker and trade union should begin to demand that the scientists and other experts who have worked on the Snowy Mountains scheme should be used on other major water conservation works. "j"HIS opinion was ex pressed by J. Bailes, a member of the Com munist Party's agrarian committee, in a country radio network broadcast this Week. "The experience of the 1965 drought, the hardship and losses suffered by so many people, plus also the lofis of production and its effect on the national treasury should have driven home the lesson that with national planning, great benefits can be derived from soil and water conser- vation and utilisation schemes," he said. Mr. Bailes warned that a re cent statement by Mr. Beale, the NSW Liberal Govern ment's Conservation Minister, was the writing on the wall. Mr. Beale had said that unless the Federal Government pro vided the finance there was no hope of any major conservation schemes being undertaken. On this question, the State and Federal Governments should come together, Mr. Bailes said. The need for more such schemes was very urgent. High on the list of priorities for water storage was the Clarence River on the NSW north coast, and the completion of the Hun ter Valley scheme. Recent reports on the work of CSIRO scientists referred to the fact that Australia has about 430 million acres of land cap able of intensive development —also that out of the 280 mil lion acres of good land that is available in the northern reg ions of Australia, only around seven million acres have as yet been developed. A very large proportion of the land that is classified as devel oped can be made more fertile and profitable if given the aid of the latest inventions of man. These reports again remind us that in Australia there are vast land resources which can be developed to provide for a tremendous increase in agricul ture, in cattle and in sheep production; and. worked by thousands of youths who desire to work and settle on the land. However, far too little had yet been done in the way of expert investigation into the possibilities of the utilisation of land and of water resources, and far too much of what had been learnt had disappeared in to some official pigeonhole, Mr. Bailes said. 