 Boonaroo crew say out Holt Members, of the crew of the "Boonaroo", at a ship's meeting held at sea on course to the Viet- | nam war zone, have declared they would work I wholeheartedly for the defeat of the Holt Gov- | ernment. 1 I News of the meeting and a activity, of the crew has | been received by the Sea- 1 men's Union with a request 1 that all their correspond- | ence be passed on to Trib- I une for publication. 9 A small committee has I been elected on the ship to 1 handle all outgoing mail. It 1 has sent letters and tele- 1 grams to Dr. J. Cairns, MHR. I "The Australian" newspaper, I the Sydney Branch of the I Waterside Workers, Federa- 1 tion and to Mr. Justice Gal- I lagher of the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission. At the first meeting the crew decided to make the vessel internationally known as a "peace ship". Banners and slogans are being prepared to drape along the ship's sides. i In a letter to Dr. Cairns, I the men said they fully en- I dorsed his policy statements regarding the Vietnam war. They said that seamen had been made Virtual conscripts into what could only be call ed "a shameful period in Australia's history." "If the defence of our nat ion was in question there would be no doubt in the minds of the Seamen's Un ion members where our duty and obligations would centre, for the response would he automatic and unanimous," they said. . "We intend to inform you of our impression and of any pertinent facts we might ob- tain during the discharge of cargo," the men said. ' "How many more Austra lians will be sacrificed in this lunatic endeavour if the present Government is again returned to office?" A letter from the crew was published in "The Austra lian" to correct press mis conceptions. "The crew did not demon strate against the manning of the Boonaroo, but demon strated against the war in Vietnam and Australia's in- , volvement— and we shall con tinue to do' so," it stated. "Seamen have been accus ed of leaving the troops for dead. "The Federal Government has already done this." Apparently the navy and air force were unable to keep the troops supplied, the sea men said. The men point out that the naval supply ship HMAS Sydney left port with a naval escort. "The Boonaroo, an unarm ed merchant vessel possibly with half the speed of the Sydney, is unescorted." The letter said that the Seamen's Union demonstra tion at the wharf when the Boonaroo sailed had not been against the manning of the ship, as claimed by the ABC, but "against the war in Vietnam and Australia's involvement". "And we shall continue to protest," it concluded. I 