 Proof of progress is in the shops From RUPERT LOCKWOOD in Moscow THE THERMOMETER had sunk to 33 below zero centigrade ... 1 couldn't, be sure whether it was air or dry ice that coursed down into my lungs, and the last thing on earth that I longed for was a pineapple. The pineapples came in crates to the local shop. The buyers queued, the girls weighed the pine apples and in a few hours the great pile of them had disappeared inside the flats along the Moscow River Embankment. Pineapples may mean little to an Australian, but in Moscow where record snowfalls have blan keted the city day after' day, pine apples are one of the symbols of progress, coming from exotic lands tar from the deep drifts of the steppes and the ice-floes that float past the Kremlin walls. In a land where eight man-years labor were required for war dam age restoration alone, pineapples in the depth of winter were not the only unt.hinkabl'es of the recent past. This winter Muscovites have ' been carrying home fresh cut. flowers, for which over the last. 25 years they waited until Spring. Oranges from North Africa and the Middle' East, apples' from Cen tral Asia and the , Balkans, dates and dried fruits from the Arab lands, apricot, juice from Hungary, tomato juice from Bulgaria, mango juice from India and Cuba, fresh grapes from heaven knows where — all these have been on the shop shelves to look after the vitamins this year. More fashionable clothes and footwear, more washing machines, TV sets and refrigerators constant ly come on the market; new hotels appear on the skyline and new restaurants are opening. The furs round the heads and necks of Moscow girls would be beyond the purses of average working girls elsewhere. The greater volume and wider volume of eoods are visual evid ence of the steady progress of the Soviet economy, despite all difficulties and deficiencies, of dev eloping economic relations with other Socialist nations and of the increasing role of the recently in dependent. Afro-Arab-Asian nations as suppliers of consumer goods in return for Soviet capital goods. This testimony to Socialist pro gress comes to the shop shelves not. from the new economic re- lorms— they , are only now being applied in a selected group of in dustries, before general applica tion— but from the Seven Year Plan, 1959-65, which gives way to .the Five-Year-Plan, 1966-70. Despite many handicaps and omissions, the Soviet economy ad vanced during the seven years at a faster rate than in leading cap italist countries; that real incomes rose by seven per cent in 1965 alone, should be sufficient demon stration that the draft directives of the CPSU Central Committee for tlie 23rd Congress of the Com munist Party of the Soviet Union to' open on March 29 are not dreams on paper. The economic objectives to be promoted by 23rd Congress deci sions are modestly assessed. Given five years of peace, the targets will no doubt be overfulfilled by considerable percentages. The full consequences of the new economic reforms— much more strict cost-accounting, more initiative to management and workers at the factories, mines and farms, rewards for quality and profitability, higher material incentives for good work and more effective application of new tech nologies—have yet to be assessed. Many other factors can likewise only be judged in practice, such as the greater encouragement to studies of theoretical and applied mathematics, . to physics and nuclear energy!, including the further working out of problems of controlled thermonuclear syn thesis" mentioned in the draft dir ectives for the 23rd Congress, the massive introduction of compu ters, the uplift by 100, 120 or even 170 per cent in certain basic chem ical industries, of 50 per cent in electric power and means of pro duction and so on. Also among the semi-incalcul- ables is the impact of improved technical education for industry and agriculture. No less than 7 million graduate scientists and other specialists will be trained during the seven years— a rise of 60 per cent. Automation will release more labor for those projects needing it, but the total labor force will increase at a faster rate despite automation, due to higher influx of school-leavers and the availabil ity of more women. Sixty per cent more children— a total of 12.2 million— will be in urban pre-school nurseries and kindergartens by 1970, thus assist ing more mothers to take full or part-time jobs. The industrial-office labor force (excluding agriculture) will be 92 million by 1970— about eight times Australia's total population. The stimulus of material incen tives and higher pay for better work, of more economic demo cracy at the work-places, of guar anteed minimum wages on State farm levels to collective farmers, to insulate them against the vag- aries of seasonal returns, can like wise not. be measured in statistics for the 23rd Congress draft docu ments, And who knows how the econ omic crises of capitalism will change the international status of the unemployment-proof Soviet system? America can produce- over 120 million tons of steel. The Soviet Union last, year produced 91 mil lion tons; this year it will make 96 million tons and by 1970 from 124 to 129 million tons. A sharp recession could thrust the USSR ahead of the USA in steel, the key to heavy industry. TOP: "How many yards, please?" BELOW: Listening to the salesgirl's suggestions. 