 Kogarah ratepayers angry at rate increase YDNEY: Two thousand Kogarah ratepayers are expected to attend a protest meeting against large increases in their rates next Sunday afternoon at 2.30 p.m. at the Bell Park, South Hurstville. They have invited all Councillors to attend and debate why they have allowed the rates to increase. In the community there its very strong feeling dev eloping, and it was the presence of 200 angry rate- payers that forced the Mayor of Kogarah, Alderman Duggan to allow a councillor to move for a rate reduct ion at the last Council meeting. This was on March 1 after ratepayers marched into the Council Chambers following a protest meeting held outside. Mr. K. Cavanagh, the chairman of the protest meeting, said that the tre mendous increase in rates arose because the Council was taking advantage of large scale increases in revaluations just completed. The average increase in revaluations, was 32!%. The meeting elected a com mittee to fight for rate justice and a sub-comimittee to investigate the administra tion of! the Council. A speaker pointed out that the Council could give no relief to widows, but gave an annual grant to a licensed golf club. Alderman A. Hardiman said at the Council meeting, that it was strange that only correspondence on the agenda paper wasl a letter support ing the Council's decision on rates, despite a petition of protest signed by 3Q06 ratepayers, and petitions from many local organisations. Attempts by the Mayor to prevent Alderman Hardiman- from speaking on and moving his motion for a (redjucition of at least a farthing in the pound, met with cries from the audience of "give him a go", and "he's the people's champion." ,, Alderman Hardiman pleaded with Councillors to second his motion because it was the poorer people being hit hard this year. As; all other Councillors re mained silent voicesi from the audience shouted out, "come on you pillars of stone", "come on you gutless wonders" When it was obvious that Alderman Hardimans motion would lapse for the want of a seconder the crowd loudly and angrily counted them out. 