 Government "leads us in circles says New Guinea M.E t By Jim Cooper "Y'HE repeated assertion by the Minister for Territories, (Mr. Barnes) that "there are a I variety of arrangements which could be made" for New Guinea, short of independ- B ence, came in for a severe drubbing at the recent seminar in Sydney last week-end. 8 The seminar was organised by the Council of New Guinea Affairs. Members of the New Guinea select | committee on constitutional development, who had discussions with the Minister earlier- in the week also attended. , Mr. Norman Cowper, a law yer and business man, said: "The goal must be full inde pendence". He trenchantly attacked the "seventh state" proposal, which is high on the Minister's list of "arrangements". He said: "Objections to the seventh state proposal were so numerous that he (Mr. Cowper) was astonished that it should be seriously considered". Mr. John Guise, a New Guinean member of the New Guinea House qf Assembly, and president of the select committee, told the seminar that "we came here to put our point of view but instead of giving us an answer about what they were going to do, the Government led us around in circles with a lot of legal jargon". It appears from reports of the constitutional conference in Canberra that the issues of constitutional reform were sidetracked with relatively un important issues such as the recent amendments to the Im migration Act which, if form ulated, would make any New Guineans ineligible to enter Australia. Rejecting, the select commit tee's request tha-t the Govern- ivionf doMorn \ f c infonfinnc the future relations between New Guinea and Australia, Mr. Barnes told them that it was the perogative of the people to end the "Territory" status and take independent status if they wished to do so "in due time". "Should the people wish to remain in association with Australia after . self-determina.t- ion", he said, "this would re quire the agreement of the Australian Government". A New Guinean, Mr. Henry Roberts at the seminar, sum med this up by saying: "Put simply it tells us, "do what you want, as long as we tell you what to do'." Mr. Barnes' attitude is un doubtedly conditioned by the fact that New Guinea, is being turned into a powerful military zone, with bases which could be used against the New Guinea people as against any one from the outside. The Barnes policy is the old colonialist policy unadorned. Mr. Tom M'Boya, a Kenyan cabinet minister who visited New Guinea last year, said at the time that it was not a question of whether New Guinea will gain its independence but when. The world is not prepared to allow Australia to take her time. Such an idea is a lux ury of the past, he said. In his view and that of the most progressive thinkers the most urgent question for the timetable of independence, is the program for education. To gether with health, this is the very sector which received the axe when Mr. Barnes was elevated? to the Ministry. Whilst restricting the devel- opment of education, the Gov ernment advances the argument that the people are not ready for independence owing to their lack of education. Mr. M'Boya shows that Ken ya, through a "students' air lift", Was able to raise the student level from just g. hand ful to more than 2000 in for eign universities in less than four years. Today these students are back in Kenya, and form the backbone of the present ad ministration. The idea that Australia may leave New Guinea is propa ganda, and meant to frighten the timid- There is some $200,000,000 or so capital invested by com panies registered in the Ter ritory. But the major exploiters are those Australian and other foreign companies who are reg istered outside the territory. Their total capital inside and outside the territory amounts to something approaching $1,400, 000,1100. It is feasible to expect these companies to voluntarily re treat? One hardly thinks so. All evidence goes to show | that New Guinea's best inter- 1 ests would be served by achiev- 8 ing their independence now. 1 Some Australians should re- 1 main in administrative posts to | assist the New Guineans, as did the British civil servants in Kenya. Australia has much to gain by the development of a free 2.nd independent New Guinea Friendly relations would be cemented by firm trading ex changes, assistance and good will between both nations. 