 ' ' 11 II i u i 1 1 1 1? » lg=g= melt O, Junior Tribune readers, This week we have a letter about a very unusual hobby, some interesting facts about coins and that everyday product salt. Many thanks to those readers who send in their letters, keep them coming in, as it is your letters and your ideas that keep our column interesting. DINEWAN AN UNUSUAL HOBBY £)EAR DINEVAN, I thought you and the Junior Tribune readers might be inter ested to hear about my hobby of collecting Chinese, Japanese and Korean prints of their traditional paintings. Altogether I have thirty six prints, and on the second page of the book in which I keep them, there are four prints done in the Sung Dynasty. The time in which these were paint ed is known to be the most brilliant period in the history of Chinese painting. I have one Japanese print done by an artist who was a victim of a terrible accident, and lost both arms. This artist, Miss Zyunkyo Oishi, has concentrated on painting Japanese flowers and animals with her mouth. Two of my favorite paintings are Chinese and they are Peon ies by Yu Fei-an and Magnolia Yulan and Yellow Orioles by the same artist. Korean paintings are very much like the Chinese and Jap anese and I have 5 Korean prints. Tanya M. (South Australia) How many Junior Tribune readers have unusual hobbies like Tanya. Do write in to the column and let us share your hobby. DO YOU KNOW . . .??? /"\N every table at every meal will usually be found the salt cellar. Do you know where salt comes from? In some countries, like Poland it is mined like coal. In one salt mine in Poland the miners for many hundred of years have carved figures from fairy tales in salt, includ ing a complete altar to the Virgin Mary. In one section of the mine they have carved a complete church. In countries like Australia . where there is plenty of sun- .shine, salt can be obtained from salt lakes and the sea by natural evaporation. Another way of obtaining salt is to bore wells into the salt beds to tap the brine, the brine is pumped into large tanks, and stands until the sediment has settled ready for evaporation. In many plants they place the brine in a closed cylindrical vessel under vacuum and evap orate the brine by the use of steam heat being forced through nests of tubes in the vessel. HAPPY BIRTHDAY jyflANY happy returns to Karen Taylor of Vic toria, who is 10 years old on the 12th April. To all other Junior Tribune readers who have a birthday in April — many happy returns from all of us. COIN CORNER J GUESS everyone has a little coin tucked away in a corner hoping that someday their coin is going to bring $400 at an auction sale. One of the readers of the column is an ardent coin col lector and he said there is a lot more to coin collecting but he said it can also be a very inexpensive and interesting hobby. He is prepared to answer any questions about . coins you . may like to send in, also to give you the address of the coin collectors clubs in your State. One of the interesting coins he was telling me about is the 1954 Queen Elizabeth penny from England. There were only a very few of these coins minted; however, they did not go into circulation —instead, they were melted down with one exception. Mr. Wilson Peak, of London, acquir ed this coin. When it was exhi bited in America in 1964 it was watched constantly and was heavily guarded all the time. So it just goes to show that a coin need not be old to be valuable. More coin news next week. COMPETITION '|HE neatest and most in teresting letter on the sub ject "WHAT I AM GOING TO DO IN MY NEXT SCHOOL HOLIDAYS" will receive 50 cents prize for both the Jun ior (up to 10 years) and Sen ior (up to 14 years). Letters to be sent to Dine- wan, Junior Tribune, 168 Day Street, Sydney, NSW— no later than Thursday, April 14, 1966. # # # From GHANA, WEST AFRICA Jonathan Cassino, C/- Joe Tassino, Post Office Box 147 TARKWA. GHANA WEST AFRICA. Jonathan is 15 years and is interested in photography, danc ing and collecting postcards. # # Charles Aidoo C/- Urbansco School, Post Office Box 326, TARKWA. GHANA W.A. Charles is 14 years old and his hobbies are swimming and foot ball, "Cock" by Ju Peon. This love ly Chinese print is in delicate pinks, blues, black and red. (by courtesy Current Book Distrib utors). 