 Anti-US feeling rises in S. Vietnam MERICAN spokesmen admitted to being alarmed last week when strikes and demonstrations at Hue and Da Nang, in the North of South Vietnam, took on an anti-American character. Up till them they had been aimed at the south Viet nam Government of Marshal Ky. But on Thursday and Friday of last week students, who had paralysed the two cities, began anti-American speeches condemning the USA for in terfering in South Vietnam's internal affairs. All work had stopped at the big US military and airbases at Da Nang as Vietnamese workers stayed away. Last week-end in Saigon 20,000 Buddhists demonstrated in support of general elections and the end of the Ky Govern ment. In the Sydney Bulletin this week ABC Saigon reporter Don Simmonds recalls the anti- American background of Gen eral Nguyen Chan Thi whose sacking, on the US's thinly- disguised insistence, triggered the demonstrations. Simmonds notes that Thi led the 1960 coup against the US's first Saigon puppet, President Ngo Dinh Diem, and fled to Cambodia when it failed. (This was because Thi failed, to enlist, the aid of the mass of the people), , When the US itself had to dump Diem three years later, Thi returned— but he then as sisted the coup which ousted the US's next choice for South Vietnam ruler, General Khanh. Simmonds says that Thi is an "ardent nationalist" sus pected of being a neutralist. He had close connections with the Buddhist leaders who led the mass movement against Diem and Khanh. The Buddhists responded strongly when he was sacked. They issued a statement that since the death of Diem in 1963 South Vietnam had not secured institutions which commanded respect within the Republic or abroad. The problems of Vietnam were un solved, the military situation was worse, the armed forces were disunited and the Rep ublic was in economic chaos. They demanded a return to civilian government. Early demonstrations in Da Nang were attended by 3000 civilians and 1000 soldiers, Simmonds reported. Vietnamese soldiers at Ar Shau, the US-Saigon base cap tured last week by the Liber ation forces, did more than demonstrate. They actually turned and fired on the J\pier- icans, admits Newsweek mag azine. Newsweek says it was "an ugly tale of desertion, coward ice and treachery." When the liberation forces attacked, "many of the South Vietnamese irregulars who made up the bulk of the A Shau force, refused to fight" . complains Newsweek. "At one point, after the Viet Cong took the south and east walls, the Nungs (Chinese mercenaries) counterattacked and recaptured the east walls. But the Vietnamese irregulars would not attack the south wall. Finally, some of them did) move onto the south wall, but then turned and fired on the defenders of the north wall." This story was kept out of the Sydney daily press which did, however, tell how in the panic stricken retreat that fol lowed, US troops shot down Vietnamese troops who beat them to the rescue .planes. The wreckage of a North Vietnamese kindergarten, which was destroyed by US bombs. 