 Happy birthday in the Sportsmen's Bar BY OUR THEATRE CRITIC gREASTING — or, more precisely, elbowing — the "count er" in the Sportsmen's Bar of the Hotel Aus tralia in Sydney last week, and comfortably grasp ing a middy of Toohey's new, Dr. Voldemar Panso looked very much at home and ;to the manner born. And with doubly good rea son. outside, Sydney was sizzling in 95-degree heat, no doubt somewhat warmer than in his native Estonia, where winter has presently descend ed with a vengeance on the shores of the Baltic. Also, I discovered, it was Dr. Panso's birthday — his 46th —and- what better way to celebrate in the sweltering Antipodes than over a glass of beer? Besides, as he dis- armingly confessed, "theatri cal people like to drink". For Dr. Panso, a member of a party of some 20 or so Soviet tourists who have been visiting Australia and New Zealand, is Director of the Youth Theatre in Tallin, cap- ital of Soviet Estonia, as well as Professor of Dramatic Art at Tallinn Censervatoire. There was something of Dr. Panso's two professions re flected in his features. With his thick glasses, high sweep ing forehead and long silver - ish hair, he looks not unlike the great Russian drama teacher Stanislavsky, and quite distinguishedly acade- . mic. Travel is his chief, love- after theatre, of course — and he has visited most parts of the world ("I have no car be cause I spend all my money on travel"). H,e had wanted to see Australia for a long time, he said, because for him "it was the unknown coun try". But obviously even his two to three weeks here revealed to him some of Australia's hidden qualities— at least as far as theatre is concerned. While here he managed to see a considerable number of local productions in both Syd ney and Melbourne, as well as to meet and talk with many of our leading actors, produc ers and even playwrights. And he plans to take with him a permanent and very tangible memento of his trip — in the form of local actor- playwright Rod Milgate's con troversial piece of pop myth ology, "A Refined Look at Existence", which recently concluded a successful season at Sydney's Jane St. Theatre. This play, said Dr. Panso, he had found particularly in teresting and extremely unus ual. So far as he knew no Australian play had been per formed in Estonia, and he had asked Mr- Milgate to send him a copy of the script for trans lation into Estonian and pro duction at his Tallinn Youth Theatre, where he felt it would prove extremely popular because of its modern ap proach and appeal to young audiences. Other productions which had impressed him included "Luv" at the Sydney Phillip Theatre, "The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window" at the New Theatre, and "Where's Daddy" at Sydney's theatre- in-the-round, the Ensemble, which particularly interested him because he himself had produced Bernard Shaw's "Back to Methusalah" in the round in Tallinn some 18 months ago. And the most impressive production he had seen here? Surprisingly but unhesitating ly Dr. Panso singled out "Dy lan" at the Independent Thea tre — mainly, he said, because of the excellent performance of Peter O'Shaughnessy, whom he described as "an actor who obviously thinks deeply" on stage. He had been impressed by the general standard of Aus tralian actors, he said, par ticularly by their strength, vocal power and sense of speech-rhythms. But, he ad ded, the system of single sea sons obviously imposed limita tions "on their work: in the Soviet Union the repertory system meant that an actor often played four or five dif ferent roles a week, thus ex tending greatly his versatility and range. And as for himself, Dr. Panso's tastes are clear but varied— ranging from Brecht (his production of "Puntila" in Tallinn in 1958 was the first Brecht production in the USSR) at one end of the scale to Ibsen at the other. Shaw was his favorite, he declared categorically, because of his wit and ideas. But his main concern, he said, was to create a modern form of theatre catering for the attitude of young people — the reason v for his estab lishment of the Youth Thea tre in Tallinn two years ago. The younger generation had definite attitudes, he sa.id: they were not contradictory to those of the older generation, but they were markedly dif ferent. "We cannot treat anything as dogma in tide theatre," he said. "After all, if Staniss- lavsky were alive today he might use the same methods as Brecht. Who knows?" DR. VOLDEMAR PANSO Discovering the unknown country. 