 US attacks can be cut . short %. " ' SAYS 23rd. C0N6RESS I MOSCOW (TASS): The forces of \ peace and progress, united in a single front, can and must cut short I American acfcrression in Vietnam, says ! a special statement adopted by the 23rd j Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. The statement trenchantly j condemned the United States j imperialists for their "erimi- i nal war" against the South i Vietnamese patriots as part of efforts to suppress the national liberation struggle f there and elsewhere in South- ' East Asia; for their infringe- l ment of the sovereignty of the ? Democratic Republic of Viet- '3 nam (the North) with air raids i on towns and villages; and for their brutal flouting of ele- I mentary rules of international 5 law- "Now it is more important than eVer before that the socialist countries; all Com- l munist parties, to the full I extent display a sentiment of I international responsi b i 1 i t y, Js unite in single actions and J rally behind themselves all 7 progressive, democratic and peace-loving forces to cut fl short imperialist aggression. "Let the Communists of the world, all exponents of pro- d gress and ' democracy, all J-1' upright people who cherish 3 peace, justice, freedom and independence of the peoples, raise their voice of protest, : | come out still more actively | against the aggressive actions 7; of the US imperialists in Viet- v nam!" The statement said "the Vietnamese problem can be solved only on the basis of recognition of the' just de- mands of the Government of - the Democratic Republic of - Vietnam and the South Viet- j nam National Liberation Front." ,\ The United States must |p immediately put an end to |j| the bombing of the DRV and 'Iff to other aggressive acts #|1 against it. ll# ||p Armed forces of the USA lit and its allies must be . wi,th: IJI drawn from South Vietnam. The NLF must be recog nised as .the only legitimate representative of the South Vietnamese population. The USA must end inter vention in the domestic affairs of Vietnam and scrupulously observe the Geneva Agree ments of 1954. Hanoi statement IJANOI: The Vietnam Work- ers' Party newspaper Nhan Dang said on April 8 that the four points advanced by the DRV Government for the solution of the Vietnam question "express the sacred right of the Vietnamese people to independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity. Tt said the four points re flected the main provisions of. the 1954 Geneva Agreement and corresponded to the reality of past and present.- The Vietnamese people had been waging an armed struggle for more than 20 years and. wanted peace more than any other nation, in order to build, up their life, the paper said. As long as the aggressive US war was continued, "the peoples of North, and South Vietnam, irrespective of losses, are resolved to hold out to the end, to fulfil their sacred mission of defending the sovereignty and national inde pendence of their country, to make thei.r contribution to the cause of peace in Asia and all over the world." Nhan Dang of Hanoi ex pressed gratitude to the 23rd Congress for "its wholehearted support to the Vietnamese people." 