 210 sign protest as rates sky-rocket SYDNEY: Widespread public anger against the wave of increases in local council rating for 1966 was illustrated by the action of 210 people in Woollahra municipality who sign ed a protest petition last weekend. A SPOKESMAN for the local sponsors, the Fair Rates and Rents Committee, said that al most 100% of those approached by five rep resentatives of the com mittee had signd readily. . No one opposed the pro test, and it was found a num ber of people had already written individual protest letters to members of the Liberal-dominated Woollahra Council. Discriminates The petition protested against the method adopted some time ago by this council to place the main burden of payments on small home and property owners by introducing a mini mum rates payment of £25 a year, although the general rate is 3.36d in the £. This means that, while highly-valued property own ers are on the general rate, the low-valued property own er forced to pay the £25 is in effect on a rate of 6d to 9d in the £. While appearing to have a low rate (compared with that of the Sydney City Council, for example, which was 5id in the £ last year) Woollahra in fact imposes on the small owners one of the highest rates. Thus, land with unimproved capital value of £688 in the Sydney area would mean a rate payment of £15/1/-. In Wool lahra it would be £25. But property with ucv of £2000 or more in Woollahra would benefit from the lower rate of 3.36d. 100 p.c. increase The petition calls on the Wool lahra Council "to abolish the unjust minimum rate and to strike an equitable rate for the whole of the municipality. Expressing a "strong protest" against the discrimination, it says that some ratepayers have had their rates increased 1000 per cent in the last six years. The spokesman said that, for example, one householder who paid £2/10/- in 1959 had to pay the £25 in 1965 — 1000 per cent increase. Most of the lower valued pro perties are concentrated in the Piper ward, in the areas around Holdsworth, John and Grafton Streets, occupied by workers. The low rate is paid by pro perty owners living in the sub urbs of Bellevue Hill, Darling Point and Vaucluse — including some of Australia's richest families. The petition points out that, "in comparison to the other wards, very little money is spent on parks, flower gardens, rockeries, street trees and the cutting of grass verges in the Piper Ward." Less spending Speaking for ratepayers in Piper Ward, it says "As most ratepayers in this area are ordinary working peo ple, we feel because of the unjust rate system we are help ing to subsidise the wealthy private clubs and well-to-do ratepayers in other sections of the municipality who are gener ally more able to pay." A section of the petition to apply to tenants, says "As ten ants, because of the minimum rate, we could be subjected to big rent increases." Edgecliff News, a Communist Party publication circulating in Woollahra, repeatedly called last year for opposition to the coun cil's minimum rate system, and stated that the local finance problem must be met by special Federal finance allocations for local government. Many Councils Many councils of the Sydney area have already announced increases in rate payments for 1966, based on varying combin ations of higher valuation and the rate. Examples of payment in creases include Burwood, over 60 per cent up; Kogarah, 28.5 per eent up; Kuring-gai, 29 per cent; Campbelltown, 21.6 per. cent; Strathfield, 16.5 per cent; Woollahra, 12 per cent; Auburn, 9 per cent; Rockdale, 7.1 per cent; Warringah, 4 per cent. Mosman is introducing a spe cial new garbage collection charge. A number of other councils i are considering rate proposals this week. 