 Sheeties hit Holt on \ Vietnam, wages, leave gRISBANE: The federal conference of the Sheet Metal Workers' Union, held here earlier this month, called on all members of the union to campaign for the defeat of the Holt Government in the forthcoming Federal elections. In a series of hard-hitting resolutions, the Conference rapped the Government on issues ranging from Vietnam to wages and prices policy. It declared its support for Labor leader Calwell's stand against Australian involvement in the "war of aggression" in Vietnam and the conscription of Australian youth for over seas military service. It warned that the Govern ment's Vietnam actions were damaging Australia's relations with the people of Asia and called for a foreign policy "which should not he domin ated by the United States or any other nation". Delegates also called on- the Australian Council of Trade Un ions to demand a referendum on the question of conscription for overseas service. Other major decisions reach ed by the Conference included: O Wages: Delegates condemn ed the Government's opposition to the Unions' wage and mar- gins increase claims, contrast ing this attitude with its refusal to act against companies charg ing excessive prices and to en act legislation to curb company profits. They endorsed traditional ACTU demands for a basic wage sufficient to provide for the reasonable minimum needs of a "married wage earner and his family". The Union would also con tinue its attempt to "overcome the wages lag" by direct negoti ations with employers for over- award payments which, it said, pending greater wage justice from the Arbitration Court, "have become an essential part of the wage structure". Amalgamation: Conference stated the Union's readiness to enter into negotiations at any time on amalgamation with other metal unions. ' It emphasised the importance of shop committees, which un ited workers of various unions in the one workplace, in laying the basis for amalgamation. For this additional reason, the Conference said, consistent at tention should be paid to the strengthening of shop commit tees as part of the movement for amalgamation. Annual leave: Conference said it regretted the lag in the campaign to obtain an addition al week's annual leave for Com monwealth Government employ ees, and the failure to organise job meetings and demonstra tions pending the proposed fur ther deputation of the A.C.T.U. to the Prime Minister. "It requested the A.C.T.U. to convene a meeting of the Un ions concerned to consider and decide on an active campaign including job action to secure the additional week's leave". 35-hour week: It was noted that no progress appears to have been made towards achiev ing the trade union demand for a reduction of the standard working week from 40 hours to 35 hours without loss of pay, as decided at the 1957 Austra lian Trade Union Congress. In the meantime, as forecast in Congress decisions, there had been an intensified development of automation, mechanisation, new trends, materials and pro cesses which make the reduc tion of the working week a matter of urgency, to protect the workers from the threat of future development. "We call upon the A.C.T.U. to take up with its State branches and affiliated Unions, the deci- sions outlined above and to un ite the combined forces of the trade union movement in a con sistent and sustained campaign to achieve the 35-hour working week." Conference also re-affirmed its opposition to long service leave being included in Federal awards instead of being regul ated by State legislation. The anomalous position creat ed by conflicting long service leave entitlements, had been in tensified by the recent High Court decision concerning the boot trade industry which ap- . peared to indicate that non un ionists in Federal Award estab lishments were covered by State Long Service Leave provisions and not the Federal Long Ser vice Leave Awards. "We request the A.C.T.U. to arrange consultation with the Unions concerned to see whe ther applications should be made to revoke the Federal long service leave awards, or what other steps should now be tax- en to achieve long service leave benefits no. less favourable than as provided in the New South Wales Long Service Leave Act, Conference said. Jury service: It was decid ed that workers serving on Juries should be reimbursed u1 full for lost time and other ex penses incurred "while acting Jurors. Conference recommend that our State branches raise this matter through the State Trades and Labor Councils asK- ing that appropriate representa tions be made to the respective State Governments." It was also decided that tlw federal council of the union press the policy for full /A®! of pay whilst a worker is on workers' compensation. 