 CHINESE CIRCUS WORRIES WORLD CP's From Rupert Lockwood in Moscow. \A/HERE are the leaders ' of the Chinese "Cultural Revolution" heading? There has been much grave consideration analysis of Chinese events, but shock and some bewil derment abroad are inevit able reactions to the mon strous conduct of Hungwei- pings (Red Guards) and their sponsors. Many commentators are still searching for fuller answers to the question of where the Chinese "cultural revolution'' promoters1 are heading— what is their pur pose and destination. Trybuna Ludu, Polish Workers' Party organ, raises the issue of Chinese intentions toward the United States. Certainly Chinese propa gandist attacks on American Imperialism do not tally with actions which Chinese leaders must know are of assistance to the Americans in Vietnam and elsewhere, or with cer tain statements by Chinese Ministers. For instance, Trybuna Ludu quotes the statement to a delegation of Japanese parl iamentarians by Chen Yi, Deputy Premier and Foreign Minister, on September 6: "I do not regard with particular pessimism relations between the United States and China' ' . France Press agency said that Chen Yi's statement con firms the opinion of many observers that "China is exacerbating her conflict with the Soviet Union in order to prepare the ground for direct talks with the US Government". Other observers have been wondering whether the "cultural revolution" could not be better described as a new brand of coup d'etat staged by defence minister Lin Piao and his collabor ators afid using the "thought of Mao Tsertung "as the screen for attacks on party cadres and organisations in the conspiracy for military dictatorship. Murdered ' Some- colour is lent to' this theory by . the fact that party cadres, some veterans of the Long March and the anti-Japanese struggle, are being bashed up and occas ionally murdered and party institutions liquidated by non-party Red Guards, whose ranks include many slum delinquents. Washington's Bonn Part ners, after having given freedom to the Nazi mass murderer . Von Shirach, strongly defended the anti- Soviet line of the Chinese leadership and "cultural revolution." The West German news- agency described the Chin ese anti-Soviet outbursts as a "manifestation of freedom". While the Hungweipings were ordered to slacken off in the Chinese National Day period, because distinguished international guests would be in Peking, bashings and vandalism revived. But the "cultural revolu tion" |s meeting ever-mount ing resistance from workers, peasants and intellectuals. Posters, leaflets and slogans are appearing in city after city and in the countryside, denouncing the assaults of the Mao Tse-tung-ist Hung weipings. A leaflet signed by Foochow workers described how Red Guards descended on their city and openly boasted they would, overthrow the prole tariat and its dictatorship. They beat up party officials, sacked party offices and even bashed an old revolut ionary who had been tort ured. by both the Kuomintang and. the Japanese. The situation has taken a grave turn and threatened such serious, consequences for Vietnam and world peace that Communist Parties all over the world are issuing strong protests. Conference Some have called for a world, conference of Com munist Parties to strengthen unity against the aggressors despite Chinese disruption and assistance to the Amer ican cause. The Secretary of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany Central Committee, Herr Haxen said: "The slogans of the Chinese Com munist Party Central Com mittee's eleventh plenary meeting reminded one of Trotsky's thesis on the so- called shake-up of the Trade Unions, on industrialisation with the aid of military dis cipline which were rejected by the CPSU forty years ago as anti-Leninist and adven turist. 