 Canberra Conference s Aborigines want a share of the Arnhem Land mineral wealth CANBERRA: An imminent invasion of Arnhem Land by mining operators raises the whole question of the role of the Aborigines in the development of Australia's North. This was stressed last weekend by president Joe McGinness and senior vice-president Gordon Bryant M.P. at the Easter Conference at Canberra of the Federal Council for Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. Mr. McGinness said: "In a few years time all this northern development w.ll mean colossal wealth to the companies involved and a good deal to the Austra lian economy. "Yet what will all this wealth provide the original owners of this land in the way of economic and social secur ity and advance? "Here is now an unprece dented opportunity for Fed eral and State Governments to . ensure that Aborigines and Torres Islanders receive ade quate education, training, and employment at full award rates and conditions . . . "There is no reason, scientific or human, why, given the educ ation, the training, the advant ages of modern life, Aborigines and Islanders should not take their place before very long as technicians, scientists, academ ics and fully rounded citizens in their own and the general community." . This was supported in a mov- | ing plea by Mr. Daymbalipu from Yirrkaia Mission, who put the case for his people. "We are worried for our trib al country. The mining people come, but all people on Yirr: kala still want their country. There are many tribal lands for dancing, singing, and other im- i portant things." j Mrs. Jean Jimmy, one of the ! Aboriginal group forcibly mov- j ed from Mapoon (Northern Queensland) added her plea for the rights of her people. Anthropologist Dr. Colin Tatz reinforced their words with a description of an investigation of the cattle industry. This investigation showed that cattle men admit that Ab original workers are not only as good as white workers, but in some respects superior, and that in fact the Aborigines have been, and still are, the back bone of the cattle industry. The conference was attended by 135 delegates from all main land States, including 70 Abori gines and Torres Islanders, and 55 observers. Among its deck sions were:— The campaign for the in clusion of Section 51(xxvi) in the postponed referendum to be intensified, this to include amendments similar to those proposed by Mr. W. Wentworth MHR for outlawing racial dis crimination. The ACTU Interstate Ex ecutive to be asked to meet specially to discuss means of protecting Northern Territory Aborigines following the recent wages decision. o The Queensland Govern ment to be condemned for its failure to introduce legislation providing full rights for Abori gines and Torres Islanders. © The ACTU and its affiliates to be strongly requested to re open the case for variation of the Cattle Station Industry (NT) Award 1966. o State Committees to be set up for land ownership. Housing surveys to be extend ed. © Further investigations to be made on the marketing of Aboriginal art, and all known sacred places of the Aborigines to be proclaimed as sanctuaries, any intrusion or desecration to be regarded as a criminal act, Aboriginal poet Kath Walker attended the conference and read poems. Gary Shearston (delegate from Actors' Equity) sang a freedom song ("We Are Going To Freedom") which was adopted as a song of the Ad vancement Movement. Torres Strait Island repres entative Jacob Abednego report ed on the building of the co operative bakery presented to Moa Island people by the Aus tralian waterside workers. 