 Q'land poll in balance gRISBANE: The Queensland State elections next Saturday (May 28) were still wide open, but the Labor Patty could win, Mr. E. A. Bacon, Queens land State secretary of the Communist Party of Australia told a Tribune correspondent. The main point in Communist policy was for the all-round development of Queensland and strong opposition to the mono polies who were moving into the State's mineral and pastoral industries in a big way, he added. "The main aim is to defeat the Nicklin Government, a Country Party and Liberal coali tion," Mr. Bacon told Tribune. Constructive "ALP policy is on the whole progressive and constructive, reflecting the strong stand be ing taken by the labor move ment — especially the unions— on many questions," he said. Mr. Bacon told Tribune that ' he believed the five Communist candidates would increase their, vote, "The Government is in the middle of an internal civil war, and under heavy fire from many of its own supporters." This had become increasingly evident with the Liberal Party, at present a minority, setting out to win seats from the Coun try Party in three-cornered con tests. "As for the alleged record of the Nicklin Government," Mr. Bacon continued, "a recent Un iversity teach-in exploded their education claims by showing that Queensland lagged behind all other states in educational development." Campaign A powerful wages and prices campaign had forced the State Industrial Commission to aban don its decision not to review the State basic wage before June, and has just granted a 13 shilling increase to males and ten shillings to females. Turning to rural problems, Mr. Bacon claimed that the Country Party had failed its supporters in the countryside. After promises of unlimited expansion, sugar farmers were facing crisis, while thousands of dairy farmers have been forc ed off the land. Tobacco farm ers are caught again and again by the monopolies that control the market. Mr. Bacon also referred to the growth of a strong civil liberties movement as a result of the many recent examples of police brutality, as well as the opposi- . tion led by the University Staff Association to reactionary amendments to the University Act. Printed and published at 21 Ross St., Forest Lodge, by D. B. Young Pty. Lirnited, of 168 Day St., Sydney. 