 APPRENTICESHIP INQUIRY : "Give the girls a chance !" i SYDNEY : The NSW Government's Apprenticeship Inquiry was strongly urged last week to. recommend greater opportunities for girls to be apprenticed in what are now almost exclusive male occupations. This proposal was included in separate submissions to the inquiry from the NSW Labor Council, the Eureka Youth League and the Union of Aus tralian Women. Mr. F. Bowen, president of Labor Council and secretary of the Furnishing- Trades Soci ety, told the inquiry that his union had no objection to girls entering the trade. He said the Labor Council supported the principle of equal opportunities and equal pay for girls. Mr. D. McDonald, NSW pre sident of the EYL, said his or ganisation was opposed to res trictions on the right of people to train for skill because of sex, age or financial difficulties. The EYL was also opposed to introduction of forms of training for skill which would result in the lowering' of wages and status of skilled workers. He said that the ability of girls was not being fully utilis ed. They could be apprenticed in the electrical, metal and printing trades as was the case in other countries. They now work in these fields in Australia today as unskilled or semi-skilled workers. More girls should be offered training on equal wage rates with boys, he said. Boys made good cooks Mrs. P. Hopwood, NSW presi dent of the UAW, said that dur ing the war women went into many sections of the metal in dustry and mastered jobs re quiring a high level of skill. If girls were .given the op portunity they would soon . be come skilled tradesmen, she said. An example was given where the headmaster of Toronto High School (Newcastle) experiment ed with a class of girls for six weeks in woodwork while boys during the same period took cooking classes. x The result was that boys mastered the art of cooking and girls showed an aptitude for woodwork. Mrs. Hopwood said there was a need for employers and the public to abandon conservative attitudes to young girls enter ing new fields. To assist in this it was sug gested that a broad educational campaign be commenced by the appropriate authority through the press, radio and television. The use of films, lectures and visits to industries was also sug gested for schools plus the in troduction of manual training as a subject for girls. Wages and conditions Earlier submissions by the Labor Council said it was neces sary to improve wages and con ditions to attract more young people into the trades. The level of' wages was a deterrent to school leavers be coming apprentices, the unions said. The Australian Council of Trade Unions' Youth Policy calls for apprentices' wages to be paid as a percentage of the tradesmen's rate and not as now of the basic wage. It was submitted that these percentages should be: first year 45%, second year 55%, third year 65%, fourth year 85%, fifth year 95%. Mr. Bowen also proposed that a 35 hour week be introduced during training as an added inducement to young people to learn a trade. The unions point out that the armed services offer adult rates at 17 and many awards provide for adult pay at 18. The shortage of skilled trades men is also regarded by the unions to be caused by the reluctance of many employers to employ their quota of ap prentices. it was proposed that a pool system be considered in such industries as the building trades, sections of the motor trades, boilermaking etc. as a means of overcoming this situ ation. (Under the pool system, apprentices are apprenticed to the industry, not the individual employer). The scheme could be financed by imposing a levy on employ ers and apprentices allocated by the Apprenticeship Authority to approved employers. Failure of employers Labor Council said this would mean better trained apprentices, a greater output of apprentices and a better distribution of the responsibilities of training ap prentices. The EYL which has many members who are apprentices has for years actively campaign ed to improve apprenticeship conditions. The granting of daytime tech nical training was won follow ing a lengthy campaign by the EYL and trade unions. Submission from the EYL also pointed to the failure of employers, both government and private .to offer opportun ities and inducements to young people. It was stated that in 1954 a questionnaire to metal trades employers in NSW showed that only 58 per cent were employ ing any apprentices and many could have employed more. Little pay margins The EYL also lodged argu ments in support of a pool sys tem in certain industries and for higher wages and conditions. It was suggested that there is today insufficient margin for skill and thus incentive for training for skill is reduced. The NSW Government's pro posal to employ 16-year-old bus conductors was given as an example. At the age of 65 the total wages earned by such a boy starting at this age as a con ductor would be higher than if he worked as a fitter for the same period. On existing award wages he would earn £52,112/8/- as a con ductor as against £51,912/6/- as a fitter. "Too often cheap labour" The EYL said another argu ment favouring the pool system is the fact that there is seldom a connection between what a lad learns at tech college and what he does on the job. "Too often apprentices are used on repetition work or as cheap labor". It was proposed that training be reduced to four years and that one day a week be spent at tech throughout the first three years. Other EYL submissions call ed for special assistance to young people in the country and the payment of a special allow ance to apprentices who marry during their apprenticeship. 