 de Gaulle back, but with a slippery hold £YDNEY: 1966 sees General de Gaulle back as the French President, but with his position shaken to its foundations by over 10 million votes to his opponent M. Mitter rand candidate of the Left and the Re publicans. His win over Mitterand was 10 per cent, hardly a majority to have him bubbling over with confi dence. In 1967 the Gaullist Parliamentary front will face the polls. Defeat for his Prime Minister, Mr. Pompadou and his Union for the Republic would leave de Gaulle with a hostile Parliament. General de Gaulle's total vote, the incomplete results# indicated, would be about 12,700,000. On December 5, with four other candidates also running, General de Gaulle emerged with 44.6 per cent of the votes and M. Mitter rand, supported by the Socialists, Communists and Radicals, with 31.7 per cent. Failed That first round was inconclu sive because General de paulle failed to obtain the necessary 50 per cent plus one of the votes, leaving him to face M. Mitterrand only in the run off. M. Waldeck Rochet, general secre tary of the French Communist Party, declared last night that the Gaullist regime of personal power emerges very much weakened from the elec tion. "The decisive fact Is not the arduous election of de Gaulle, but the considered success scored by the Democratic and Republican can didature of Francois Mitterrand," M. Waldeck Rochet said. The question of replacing Gaul- iism was now posed more sharply than ever. "The task of all workers, of all democrats, is now above all. to unite to struggle against the reac tionary policies which the Gaullist power will try to carry out. "At the same time, it is neces sary, to prepare for the coming General Election battle, which should and cart set the seal on the defeat of the U.N.R. Party and of Gaullism by the election of a democratic majority to the Nation al Assembly. "The first condition for winning that battle is that all the parties of the Left, and all the democratic organisations, again go into the battle together, strengthening their union on the basis of a common programme which corresponds to the interests and wishes of the people and the nation." Democracy The millions of workers, of democrats who voted for M. Mitterrand, did not just want to say "No" to de Gaulle, but ex pressed their desire for social pro gress, democracy and peace, M. Waldeck Rochet said. "The people of France want a real change and real democracy, for which the union of all demo cratic and working-class forces is needed. "The French Communist Party, which is happy to have contri buted to the success of Francois Mitterrand, will intensify its efforts, for the realisation of the unity of the working class, the union of all . democratic . and progressive forces," M. Waldeck Rochet pledged. General de Gaulle, 75, became President in 1958. His election now is for a seven-year term. It has been widely forecast that his aim would be to see his U.N.R. party through the General Elec tion, and, if successful in this, to resign before his term if up in order to try to hand over power to a man of his choice. About 84 per cent of France's 29 million voters were estimated to have taken part in yesterday's run-off election. 