 UlWWiir Don't bug boardmen — OR shore surfers fHETHER hot-dogging it across the shoulder of a big surf, stalling or dropping inlo a swell, one thing should be &lt;at the moment1 certainly in the minds of Sydney's surf-board riders I — awareness of the need for safety. For the past couple of weeks, board riders have been in the news. Depicted as being a danger to other surfers, they have been banned and restricted from a number of north ern beaches. A controversy flared up when the Warringah Shire Council decided to put a ban on the use of surf boards at a number of north Sydney beaches be cause the Council con sidered that the boards were a danger to other surfers. As a result of the Coun cil's decision, there is now a total ban on the use of 'boards at Harbord Beach and restrictions on them at about another 17. However, the surf board riders see the ban as being unjust and have formed an Action Commit tee to state their case for the return of their surfing rights. Spokesmen for the board riders point out that the Councils benefit from the registration fees of thou sands and the free publi- city derived from the suc cess of boardman Nat Young in winning the world surf board riding championship recently, has popularised the northern beaches. An unfortunate accident last week at North Cronul- la in which a 15-year-old girl was seriously injured |j ' when hit by a board while I ' surfing has helped to pin- | point just where the real I I blame for the board dan- B ger lies. I f Commenting on the ac- I S cident, beach inspector B I Max Johnson claimed that I the accident would not I have occurred had inspec- S I tors been on patrol. "We 1 would have cleared the \ riders from the swimming I area and erected flags to 1 contain the swimmers" I - he said. ' : Mr. Johnson is one of I : five beach inspectors who 1 were dismissed by the 1 Sutherland Shire Council 1 after refusing to clean up 1 the beaches as part of 1 their job. 1 This is the crux of the | reason for the controversy 1 about board riders. On the one hand if beaches are able to be properly policed by inspectors har mony and safety should reign, but on the other 1 hand Councils apparently || find it difficult to provide I | the inspectors to do just f ' X this. The main reason is % jf a general lack of finance. ' ® Finance 1 In a so-called affluent la society, it is the direct b responsibility of the Fed- B eral government to pro- R vide enough finance to B relieve local government B councils of the need to B resort to penny-pinching B administration which in B turn affects surfing safety. There is plenty of room on Sydney beaches for | 'board and body surfers j to co-exist despite the g densest of crowds. On the g busiest days the area mark- g ed by the flags for body 1 surfing is never more than I about 100 yards and after 1 taking into account an- g other 50 yards for a buffer g zone, the remainder could g be given over to board B riders. I But what is required, is j strict policing of the I beach, to see that all I swimmers stay within | their respective areas. I Already, the Surf Life Saving Club members who incidentally are volun tary workers— help in pol icing the beaches. 1 A young member of the | South . Maroubra S.L.S.C. | told Tribune that on one g occasion last season about 20 boards were impound ed' by club members on duty for going out of bounds. "The life-savers try to use discretion and only impound deliberate offend ers. Others are assisted back to the correct surfing areas", he said. "The> -'boards are left with the beach inspector, who gives them back to their owners at the end of the day", he added. The lesson is there. What is required is an ef- | ficient use of beach inspec- | tors to help S.L.S.C's pat- | rol the beaches — and a | government that will pro- E| vide the finance that's ne- |j| cessary. || Printed and published at 21 H Forest Lodge, by D. B. Young ry- n Limited, of 168 Day St., Syd || 