 A Festival for Perth PERTH: Culture at many levels with a backbone of world classics and a slightly stronger injection of Australian talent will be provided in the Festival of Perth programme from January 28 to March 12. George Gershwin's poignant jazz opera "Porgy antt boss" witn a company of Maori and Negro actors and Singers will have an even stronger punch in today's context of :the civil rights struggle. The New Fortune Theatre will provide another unique experience when Edgar Metcalfe produces "Romeo and Juliet" in the world's only replica of the theatre of Shake speare's day. "MacBeth in Camera" —a study of a group of actors re hearsing the play— by the London Voyage Theatre will stimulate great interest among students and play goers. The Athens Drama Company play ing two classical Greek plays in the modern Greek language is an experiment which unfortunately may have a limited; appeal. However, (with a programme synopsis of "Iphegenia At Aulis" and "Lysistrata" and the mime and dramatic ability of the players, the two and a half thousand year old genius of Euripides and the pungency of Aristophanes should come through to us. ("Lysistrata" is a bawdy comedy of women's marital disobedience to stop their men going to war). Perth will have the world premier of West Australian Alan Seymour's new play "A Break in the Music" and John Manifold and his "Bandicoots" will present three programmes of Australian ballads. Local composer James Penberthy and other Austra lian composers will be included in the Festival. The "Pageant of Sound and Light" at the Old Asylum (or Old Women's Home), Fremantle is a fine idea that as well as providing entertain ment might convince more of the public of the need to preserve our historic buildings, not only from ' expressways but from general neglect and decay. The international film festival will again be one of the most popular . parts of the Festival of Perth. The i new Russian version of "Hamlet" which will be included has been praised by critics all over the world. Anyone who saw the French film "Pot of Gold" last year will queue up for "The Suitor" which is said to be equally convulsing. There is an exciting Czech film "Shop on the Main Street" and 'Dimka", a fresh and moving Russian film about a child searching Moscow streets for a new father, Polish, Greek, English, American and Japanese films of note. Directors of other films include Ingmar Bergman and Rossellini. Watch for dates for performances in the daily press. — J.W. 