 US POLL IS 'NO' ON VIETNAM gINKING of United States public con fidence in President Johnson's Vietnam policy to the all time low of 41 per cent, according to the Gallup public opinion poll, reflects the growing revulsion of the US people against the Vietnam war. Peace candidate Robert Scheer went very close to a win for nomination in one of the Califorman Democratic Party primaries for the Con gressional election in Novem ber. In Vietnam itself US losses continued to mount. Five US aircraft were shot down over North Vietnam in three days, bringing the total to June 13 to 1112. In South Vietnam the Ky Government continued its viol ent actions against, the Bud- hists whose intensified demon strations both in Saigon and Hue took, an increasingly anti- American turn. "Baffled" "The war continuous increas ingly to baffle, depress or in furiate millions of voters in America", admits n US Time Magazine, itself violently pro- war. "There is ample evidence that Americans remain uneasy over Vietnam. I "A Michigan poll showed that I while 62 per cent approved I Johnson's overall handling of I the presidency, 62 per cent f. also . disapproved of his con duct bf -the.'War.;' "In Virginia 53 per ..cent liked the, way he was doing his job, : while 53 per cent disliked the | way he was doing it in Viet- I nam. "In Iowa the Des Moines Register reported that while the President led Michigan's Republican Governor Romney 45 to 31 per cent in a January poll, he trailed him 46 to 35 per cent in May. "And it is safe to assume that Vietnam was a major factor in the turnabout. Time says that "hopefuls" believe that opposition to the war will help them win. The issue that has overridden party loyalties, and Time names four typical and important primary contests where peace candid ates in New York, Wisconsin and Kansas are making strong efforts to win! A National Conference for New Politics organisation has been set up in New York, Washington and Los Angeles aiming to raise half a, million dollars to back peace-support ing candidates. . US Newsweek magazine ad mits that the leading ahti-war candidate for Democratic Party congressional pre-select- ion, Robert Scheer, did more than twice as well as had been expected in getting 44.9 per cent of the votes. "This was not only a stunn ing' 'Slap" to Coherari'-'iLhis opponent) who has represented the district since 1958, but was inevitably seized on by Scheer's backers as ' confirmation of their belief that an anti-war stand has potent appeal at the polls", says Newsweek. Of the two dozen peace can didates in California, five held their positions in the preselect ion ballots and several others narrowly missed, says News week. 