 CALL TO PEG RATES " INCOME TO '65 LEVEL YDNEY: The State Labor Caucus in N.S.W. has called on the Askin Government to legislate urgently for the pegging of local government rate incomes at 1965 levels. The first session of the N.S.W. Parliament for 1966 opened yesterday, February 15. The Leader of the Opposi tion (Mr. Renshaw) said prior to the opening of Parliament that some councils had in creased rates as high as 33 per cent. This made it essen tial for urgent legislation to peg rate incomes at the 1965 level pending the outcome of the current Royal Commis sion on rating, valuation and | local government finance. Last week Mr. M. Burnham, j of the Sydney Committee of j the Communist Party, said that : this proposal by Labor Caucus I should be supported, j He also said that skyrocket- j ting rates had shown that neither Premier Askin's promises to keep rates down, nor changes of councillors in some areas, | had helped to get rate justice, j Some councils had maintained j rates at the 1965 level, but the generally accepted path by most councillors to get extra finance was to slug the rate- | payer. I Well-attended public meetings j had condemned councils for the | increases, some with threats of ! "calling in an administrator," I to run council, i "Can an administrator solve | the problems that 12 or 15 I councillors can't?" Mr. Burn- 1 ham asked. | "Apart from a restriction on I the democratic rights of the I people, the main problems of I council finance would remain." ? Land valuations in 1965 were 1 steep and many councils had unjustly used them to increase rates. They did not lower the pence in the £1 sufficiently to equal 1965 rate amounts. Solely to blame increased land valuations for higher rates was "passing the buck." But the questions remained: Must councils go short on development because of lack of funds? And was slugging the ordinary ratepayer the only solution? "The answer is no to both questions," Mr. Burnham said. "Big-scale business dominates all aspects of life and, in par ticular, has been increasing its hold in local government in the. last decade. "Not only land speculators (Hookers, etc.), but also giant retailers (Grace Bros., David Jones), as well as industrialists, have made demands on local councils for priority of finance and works for their private needs. This often means rezoning areas, additional and heavy road, drainage and simi lar work, altering existing streets, and other concessions. Monopoly suppliers also fix high prices on tyres, petrol, cable, road materials. "The people's requirements are expanding past the "road and footpath" level to centres for child-minding, senior citi zens and youth, pools, etc. The rates system alone is in adequate. "The Communist Party de mand is for 10 per cent of Federal revenue (i.e. total Federal Government income) . This year's budget would give, therefore, $230 million to Aus tralian local government or over £21 per head of population." Mr. Burnham said Federal aid would allow councils to: 1. Maintain rates at reasonably current level, preventing in creases — possibly reducing them. 2. Overcome backlog of works. 3. Plan to provide expanding needs with certainty of fulfil ment. 4. Allow permanent special con cessions, e.g., full rebate to all pensioners. Other subsidiary methods of financing could include: Coun cil-run businesses, the elimina tion of Federal payroll tax on local government, the State Government to carry the total cost of fire brigades, the main roads levy to Ibe eliminated or A at least paid , for out of petrol "'> tax revenue, full return of pet- I rol tax to States for road work State Government to eliminate stamp duty on local govern- ment purchase of capital equip ment, State and Federal Gov ernment to pay rates on their | properties. , 1 "We also advocate a system J of rating that allows councils 1 to place higher rates on large commercial enterprises, as against the ordinary home owner," he said. Pensioners The Local Government Act allowed councils to give con cessions to pensioners. Some - councils were giving uoo per 1 cent rebate, some less, some ' ) nothing. | Mr. Burnham said that as ' councils re-decided their pol- icy each year, pensioners were never sure of their position. The Communist Party advo cated: — a) 100 per cent rebate to all pensioners for council and water rates; b) the Local Government Act to he changed making pensioner rebate compul sory on all councils, hot | allowing the annual N| charges. ; The Government should re- j imtourse councils and water j J boards 100 'per cent, and it f should be stressed that pen- J sioners were a Federal respon- f sibility and therefore Federal / Government should reimburse V the money to Councils. rf MR. M. BURNHAM 