 RED CELLS AND HOT RHYTHM HARRY STEIN interviews two Cuban visitors to Australia QNE of Cuba's best- known TV stars, Mariana Ramierez Corria, has made the long trip to Australia via Canada, Prague and London. Her weekly show "The Rhythm of Cuba" is one of the most popular in the country. During her visit she both sang and was interviewed on Bob Sanders' popular ABN show "People", but the real purpose of her trip was to attend the World Conference on Haematology that was concluded recently at Sydney University. Mariana is also a scientist who assists her father, Dr. M. Ramierez Corria, Professor of Neuropathology at the Uni versity of Havana. Dr. Corria presented a paper to the Conference on "New Findings in the Structure of the Red Cells". In an interview with Trib une, Dr. Corria described the Conference as "very import ant, because it gave doctors from all over the world an opportunity to learn what their colleagues in other countries are doing." He said that the "Confer ence organisers had gone out of their way to make i,t easy for us to come here from Cuba. Accepted "Although when they knew we were coming the time for submission of papers had closed, Professor Walsh of the Red Cross Blood Trans fusion Service wrote back immediately to say that our paper would be accepted." Dr. Corria said he was pleased at the interest shown at the Conference in his paper, which was the only paper read on this subject. The result had been that some doctors want to work with Dr. Corria, including one doctor from the USA. The American doctor told Dr. Corria that he plans to do the same work in his laboratory and they will then exchange experiences on each other's progress. "I have been delighted and impressed with the Australian people I have met. They have an astonishing simplicity com bined with first-class minds," the Doctor told Tribune. "From the little I have seen of Australia I think it must be a very nice country to work in," he said. "In the last few years there have been big improvements in medicine in Cuba. Form erly there were 90 hospitals and today there are 150", Dr. Corria said. "Hospital treatment is free in Cuba," he added, "but not general practitioners. We still need to train many more doctors." When we . showed Mariana an article on Cuba sent back - by Alec Robertson during his recent visit which was accom panied by a photo of Castro, she said she would show it to Fidel when she gets home. "When he sees the paper Fidel will probably tug at his beard and ask me to translate it . for him." Mariana said that her TV program was very popular with both the young and the old people, because it pre sented the life and the music of Cuba both past and pre sent. "On the return trip I will be singing at the Edinburgh Festival in Scotland and on the BBC London. Then straight home to my lovely children who are four, five and six". ABC viewers watching Ramierez must have been impressed by her vitality, and the presentation of her songs. 