 Potent spirit of friendship By Jim Stevens gYDNEY : Two young Australian scientists, a physical oceanographer and a planktologist, both CSIRO men, were ab sorbed in examining the intricate mechanism of a meter for measuring water currents. In another section of the crowded laboratory another scientist was talking about "stratification of different lay ers with different optical pro perties." The scientist was Dr. Leonid Ghedeonov, a nuclear physi cist on board the Soviet float ing laboratory, the "Mikhail Lomonosov." Dr. Ghedeonov Was acting as an interpreter for about 30 Australian scientists who visit ed the ship last Tuesday dur ing its short stay in Sydney. The tour proceeded from lab to lab— sixteen in all— and the commentary, questions and discussions continued. A young Soviet scientist, Alexander Novosiolov, was talking about the work in his chemical laboratory. For my benefit a young Australian scientist explained that this particular work was important as it "measures the fertility of the water." Then in the computer room, the discussions became more complex as did the great mass of equipment. Here a young man, Vitali Nikulin, explained how the equipment was used to record data and carry out scientific programming. At this point I left the com puter room to try and sort out what it all meant to the man in the street. «» Here were scientists eager to learn from each other. Their common bond and language is to advance man's knowledge and life. And while the Soviet scient ists last Tuesday met their Australian counterparts on board this ship, a reciprocal visit was made the following day tc the CSIRO Laboratories in Sydney. The "Mikhail Lomonosov" belongs to the Marine Hydro- physical Institute of the Ukrainian Academy of Science arid is one of 90 Soviet scienti fic ships. It has a crew of 77 and a team of 60 scientists led by Dr. Sergei Boguslavsky, a Geophysicist. Of the 17 women on board, seven are scientists. Contamination Dr. Boguslavsky explained that, this expedition is examin ing radio activity of marine environment, ocean currents, geology of the sea bottom and radio physics. Already their investigations have shown discrepancies in navigation maps, he said. Dr. Ghedeonov said he was mainly investigating the degree of contamination caused by nuclear testing. He said that following the recent French nuclear test in the Pacific, there is 10 to 20 times more short living radio active substances in the South ern hemisphere than in the North. During a press discussion in ? his cabin he told of his 18 . year old daughter in Lenin grad Who is now preparing for the university. "She wants to be an artist," he said. Later we joined the scient ists in the mess room. They had already polished off a few bottles of Soviet, vodka and cognac. It may not have been radio active, but it was , highly potent! i Scientific co-existence : Australian scientists listen to a Soviet colleague explain the intricacies of the research ship Mikaail Lomonosov. 