 Bumper Soviet crop 'pHERE has been a great deal of criticism of the state of Soviet Agriculture over the past several years, indeed ever since the USSR began purchasing wheat on a large scale from Canada and Australia. Many people have taken the view that little could be done and that at best it would take many years to raise the productivity of this sector of the Soviet economy. ' On a recent visit to the Soviet Union, I was im pressed with the advances made in the particular sphere of chemical weed control and came away with the general impression that the vast new investment in Soviet Ag riculture would soon begin to bear fruit. The general use of fertiliz ers in ample quantities, the use of higher yielding variet ies, and the elimination of weeds from cereal crops have in remarkably short time raised grain yields in Western Europe, Britain and North America by as much as 25 to 50 per cent since the war and there is clearly no technical reason why yields should not be similary raised in the Soviet Union. It is therefore with great interest that I read that it was announced in Moscow on October 6th that grain yields for 1966 totalled between 160 and 165 million tons. This is more than 10 million tons higher than the previous rec ord. More important, it has been achieved on a reduced acreage amounting to some 269 million acres. In 1934, a previous record year, 152 ! million tons were harvested from 329 million acres. The yield per acre for the l five years prior to 1966 am- l ounted to some 184 bushels per acre, whereas in 1966 the yield is 214 bushels per acre, an increase of 17%, slightly more than the Australian av erage of 19-20 bushels, the acre. According to Western ex perts, weather conditions in the Soviet Union were not so favourable in 1966, one can safely assume that this is not a mere flash in the pan. It is clear that the new economic incentives com bined with the wider use of new varities, fertilizers, chemical weed killers etc. are already beginning to have a sharp effect on the gram front, and it will be interest ing indeed to watch the trend in the cominer five years. Peter Gregory, Balmain (N.S.W.) 