 PALMADA : SER VICES IN SHAMBLES By Joe Palmada Secretary, Sydney District Committee, CPA THE statements i n Tribune over the last few weeks by trans port union leaders have served to highlight and emphasise the shambles that NSW public trans port services are in. I agree with the views ex pressed that conditions for transport workers must be vastly improved as a first step towards attracting staff and maintaining a degree of stability in public transport. But working conditions, as a symptom of the problem, arise as a result of the crisis in travel services as a whole, a crisis that must be tackled in a radical way if a solution is to be found. It certainly involves what Lloyd Ross calls instituting a policy of "co-ordination" but it also embraces such questions as a concrete plan for the replacement and im provement of outmoded and obsolete transport equipment, the improvement and exten sion of express arterial high ways with new bridges across the harbour and greater use of our waterways for an efficient state-owned ferry service. The city's transport system, in the main, fits in with the needs and demands of private enterprise. What do employ ers care if the workers in the factories and shops tra vel in conditions best suited for cattle, just so long as they get there? What concern is it of pri vate enterprise if, in the chaos that exists, the ordin ary people are slugged exor bitant fares to try to make the service pay? The Askin Government, which came to office on a "no-fares-increase" policy, has contemptuously broken this promise. As a Government that supports "free enterprise" and monopoly it turns luc rative contracts for new rol ling stock over to private firms like A. E. Goodwin, whilst the great railway workshops are in a depressed state. The suggestion by Lloyd Ross that a co-ordinating committee he established has some merit if such a com mittee included representat ives of the trade unions and other people's organisations and acted not only as a co ordinating committee hut in an advisory capacity to the Transport Department. In the view of the com munist Party some immediate steps must be taken: A crash programme to complete the Eastern Suburbs railway long promised by both the previous Labor Govern ment and the present Liberal Government in the shortest possible time. Extension of electrifica tion service to Campbelltown. Building of a distributor expressway to service the north-western and south western sections of the city. Renewal and replace ment of obsolete motor trans port. ' Modernisation of subur ban railway stations to pro vide for parking stations and underground pedestrian cros sings. Immediate improvement in the wages and working conditions of transport work ers to make for greater sta bility in the industry. Reintroduction of the services that have been cut and extensions made to exist, ing services in the interests of the public. Financial assistance for such urgent projects must come from the Federal Gov ernment. 