 How to turn base metal into gold . . . GOVTS $40 MILLION BONANZA TO COPPER COMPANIES gYDNEY : Refusal of the Federal Government to prevent a £380 a ton increase in the local price of copper will add M0 million a year to"tfrfe nrnfits of three coDDer nroducinsr companies. The American-controlled Mt. Isa Mine company, which supplies 70 per cent of the local market, will add $30 million a year to their profits. Up to date they have never shown a profit in any year higher than $15 million. The increase will add $4 million to the annual tax able profits of Mt. Lyell, and $2.8 million a year to Cobar Mines, owned by Broken Hill South, and Conzinc- Rio Tinto- It will cost copper consumers an extra $40 million a year and hit at all new home builders. It will . lead to higher costs for heavy electrical equipment building and eventually mean higher elec tricity bills. It could lead to higher post office charges, as the PMG will have $4£ million added to its costs. It makes nonsense of the old story that wage rises cause price rises; in fact the huge price increase won't mean a cent extra for the Mt. Isa miners, whose bonuses are pegged. Nor is it suggested that any pay increase has anything to do with the rise. Pensioners' 50 cents Contrast this huge increase in copper prices with the estimated increase of about 50 cents a week for pen sioners in the Budget next week. Political observers are hinting at a "stay-put" Budget, but there is nothing stay-put about this profit grab, or the certain escalation in military spending already announced by Prime Minister Holt. There are disturbing signs in the. ecoribmy that need the urgent attention of the. Government and it will be interesting to see what steps, if any are tsiken in the coming .Budget. There is a sharp decline in the building industry that must have far-reaching effects, the wages of waterside workers are at the lowest level for many years and there is a general decline in employment. A further decline in living standards is revealed in figures released recently by the Acting Deputy Common wealth Statistician, Mr. Walker. They showed that in the field of NSW Government building there were 1727 fewer approvals for flats and houses this year than in 1964-65. 