 Fifty years since Australia first said "No" to Conscription The Glorious 28 th" October 28 marked the 50th anniversary of the historic defeat in 1916 of the first referendum held by the Hughes Government on the issue of sending conscripts to the overseas fronts during the I'irst World Wai. Pleie SAM AARONS, former WA Secretary , noxu chairman, of the Communist Party of Australia and an actual participant in the anti-conscription struggle, recalls the referendum campaign and its significance for Australia today. 1 "T"HE outbreak of the 1914/ 18 war surprised and shocked most Australians. In retrospect, it seems there was a minimum interest in inter national affairs; Europe was far, far away, and its disputes and quarrels seemed of little import ance here. Also, there was a wide belief it would be over in a few weeks. Kaiser Wilhelm was an upstart tyrant who would quickly be put in his place. Did not Britannia rule the waves and rule over an Empire on which the sun never set? Never theless, our country was a part of this great Empire, and to come to its aid was seen as the fore most duty of all decent, patriotic Australians. Volunteers rushed to join up; more than 50,000 were accepted in the first five months. By the end of the war some 400,000 had en listed—a. huge number from a country with a population of 5 million. At first, this was the attitude of the Labor Party. Its 1915 elec tion manifesto stated — "War is one of the greatest real ise; of life, and it must be faced. Our interests and our very existence are bound up with those of the Empire. . . If returned with a ma jority, we shall pursue every course necessary for the defence of the Commonwealth and the Empire. . ." But war's realities soon raised doubts in the minds of many people. Reports of its horrors, underlined by the so frequent and huge casualty lists, dispelled many illusions, and voices began to be raised, questioning the aims be hind the slaughter and our! coun try's participation in it. Not that there were no opposi tion voices right from the start, even if they were not very pow erful. On the Sunday after war was declared, the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) unfurled its banner reading "War! What for and this working class organisa tion never ceased active opposition until it was outlawed and its lead ers jailed three years later. One of them, Tom Barker, was prose cuted for issuing a poster calling — To Arms! Capitalists, parsons, poli ticians, newspaper editors and other stay-at-home patriots, your country needs you in the trenches! Workers, follow your masters." Mannix A Women's peace Army came out with the slogan: "We War against War." The Socialist Parties and other organisations in all States quickly took their stand against the war, and later on became an important force in the anti-con scription front.. A number of clergymen of var ious denominations upheld their pacifist beliefs, and vigorously worked for them, mostly in face of the Churches' official attitudes. Outstanding was Archbishop Mau- nix. I remember his reply when he was attacked by a Sydney digr natory for his opposition to the war; he said: "Some Catholic clergy are more Catholic than the Pope, more loyal than the King." A few Labor members of Par liament, notably Frank Anstey, MHR, in Melbourne, Senator Ar thur Rae, in NSW, disagreed pub licly with their party's policy. It was when Prime Minister Billy Hugres returned from Eng land early in 1916 pledged to in troduce conscription, dammed back till then by the stifling of freedom of speech and press, the prosecutions and jailings, the violence against and slander of opponents, that the movement of the small minority became a orea-t torrent of opposition. Then the battle was really joined, a battle that quickly be came the. most fierce and acri monious in Australia's history. The Labor Party and the Federal Labor Government were split wide open; families were divided, life-long friendships were de stroyed. The Referendum brought thfe anti-conscription movement a most powerful ally— practically the whole trade J ion/. movement -and this was-.il ;isive. A great . ideal! fc-,ithe credit belonged to the;;, itralian Work ers' Union cand j sbp'aper "The Worker", edited H. E. Boote, whose articles . he: d;to increased by 100,000 its; cii ilation in city and country. Hughes si; The paper ialso Hinted 5 mil lion pamphlets a I leaflets and 25,000 posters ;dt hg the cam paign. I remember . s well Hughes' announcement % Irliament that a referendum' jtid ber 'held. I was one of a 'AM .audience- at a No Conspffia : Fellowship meeting in elRia-ne's Guild Hall when the news came through. Apparently spontan eously, the speaker proposed that the meeting adjourn and we hold a protest march to Federal Par liament House, then at the top of Bourke Street. Quickly the hall was emptied, and we formed up hundreds strong in Swanston Street. Down the road we marched to the corner of Bourke Street, where we were met by a cordon of police who unsuccess fully tried to stop us. From there, up the hill a min iature battle raged between the police, aided by some soldialrs. At the Exhibition Street corner we were charged by mounted police, some riding on the road, others on the footpath. Batons were flying, men and women go ing down like ninepins. Never- theless the great majority of the marchers made their way to Parliament House, only to find it cordoned off and guarded by a strong force of . soldiers and police. This use of violence to inti midate the anti-conscriptionists failed; rather it stimulated their determination and activ i t y, drawing into their ranks many who until then had remained relatively passive. From then on, at any rate in Melbourne, the campaign went . ahead with greater confidence and steadily increasing vigor. Foiling Day — October 28 — brought victory; the NO major ity was 72,476, and great indeed was' the rejoicing. Perhaps it was the narrowness of the victory that emboldened the Government to have another try, but all in vain; this time the NO. margin was nearly 100,000 bigger. Simonov The date the second referen dum was announced is worthy of note— November 7, 117, the very day the workers and peasants of Russia took power into their own hands. Just at the time when the con scription issue began to take shape a. Peace Conference was held in Melbourne with 10 dele gates present. It took the fol lowing decisions: 1.To oppose by all lawful means conscription of human life for military service abroad. 2. To support the Hughes Govern ment in its promise to supply an additional 50,000 men to the British Government. The second Peace Conference one year later attracted delegates from 39 organisations. The third and final Conference met at Easter 1918; this was at tended by over 100 delegates from 54 organisations. My mother , was one of the delegates with Bob Ross from the Victorian Soc ialist Party, and, I went along with her as a visitor. There we met delegate, Peter Simonov, newly appointed Soviet Consul- General to Australia, who was accompanied by another Russian, Yakov Gunn. The report to the Conference stated: ". . . only by the abolition of the capitalist system can justice be secured and the fundamental causes of international friction be perman ently removed." It also called — needless to sa.y in vain — for official recognition of Simonov as the accredited re presentative of the new, Socialist, Russia. A comparison of the decisions of the 1916 and 1918 Conferences emphasises the rapidity with which the struggle against im perialist war ond conscription brought with it a vastly greater political awareness. Surely it is clear that today many people are moving in the same direction as did the pioneers of 50 years ago. Opposition to the Vietnam war, to the committal of our country to it, and to con scription, has again brought new forces into action, and that this time too it is the youth who form the vanguard. November 26, 1966 will see a vote of a slightly different kind, but with some of the same con tent. It is to be hoped that his tory will repeat itself. But whe ther it does or not, there will still be thousands of Australians in different walks of life whose recent rich experiences in the fight against war, against con scription for Vietnam, will affect their attitudes towards the pro- - blems of today, and the pressing need for sweeping social change. ( "The Worker", October 5, 1916 THE "CASE" FOR LABOR (By W. M. Hughes) 