 LULii IJjfaiJLlLI. J Front man for the CSR? COME lowdown on R. C. Cotton, Liberal Party Senate candidate in NSW . . . he's managing-director of ' Atel Ltd., makers of Pyne- board building material. The company registered in 1961. The Colonial Sugar Refining Co., giant sugar and building, materials monopoly, acquired 40,000 $2 shares in Atel. Later some 180,000 $2 or dinary shares were offered to the public. CSR also has 50% interest in Pynehoard Pty. Ltd. and '50% in Pynehoard Pty. Ltd (Gippsland) but as both are unlisted in direc tors it is not known whether Mr. Cotton also figures, there. Could Cotton be a front man for CSR? New-style escalation? AMERICA'S heavy air losses, and failures in ground operations, raise grave dangers that the Viet nam war will be escalated into missile onslaughts from the Seventh Fleet and near by island bases. Tribune correspondent Rupert Lockwood writes from Moscow that the Pentagon "hawks" have expressed the view that great slaughter and destruction can be achieved by missile war without loss of pilots— and there is a grow ing shortage of aircraft and pilots. Newsweek admits that air strikes against North Vietnam are toe- coming less and less effective. The Washington Post reports from Saigon that nuclear submarines of Task Force 77 are already on "patrol .duty" in the Vietnam area. America toas delivered Hawk guided missiles to the South Korean army and the Japanese navy and the American navy for the first time is holding joint missile firing exercises. Is off-shore missile warfare in Holt's mind when he forecasts ex pansion of the war and Australia's participation in it? Delinquent' Labor Party IN a contest for the lowest level of election publicity, the DLP would walk under a snake's belly. Two examples: (1) A TV film showing other parties as rockets that don't blast off while the DLP rocket fills the sky with stars (and that's all!) (2) A bright yellow poster read ing "The Communist Party of Aus tralia urges you to vote 1 ALP". This poster, authorised personally by DLP candidate A. P. Diehm, has been sneaked up alongside ALP posters in Mitchell electorate (outer Sydney). Talking of booby prizes, the Brisbane "Courier-Mail" streaked ahead with a heading "He drown ed out the interjectors" to de scribe Holt's disastrous Brisbane meeting (at which even Liberals walked out when Harold wouldn't stop trying to get a hearing). "CIA spies in Fed. Govt." "pHE Liberal Reform group candidate for Lowe, Mr. F. James, told an elec tion meeting at Strathfield last Monday that two Fed eral MPs were part-time agents for fihe American . Central Intelligence Agency. He said that he had no evidence that they were being paid for in formation but he knew that they were supplying top secret classified Australian information to the agency. Mr. James declined to reveal any names but he told Tribune's Parliamentary Roundsman Harry Stein after the meeting that it was an '"excellent speculation" that the MPs were Liberals. He also said that there were many CIA agents operating in Australia. Quoting the "Sunday Times", London, to the effect that bubonic plague was threatening to sweep Vietnam, with 2,002 diagnosed cases between January 5 and Aug ust 5 this year, Mr. James chal lenged the Government to deny that there had been three con firmed cases also among Aus tralian troops. The other Harold next? -pop representatives of | major British firms op erating in Australia have advised head office to press for Britain to "show the flag" in Australia. One suggestion is a visit by F.M. Harold Wilson in '67 or '68 They estimated that Holt's pub lic fawning on LBJ during his visit" amounted to a serious defeat for British interests; but also that the thrust of US economic and military interests here has touched off a rallying of all the forces striving for an independent Aus tralian policy and outlook. Then there are those who stand for the tie with Britain. One pointer is that the National Fit ness Council, making its annual call for loyalty messages from youth groups to the Queen for Commonwealth Youth Sunday, has received 51 in the past week or two,, compared with 12 last year L and 19 in '64. jk Holt is sitting on a time-bomb. e The point is to shorten the time. gj 