 Real aims of the hard core "J"HERE ought to be a vote of thanks to the Queensland "Worker" for unwittingly throw- ing a clear light on a vital issue for the whole Australian labor movement. v inat issue is tne real intentions or tne hard core of the right-wing of the Australian Labor Party. The December 5 issue of the Queensland "Worker", an organ of the Australian Workers' Union, ascribed Labor's election defeat to "Cal- well's pledge to pull out of Vietnam and run away from the onward march of militant Communism". The electors "rejected it . . . and thank God they did!" said the "Worker". As the Queensland "Worker" is under the thumb of AWU Federal President E. Williams, its policy line accurately reflects that oF the union's Federal leadership and of some of the most de termined elements of the whole ALP right-wing. All the way... And the statement makes very clear that the right-wing are out to take ALP policy by the scruff of the neck and. hurl it into line with Holt's policy ... keep the troops in Vietnam . . . escalate the war ... all the way with LBJ! That is the reality behind all the right-wing manoeuvres, centred on the NSW leadership of the party, that have followed a pattern this year. , The "State aid" issue was tossed about, osten sibly as a key to winning elections, but in. reality in an attempt to unseat the Federal party leader - ship and swing the foreign policy to the right. The actual failure of the ALP's extensive State aid promises to attract votes in the election— or to draw the NSW leaders into active electoral cam paigning — clearly revealed their utter hypocrisy on this issue. The June ALP conference report by NSW presi dent C. Oliver (also AWU State secretary) was notable for its indifference to the conscription and Vietnam policies of the party and for its enthusias tic support of alliance with the United States. The right-wing has strong bases in the NSW party machine, the NSW Labor Council and the AWU and ACTU leaderships (between whom a deal is under way for AWU affiliation to the ACTU). All of these ran so dead in the election cam paign that many observers wondered if they really wanted a. Labor Government. The Queensland "Worker" has answered their queries— important sections of the right-wing were working hard for an ALP defeat. These facts will rightly be regarded by ALP members as downright treachery. But they also throw clearer light on current right-wing manoeuvring in preparation for Mr. Calwell's resignation as leader. Principles Post-election statements by Leader A. A. Calwell and others that the ALP must stand firm ly by its principles and declared policies become all the more significant. The right-wing reject these principles and policies and) seek to substitute for them bi-partisan war policies which (in the preceding issue of the Queensland Worker ) they falsely claim are based on those of the wartime Labor Government. The record shows that the Curtin Government developed the first relatively independent Aus tralian foreign policy, saw the post-war Australian security zone as lying south of the Equator, and preserved a cautious, while friendly, attitude to wards post-war US ambition in the Pacific. That is a matter of fact that should be grasped | by the whole Labor movement. And it should be an added stimulus to activity to ensure the defeat of the growing campaign to swing the ALP to the right, on to the path of war, economic sacrifices by the working people and full subservience to US interests. 