 Bigger slices of bigger cake By RUPERT LOCKWOOD. A WAGES rise during 1965 of- from about £ A27 a week (230 roubles a month) to about £30 (270 roubles a month ) went into trie pocK.- ets of Moscow transport workers after they applied economic reforms represented in the West as "a return to capitalism". To the wages rise the benefit of various price cuts has to be added. Road .haulage and motor transport generally provided one of the first fields for experiment in the Soviet Union's experiment for greater effi ciency, labor-saving, improved ser vices, higher profits and higher wages. The Moscow City Road Transport Administration runs 60,000 vehicles, from taxis to tip-trucks and trailers; it has 125,000 employees, including 7,000 engineers. The vehicles carry building mater ials to construction sites, food to cafes, freight to railways, cargo to Moscow River ports, goods to shops.- The large fleet of taxis is in evi dence everywhere in Moscow, and taxis are reasonably priced. Certain inefficiencies held back transport progress in Moscow. Sev eral years ago the capital had no central road transport organisation, or rationalised networks of service and parking stations. Moscow had 4,500 different stations and parks for vehicles. Now there are less than 100. Before the September-October Cen tral Committee Plenum, the problems of bureaucracy and top-heavy admin istration and central planning were tackled. Premier Alexei Kosygln, at the re cent Plenum, had to note that about half all road haulage journeys in the USSR were empty runs. But he was also able to note that greater mat erial incentives and initiatives for Moscow transport workers, better cost-accounting and a higher share of profits from improved operation had led to cuts in time for loading and unloading, extended services and more efficient repair and mainten ance in Moscow transport. While carrying more freight the Moscow transport organisation had been able to sell off superfluous lor ries and discontinue employment of redundant staff. Empty runs had been reduced 15 per cent in the four months before the Plenum, freight turnover had been lifted 34 per cent and profits more than doubled. Forty per cent of the doubled profits went to the State Budget, and 60 per cent to the Moscow transport organisation, to modernise vehicle fleets, equipment and main tenance, and to provide more wages, recreational and cultural services for workers and their families. Moscow City Transport Adminis tration Chief Goberman gave fur ther evidence of benefits in a recent interview. A few months ago his organisation trucks were carrying loads for 63 miles in every 100 tra velled. Now they were loaded for 86 in every 100. America could achieve 58 per cent loading within cities and 68 per cent on inter-city hauls. Computers helped to find the shortest routes for Soviet trucks, and costs fell. In five months of the new policy three trucking sectors within the Moscow city transport organisation returned a profit of 400,000 roubles between them, against 80,000 roubles for the whole of the previous year. A rouble is worth 10/- Australian —that means £200,000 for five months against £40,000 for the whole of the previous year. Another Moscow trucking sector, on inter-city services, made 500,000 roubles (£250,000) in the same five months, of which 300,000 went to the State Budget and 200,000 to the enterprise. Two Moscow workers helping themselves to their wages. 