 In brief in brief in brief ""|"HE Filipino has lost his soul and his courage" said the orator. "Our people have come to a point of despair. Justice and security are myths. Our Gov ernment is gripped in the iron hand of venality. Its treasury is barren, its resources are wasted, its civil service sloth ful and indifferent". This great wrap-up for the Philippines, free-world bastion and . host country to the Man ila Conference, was given by a man who should know— the President, Ferdinand E. Mar cos—in his inauguration speech a year ago. PHI LUPINES It is quoted in Time mag azine in the current issue. It does not claim that Marcos has done much to remove the "despair". Seventy per cent of the population are peasants living at subsistence level. Average income is $A70 a year. Peasants today, says Time, pay up to 30 per cent of their crops to absentee landlords and the rest often goes to local loan sharks. Shades of red "THE workers' flag is deep est red" carolled British Premier Harold Wilson at the British Labor Party confer ence at Brighton. "Though coward flinch and traitor sneer we'll keep the Red Flag flying here". BRITAIN After joining with the rest of the conference in the usual closing ceremony, which in cludes singing the Red Flag Wilson went back to London to implement the pay freeze with legal orders barring some electrical industry and newspaper industry employers from paying agreed-on rises to their workers. Soon afterwards unemploy ment figures in Britain Jump- ed 90,000 to 437,000— the big gest leap for three years. British bosses are quite geting to like Wilson's shade of "red". Plague protests rpHE people of Crawley, Sus sex, England whose new hospital has been delayed by "shortage of Government funds", are protesting against a secret germ warfare centre alleged to be on the town's outskirts. The Crawley Peace Associ ation has written to the Gov ernment to complain about the suspected establishment, said to be manufacturing plague germs that could wipe out the population of Britain. The local paper, the Craw ley Adevrtiser, said the germs handled are "extremely viru lent". The Peace Association, chaired by the local vicar, has asked whom it is intended to poison with the germs. 