 goes to the opera i j Artist HERB McCLINTOCK took his brush ' and his pen along to the Elizabethan Theatre " Trust Opera season in Sydney ... ) i - ' "pHE Elizabethan Trust Opera Company in it Sydney season concluding this week, has given us more than a glimpse of what Austral ian singers, producers, musicians, and designers 1 can do with ooera. remote from the Lotterv modem arrhiter- 1 ture and haggling over the rising costs of the Opera House. Opera as a spectacle and a form of artistic expression is a flesh and blood affair, and like all. art is produced by human beings in society. Malcolm Sargent had this- in mind when he expressed the fear that with the immense sums of money found for the Opera House construction too little would be available to establish, train and secure in employment the singers and technicians that would bring opera to the public. The Trust's most ambitious venture is Moussorgski's "Boris Godounov". This opera is a musical setting of Pushkin's drama of Czar Boris . who is thought to have gained the crown by engineering the death of the infant Dimitry, the true successor," and is overthrown by the supporters of a young monk who; claims to be Dimitry who miraculously- | escaped the intended murder. J | In this opera Moussorgski. carried further the . aim of the ' famous "five" in Russian music who were in revolt against | tho alien classicisms favoured by Czarist aristocracy and | fought against official censorship to found a national school a of music based on Russian culture and folk themes. I ' ' i . ? f: ' 1 .. . So revolutionary was this opera both in style and content that it was considered by more scholarly musicians to be too barbaric, harsh and unfinished for the. stage, and was worked over, notably by Rimsky-Korsakov, in an attempt to smooth out _ the rough passages and make it more acceptable to sensitive ears, at the same time "cutting out scenes of interest to the political censor. Latterly there has been a move to restore Moussorgski's original and the Trust's version is said to be nearer to this, although this is still subject to controversy. With Verdi s ' II Trovatore" (The Troubador) the opera- goer is on more familiar ground with love, passion, sword play and the Gypsy's revenge, all sung to rumpty-ti-tum accompaniment to such popular tunes as the Anvil chorus and 'Fierce Flames are Raging". The lighter touch is provided in Rossini's "Barber of Seville," always a favourite with its rol licking patter songs, light hearted melody and ' rippling speed, treated so freely by the Trust as to border at times on slap-stick. In all, these, performances by what must be the nearest we have had to an all Australian company performing at a high professional level auger well for the future of the recently announced plan to establish a State Opera Company with its own orchestra to begin tour next year. Also encouraging is the Com missioning of an Australian opera by John Antill, composer of the ballet "Corroboree". Modern opera in socialist countries boldly employs contem- ; porary social themes and the great moments of revolutionary history in contrast to the classical and biblical subjects that still obsess many western composers. We in Australia could well do with genuinely Australian opera based on similar themes taken from ouc own history and trad itions. 