 LITTLE BILLY'S FIRST DELIVERY NO BETTER THAN HAROLD'S LAST — enormous " defence " slug By E. W. Campbell fEDERAL Treasurer McMahon's first Budget is a typical-play- - it-safe election year affair — no shocks, no surprises and a few paltry sops to pensioners. In terms of real benefits to the Australian people or of relieving them of the heavy burden of direct and indirect taxation, it was hardly any improve ment on that of his predecessor, present Prime Minister Harold Holt, last year. It was left to Liberal Premiers in Victoria and NSW to hand out the shocks per forecasts of steep increases in state taxes, fares and hospital fees. Dominating feature of the Federal Budget was the 34 per cent leap in war expendi ture to $1000 million. This is 90 per cent above the figure for three years ago, when Australia became more directly and deeply involved in the Vietnam war, and accounts for 17 per cent of the total Budget expenditure. The Australian people have had no voice as to whether their sons should be sent to the terrible war of intervention in Vietnam. Neither are they to be asked it seems, whether they like pay ing through the nose for it. Pawn The increased war expendi ture of $252 million will put Australia more heavily in pawn to the United States. This increase is almost double the extra finance allot ted to drought relief, housing, education and social services taken together. Total budgetary expenditure is estimated at $5930 million and total revenue $5397 million. This leaves a gap of $533 mil lion (more than double last year's $251 million) to be fin anced by borrowing, which will increase the interest burden in future Budgets. Should loan raisings and revenue fail to live up to ex pectations, the way is open for a supplementary "horror Budget", or further inflation ary measures or both courses, if the Government is re-elected. Federal Treasurer McMahon, iq introducing the Budget, said it was expected to have an ex pansionary effect upon the economy. However, it remains to be seen whether this will eventu ate. - Weakest point in the economy is the long sustained lag in consumer expenditure. i The $2 increase in the basic wage was too far eroded by price increases to provide the needed boost and the niggardly $1 pension rise won't give much added stimulus. Monopoly By contrast, handouts to monopoly from this year's Budget amounted to $142 mil lion, compared with $124 mil lion last year. These include: $16 million to assist foreign oil monopolies to extend their grip on this vital sector of the national economy; $34 million in subsidies to chemical and fertiliser mono polies, and $6 million in grants to aid technological research in industry generally. During last year the lag in consumer spending found in creasing reflection in a slow ing down in the rate of fixed capital investment. Unless this trend is reversed, and there is little to show that the Budget will have any deci sive impact, the outcome must be a further down-turn in the economy as a whole. STAYPUT McMAHON Remembering November 26— and Uncle Lyndon 