 Death I of Val Fraser BRISBANE: Val Fraser, who died in Brisbane recently at the age of 56 is mourned by very many throughout and beyond Queensland, and particularly in Brisbane where she was for many years in the 1940s and 1950s a Com munist Party organiser. During that period she was for many years a member of the Queens land State Committee and Brisbane District executive of the Party, and made many organising and speaking tours to Central and North Queensland. Previously, as a clothing trade worker, she played an important part in developing trade union con sciousness among this section,; oi workers. In all her work, Val Fraser gave wholeheartedly of her. extensive abilities and energies. Her vivacity and cheerfulness, her lively personality and keen sense of fun made her an . outstandingly popular leader. She was a fine orator, capable of expressing her Communist ideas wiith vigor and color, and was un failingly courageous. In the 1950's, she contributed in a number of ways to the work of New Theatre, and she took a part, with great zest, in the cast of the record-breaking "Reedy River." In her earlier years, she was 1 greatly helped and encouraged by | her husband, Alec Fraser, before his 1 death in the early 1940's. Val Fraser's funeral took ninr»o at the Mt. Thompson crematorium. It was attended by many of her friends and comrades, including the Communist Party's 'State secretary (Mr. Bacon) and other members of the State and Brisbane District Committees and other organisations of the Party, and members of the Union of Australian Women. At the request of her sister, the funeral service was , conducted by a clergyman who spoke feelingly of Val's early life and her fine human qualities. In an interview with Guardian, Mr. Bacon said: "No one who knew Val Fraser is likely to forget her. "She had a vital, warm personality, a deep human sympathy which she devoted unstintingly to the working class movement. "At the height of her career as a Party organiser, her energetic thorough work, her concern for others and her powerful moving oratory inspired all around her. "She was one of the most cap able and popular speakers the Parjty produced, influencing many to learn more about Communism and to join the Party. , "She was particularly patient, con siderate and helpful with new mem bers, though she concerned herself with the problems of everyone she knew. On behalf of its readers Tribune extends sympathy to Val Fraseifs sister and other relatives. 