 THE AGONY OF LBJ yHE real story of the Johnson visit to Australia, suppressed or fragmented in most Australian newspapers for political reasons, was that for 2£ days Holt and Johnson were always on the run, away from demonstrations of the deep public concern and opposition to the Vietnam war and conscription. The storm which hit President Johnson in Sydney last Saturday was only the culmination of various forms of indignation which began when the visit was announced on October 6. First came a call by Federal Labor Party president Senator Keeffe for the use of the visit for demonstrations of protest over Australia's , involvement in the Vietnam war. Many unions i and peace organisations supported that call. The protest movement gathered pace and ex- , tended to ministers of religion, university staff- men, TV entertainers. It rose to new intensity I when NSW Premier Askin, in line with the j Liberal Party's Federal election campaign, gave I an open cheque to an official welcoming com mittee for extravagant gimmicks for Johnson's visit to Sydney. Public opinion, expressed in letters to the daily press and reflected in editorials, questioned the purpose of the tour. In one Sydney girls' -school, students protested against the "bribe" of free travel to school children. The basic purpose of the visit was challenged last week by four leading clerics — Bishop Moyes, Rev. Gwyn Miller, Rev. Alan Walker and Rev. John Garrett — who declared it was "ill-timed" and. "open to misconstruction." A group of 30 veiled women of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom won sympathy with a Martin Place parade two days before Johnson reached Australia, bearing slogans such as "Don't be Gay for LBJ" and "Is it Gay in Vietnam?" Next came a published manifesto by no less than 140 clerics, including three bishops, calling for "de-escalation" in Vietnam and an end to the bombing of the north. It appeared in the papers the day the Johnsons landed. Meanwhile leaflets from several peace organ isations were circulating in thousands of copies. Last Friday, in Sydney and Melbourne news paper advertisements addressed to the President, nearly 300 Victorian intellectuals protested against the "misguided" policy on Vietnam. As Johnson prepared to board his plane for Sydney the Sydney Morning Herald came out with a whole-page advertisement consisting of an open letter to Johnson from Mr. Gordon Barton, a prominent businessman. "People all over the world are tired of military solutions and power politics. They are tired of anti-Communism as a substitute for common- sense. And above all they are tired of the killing", it said. 