 Holt imDlies more trooos for Vietnam "ALL THE WAY" PLEDGE AGAIN AT CANBERRA PRESS CLUB "When if comes to American participation and resolution to see the war in south Viet nam through, Australia is undoubtedly all the way". Prime Minister Holt said this when addressing the _ National Press Club in Canberra last Monday. Despite his nervous and fumbling manner and attempted denials of slavishly following President Johnson, he re peated, in a more cautious manner, the same "all the way with LBJ" policies he had outlined while overseas. In saying that South Vietnam was more important to Australia than to America, he was clearly forecasting the sacrifices Australia would be called upon to make. While denying that President Johnson had asked for more troops for Vietnam. Mr. Holt, with an eye on the coming elections, said: "1 don't regard this as a matter for early review, but of course, as time goes on, we will review what the Australian commitment should be." A clear warning HE also gave a clear warning of future developments when he said that the Australian commitment will grow with our resources. Tribune parliamentary roundsman Harry Stein asked whether Australia was pledged to support the new Ame rican escalation forecast by their spokesmen, such as the knocking out of powerhouses and dams, in view of the failure of the bombings of Hanoi and Haiphong to force "Hanoi" to negotiate on terms acceptable to the US. Mr. Holt replied that Australia would be consulted on any such future escalation. This means that if this occurs without any public protest from Mr. Holt it can be taken that he has agreed to it and takes full responsibility for the consequences. It was a very cold-blooded Mr. Holt who described with rather obvious pleasure how he had arrived "for tuitously" in Washington oh the very morning of the Hanoi-Haiphong bombings — in time to assure his sup port to the President who had waited up till 4 am to get the result of the "bombing exercise". Last Sunday's partial mobilisation order by President H.o Chi Minh of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and his declaration that Vietnam will fight for freedom for 20 years or longer if necessary has helped to destroy any suggestion that the "bombing exercise" shortened the war. He was caught out YJR. HOLT was caught out when he claimed that in America he had pressed for the so-called "soft-line" side of his policy of "penetrating the bamboo curtain" with trade and cultural initiatives. Asked by a pressman whether he had raised this with President Johnson, Mr. Holt said that on his first visit to Washington he had not. Asked by another pressman whether he had raised it on his second visit, Mr. Holt; amidst laughter, replied "not in specific terms". While Mr. Holt was addressing the National Press Club the Australian flag was flying half-mast on Capitol Hill — officially it was to honor the late Senator Sir Wil liam Spooner. But some observers thought that what was really being commemorated was the passing of the concept of an independent Australian foreign policy. When Prime Minister Holt flew into Sydney from Washington last Sunday, he was wearing his usual forced toothy smile. He was met by a crowd of i hostile demonstrators who had faced the extreme early morning cold to "welcome" him. By the time he had reached the terminal building the smile was becoming harder and harder to force as the inset shows. 