 US Gallup Poll: 54% say "pull out!" JjYDNEY: "The majority of Americans are demand ing that the United States pull out of Vietnam if full-scale civil war erupts in the south/' said a United Press dispatch published in the Sydney "Mirror" on Monday. The report quoted the latest Gallup Poll, which found that:— 54 per cent favored with drawing US troops. 28 per pent opposed with drawal. 18 per cent were unde cided. The poll result was accompa nied by new, outspoken de mands by American politicians: Senator Joseph Clark (Demo crat, Pennsylvania): "We should get out of this mess as quickly as we can with decency". Senator Jacob Javits (Repub lican, New York): The US must prepare for the possibility of a withdrawal which would be in evitable if the South Vietnamese were unable to carry the major burden of the war. Mr. L. M. Rivers (Democrat chairman of the House Armed Services Committee): "We may have to make a decision damn ed soon on whether to pull out of the war. Our first interest is the protection of our own men." "Dean Rusk should resign Typical of the existing situ ation was the demand of the New York Post for the resign ation of Dean Rusk, the not orious "hard-line" secretary of State, whom the Post blam ed for America's alignment with the iron-fisted Marshal Ky. The press has pointed out that Ky made a fool of Rusk by reiterating Ky's statement that, irrespective of elections, he would hang on to power for at least another year. This was after Rusk had as sured the world that Ky's ori ginal statement to this effect had been "misinterpreted" by journalists. (In Australia, Prime Minister Holt and External Affairs Min ister Hasluck, who had also rushed in to defend the Mar shal, have been made ridiculous by subsequent events). President Johnson, reported by the press to be in a deep state of depression, made two speeches in a single week, on Vietnam. In the first he attack ed "nervous nellies" who criti cised US policies and urged them to put America first. When this brought on his head a fresh blast from the New York Times and other papers, Johnson made a panic- stricken rush to the other ex treme, in effect apologising for his previous remarks. He assur ed the people he didn't want to "quieten dissent". 