 — "-oua) -AOS"" ' t I NEW NOVEL, OF CONFLICT AND SYMPATHY PERIOD OF ADJUSTMENT, by D. H. Crick (Australasian Book Society, Syd- . ney) . $2.75. Reviewed by JUNE MILLS Period of Adjustment THE Mary Gilmore Award for the best novel has done a great deal to en courage Australian writers in the years it has been con ducted. PERIOD OF ADJUSTMENT, by B. H. Crick, the winner of the 1966 award is both entertaining and well-written. It is the story of the post-war period, when a keen business man sees an oppor tunity to expand his "empire". In his plans for expansion he includes his son, Harold, who works in the office. These plans not only embrace Harold's role in business, but his private life as well. The struggle that ensues be tween father and son is typical of that which developed after World War I It— an age when more than ever before young people want to determine their own way of life. But Harold's father is an am bitious man, determined to take advantage of the prosperous con ditions to become a financial magnate. In this he needs his son's complete obedience to his wishes. As in real life to get-rich-quick, industrialists must exploit their workers and Mr. Furnley has no hesitation in doing this. Trouble arises in the factory when a notice fixed above a time clock in a passage leading to the lavatories: "A Four Minute Break Will Be Allowed for Toilet Facil ities. Employees Must Use Time Clock For This Purpose." With all the grim humour of real-life workers, someone scribbles "Time Your Motion" on the notice. Militant workers, angered by the conditions under which they work, take action to prevent speed-up. People do not live in isolation even if working in factories. Harold's association with a mem ber of the office staff leads to a change. ityt ! plans his father had for hisi-n triage. Nor is this! her! only upset in the Furnley ;& lily. The drive to build a bigger stronger industrial empire, then: me ' taken away from the hbme esults in Furnley's wife feeling.!;; glected. There is little opport ity' to discuss things togethe Mi work out how best to ma ;ei: their private affairs. It is not a! iys: that beautiful home and fin possessions make people happy Companionship is needed, thevq f :to share in what your partner doing, to build a family into/j hole unit until the time comesi/t ||the.uyounger gen eration tr SmMait (on their own path. T ReadingliOTpD rOF ADJUST MENT is i'leSftire.'Tor the author shows thai 1 1| knows Australia today, and. ill lives of factory and office;).! rorers. But more than that, ii Bps ,a sympathetic approach-! problems con fronting tyoup ipeople who want the right: toe! gsrmine their own way of life,1 'B to'' be dominated by parents ei|r with regard to work or maijtp. Donald Grici s also the author of "Martitoi ce" and in this reviewer's i pi) u of view there has been ail t improvement in his writing;!! Le,- his ability to link the ;np onal and other aspects of the Bfbf .his characters. Available'# New World Booksel lers and e/lkfr 'lollops. m J j mil— i mm minim 1 1 inn— DR; Boris Petrovsky, USSR Minister for Health, came straight to the press confer ence from two operations. One was heart surgery, the other a kidney operation. Although the two operations were performed with the latest mechanical aids— a blood-circulat ing machine in the heart surgery and special mechanical devices for the kidney operation — more doc tors were required than if they had been performed by the old non-mechanical methods. Health Minister Petrovsky had 14 doctors for his heart surgery, and seven for the kidney operation. It's rather different to mechan isation in industry and agriculture, which displaces people. Dr. Pet rovsky stressed that complex modern mechanical devices re quire not only more doctors but doctors with greater knowledge of mechanics and science. And another factor he took into account is that, as various illnesses are conquered by simpler pharmacy — medical prescriptions and oral vaccines — the human ailments remaining for the oper ating table, like cancer, kidney and heart surgery," are the most complicated for doctors. Dr. Petrovsky held out hopes that pharmacy would play a greater role in curing diseases in future— even in coronary and cancer afflictions. He deplored, however, "sensat ionalised" claims of cures for scourges like cancer. The Health Minister stressed that in attack on cancer the Soviet and other medical profes sions had "a long way to go". There were theories that cancer was due to virus or to other quite different factors. None of these theories had been sufficiently vindicated to allow their adoption. So on the cancer front, he un fortunately could not tell much that was new. The main necessity was still to discover cancer early, to have constant check-up. If cancer were detected in the earliest stages, then radio-therapy, chemical- therapy, hormones and surgery could often cure. Spectacular success had been achieved, the Health Minister re ported, in the battle against polio. Children took oral vaccines in chocolates, and, of course, liked them. Polio was now one- fiftieth — that is, 2 per cent — of what it was in the USSR six years ago. Reduction in the TB death-rate had. also been very great, due to preventive measures, regular check-ups and early detection. Artificial kidney equipment, 1965 model, on view at the Friendship House Medical Exhibition in Moscow earlier this year. 