 [?] ! Coaches concerned at i | - , -j i I a bandonmen t of Games I Q j training schedule By THE CHALLENGER j I I NUMBER of leading swimming coaches are perturbed at j j the Australian Swimming Union's decision to dispense with j j its North Queensland training schedule for the Commonwealth j | Games competitors. j | This will leave a situation in which the swimmers will have to orgamse | j their own training the best way they can. I | With the lack of heated I swimming pools (specially in S the country areas) the train- j ing problem for some will in- 1 deed be great and will seri- I ously jeopardize their gold j . medal chances. I That such a situation i should exist— as it does in ? nearly every other sport in I Australia— is a direct result I of the parsimonious attitude s of the Federal Government 1 to sport in general.. ! The present procedure by I which municipalities come I by their sporting and cultural j amenities, such as they usu- ! ally are, is an indictment of the Federal Government. The following case in Western Australia is a typical example: : The only Olympic swim ming pool between the sub urbs of Bassendean and Midland, an industrial area east of Perth, is at the Guil ford Grammar School. This pool was made pos sible by donations from par ents of the school boys. The pool is not open to the pub lic. A club at the Bassendean Point Reserve on the Swan River caters for the youth of the district who want to swim competitively. A pool further up the river at West Midland, where a swimming club was previ ously functioning, has be come polluted from a Coun cil rubbish dump and is now unfit for swimming. Races are held on Sunday mornings at the Bassendean Point Reserve. Club swim mers are often joined by children from the Aboriginal settlement at Wattle Grove. Attempts have been made over a number of years by the Midland and Bassendean Councils to find ways of building an Olympic swim ming pool in their areas, but without success. Now it is understood that proposals are being made by the Midland, Swan-Guildford and Mundaring Councils for the building of a pool with in two years on 43 . acres at the entrance to National Park— four miles east of Midland. Twenty thousand dollars is available immediately and each Council will contribute on a pro rata basis. The total cost of the pro ject is 280,000 dollars and it is hoped that the govern ment will contribute 80100 thousand dollars on a dollar for dollar basis. 