 GIBSON'S MEMOIRS SOMETIMES ONE-SIDED' Dealing with the new lead ership of the Party (1933) he writes under the sub-heading, "Len Donald": "Len was the real driving force of the new leadership which included Jack Blake, Ernie Thornton, Alf Watt and others and which galvanised the Party for the many diffi cult struggles into the new period of a rapidly broad ening people's movement against fascism and war. . ." The printed "Annals of the A.C.P." on this question note: "1933— February. A State Conference (Victoria) ex pelled the Lovegrove Group. J. D. Blake and L. Donald, just returned from the Soviet Union, with R. McCrae con stituted the new leadership." Ralph writes: "In 1940, Jack Bla.ke, who had returned from the Soviet Union in the meantime, was selected in my place as State Secretary." We, were absent from Victoria from May 1937 until November 1938 when we returned from the 12th Con gress of the Party, from which we proceeded direct to Melbourne where Jack resumed his work in the Victorian Party leadership. On page 90 Ralph wrote: "Jack Blake, enlisting in the A.I.F. in 1942, was found to suffer from T.B. and required long treatment. It was in the war years that Ted Hill, still working as a lawyer, was drawn into Party leadership activity." Jack didn't enlist, he was called up. The 'long treatment' was 12 months in a sanatorium (during which incidentally he prepared every week' a radio broadcast for the Party). The point I am making is that from 1933 to almost the end of 1949 Jack was absent for only two years and four months — 16 months abroad and 12 months in a sanatorium : the impression one gets from Ralph is quite different. On page 135, writing of the great and successful Victorian struggle against the Essential Services Act (1948), Ralph writes: "This was an outstanding industrial and political vic tory and the Communist Party played an important part in it. E. F. Hill was acting as leader of the Party in Victoria during this struggle and deserves his share of credit for the victory gained." Certainly Hill deserves his share of the credit as do all the members of the then Vic torian leadership, but why does Ralph give him the posi tion held thoughout that year by Jack Blake? Dealing with the 1949 Min ers' Strike, the author writes: "The Communist Party . . . could have assisted with bet ter advice had not this been the period of the 'Left line' when Comrades Blake and Henry had a majority position in the Central committee Sec_ retariat of the Party." Jack Blake was not a mem ber of the Central Committee Secretariat at this time: He was in his usual position of leadership in the Victorian section of the Party and was not even in any discussion on the strike or its preparation. It was not until the end1 of July, about 15 days before the strike ended, that, against his own wishes, he was brought to Sydney (for ob vious reasons). That he bears his own share of responsibility for what happened from then on I would not dispute, but that he should be loaded with al most everyone else's share seems to be to be part of a pattern about, which I feei strongly and bitterly. One small point about my self in the book smacks of the same peculiar approach. On page 70 Ralph writes of the League of Young Demo crats: "Big credit is due to com rades such as Ken Miller, Alec Opie, Dan Garland and later Audrey Blake who helped or ganise the flourishing L.Y.D. club of this period and the vigorous political work within it." From 1932 I was on the secretariat of the Young Com munist League. I spent 16 months abroad '37-'38 as YCL representative in the Young Communist International in Moscow. On returning to Victoria, November 1938, I outlined the questions that Otto Kuusinen (C.I. rep. to the Y.C.L.) had put to me — don't you rather need in Aus tralia a youth organisation in which young people from ALP and non-party homes can feel as comfortable as those from Communist homes? Ken Mil ler and the others said that this was just the conclusion they themselves had reached and we went forward to the completely open and public disbanding of the YCL and the formation of the LYD. I pre sided at this event in the Majestic Theatre and Ken was elected the first secretary of the LYD and I its first Pre sident. Why then ". . . and later Audrey Blake"? It is not easy to write of these things. Inevitably one is assailed as "subjective (a favorite ploy of E. F. Hill's) or it is hinted that one only disapproves of a cult of Sta lin. But if the Communist Party is to confront its past and find new ways of ad vance, some of the sweeping generalisations about Com rades Blake and Henry have to be challenged. AUDREY BLAKE, Sydney. 