 U.S. doctors protest at gas warfare in Vietnam Leading American doctors are in revolt against US military prop agandists' attempt to tell the public that the use of poison gas in Vietnam is humane. This is important to, Australia in the light of the death of Australian Corporal Robert Bowtell on January 1 2 while using poison gas against the liberation fighters in a tunnel near Saigon. In the New England Journal of Medicine two leading doc tors, Dr. Victor Sidel and Dr. Robert Goldwyn, of Harvard, call on their fellow doctors to oppose the use of poison gas. Condemning misleading talk of "tear" and "Riot" gases, Dr. Sidel says that the US stock pile includes gases that make the victim cry, vomit, collapse with excruiting chest pains One gas called LSD-5 is the celebrated type that caused a cat to panic at the sight of a mouse. It drives people mad with fear. These gases are cheerfully classed by the military as "non- lethal". The doctors point out that even the old standard tear gases have, on occasion, been fatal to . the very old, the very young and the sick. The doctors point out that even a "humane" gas, if it were developed, would require to he delivered in a precisely standard "dose" to a standard victim. This could be done in the laboratory, but not on the bat tlefield. The gases are "notoriously uneven in their dispersal", the doctors say, and in making sure that every opponent gets an in capacitating dose, the gas-war rior will give some of them an overdose. The entry of General James M. Gavin into the ranks of those calling for a US withdrawal in Vietnam has caused a stir, because he is the first top- ranking military man to take this stand. Gerieral Gavin, who was Pre sident Eisenhower's chief mili tary adviser, revealed in an article in Harper's Magazirie that Eisenhower had rejected the type of massive commit ment in Vietnam which John son has undertaken. Eisenhower had done this on the advice not only of Gavin, but of General Matthew Ridge- way and other experts, who had counselled against the course that Johnson has been follow ing. Continuation of this course, warned Gavin, meant eventual war with China. 