 OS boPtouiMW Lift wages, prices campaign SYDNEY : The NSW Labor Council last week called on unions to intensify the wages-prices campaign by making direct approaches to employers to pay the full wage claim immediately. rms unions are seeking a $4.30 increase in the cap ital cities average basic wage and a $5.90 increase in a tradesman's margin. Labor Council decided that the direct approaches to individual employers "be supported by activity in accordance with the circumstances and traditional forms of activity in each indus try." The Leader of the Opposi tion, Mr. J. B. Renshaw, will he asked to present the Labor Council Prices Petition to State Parliament prior to the Easter recess. Urgent action This petition calls on the Gov- ernment to take urgent action to control and reduce prices as a means of protecting the liv ing standards of NSW citizens. The Government is asked to: Use the price fixing machinery already available to peg prices at present levels and hold public inquiries into food prices with the aim of reduc ing prices. Initiate a conference of State Premiers together with Federal Government representa tives to implement a national prices control and reduction policy. Labor Council urges this ac tion from the Government in view of the fact that "arbitra tion tribunals have virtually pegged wages while allowing prices to go unchecked." Deputations Unions have been asked to ar range deputations to Parlia ment seeking MLA's support for the petition. Council also decided to call a "Living Standards Conference" to be held next June. Representatives of, people's organisations will he invited to attend. The agenda will be based on the Australian Council of Trade Unions' economic policy, hous ing, education and social ser vices. It was also decided to ask the ACTU to arrange similar conferences in other States. Over 200 union delegates last week in Wollongong on NSW South Coast decided to hold a public mass rally on March 13 in support of the unions' wage claims. The delegates conference was called by the South Coast Labor Council. It is planned to hold the rally in the Show Ground and ACTU advocate, Mr. R. Hawke, will be asked to speak. The delegates decided to make a drive for signatures to the prices petition and to ap proach individual employers to pay the unions' claim. Strong demands were made for less talk and more action. Many speakers criticised the ACTU claim "as being not en ough." 