 INDO-SU CALL FOR BOMB HALT, KOSYGIN , PLEDGES i DRV HELP ! —and it won 9t ; be pea rifles From Rupert Lockwood JulOSCOW: Soviet Premier Kosygin reminded tfee g aggressors in Vietnam that Warsaw Treaty r members had unanimously expressed their readiness | to allow volunteers to go to Vietnam if the Govern- i ment of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ex- pressed such a request "with the necessary arma- c ments". 1 It is scarcely necessary to surmise that the "necessary I armaments" would not be pea rifles. ' Premier Kosygin was speaking at a welcome to Mrs. Indira Gandhi, the Indian Premier. The Soviet Premier said : — "The aggressors must know that no matter how they rage, no matter what crimes they perpetrate, they will never con quer a country whose millions of sons and daughters have stood up so staunchly for the defence of their freedom and independence, a country which has loyal and reliable friends." Kosygin said it was "an ab surd argument" to say that the United States could not with draw from Vietnam for consi derations of prestige. "American prestige", he said, "had declin ed to its lowest-ever level." He added that the US was also committing aggression against the Laotian people and violating the sovereignty of Cambodia. Thailand, the Philippines, Aus tralia and New Zealand were factually drawn into the sphere of war and so was the South Korean puppet regime. Mrs. Indira Gandhi at a Krem lin welcome said "Vietnam is today a powder keg. Any escal ation might substantially en large and intensify the conflict with grave consequences for the peace of the world. There is no alternative to a v peaceful settlement and it is to this end that we must bend our energies. "We in India cannot afford to be by-standers especially when a part of Asia is ablaze. No power should be allowed to block the path to peace. "It seems to be almost uni- — — 8MW versally agreed that the best, perhaps the only, constructive course would be to get all the parties concerned— I repeat, all the parties concerned, around the negotiating table within the framework of the Geneva agree ment. "Meanwhile there must be an immediate ending of the bombing of North Vietnam. This would create the climate for the holding of a confer- &lt; ence and a swift cessation of hostilities and the complete withdrawal of all foreign forces and armed personnel from Vietnam in full observ ance of the Geneva agree ment." At a final press conference in Moscow Mrs. Gandhi said it was natural that proposals for a sol ution of the Vietnam problem should be approved "by the directly interested side — the Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam." She add ed that it seemed to her that an immediate condition must be an end to American bombings of North Vietnam. A joint Indian Soviet com munique issued before Mrs. Gandhi left, reaffirmed Indian Soviet agreement that "the bombing of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam should be stopped immediately." U Thant Secretary General of the United Nations Organisation has again called on the United. States to stop bombing the DRV, to seek termination of all military operations and talks with participation of the South Vietnam National Liberation Front. INDIAN PREMIER MRS. INDIRA GANDHI JJJUIUJMIIM SOVIET PREMIER ALEXEI KOSYGIN 