 The second war of LBJ JT is just as well that President Johnson said on Sunday that while he could accept civil protest he could not accept "civil violence". Actually, violence seems to be the only answer the American authorities can provide to the Negro demand for basic rights. They are waging the anti- liberation war in the US with about the same enthusiasm r (and with some of the same \yeapons) as they are , waging it in Vietnam. / — f Although Johnson's statement implied that it was the Negroes who were using violence, the facts show quickly enough who is really getting shot and bashed. On the day Johnson spoke a Negro died after a double blast from a shotgun in Cleveland — the fourth death in the current series of demonstrations and strong-arm action by police. Forty Negroes were arrested. In Chicago, two Negroes were killed and scores wounded after police went into action against the "enemy" — children who had turned on fire hydrants to cool themselves in last week's super-heatwave in the USA. The only "civil violence" in Jacksonville (Florida) earlier last week was that of the white police who moved in to disperse a peaceful Negro demonstration against discrimination. In. New York, it was equally hard to say that "violence" was on the part of the Negroes while the ordering out of the 1500-strong Tactical Police Squad was pure pacifism on the authorities' side. ? . The flare-up of demonstrations in the Negro com- ! munities sparked by events in the Watts district of 3 Los Angeles has shown the world that it is not only in the Deep South that the American Negro is a second-class citizen. In the northern cities, too, he is, confined and degraded in ghettoes, and is ; fighting his way out. ; ct ' As Newsweek writer Emmet John Hughes says this ' ' week, the social revolution for which the Negro fights must affect every aspect of his life, i t "Schools and homes and jobs and skills; for any Negro there can be progress in one only as there is progress in all. "He can find good schools only where there are good homes. He can afford good homes only when he can win good jobs. He can hold such jobs only with advanced skills.. And he can learn such skills only in the progressive schools of prospering neigh borhoods. So goes the fettering cycle that must be totally broken". But this, as Hughes adds, needs nothing less than a "vast revolution in the lives of 20 million people". And Johnson has shown he is not interested in that sort of revolution. Not that he does not have the resources. Only last week Johnson complained that Congress kept voting money for non-military items. "Stop giving me so much to spend — LBJ", was the press headline. 