 Syria: Intervention round the corner? I By Roger Milliss I i With warlike sounds emanating from Israel and ominous troop and naval | I movements taking place, reports indicate that the Western powers are plan- j I . ning armed military intervention against the progressive government of Syria. | The gravity of the sit- ation in the Middle East is underlined by an offi cial Soviet Government statement warning that it "cannot and will not re main indifferent to at tempts at violating peace" in regions close to Soviet frontiers. Among the provocative moves made by the West recently and directed at Syria are: Three mammoth US- Israeli arms deals, with Washington supplying the Israelis with modern of fensive weapons, includ ing bombers of nuclear capability; A hastily convened meeting of the CENTO Council of Minist e r s, which discussed what US Secretary of State Dean Rusk called, with typical understatement, the "Sy rian question"; A subsequent confer ence in Beirut (the Le banon) of American Mid dle East Ambassadors, which also devoted itself to the same issue; 9 The sudden appear ance of the US Sixth Fleet in Lebanese waters, no doubt eyed with more than a little concern by the Lebanese as they re call the invasion of their own country by US mar ines in 1958; Alerting of the Is raeli Army, with leave cancelled for all ranks and growing troop con centrations on the Syrian border, following talks be tween high-ranking US officials and the Israeli General Staff and Gov ernment. Touching US officials have gone out of their way to ex press their profound con cern for the "security" of the Middle East, and tiny Syria has become the fo cal point of this touching regard. In recent months Syria has taken steps which have angered Washington a-nd posed a real threat to its efforts to assert West ern domination of the Middle East. An army coup led by General Salah Jadid last February overthrew the fence-sitting regime of General Amin Hafez and Prime Minister Salah Bi- tar, installing leftwing Baathist leaders Nureddin Atassi s,s President and Youssef Zeayen as Pre mier. This new government immediately stepped up ,the program of national isation initiated early last year but halted by the Hafez-Bitar regime, as well as firmly tackling the vital . question of agrarian reform. It announced that it in tended to take Syria along a thorough-going socialist path and that its foreign policy was based on op position to imperialism and friendship with the progressive and socialist camp, "the Soviet Union and the United Arib Re public foremost". The revolutionary stand taken by Syria threw a spoke , into the wheels of . Washington's plans to win the Middle East over to the West, an aim further complicated by Britain's growing desire to with draw from "East of Suez". Gateways The US is playing for high stakes in the oil- rich Middle East, com manding as it does the gateways to Asia and Africa. As .part of its overall strategy of making the region safe for the West, the United States last year engineered the downfall of the Centrist Papandreou Government in Greece, and has been zealously trying to impose a "NATO solution" on Cyprus, whereby the island would be virtually partitioned, with NATO bases under Turkish control. In the Yemen, it is giv ing full military aid to the Royalists through slave-owning King Feisal of Saudi Arabia against the republican revolt, and is supporting Britain's desperate attempt to quash the Adeni nation alists' demands for inde pendence without strings. Target Prime target in this process is UAR President Nasser. Renowned for his tough line against British and American imperial ism, he has given con stant support to the Ye meni republicans and the Adeni nationalists, stead- | ily resisting all pressure I to bring him into the B Western orbit. 1 Little secret has been 8 made of the West's desire | to topple Nasser, just as g they did Ghana's Nkru- I mah and nearly did Gui- I nea.'s Sekou Toure. Only last year a gigan tic Western-backed plot by the fanatical Moslem Brotherhood to assassinate the Egyptian leader was uncovered. The Western powers have become alarmed at . the growing closeness of Syria and the UAR, re lations between whom have been strained since the break-up of their Union in 1958. They are similarly dis- . turbed by the Soviet Union's growing prestige in the Middle East, par ticularly since its offer to underwrite a huge dam on the Euphrates River, which will do for Syria what the Aswan High Dam is doing for the UAR. Go-operation The need for maximum unity and co-operation between the progressive countries in the Arab world to meet the imper ialist threat to their sov ereignty was the main theme plugged by Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin during his recent visit to the UAR. Assuring Nasser of con tinued Soviet assistance for the Aswan Dam and other developmental pro jects, as well as Soviet support for the UAR on the Yemen and the rights of the Palestinian refugees, Kosygin warned him of the danger .to the Arab states of the Western pow ers' resorting to aggres sion and counter-revolu tionary coups. It was widely reported that he advised Nasser to try to form an al liance with Algeria, Syria and Iraq. Latest reports state that Syria itself has taken the diplomatic initiative, by asking members of the Arab League, due to meet later this month, to break relations with America in retaliation for its arms | sales to Israel. | 