 Opposing viewpoint The Central Committee's condemnation of the ac tions of Soviet writers Senyavsky and Daniel (see L. Aarons? press conference, Tribune, Feb. 23) is thoroughly justified. How ever, I would like to offer some reflections on the trial and punishment of these double dealers, and on the alternative proposed by the C.C. If a journalist employed by an Australian trade union to edit its paper at the same time wrote articles for the. capitalist press, under a dif-' ferent name, attacking the union, he would be instantly dismissed. This would be the most severe administrative action open to the union, unless of course, grounds existed for a libel action. The Soviet Union, of course, is in a different position to an Australian trade union, but surely no one would ex pect that Senyavsky and Daniel would again find a buyer for their writings there. No publisher would accept their work, and the Western mass media would have an other tub to thump. But this would not in it self prevent the two from continuing to wield their poison pens for the capitalist market, and surely preven tion was one of the objects of the case just concluded. Nor would they necessarily be deterred from this by the opinions of the public and of their fellow writers. After all, their actions in smuggling their anti-Soviet "creations" out of the coun try through the wife of a capitalist diplomat for publi cation under a false name, shows they were keenly aware of what the Soviet people would think of their actions It seems to me that the court proceedings revealed Senyavsky and Daniel to be thoroughly unprincipled and demoralised persons, and, what is more, unregenerate. Deprived of their Soviet mar ket (and income) they would more than likely intensify their output for the capitalist market. Whether they , did this as a spare time occupation sup plementary to other employ ment, or whether they sought to devote their full time to it, in neither case could the Soviet people be expected to be tolerant. But again we would be faced with the question, would it be right to prosecute, or should reliance be placed on public opinion. In any case, my own experi ence leads me to believe the Soviet public opinion would overwhelmingly support the. prosecution launched by the:. Union of Soviet Writers. The5; Soviet people cherish their writers and other creative artists, and make a very generous allowance of material values available to them so they can work in the best conditions. On the other hand they dis trust, and with good reason, the propaganda barrage of the capitalist powers. They know that this anti- Soviet propaganda (as dis-, tinct from an objective dis cussion of Soviet life) is an integral part of an armon of struggle that has often . ef upted into armed attack, and right now threatens them with nuclear bombs. They treat journalists from the capitalist press with con siderable reserve, so much so that on one occasion I over heard the correspondent of one big publishing house complain bitterly, "Why can't they treat us as journalists instead of as American journ- nalists." The point, I think, is that because of their costly and harrowing experiences, the mendacious and slanderous anti-Soviet propaganda evokes a different reaction in the Soviet public than it tends to do in the West. After all, they have been its victims. In consequence I believe that the Soviet public would be hurt and indignant at the betrayal of their trust by Sen yavsky and Daniel, and would support the action that has been taken, and if none had been taken, would have de manded it. There is no information to suggest that Senyavsky and Danniel applied for a visa to go to the West. Evidently they did not wish to share the poetic justice meted out to Tarsis, who must now reconcile himseh to living under capitalism. Their remissness in this res pect is to my mind the most regrettable feature of the case. Alf Watt 