 RACE OR CLASS MAIN ISSUE IN S. AFRICA ? Letters to the Editor ; V1C Williams is correct in drawing attention in Tribune of November 30 to the fact that class issues as well as race issues are involved in South African apartheid. However, his claim that . apartheid is "essentially a class oppression" and' his criticism of those who see it mainly as a racial issue ap pear to me to involve con siderable dangers. It may be true that most political issues today can be shown to be class issues in the sense that they arise from policies of certain classes. And of course it's true that many of the major issues in apart heid are economic (as was pointed out fairly effectively by Roger Milliss in his article). But my experience, for what it's worth, has been that too much stress on trying to prove that race issues are es sentially class issues can lead us into a position where we appear to be underestimating the importance of race issues, where we act as though we don't realise that one of the most evil fruits of monopoly- capitalism is race oppression, that this race oppression is every bit as real as class op pression, and is one of the major weapons of powerful monopoly groups in spread ing oppression and war. Vic Williams argues in sup port of his theory that "the first organisation suppressed was the Communist Party, then the trade unions and their activity, and only after that the wholly racial organ isation the African National Congress." This might be true (I find it hard to believe that all trade unions have been banned; my impression was that some militant trade union organisa tions had been banned but that many trade unions still carry on), but it doesn't .seem to alter the basic fact that the banned African National Congress is today leading the struggle against apartheid, and that its policies are not based on class but on the widest possible participation of all who will help. Its International Affairs Director Robert Resha, who recently visited Australia, des cribes it in an "Outlook" article as an organisation that "accepts every African, re gardless of his political lean ings, so long as he is prepared to abide by its constitution and to carry out its prog ramme." Its policy is multi-racial in the sense that it maintains (to quote Resha again) that "South Africa belongs to all who live in it — black and white" — though of course this depends on how the white population behave. It has the co-operation of a small per centage of the white people. It is a non-class body in the sense that, as stated above it accepts all political lean- ings; Resha states that the Af rican intelligentsia has be come very revolutionary, you don't really have a middle class among the African peo ple, and there is no large class of African rich, so there is no foundation for the Gov ernment's attempt to divide the African people, apart from a few paid chiefs who do not enjoy the confidence of the people. The main thing I'm trying to stress is that if Vic Wil liams merely wants us to see the class issues in apartheid as well as the race issues, then I'll go along with him, but he appears to me to be over-stressing class issues at the expense of the very real racial issues— these latter, are among the biggest in the world today and we should be careful about any tendency to underestimate their im portance. Len Fox, Sydney. 