 Rusk says it: Plenty of room for more troons 'JVHERE is no mistaking the implications for Aus tralia of US State Secretary Dean Rusk's statement in Canberra last week that "there is plenty of room for more troops from friendly nations" in Vietnam. Rusk also said that the US would be committing more troops to Vietnam this year. Forecasts have placed the total of US troops there at 400,000 to 500,000 by the end of the year. j (The number there now is placed at 277,000.) Rusk is a leading warhawk, but he is no fool. He knows that Seato is split down the middle. Its vrecent conference was well described by Anthony Curtis in The Australian as a "verbal international circus". That is why the US has been trying to organise x other international groupings such as the "Asian Pacific Conference" (ASPAC) which it hopes event ually to turn into an aggressive military alliance. At the recent ASPAC foundation conference in Seoul, Australian' External Affairs Minister Hasluck, acting for the US, tried to get the conference to back the US position on Vietnam and anti-communism. This was prevented by Japan, which wants at this stage to restrict the organisation's activities to eco nomic co-operation, thus giving Japan a strong eco nomic and diplomatic position in this area. Understandably the Americans did not altogether like the outcome of the Seoul conference and this will be discussed when Rusk reaches Japan this week. Still less had they reason to be pleased with the SEATO conference in Canberra where there was only seven hours of formal discussion in the three days. The French delegate was silent for the whole con ference and finally had included in the communique a statement that the French Government was not committed to it. . The Pakistan delegate had included in it an "expression of deep concern" for world peace arising from the Vietnam situation, and demanded steps towards peace based on the Geneva agreements. As for Britain, whose 50,000 troops possibly to be released with the end of Indonesian confrontation made her the main target of the more-troops-for- Vietnam clamor, her delegate said emphatically that none would be sent to the bottomless pit in Vietnam. Hasluck, like Holt, went "all the way" with Dean Rusk but privately asked that no request for more troops be made till after the elections. When Rusk landed at the Canberra airport he said Johnson had taken the banner of peace into every city in the world. After the bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong, we can add that concealed under that banner is the threat of a great world war of which Australians, soldiers and civilians alike, would be among the main victims. 