 W ill Holt be any worse than Menzies? . By a Political Correspondent With the retirement of Prime Minister Sir Robert Menzies imminent, and the succession fixed on the med- iocre Mr. Holt, the usual pressure is being exerted by the Liberal Party's "faceless men" to get the sort of Cab inet they want. The magnates of Consolidated Press have long been barracking for William McMahon (Minister for Labor) to get the Treasurership and deputy leadership of the Liberal Party to be vacated by Holt. This would put this arch-re actionary opponent of trade unionism into a key position in the cabinet and also next in line for the Prime Ministership. McMahon's links with finance and industry in Sydney are well known. -His clamor for war during "captive nations week" last Octo ber endeared him to the Right wing, as his penal Stevedoring In dustry bill had done earlier. Total reshuffle Last Monday the Sydney Morn ing Herald, another "faceless"— or unacknowledged— Liberal organ in N.S.W., also demanded a say in the composition of the new Cabinet. Voicing the views of the Bank of New South Wales and Colonial Sugar Refining group of monopo lists, the Herald also wants McMahon as Treasurer, but it also calls for a total reshuffling of Cabinet and the dropping of a number of ministers who are obviously useless, or worse, at their jobs. What the people want is a total change of policy as well as of the Cabinet administering it. It may be Utopian to expect this — yet is it really impossible to hope that some slight modification of policy away from, reaction's furthest extremes may follow from Menzies' departure from the scene ? Prom the beginning of his politi cal career, when Ms sympathies with nazism and Japanese fascism were freely expressed, Menzies . threw the whole of his personal influence on the side of reaction on most issues that arose for Ms Government's decision. This became especially serious with Africa moving more and more into the centre of world attention. Sir Robert Menzies' record on Africa, maintained right up to his last days in office, has put him in danger of ranking second only to Ian Smith of Rhodesia as the most unpopular white Premier in the Commonwealth. Typical is Menzies' reported re action to the Nigerian upheaval which follows a long period of denial of democracy to the mass of Nigerians and, in particular, the rigging of elections and brutal political murders in an area wMch has become the centre of revolt. Apparently Menzies can see nothing in it aill except that the British Government's original nominee for Nigeria's leadersMp, Sir Abubakar Balewa — one of Menzies' ""closest friends among the African leaders" — has been dethroned. Rhodesia Even more maladroit and un popular with Africans was Menzies' decision that Australia would not be represented at the Common wealth conference in Lagos to dis cuss Rhodesia. A cable from Rupert Lockwood, Tribune's Moscow correspondent, shows that Menzies kept Australia out of what was one of the most important Commonwealth confer ences ever held. Lockwood says this was the first Commonwealth conference held outside England (against the British Government's wishes) and Wilson was not elected to the chairmanship traditionally held by the British Premier. Lockwood adds that heavy British and U.S. pressure on the more con servative African states enabled Wilson to limit his undertakings to economic sanctions and without the promise of effective military action against Rhodesia if sanctions fail. "However, the conference was also a serious Whitehall setback; Afri can leaders strongly attacked Britain's appeasement of Rhodesia, pointing to the fruits of appease ment in the mauling and expulsion of three British M-P.'s in Salisbury and the cancellation of the pro posed visit to -Rhodesia of Com monwealth secretary, Bottomley. UK impotence "Whitehall's increasing diplo matic impotence in Africa has been demonstrated and the running will be taken up more and more by non-Commonwealth states." j The Zimbabwe African People's > Union of Rhodesia says that all j Wilson hopes for is a moderate white government in Rhodesia. The Soviet journal, Pravda, accuses Wilson of dodging effective military action in favour of a policy designed to enable Smith to get stronger and gain time, Lockwood writes. The events have disproved Men zies' reasons for boycotting the vital Lagos conference. Despite his predictions, 'there was a significant degree of unity and important de cisions were made without Australia (thanks to him) having any say. The real reason for Menzies' boy cott stands revealed as a firm (but camouflaged) decision by him to do what he can to save Smith's racist regime, as earlier he tried to keep Verwoerd in the Commonwealth. And he wants a. "free hand" for Australian race supremacy policies concerning the Aboriginal and New Guinean peoples. Aiding apartheid In line with this is the revelation in Monday's press that Menzies has refused Australian aid for the vic tim of South African apartheid despite a vote by Australia's repre sentative in the United Nations in favour of all U JST. members con tributing. He, has written to the agency authorised to receive money for the U.N. fund that Australia would make no contribution. Now domes yet fanother linsult flung in the face of Asia as well as Africa— refusal of permission for a Fijian teacher to enter New Guinea because of her colour. (See Page 5). Is it too much to demand that in this important department Holt's Government should do little better than that of Menzies. It could hardly do worse. 