 Aborigines to fight on QARWIN: The North Australian Workers' Union has unanimously rejected a wage agree- ment for Aborigine stockmen that had been, accepted and rec ommended by the Aus tralian Council of Trade 'Jnions. The central executive of the 2500-strong union rejected the settlement terms at a meeting last Sunday. A few days before stockmen and domestics with their dependents walked off Mt. Sandford, part of Victoria River Downs Station, claiming they had not, ... been . , paid for seven months.; r The station manager confirm ed their claim that they had not been paid for this period. They said their pay was $20 every two or three months and the food supplied was dry bread and' salt beef. Their camp was without, san itation and the living condi tions were generally deplor able. They have nqw joined the camp of the 200 Aborigines who went on strike at the giant Vestey's Wave Hill Sta-, tion a few weeks ago. Aborigines from the ; New castle Waters Station have been on strike for several months demanding award wages. 20 per cent The rejected agreement pro vided that all "fully-efficient" Aborigines would, be . paid award wages , plus margins from November 1. Married Ab: origines would be paid from the same date in cash and keep, receiving the equivalent of $32.80, but single . station hands would be paid only $14.10 plus keep. The secretary of the Federal Council for Aboriginal Advance ment Mr. Stan Davey, said that he agreed with the union that the terms could not be ac cepted. He said the pastoralists were to the sole judges of what "fully-efficient" meant. "They have already indicated clearly that they ir'-nd to ap ply this to very few Abori gines," he said. At the Arbitration Court hearing, early this year, which granted full pay to Aborigine stockmen, but not for three years, station owners had said that only 20 per cent could be classified . as efficient. But following announcement of the agreement they say that only between 5 and 10 per ceht are efficient, Mr. Davey said! He added that it was point less that cattlemen should offer a few extra dollars when nothing had been done about sub-standard accommodation and food. In any case, few if any of the Aborigines would have re ceived their wages for about six months even had it been granted in full. (CONTINUED ON PAGE 12) Wage fight goes on (CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1) It was made operative trom November 1, about the end of the mustering season. They are then left to wander and fend for themselves, until they are needed to muster again, about June or July next year. The Northern Territory Coun cil for Aboriginal Rights in a statement has welcomed the decision of the NAWU. It says that the strikers and their members f in the pastoral in dustry . have indicated, their determination not to return to work until they receive award wages for stockmen and the basic wage for all other work ers. . The Council congratulates Mr. P. Carrol, NAWU secretary and his executive for their stand and pledges full co-oper ation to achieve the Aborigines demands. The Aborigines have the firm backing of thousands of unioii- ; ists throughout Australia. 1 The 40.000-strong Meat In- dustry Employees' Union has refused to treat or handle cattle from any of the stations in dispute. The Waterside Workers' Federation have don ated $1500 and called on the whole trade union movement tp support them. Mr. F. Hall, federal secretary of the MIEU, told Tribune that this victory "shows; the im portance of other unions back ing Aborigine workers." He said that Aborigines were also members of his union and receive equal wages at Vestey's abattoirs in Darwin. "I know that you would sel dom see a white stockman in the Northern Territory. The Aborigine stockman is the backbone of the industry and is very skilled," he said. About 150 workers at the Boral Oil ' Refinery donated $1 a man last week, after hearing a speaker on the Aborigines' struggle. (Aborigines' appeal to United Nations Pll.) 