 RABBIE BURNS A 207th anniversary By JOCK GRAHAM JANUARY 25, 1966, marks the 207th anniversary of Scotland's most celebrated poet. Around the world his immortal memory will be honored by toast and song. Anecdotes and witticisms will be attributed to him, often 'with" less ' care for their authenticity than for the gusto in the telling. Before and after his death in 1796 at the age of 37, attempts were made to blacken his character by political witch-hunters for the Gov ernment, then busily engaged in lum bering their opponents in chains to Botany Bay. Luckily, many day-to-day acquaint ances of the poet, including such re putable man as Mr. Gray, school master of Dumfries, and the emi nent Professor Dugald Stewart, have left testimony to his .more than aver age sobriety, and of the esteem in which he was held as an exception ally kind and attentive father and husband. However much he came under the microscope of the ''Rigidly Right eous", when he hoisted their "Hell's Fire" brigade onto the 'cutty stool' of his satire, this writer is con cerned only with presenting a few pearls of his genius, dedicated to liberty and love. Today his works have been trans lated into 14 languages. Britain is issuing postage stamps bearing his picture, superimposed with scroll and quill, St. Andrews Cross, a plough and her Majesty the Queen. Today, history has silenced the muck-rakers. ? THE great popularity of Burns as a poet, does not spring from any single facet — the undying beauty of his love melodies; his satires which dissolved hypocrisy and superstition with the glowing Heat of his laughter: — "Here Moodie spieled the holy floor With tidings o' damnation. . ." In a more serious mood he wrote to a young friend: "The fear o' hell's a hangman's whip to hold the wretch in order." Addressing himself to the speakers at a great Thanksgiving Day for a military victory, he wrote: "For shame, give o'er, proceed no further, God won't accept your thanks for murder!" It was ..all of these things com bined — his general forthright denun ciation of tyranny in all its forms and his great powers of speech and debate that lifted this boy from the muck and drudgery of barren farms, to the highest ranks of the literati, and most certainly to the highest place in the hearts and minds of the people of Scotland. ? BURNS was 30 years of age in 1789 — the year of the French revolution, when the old, ugly, bloodstained fort of oppression, the Bastille, was stormed and demolished by the Paris workers. Six years earlier, in 1783, America had won her independence from Bri tain. The British people were In struggle for their own freedom. The British Government was disturbed. Penal laws were extended. The "true loyal natives", upholding reaction, strutted over the land. Scottish fighters for reform and freedom, including Muir and Palmer; Irish freedom fighters, and the Eng lish Tolpuddle Martyrs, whose crime was attempting to form a farm laborers' trade union, were being driven like cattle, but chained, to pioneer a new land for profitable investment. Britain, too, was sending troops to France for somewhat the same reason that America today is send ing troops to Vietnam. Burns, at a social party attended by military officers, was asked to propose a toast. He obliged: "Gentlemen, may the success of our troops in France be equal to the justice of our cause." He became more outspoken in the cause of justice, for peace and against oppression, and was warned by his Excise employers: "What ever be the affairs of men and nations, it is yours to be silent and obedient." There were veiled threats of ar rest and deportation to New Hol land. Burns wrote of himself as the bard that down an alley skulks, fearing to share Muir and Palmer's fate. But he threw down the gauntlet with the challenging lines: "Is this the power of 'Freedom's' war?" and alluding to America's new-won independence, went on: ". . . Thy harp, Columbia, let me take: See gathering thousands while I sing, A broken chain triumphant bring, And dash it in the tyrant's face." WHEN the hell - ships, crammed with human cargo, were about to leave Woolwich docks for Botany Bay, his song of rebellion appeared in a magazine for political re form in Edinburgh : — The "Gazateer". ". .. Here's freedom to them that would read. Here's freedom to them that would write; There's none ever feared that the truth would be heard, But them that the truth would indite." The lines were accompanied by an injunction to the editor: "Go on, Sir, lay bare the horrid mass of corruption called poli tics and statecraft, and draw in their own colors those calm, think ing villains, whom no faith can fix. . ? THE affinity that "shapes the poets' ends," is surely their common love for the peoples' peace, freedom and comfort — As Robert Browning said: "Shakespeare was of us, Milton was of us. Burns, Shelley, were with us, they watch from their graves." Burns' "Man to man the world o'er shall brothers be for a' that." is duplicated in many different forms by the people's poets everywhere. Australia's much-loved Henry Lawson, with poetic vision, watches the people marching for the at tainment of this brotherhood: "Then like a swollen river that has broken bank and wall, The human flood comes pourin with the red flag over all. . ." And Victor Daley, inspired as was Burns by the fall of oppression's Bastille, turns his gaze from it to its prototype in another form in Australia, and falling into step with Burns and Lawson, cries: "Our black Bastille of Custom, And wealth may darkly frown, But the hands of those who built it Can also drag it down!" 