 Needed I — - plan for i more % | homes CJYDNEY: The 254 dele gates to the Housing Seminar of the recent Living Standards Confer- ence, called for urgent measures by both Federal and NSW Government's to solve the drastic housing problem. A resolution passed by the Seminar declared that "hous ing still represents one of the major problems in Australia." It said that there was in sufficient planning of home building and this prevented the industry from operating at full capacity without un employment. The resolution called on the Federal Government for substantial additional funds for State Housing Commissions and Building Societies and added that there should be an immediate conference of representatives of the build- ing industry and finance in stitutions to discuss steps to boost housing. Other points in the resolu tion were: — The Government should consult regularly organisa tions interested in housing to arrive at a target for home building annually and discuss three-year plans for the train ing of sufficient skilled labor. An established advisory body should budget for the finance necessary to imple ment this program and con sider means of arranging fin ance. Reduce Interest rates on hous ing should be reduced to 3 per cent, thus reducing week ly repayments on homes and the rent of Housing Commis sion dwellings. A division of the Minis try of Housing should be es tablished to deal with housing for the aged, including main- tenance and modernisation of existing dwellings as well as the construction of new homes. Crown land should be released at low prices by ballpt with safeguards against speculation. Section 5 (3) of the Aged Pensioners' Homes Act should be amended to render State Housing Commissions and Local Government bodies eli gible for the Commonwealth grant of $4 for every $2 ex pended by them for the pur poses of the Act; The rental rebate scheme should be gradually extended to means test pensioners and finally to all low income earners so that the rent paid by any individual does not exceed one-fifth of his or her income. This scheme, the resolution said, should be subsidised by the Federal and State Gov ernments, but administered by the States. 