 ... and how the railmen see them QYDNEY: A mass meeting of the combined unions at the Chullora railway boiler shop in Sydney sent the following letter to both the Federal and NSW Governments in protest against rising prices and fal ling living standards: "We see Arbitration Court Judges, as public servants, in receipt of ridiculously high sal aries ranging from $14,000 up to $20,000. NOT for the purpose of giving an impartial judge ment in relation to wages and the needs of a family in ac cordance with the socially ne cessary things of life. On the contrary we see the job of arbitration Court Judges as one where they must make ridiculous mis calculations, in relation to the wages of a worker and his ability to purchase the socially necessary things of life, so as to protect the Employer, against the just wage, claims of the worker. "The workers sometimes ponder. Does a man |on a salary of (£7,000 and more a year, feel quite at ease with his conscience, telling the worker that he is getting as much as the economy can stand, when workers wages are pegged at £800 to £850 per year Ifor a take home wage? With prices of all com- odities rising continuously, or does he feel a real heel, guilty of having told the worker that he must continue to exist on a miserable pitt ance, while he the arbitrat ion Court Judge lives on a Salary of comparative luxury. "Some of urJ visited the Arbitration Court to hear the last basic wage claim, when Mr. Hawke represented the A.C.T.U. And we witnessed Mr. Hawke trying to persuade the bench of a connection between price? of commodities, and the worker's wage claims. A Judge on behalf of the bench shook his head indic ating a negative reply, arid said Mr. Hawke we are " not a price fixing body. "Alright then if they are not a price fixing body," why do they arbitrarily decide how much a worker must charge for his labour power! "The truth is that they are arbitrating on what a (worker's wage should be, that is the piCe of his labour power, completely cut of context with the price of all other commodities!. 