 ¥ _ B-H T llrl W » -- - HELLO, Tribune Juniors. JN the mail this week came a big envelope from France for us containing copies of Jeunes Annees magazine (,the Younger Years magazine). They are printed in color and are crammed full of puzzles, stories and things to make and do — so next week with the help of our translator we'll have a coloring competition and some things to do from them. It is printed by the Federa tion of French boys and girls and comes out each week. I really wish you could see it, for there is nothing like it printed in Australia. I'm sure we'll have a lot of fun with the help of our French friends. . — Dinewan. CALLING ALL ARTISTS AND POETS JN a little while it will be June 1st, the day that is set aside for children. How about the Tribune Juniors designing— 1. A poster using no more than two colors (84in. x 13in), 2. A greeting card with a little verse — that shows the friendly spirit that boys and girls of all coun tries have towards each other? There will be prizes for the winners and runners-up and winning designs published. Entries to be in to me by the 4th May. COIN CORNER J7XCITING news in the mail from Mrs. Newton, of Riverstone, NSW— a letter to tell us she is sending us a small parcel of coins from Mr. B. Denchfield. When the coins arrive I will tell you about them and we will have a competition with the coins as prizes. Have you been wondering what has happened to all those pennies, half-pennies and three pences? I have, and I have now found out what has become of them (thanks to our Coin Collector). Since the change-over in February, 70 million half pennies, 130 million pennies and 100 million threepences have been ' returned to the Reserve. Bank. I really did not know that there were so many interesting things, about money. Do you know that the oldest' folding money was the Chinese mul berry bark paper printed around 1300? Wonder if they ever had any trouble with counterfeiters? Last week we had a look at the seven sections of the condi tions of coins — now in more detail. Extremely fine — the de- sign and lettering on the coin are sharp and clear and there is no visible wear; the rim i,s unmarked. There may be a few scratches on the coin, but these only show up under magnifica tion, also some of the original shine or mint lustre may be present. Very fine — the coin's surface has some scratches and shows slight wear on the higher points and the dots around the rim of the coin are beginning to show wear. Fine— over the entire surface of the coin . fine scratches can be Seen;. ' the lettering and de sign are also showing signs of wear. More . next week. Here is a picture of VChemushka", one of the famous space dogs put into orbit by the Soviet Union. What do you think she is saying as she is being weighed by the scientist after her orbital flight. 