 trfiierf look around the world J\/JOSCOW: The election campaign for the Supreme Soviet ballot on June 12 wound up with meetings be- tween candidates and elec tors. In these face to face meetings aJl candidates participated, ' in cluding Brezhnev, Kosygin, Podgorny, Suslov, Masurov, Shelepin and other Soviet lead ers. Some meetings were in Mos cow's Bolshoi Theatre and Pal ace of Congresses and at other public gathering places. Candidates were pre-selected through mass meetings at enter prises in localities and . else where, allowing the widest pop ular participation in deciding Whoshouid stand for the Soviet of the Union and the Soviet of Nationalities.— R. Lockwood. ADEN STRUGGLE A.BDEL Makkawi, spokesman tor the Front for the Lib eration of Occupied South semen, said recently that -the nt Would continue its struggle against the British occupiers. He said the British Govern ment's promise of independence to Aden in 1968 convered an intention to make Aden safe for" . Britain by leaving power in the hands of pro-British Arabian emirs and sultans. GUESTS OF THE BUTCHER rpHE London New Statesman says that while Spanish priests and students were still recovering from manhandling by dictator Franco's police, a party of eight British Labor MPs were preparing to go to Spain as guests of Franco's bogus trades unions. About 50 Labor MPs have visited Spain at Franco's expense in the last five years, says the New States man. SILENCE IS GOLDEN "JEWSWEEK" leature writ er Emmet John Hughes says (June 13, 1966) he asked one of the Labor Government's leaders when he was in Lon don recently how his Prime Minister had smothered all pro test against the US Vietnam policy. . The Labor man's reply: "Your Lyndon promised to support the pound and our Harold agreed to shut up about Vietnam. Not a noble bargain but — for us— not a bad one". STRENGTH OF THE LEFT 'pHE strength of the Left in Latin America is shown in the promises the new presi dent of Columbia, pro-American Carlos Lleras Restrepo, had to make to get elected in a poll boycotted by 60 per cent of the voters as unfair. His program included broader trade ties with other countries, including socialist countries, legalisation of all parties, in cluding the Communists, and non-interference j,n Cuba. Whether these promises will be met is another matter. SYRIAN-EGYPT PACT A NEW trade agreement has been signed by Syria and Egypt (the UAR). Volume of trade will double compared to 1961. v . The Manchester Guardian says . that on his recent visit to Cairo, Soviet premier Kosy gin pressed hard for an Egypt- Syrian rapprochement and a "thaw is developing on the offi cial level". Egypt is calling for a closing of revolutionary ranks in the five independent states of Egypt, Syria, Yemen, Algeria and Irak. SOVIET JEWS IN PROFESSIONS P'HE Soviet Weekly (London) states that Jews are only 1.1 of the Soviet population, but they account for 14.7 per cent of the doctors, 8.5 per cent of the writers, 10.4 per cent of the judges and lawyers and 7.7 per cent of actors, musicians and artists. It says that the Yiddish paper Soviet Homeland has a circulation, of 25,000. 