 Water plan— if and when! By W. Mountjoy first sight the recently proposed $1,200,000 plan for water conservation in New South Wales appears as a bold and comprehensive move to mini mise drought effects in the future. Further examination, how- fever, reveals that much of the plan is only a paper pro posal as no blue -prints exist ; for construction of the pro posed major storages and : weirs. To get off the ground an enormous amount of detailed : planning will be required and an assurance that adequate finance will be available. The riparian (river bank) rights of Queensland, Victoria and South Australia will also have to be taken into consid- . eration. ' Apparently the Askin Govern ment realises that Australians are becoming more conscious of the need to conserve and use as effectively as possible all water resources. Discontent The plan should also be seen against the background of mounting discontent against proposals of the NSW Govern ment to increase water charges to farmers. , On the other hand, tribute must be paid to officers of the Water Conservation and Irrigation Department for the plan which at least shows the j possibilities that exist. And f,the part played by the State 1 Minister for Conservation, Mr. J. G. Beale, cannot be ignored. The history of the proposed scheme goes back many years. In 1945 the NSW Parliament passed the Darling River Wat- , ers Act which provides for con struction of multiple weirs on the Darling and Barwon Rivers, between the Junction" and the Murray and "the 29th parallel i of soutb Latitude". At least 30 but no more than 40 weirs were proposed for construction, but so far only four have been com pleted. The excuse has been that the Darling has been too high in recent years for work to be carried out, but for some time now the Darling has been little more than a trickle. Will be slow The proposal for the Darling which is part of the new plan envisaged by the Askin Gov ernment provides for a string of permanent pools which could be used for water supplies. When the Government pro- posals are examined it win toe seen that little new work is anticipated in the next five years. The only new work to which the Government is committed is the Severn Dam. All the other proposals, including sup plies from farm dams, are to await the approval of the Fed eral Government which alone can provide the necessary fin ance. For the proposals to be fully effective they must be dove tailed into Queensland plans for the Darling tributaries, but the Nicklin Government has claim ed that NSW is procrastinat ing instead of coming to a firm agreement as to what dams should be constructed and how the work should be financed. But both the Nicklin and Askin governments have made it clear that unless the Federal 