 Rl-CAST BMP6ET Unions want joint action with NSW Govt. JJYDNEY: The NSW Labor Council has expressed serious alarm at the Federal Budget and is pres sing the NSW Government to have it re-cast. Council Secretary, Mr. J. u. ivenny said that failing positive action by the Askin government the trade unions will need to take industrial action. The Labor Council decision, taken last week, will ask the State Government to join with the Labor movement to seek more money for hospital, schools and social services. . In the words of the Building Workers Industrial Union: "The latest announcements by the Liberal Government of heavy price increases in fares, in hospital charges and the threatened imposition of a heavier State Taxation burden make it necessary for the trade unions to consider under taking urgent protest action against price rises. "The State Government's ac tion in increasing fares for the second time this year, together with price increases by the Steel companies, by the copper industry and many other items mean that the wage rise so re cently won has been taken away from the worker." Doubts Although Council secretary, Mr. J. Kenny, said he "doubts whether the Premier will meet the executive", the Labor Coun cil will never the less seek a joint approach with the NSW Government to the Federal Gov ernment. The Council decision follow ed strong calls from several un- ions for the trade union move ment to vigorously oppose the budget. Earlier the NSW Teachers' Federation had called for a re casting of the budget. Protest rally The Amalgamated Engineer ing Union had asked the Labor Council to organise a protest rally of metal workers in Wyn- yard Park. The Sydney Branch of the Waterside Workers' Federation called for a four-hour stoppage of all workers in NSW against | the price robbery and the basic | wage "mockery." The Seamen's Union called : for a protest deputation to the \ Askin Government. The NSW Branch of the ' BWIU called on the Council to organise a "trade union prices protest lobby day to take place in the second part of October. : "The official Trade Union ' Lobbyists could be supported i by the attendance of delegations ! from jobs and, where approved , by unions, protest stoppages j and delegations from various j jobs and workshops." . j "We consider that the work- i ers are looking for a strong ! lead from the trade union move- ' ment. ! "They are fed up with these j price rises taking away the i wage gains won at such great j effort and are looking for the j most militant expression," the BWIU said. ; 