 Govt, should take over export resources S the Liberal-Country coalition's economic policies are based on the interests of home and foreign monopolies and the Vietnam war policy, its reactions to the present situation can be expected to put the squeeze further on the Australian working peopte s living standards. This may include tax in creases on lower incomes and further tariff and price in creases. The Government will be seeking to help Austral ian big business to accumul ate more capital and to sub- sicVse further the operations of home and foreign monop olies. Effects in Australia are likely to include an increase in interest rates on borrowings of capital in Australia, which would be passed on through more intense exploitation of workers, or through higher prices of products. However, the Government will learn no basic lessons. Hie evidence is that the British investment in Australia, still the biggest among the overseas investors, will taper off and that every step will be taken by the Government to help. United States, Japanese and other monopolies to extend their take-over operations. Measures to ensure a 50 per cent Australian share in new ventures mean little more than certain Australian capit alists interests will have a junior interest in the big-scale operations exploiting Austral ian workers and resources for huge profits. The Bulli mine disaster find ing, revealing Australian Iron and Steel's neglect of the wor kers' safety, has focussed attention on the urgent need to nationalise the coal industry, in the interests of scientific and safe working of coal seams as well as our export economy. Oil exploration and produc tion, now 85 per cent foreign owned, has nevertheless been guided by the Government's Bureau of Mineral Resources and financed by the Govern ment. Petroleum refining is 95 per cent foreign owned. Iron ore for export is 75 per cent foreign owned, bauxite (for aluminium) 80 per cent. The alternative to the policy that has led to this situation in many of Australia's most valuable and strategic assets is government development of Australian resources, with trade union participation in the control of the government enterprises at all levels. The extension of Australia's present National Line of ships into the mainstream of this country's overseas trade of all types, with government-owned ships, together with the nation alisation of insurance operat ions, "could make a big differ ence to Australia's worsening international financial prob lems. Capital for such ventures must be raised by the govern ment through more steeply graduated taxation . measures directed at the profits of big companies, and through the profits of the government en terprises themselves. The trade balance problem is being aggravated by heavy expenditure overseas, especially in the USA, on armaments for war in SE Asia, and also by restrictions on the development of big-scale trade with logical markets in socialist countries, particularly the Soviet Union, China and North Vietnam. Solution of these problems requires abandonment of the present foreign policy of "rel iance on force", in favor of an independent policy of peace. 