 Sth. 4 ust. ALP Convention: j Good resolutions on ALP agenda ADELAIDE: .The Australian Labor Party's annual Convention in South Australia will discuss many I resolutions of vital national and State interest. j Opposition to the war in Vietnam and conscription or ute youin, proposals to nan the rising cost of living and the sell out of Australian resources and the urgent task of defeating the Holt Govern ment are included on the agenda. , The 185 resolutions from 10 unions, 22 metropolitan sub- branches and districts and 10 in the country, reflect the increas ed political interest and activity arising from the election of the Labor Government last year. Condemnation of conscription, moves for an end to the war !n Vietnam and for a stepping up of the campaign against the Holt Government are proposed by resolutions from the Eliza beth and Crawler sub-branches, the Australian Railways' Union and Boilermakers' Society. The Waterside Workers' Fed eration has called for national price control and three other unions and one sub-branch have suggested measures to control and reduce prices. Seven resolutions condemn the concessions given to mono polies, both local and overseas, particularly the plundering of iustralia's natural resources in minerals, oil and natural gas. Two resolutions call for an ncrease in the royalties charged by the BHP for the high grade ron ore it receives from the State. The Modbury . sub-branch wants lower electricity charges for doinestic consumers and fewer concessions to industry. 1-1 ? r- r - J. > , A number of resolutions call for additional efforts to reduce the powers of the Legislative Council and for other aspects of electoral reform. Three affiliates seek an im provement in public transport, including an extension: of the suburban railway services. ; Attention is given to reforms of local government and the Northfield sub-branch proposes adult franchise instead of the present property vote for muni cipal elections. The Semaphore sub-branch and the WWF asked for more urgent action to implement pro posals for the upper reaches of the Port River and the resolv ing of health hazards arising from river pollutioh. Proposals to increase home building, amendments to the | Industrial Code, Compensation j Act and Long Service Leave Act ! are included. I The Amalgamated Engineering Union is opposed to any aid being given to non-State schools until the needs of State schools are satisfied. A number of other resolutions, both for and against, deal with the State aid issue. Extended liquor hours, equal pay for women workers, nation- j alisation of gas, early steps to j form a State insurance depart- j ment and controls over hire I purchase are advocated. I A number of proposals favour s the Young Labor Contingent be- ! coming a fully affiliated body I to the ALP with rights and duties the same as unions and j sub-branches. j #>yc t t f"r it— " r vw - ? I 