 [?] with JUDAH WATEN A bonfire of books FEW DAYS ago when I was giving a talk to a group of writers I said there had been a book burning episode in West Germany last year. Eyebrows were raised and I could see there was some doubt about my statement. Here are the facts as reported in the English press on October &lt;8, 1965: A youth organisation calling itself the Youth Federation for Decisive Christianity on the Rhine bank at Dusseldorf made a bonfire of books by Gunter Grass, 'Kaestner, Camus, Fran- coise Sagan as well as twopenny dreadfuls and shilling shockers. The burning, which the English "Guardian" said called to mind, the burning of the books in May, 1933, was arranged with the consent of the office of public order in Dusseldorf — that is, with the consent of police. The affair . started a great rumpus which has not ended yet. The Evangelical Church made a statement saying that "if one starts burning books it soon leads to burning people." The Free Democratic Party said that the young people them selves were not to blame, but rather those who irresponsibly created a climate in which incid ents could happen. The Chancellor, Dr. Erhard himself hardly made a striking contribution to democracy with his Hitler-like attacks on the writers during the last German election campaign. HEN most leading Ameri can poets, including the Catholic poet Robert Lowell, are critical of their Government's policy and are working for peace, the ultra- right Australian poet, Pro fessor James McAuley, is a great supporter of the Ameri can war in Vietnam and a stern critic of Catholic human ists who think "hopefully about a Dialogue with Com munists". Unlike poets of the past who when visiting war-torn areas, generally called on hospitals and chidren's homes to commiserate with the victims of war, the bellicose professor during his recent visit to South Vietnam toured the battlefields in the company of military leaders. Evidently Professor McAuley sees himself as a military author ity for in an article last June he took to task those same Cath-- olic humanists' who were also loath to support the use of nu clear weapons. Not so the profes sor. He thinks this is sound theology, for he is an expert on that too. No wonder he is known as the pontifical as well as the bellicose professor. 