 Stars and Stripes goes up in flames DEL AIDE : Last Friday evening many hundreds of homeward bound workers and shoppers witnessed the burning of the American flag and a draft card, in front of the MLC building in Victoria Square in which the US Consulate has several offices. Approximately 80 demonstra tors, some carrying banners demanded withdrawal of all foreign troops from Vietnam allowing free elections to take place. Banners drew attention to the forthcoming elections in Vietnam as being ' bogus and undemocratic because of the discrimination against the largest section of the popula tion who have been given no vote nor allowed to nominate their own candidates. Candidates who are not ac ceptable to the present puppet government are denied the right to contest the elections. Irate An irate American received no support from the demon strators or onlookers when he crashed through the crowd and extinguished the . flaming flag and then disappeared. He was later seen standing with an in terested security officer. He declined to give his name to reporters. The Deputy Consul (Mr. How- ley)- would not comment when asked by a student deputation to justify American intervention in Vietnam and the fairness of the forthcoming elections. A 20-year-old student burnt his draft c.ard to show his dis agreement with conscription of ' Australian youth to fight in : Vietnam and that he was not prepared to be forced into the Australian Army to take part in what he termed an "illegal" war. j... This demonstration eulmin- ated a- week of demonstrating in front of Parliament House. Saturday morning the Greek Community Anti - conscription Committee held a demonstra tion which moved down busy Hindley Street to picket the Liberal Party headquarters in North Terrace. The demonstrators, mainly young Greeks and some young Australians demanded the gov ernment end the conscription of Australian and Alien yoUng men. A spokesman for the group stated that the build up of mili tary forces and their use in other countries did not solve the problems of the people but creates an atmosphere of ten sion between the peoples in volved. They declared their willing ness to fight alongside Austra lians to defend this country should Australia be attacked. They accused the government of falsely declaring that Austra lia was a country which offer ed migrants the opportunity to build a new life free from such oppressive laws as conscrip tion. 