 CqSweil tells union... Aust. is little Sir Echo of USA' C YDNEY : Labor Leader, Mr. Arthur Calwell, told the NSW Labor Council last week that "Australia should be the defender of the smaller nations, the defender of peace. "Instead we have lost our international status; our voice is no longer the voice of peace because we have become the 'little sir echo' of the United States. "I would rather go all the way with Pope Paul in his grave and great historic plea, for peace in Vietnam as I would rather go all the way with the Secretary- General of the United Nations, U Thant, who warns that unless peace comes to Vietnam terrible misfortunes . will toe inflicted on humanity," he said. In a spirited address to the NSW unionists, Mr. Calwell urged the importance for a united campaign to defeat the Holt Government at the Novem ber 26 elections. Unions and workers were asked to financially back the campaign to elect a Labor gov ernment and fight the activities of the monopolists. $2,000 cheque Mr. J. Heffernan, Federal sec retary of the Sheet Metal Work ers' Union, almost stole the show when he presented Mr. Calwell with a $2000 cheque from the union's Federal Coun cil. On the economic front, Mr. Calwell warned that prices will rise still further. "In the past two years prices have risen rapidly while wages, have remained pegged. The two dollars increase in the basic wage disappeared from the pockets of the workers before they had a chance to use it. "You never get wage justice under capitalism. Only those who demand it get it," he said. He pledged that a Labor gov ernment would intervene before the Arbitration Commission to restore automatic quarterly cost of living adjustments. He also reiterated earlier pledges to: ® Abolish the anti-union penal provisions from the Com monwealth Arbitration Act. Hold a referendum to give the Comrtionwealth control over prices and interest rates. Mr. Calwell said there would be a complete readjustment of relationships between the States and the Commonwealth, the de tails of which would be an nounced in his policy speech. "But I can tell you now that we intend to return all the money collected in petrol tax to the States. "In 1964/65 the Liberal Gov ernment retained $22 million of this money and in 1965/66 the figure was in the vicinity of $33 million. He said the worsening eco nomic and employment positions are major issues facing the Australian people. Mr. Calwell foreshadowed the escalation of the smear cam paign against Labor. 