 More women in work force : "Urgent need for policy" SYDNEY: Australia, where the increase in employment of women has outstripped that of men, urgently needed a consistent policy in the interests of working women, said Mrs. Freda Brown this week. Mrs. Brown, a member of the Central (Committee of the Communist Party of Austra lia, was commenting on the issue by the Party of a draft policy or charter for working women. Last year, she said, the rate of male employment rose by 3.5 per cent but that of female rose by 5.8 per cent. Today many women wanted to work in order to use and develop their abilities. In addi tion, high costs of living, hous ing, education, etc., compelled many women to go to work. The draft policy says that the Communist Party welcomes this increased participation of women in the work force. It upholds women's rights to choose to work or not. "Having entered the work force, women's special needs s.hould be met, and special provisions should be made to help in the care of children and family responsibilities," it says. "Despite the fact that Australia today is an advanced industrial country, women still suffer discrim ination in many, vital matters such as the right to work, the right to equal rates of pay and the right to adequate care for their child ren." The statement' says the pro gram points are for considera tion, discussion and action, not only among Australian women, but Australian men. A policy for working women in particular, can be imple mented by united action in the political sphere through the trade unions and through local Government and com munity activities, Although full equality would be built only on a socialist foundation. Main points in the draft pro gram include — State and Federal legislation to guarantee the following: — + Employment for all who wish to work. + Penalties for discrimination against women on the grounds of sex or because they are married. In consultation with the trade unions, provision to be made for part-time and casual employment for women who have special needs. A Planned decentralisation of , in dustries. i EQUAL PAY & OPPORTUNITIES + Full equal pay (an equal basic wage, equal margins and/or over- award payments, allowances or bon uses) for women and Government ratification of International Labor Office and UN decisions covering equal pay. + Immediate implementation of equal pay in Government depart ments and instrumentalities. Government intervention in support of trade union equal pay claims through the Arbitration Court. Equal opportunities for women to enter all occupations, trades and apprenticeships, with appropriate safeguards for their health, + Equal oportwnities for promo tion in all fields of Public Service, industry and commerce. + Equal opportunities in educat' for boys and girls in seconda technical, agricultural and tertia courses. Provision of more schoi arships and cadetships for girls and women. . + Training courses, with pay, for women entering skilled jobs or changing occupation, and refresher courses, with pay, for women re suming occupations after a long absence. CHILD CARE Day nurseries, kindergartens, after-school and holiday centres for the children of working mothers, with subsidies from governments, councils and employers. Ultimately such centres should become part of the State public school system. Paid maternity leave for three months (whare a mother resumes work; a minimum of 12 months unpaid maternity leave where re quired. Compassionate leave to be available to mothers obliged to care for a sick child (in addi tion to normal sick leave). GENERAL PROVISION Strict policing of the Shops and Factories Acts and all awards to safeguard health of women em ployees, No discrimination against women in case of pregnancy. + Raising of permissible income for deserted wives and widows with family responsibilities so that joint pension and earnings may be at the level of the basic wage. Workers who have paid taxa tion in the course of employment and are dismissed or become ill, to be eligible for full social service, sickness and unemployment bene fits, irrespective of whether their spouse is still employed. Special facilities to assist mi grant and Aborigine women to en ter industries, trades and profes sions; to overcome language and other special difficulties, and to guard against undue exploitation. ' Hours to be adjusted to pro vide for shopping time. That special encouragement for women to become active union ists; also that special forms of oiv ganisation and activity be promoted to assist women to share in union life and leadership. 