 That sagging economy Out Holt first step for shot in arm Tribune's prediction (24/8/66) that the August Federal Budget would not arrest the alarming drift in the economy was confirmed last week. Figures released by the Commonwealth Statistician for new car registrations (a key economic indicator) showed no sign of recovery to the pre-September 1965 level. The. Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries blamed price increases generally for the continuing poor demand for new cars. The Chamber said that the Federal Budget had anticip ated a recovery of consumer spending due ' to higher in comes. It gave as the reason for this anticipation not being re alised that: "The increases in incomes have been seriously eroded by increased costs in basic con sumer expenditure imposed in somewhat indecent haste by both public and private in terests. "A little restraint in this sphere could have helped to inject the necessary optimism in 'the general business out look." By inference this barbed shaft was aimed at State anti- labor governments and the car manufacturers' fellow monopolists. It lends support to what Tribune and the whole labor movement has been saying in much more specific terms. The logical conclusion, which the Chamber fails to draw, is that the Holt Gov ernment jmust go, on No vember 26, to open the way for a new Budget that will give a boost to consumer spending. First essential' is to halt the erosion of existing in comes caused by rising costs of State services and high monopoly prices. This calls for reduction and strict control of prices and profits, as featured in the Communists Party's election program. The next logical step to wards increased consumer spending is to lift purchasing power by meeting the ACTU'S basic wage and mar gins claims. This also is featured in the Communist Party's election policy. A further step towards lift ing consumer spending is a substantial reduction in direct taxation on lower and middle incomes. It is estimated that, on an average income, tax soaked up 25 per cent of the $2 basic wage rise before it hit the pay envelope. Reduction in direct taxation should be accompanied by ab olition of sales tax on all necessities and reduction of excise tax on beer and cig arettes. Nothing would give the ec onomy the much needed boost more than a vast expansion of public works. Money The Communist Party's el ection program shows how the money for this could quite easily be found. Withdrawal from the Viet nam war and adoption of a peaceful foreign policy would 1 enable a large part of the $1000 million war expenditure to be diverted to constructive channels. Additional revenue could be raised by increased taxation on monopoly profits and the incomes of the wealthy. Tax concessions to foreign investors and subsidies to monopolies from the public purse should be abolished. This is the logical way to give a boost to consumer spending and a much needed lift to the flagging economy. E. W. Campbell, 168 Day St Sydney. 7 " . . . and that's not just my opinion, gentlemen . it's YOURS, too!" 