 East- West | Dialogue j in Germany | pRESSURE by the I West German pub- I ' lie opinion on foot- I dragging leaders has | compelled the exchange 1 of speakers at socialist J rallies scheduled for east and west Germany next week. I The rallies will be held at 1 Kari Marx Stadt (formerly 1 Chemnitz) in the GDR and in | Hanover, West Germany. 1 Acceptance by the West Ger- $ man Social Democratic Party I of the German Democratic I Republic's Socialist Unity ij Farty's proposals for the ex- II change could lead to a new ji stage in the post war history H of Germany. J The confusion of the hard- i line anti-Communists in West It Germany is shown by their ef- ft forts to suggest that the SUP is in some way "embarrassed" W gfey. the success of its own | initiative. West German Chancellor Er- | hardt, who at first tried to veto the scheme, has finally \ come round to reluctant toler ation of it. However the Chris- ;V-£ tion Democrats (Erhardt's || party) will not take part. H He has banned GDR premier If Walter Ulbricht (who is. also I leader of the SUP) from being I one of the SUP delegates to I speak in West Germany, ap- 1 parently being fearful of let- | ting the west German masses I see and hear him personally. I The SUP, for its part, did I not raise an objection to al ii lowing Willi Brandt and other H top Social Democrat leaders | put their case to the people II of the GDR. M The SUP began the exchange m on February 7 last with an II open letter to the coming So li cial Democratic Party congress |H to be held in Dortmund, West II Germany, in June. i| It proposed - opening a dis- II cussion on the questions of || how relations between the two If German states should develop, || what the German peace treaty fi should be like and the future J| f a united Germany. If first lfc appeared that the Hi initiative would be brushed off ill ky the West Germans as count- III less others had been. Ill rank-and-file workers Iwho had already been moving for a "dialogue" with the east demanded that the proposal be taken up and treated seri ously. The official party paper Vorwarts was forced to pub- || lish the SUP letter, tji This letter and later ex it changes with the SUP arous- | lively interest throughout || SDP in West Germany. H Many local SDP branches III are Pressing for contacts and m negotiations with the GDR. A- iff district conference at Frank- |f furt on Main and a delegate | conference at Offenbach are |i examples. f German businessmen, I i S£ptad toy the huge market n !£??« by GDR other i socialist countries, are tend- 1 more and 111016 to toack tnis move. || Suggestions made by en- 1 mies of unity (for example, 1 the author of last Friday's Sydney Morning Herald arti cle) that the SUP's motive is to get West German aid for its "crumbling" economy are best answered by the well known fact of the GDR's stup endous industrial advance. In 16 years it has risen to be among the five leading in dustrial nations of Europe and is among the world's first 10. . Some way to "crumble"! 