 DRV AIR-DEFENCES SINK 13 US PLANES — Soviet aid anJd local skill '""HANKS to Soviet aid, the North Vietnamese now possess' one of the largest and most effective air-defence systems in the world" US Newsweek magazine admitted in last week's issue. "The Red River industrial zone unowea Willi TUUU TO 10,000 anti-aircraft guns (mostly radar-controlled) and 120 surface-to-air missiles, and North Vietnamese gunners have become increasingly adept at using their weapons," it adds. "Today, US pilots frequently run into a veritable wall of lead which the North Viet namese create by firing their big 85. and 100mm guns straight, up into the air. "And in place of the official Air Force description of anti aircraft fire as either light, moderate or intense, the fliers have coined their own terms — intense, unbearable and let's- get-the-hell out of here." Losses Newsweek makes these com ments in explaining the heavy losses of US aircraft over Vietnam which rose to a record 13 in one week. It helps confirm estimates by Australian External Ar- fairs Minister Hasluck, by US commander Westmoreland and other US military experts that there is no prospect of an early win for the US. In an editorial on August 16 the Sydney Morning Her ald called to US to cut its losses, "admit the failure of the air offensive and: call it off". It pointed out that the bombardment of North Viet nam had not achieved either of its two stated objectives— to '/force Hanoi to the con ference table" or block the alleged flow of supplies to the south. "The sacrifice of men and wmiwiwiwiiiiiMiiui machines in this way seems increasingly purposeless". The Herald says nothing about the killing of Vietna mese civilians brought about by the senseless escalation of the war. Newsweek says that despite official Washington repudia tion' a recent study by US officials in Saigon estimates that it would take eight to 10 years for 750,000 US troops to complete the "pacification" of South Vietnam." Lives "And Seymour J. Deitch- man, of Washington's Insti tute for Defence Analyses, re cently concluded that 675,000 men could bring the, war to a successful conclusion in six years— but only at the expense of an estimated 100,000 Ame rican lives." The danger that Washing ton, caught in its own trap, will try to break out by a land invasion of North Viet nam is stressed by the New York Worker and the London Morning Star. The New York Worker says the plan to invade the north has been prompted by Presi dent Johnson's frenzied fear of a setback in November Congressional elections and his desire to provide "victor ies" for the electorate. Campaign A demand for a northern invasion, voiced by Southern puppet Premier Ky, was not repudiated by US State Sec retary Rusk. The London Morning Star notes that the US press has ww— jaw— i— — — I B begun a campaign to claim that the demilitarised zone, established by the Geneva conference, is being used by the North Vietnamese. A statement by 48 US Con gressmen warns that the dan ger of the war spreading is increasing daily. What this will mean for Australia was emphasised by Mr. Allan Fraser, speaking for the ALP in last week's foreign affairs debate in Can berra. Mr. Fraser said Hasluck's speech meant that Australia was "unalterably committed to an interminable war." As the American commit ment increased, so would the Australian, and Australian families were being condi tioned to read , casualty lists as newspaper features. "All welfare services are to suffer .through the insatiable demands of the war budget", said Mr. Fraser. Warrant All the people could expect was more, burdens, a length ening struggle and a contin ued build-up of forces and casualties. The inevitable outcome was a third world war. "Already it is becoming a war of endless killing and pointless extermination." The Government, already under outside control, had signed a blank travel warrant to go "all the way", no matter where, on a one-way ticket. Holt's slogan was "Marshal Ky is the man for me", yet Ky was a man who said he admired Hitler. 