 B! LLY CAMPBELL does not EXIST! ij . \ j i \ From a Special Correspondent in Darwin gILLY Campbell is 12 years old. According to the Welfare Branch of N.T. Administration he does not B exist. I No doubt they wis.. did not exist for Billy Campbell is living proof of the criminal negligence of people who are employed to ensure the welfare of his kind. The story of Billy Campbell is part and parcel of the whole shameful story of the unhindered exploitation of Abor iginal child labour by pastoralists in the Northern Territory. This lad at twelve has already worked for several years as horse taller in the stock camp at Mount Sanford, an Outstation of V.R.D. His job was to look after the horses, to take them out to good grass, to see that they were well fed and watered. " Each morning he rose very early to round up the horses used by the stockmen. When fresh ones were needed during the day he brought them up. In between times he did general stock work. According to his boss he was "a good little worker, as compet ent as any stockman." When Billy came to Wave Hill with the other striking stockmen from Sanford he found the children there were going to school. He had never been to School in his life. He decided he would join his new friends and every morning for a week he presented himself at the School House and every morning he was turned away. He talked this over with his friend Guss. Guss is fourteen years old. He went to school for a couple of years at Wave Hill, he learned to write a little and to read with difficulty. When he was ten years old Vesteys needed another hand in the stock camp so Guss was turned out of the school house and sent to work. Since the strike at Wave Hill Guss decided he would like to go back to school. He too was turned away. When an official of the Northern Territory Council for Aboriginal Rights visited Wave Hill this week Billy and Gusa told him their story. It was taken up with a Welfare Officer from Darwin who claimed his Branch had no know ledge of the existence of Billy. Assur ances were given that both boys would be allowed to go to school. The question remains, how many other Aboriginal youngsters are there in the Northern Territory, denied the right to an education and used as un paid child labour to swell the profits of Vesteys and their like while the Commonwealth Government's Welfare Branch turns a blind eye and denies knowledge of their existence. Shirley Broadway as Sidney's wife I As, ,«3tdqi lately trying to assert her own individuality, in '-The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Windawkftarfeine Hansberry's searching analysis of the modern dilemma, now showing atSj&ws.-.New Theatre, St. Peter's Lane, East Sydney, every Friday, Saturday and SunOTpghts. New Theatre's second children's play — Australian author Eleanor Witcfldwstfcharming and amusing romp, "Pirates at . the Barn" — opens this Saturday afterlioiiptu2.15 p.m. for a season of Saturday ma&pe&i 