 JOHNSON'S SPREAD-WAR PLAN WAS EXPOSED ONE WEEK EARLIER One week before American President Johnson gave notice of expansion of the Vietnam war , in his State of the Union message last week , an official Soviet communication to the British Govern ment had sharply exposed US intensions . yHIS was in the form of a draft message to be issued by the co-chairmen (the USSR and Britain) of the 1954 and 1962 Geneva conferences on J Indo-China to the countries party to those conferences. The Soviet draft was handed to the British Ambassador in Moscow on January 6. It stated: — "The United States actions have already seriously aggravated the situa tion in Indo China. The further extension of aggression harbours a great danger to world peace." The message says that In viola tion of the Geneva Agreements the U.S. Government was bombing a number of Laotian districts. With American support, troops of the rightwing forces of Laos were con- 'ducting offensive operations in the districts controlled by Neo Lao Hak Sat. Violation of the sovereignty of I neutral Cambodia was continuing. "Thus we have here the U.S. Government's intention to spread war beyond the boundaries of Vietnam, to kindle war flames in Laos, to raise its hand against the neutrality and independence of Cambodia. To restore colonialism "Both the aggressive war the US is waging against Vietnam and the expansion of American aggression on the Indo China peninsula are con nected with far-reaching plans aimed at suppression of the national liberation movement, restoration of positions of colonialism in that area, creation of a widely ramified network, of military . strongholds of American brass-hats in South East Asia. "'The co-chairmen appeal to all countries, parties to the. 1954 and 1962 Geneva Agreements, and urge them to take all steps necessary to end U.S. aggression in Vietnam, intervention in the home affairs of Indo China States and impel the U.S. Government to revert immedia tely to. the road of strict observ ance, of the Geneva Agreements, re call all its troops, withdraw its arms from that region and dismantle its bases," it stated. Presidents hollow words Exactly one week later, in the light of this exposure, President Johnson's words in Congress that "we strive to limit conflict" sounded hollow. So did his statement claiming to support "th8 insistent urge towards national independence" . . . in Africa and Asia and Latin America." The confirmation . of the Soviet note's accusations came in Johnson's confession that the record U.S. war budget of 58.3 billion dollars (£26,000 million) would include an INCREASE for the Vietnam war allocation of 5.8 billion dollars (£2,600 million). 