 Maintaining your home is the greatest slug of all! SYDNEY: "None of Australia's post-war governments has done anything to lower the annual cost of housing for the home owner or tenant. Their policies have help- ed make the cost soar, said Mr. F. Purse, Federal Secretary of the Building Workers' Industrial Union this week. "1"HEY have permitted I speculators, so-called developers and other profiteers to flourish by battening on housing," he said. "Land prices have sky rocketed, while prices of materials and utilities and interest rates have reached higher and higher levels." Mr. Purse said that the cost of housing cannot be told In the terms of construction cost alone. The cost of housing is a continuing ..thing— whether the occupant is a tenant or an owner. It is this continuing cost, the "annual cost", which deter mines whether the family in come is big enough to , afford the house and it is the most useful yardstick in any analysis of the housing problem. The annual cost is made up of four main items. 1. Repayments and interest on capital expenditure — the debt factor. 2. Maintenance, repairs, insur ance, etc. 3. Taxes, local government, etc. 4 Cost of utilities, water, sewerage, power, heat, light, etc. Interest and repayments, the debt factor, is the largest of the four items that enter into an- nual cost, and on present-day interest rates would account for at least 50 per cent of the total. In the case of a tenant, the payment for rent and utilities must cover all of the nnnimi cost items. And the person buying a house on instalments also has to have regard for all annual cost items. Contrary to the popular be lief, a reduction in the con struction cost of housing is not reflected in a corresponding re duction in annual cost. If, for example, the overall cost of a house and land was £4,000 ard the land cost £400, the construction cost of the house would be £3,600. If the construction cost was cut by a third— a very optimistic if not unreal proposition— the overall cost of the land and house would be reduced by 30 per cent. This would result in the debt factor being reduced by 30 per cent, but the other items, main tenance, taxes and utilities would not be reduced. Therefore the one-tnird re duction in the construction cost alone means a 15 per cent re duction in annual cost. But to meet the housing needs of the people in the lower in come group a reduction of 50 per cent or more is necessaryT A general impression has been cultivated that the high cost of housing is caused by workers demanding high wages and that materials are too cost ly, but the cost of finance, the chief factor in the annual cost of housing, is rarely mentioned, Mr. Purse said. In order of importance, the cost of finance comes first, cost of materials is next, and the cost" of labor is: a comparatively small factor. If labor costs were cut by half, the annual cost of hous ing would be reduced by about 10 per cent. If the cost of materials were halved, the annual cost of hous- i ing would he reduced by about 15 per cent. But a half reduction of in terest and amortisation charges would cut the annual cost by more than the same reduction in both labor and material costs. Unions' plan Reduction in the annual cost of housing could be achieved in a number of ways. The first and most important way would be the reduction of interest rates to not more than three per cent as demanded by the trade unions. Other ways include a price cut and control over materials and land, reduction in insurance charges, local government rates and cost of utilities. The unions have demanded these reductions for years. To. enable local government tb reduce rates and improve facilities and services, the un ions demand that 10 per cent Of national revenue he allocated tb local government. Mr. Purse said that the unions have also called for the development of an ex panded Government home building program and for it to be brought into vigorous competition with private en terprise, thus contributing to the reduction of the general construction and annual cost of housing. 