 . $ A new course ! for the Nile i From FRANK and JULIE HOWARD I TWO AUSTRALIANS IN THE UAR j ALMOST from the im memorial the Nubian villages have huddled along the banks of the Nile in Uoner Egypt; squared white walled, flat- roofed or roofless houses. Here the Nile squeezes itself in between rugged grey hills and the rolling white sand of the desert. Narrow strips of land along its banks gave the Nubian families their tiny plots of garden land by which they lived. (Every summer the Nile came up and swallowed tihe gardens and1 lapped tire very door sills of their homes. Now the Nile is becoming Lake Nasser. The rising water is creeping up, the white walls soon to engulf them for ever. Where are the people wno in habited them? Further North, at Kom Ombo, below the High Dam, they , have been re-settled by President Nas ser's Government on land reclaim ed from the desert. This i s only the firsjt part of (many thousands of acres of new land that will be brought into cultivation by means of the water from the great new lake. One fine morning we set off with our Arab guide, Mustafa Dowidlax, to visit the new Nubian villages. "Without a word of Arabic it was not possible to stir far in the country without a guide to interpret for you the customs of the people, and to steer you through the road blocks, vouehier-getttngi and general bureaucracy. From the distance on the flat Nile plain the new villages look like any' other, but we drive along not a narrow labyrinth of alleys hemmed to by grey mud brick walls with people . and children spilling out into the street, but a straight wide road unpaved and dusty. The houses are in the trad itional flat square box-like style, ' but clean walled and all detached Each has four rooms and an open courtyard. Lighting is by kerosene lamp, but already the village is being wired for electric power. The housesi were built by the Egyptian Government and' given to the Nubian people, who pay no rent or purchase price. At one end of the street is a Mosque; round the bend at the other is a new school, and on its walls is a large portrait of President Nasser against a back ground of scenes of industry — linking the President with the country's plans for the future. Several houses have a draw ing of President Nasser on the wall, anid one has a crocodile and a wolf over the portal, sig nifying that the owner is a hunter. On the outskirts of the . village is a small hospital, with a women doctor in evidence; we saw her in a car on her rounds. In the Moslem communities where the women have for so long been kept in seolusdon, a male doctor cannot be admitted to treat the women. Although the veil disappeared from Egypt a long time ago "the women still wear the black dress and shawl, and most will draw a black fold off shawl across the lower part of the face when passing strangers in the street. But not all today; some, the younger ones especially, twill look at foreigners with undis guised interest. The children too are &a lively and as curious as children can be anywhere; all those who go to school are in modem direSsi. Our driver is a Nubian, and vdth & few halting words of English we are introduced to a young man who invites us to take tea to his house. Inside is a square high-ceilinged room, with a stone floor, con taining a dressing table, a large wall mirror with photos stuck in the sidle, and, taking up a third of the floor space, a high iron brass-knobbed bedstead with double thick mattresses and topped by a blrightly coloured thick quilt All, from floor to ceiling, shining and clean. Our guide and some other Nubian guests sit on the bed, and on low chairs that are brought in. The host brings in a pot of delicious tea and- the best china — three cups, two for us and one for himself. Th© others do not partake, for it is in the month of Raimladan and no food oir drink may pass their lips till after sunset. (But later we are told that not all in this village including our host are strictly observing Ramadan.) Our young host is newly married — barely a month — but his wife is not brought ' in. At first the Nubians resented moving from their drowning villages, but how most 'are con tent with their new life and the prospects that open up before them with the land they have been given. This is land which, while still in the basin of the Nile, was in most years outside the range off the annual Nile flood, and had not been cultivated before. At first sight it looks a light coloured unpromising soil com pared with the dark silt of cul tivated fields. But wheat is al ready growing in lapge areas. Gangs of men are working on new large V-shaped irrigation channels; concrete foundations for sluice gates are going in, and new land is being levelled. Here is where the Nubian workers are toiling, and While they aire engaged on this dev elopmental phase they are rec eiving a government living allow ance. An officer of the Desert Reclamation Department super vises this work. Water to fill these new channels is at first coming from pump ing stations further down the Nile, but later it will come by gravity straight from Lake Nasser. Everywhere in Egypt today the water channels are being cleaned out and deepened, for soon they will be full all the year round instead of only in summer. More over, not only the Nubians' land, but some 2 million further acres will be broken in and watered. « J . _ +VlC juacdl iarnujr is w acvwvc title deeds to 5 acres of this land; at their present stage of development they would be sat isfied with nothing less, there are no short cuts to collectivis- ationj with these land hungry peasants. However an overall compulsory supervision will be exercised by a a resident Government agrono mist over their farming oper ations, and co-operatives are being established for the market- tog of the produce. A large new chemical factory not far from Aswan is produc ing Ammonium Nitrate which is used as fertiliser on the new land, and increasingly on all Egyptian farm land. About 36,000 acres are being reclaimed in this area, and much of it will eventually produce sugar cane to feed the large refinery which stands a few miles further north on the west bank of the Nile. f Two land reforms since the Egyptian revolution have dis possessed all ebccess Hand over j 10(0 ffeddans (about the same as 100 acres) owned by foreigners, ex-royalty and other large estate | owners, and1 this land has been distributed to poor and landless i peasants. In some areas there was much evasion of the land reform measures by local authorities of the old regime, and some peas ants were denied their right to land or were saddled with too large a debt. There have been clean-up campaigns and removal of officials who obstructed the reform, and we were told that there are no landless peasants in Egypt today, and all families have at least the minimum of 5 feddans. There are many peasants who increase the size of their land by renting, and share farming is is also still practised, though under State supervision of conditions. Evidence of the skill and care given to the land by the fellahin farmers and: the lush cropsi that are produced can be seen every where in Egypt. Poverty there certainly Still is, but it does not appear that many go hungry, not even the donkeys which always have their big bundle off long clover wher ever they go. There is an air of expectancy and hope, and under an enlight ened leadership the country is on thel eve of great advances. THE NILE follows a new course, opening up thousands of acres for irrigation and farming. Photo shows farmers and peasants on the river bank after the damming of the Nile had been complete# Egyptian farmers and peasants on year greeted the Nile's new course. 