 Wing flutter in Canberra |T'S not surprising that many workers express some reservations about the Qantas pilots strike. After all. the top pay bracket (Boeing captains) among the 400-odd pilots affected is on $14,308 a year. And while that's less than half what American Boeing captains get ($US36,400), it still ain't hay. In fact, the strike began AFTER agreement had bescn reached on the pilots' pay rise claims. Ac cording to the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, the Qantavs management which represents the Fed- ' era! Government inexplicably insisted that the wage compromise would not be implemented un- | less certain new operational orders were accepted. Thv-AFAF TepVk4— thai-same of. these. — .tadutiiijg nigh! landings at Djakarta ami two-man cur.kp.it crews (instead td three) — are unsafe, Qantas then refused to discuss the matter further, rejecting the pilots' right to have any say jj in safety or any other ".management prerogative", jj: The responsible Minister, Mc.Ma.hon, has If threatened the pilots for their refusing to fly. | Qantas has abruptly laid off thousands of em- ; ployees without pay and the international pilots federation has pledged full support to the pilots, i i , There appear So- be two issues at stake. I Qiae is the defence by the Government of the of the employe;-' to, decide all questions, iradkidSa hirrngv Bring and management. Ajkfeff: captains, it is well-known, have the full cesjaonssbility when hauling their scores of pas- i sengers through the sky. Even a minor accident or "Vear-nuss" can spell the end of a pilot's career. But for them — or anyone else — to claim a share in management control is sheer sacrilege! j The NSW Liberal Government recently made precisely j the same response when Chullora rail workshop men inter- vened in safety control by refusing to release for use dan- | go rou sly rusty rolling stock. But such demands are natural in modern society and they will multiply because more and more highly skilled employees increasingly see that own ers and managers know no more about "opera tions" than they do. Here, in real life, are examples of what is de scribed in the Communist Party's newly issued pre- congress documents as "forms of democratic con trol". In their essence, the demands of the pilots and the railwaymen are revolutionary. They chal lenge part of the heart of capitalism. But there is another, perhaps more sinister, reason for what the pilots say was a conscious I provocation by Qantas and the Government, f It is connected with the fact that Qantas, already one | of the world's major airlines, has very big ideas about | the. future. They have ordered a new big batch of Boeing | 107's and are in the. market for supersonic aircraft some years ahead, with plans for expanded world operations. Evidently their success so far in holding pilot 1 | salaries far below those of their American counter- j | parts has given the management confidence- f! I But the determined policies of the AFAP, with j four strong strike actions under its belt since early jj | 1957. are seen as being perhaps, the greatest ij;i | potential "threat" to the employers' rosy prospects- | | McMahon's earlier record w"as one of "dealing jp | „ with" the wharnes on behalf of the shipowners. | | Now the pilots are convinced that the Govern- p | meat and Qantas want to smash the Pilots Fed- | | eration. or reduce it to a tame-cat body, even if fi £ millions are lost. ?:j | And they point to the economic basis of this: "Qantas $ p" has succumbed to the overwhelming commercial and ecoo- / | amie pressure, has thrown discretion to the winds and f ! decided to adopt procedures and operational techniques sj I purely and simply on the grounds that they are common i I practice in other airlines." 3 j In short, the pilots struggle is not only for s-elf- i interest but quite clearly for public interest. As I already advocated by the Queensland Labor I Council, the Government should negotiate on the pilots' demands. ============== 