 After the Johnson shake-up .. . Another big demo coming in Sydney SYDNEY: A major central demonstration and peace rally is planned for Tuesday, November 15, states the Newsletter of the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament. The demonstration will as- semble in Martin Place at 5 n.m. and later proceed to a Sydney (Lower) Town Hall rally at 6.30 p.m. The purpose will he to focus attention on tne importance of the Vietnam and conscription issues to be determined on elec tion day and to call for the un seating of the Government. It is proposed that ex-service- men and women supporting peace should have a special place. The AICD appeals for all members and supporters who are ex-servicemen or have con tact with ex-servicemen to participate with service medals and decorations. Ex-servicemen The announcement says it is hoped that a significant con tingent of ex-servicemen will lead the walk from Martin Place to the Town Hall and will speak at the Town Hall. Ex-servicemen who met in Sydney recently planned the formation of an Association of Ex-servicemen and women. Its aims will include creation of an atmosphere to assist in the abolition of war, promotion of individual liberty and recogni tion of the right to dissent "as an integral part of democratic society". Convenor of the steering com mittee which was elected is Mr. L. Waddington, of 89 Bun- arba Road, Gymea. AICD supporters have formed election campaign committees and will issue 150,000 election pamphlets, says the Newsletter, which gives the names of the members available for contact in each electorate. Next Sunday, October 30, there will be a canvass in the Lowe electorate beginning at the corner of Burwood Park, pear Burwood station, at 9.30 a.m. On Friday February 4 at 7.30 a public meeting on the Con scription Act will be held in Federation House, 166 Phillip Street, Sydney, organised by the Bill White Defence Com mittee. Speakers will include Sen ator L. Murphy, Professor Frederick May, and Messrs. Alan Ashbolt, S.. P. Lewis and a young conscientious objector, Michael Symons. 