 The courageous stand of a Pope f and an Archbishop By a Staff Correspondent The Catholic Advoc ate, of Melbourne, struck a note of defiance last week when it cited the views of Pope Benedict XV in oppos ing the Holt Govern ment's conscription of ' the youth for Vietnam. Pope Benedict's name was the nearest thing to a dirty ' word known in the war mongering capitals of the western world 50 years ago. With millions of men of the main European nations . busy slaughtering one an other, in world war I with the full blessing of most of the clerics of both sides, Benedict XV refused to be in it. He refused to condemn any of the belligerents, but con centrated on efforts to stop the war spreading and to minimise the suffering. Although he lived in one of the belligerent countries he was bitterly accused by . the western powers of main taining a strict neutrality. When nearly all the clerics of Europe were talking like Rev. Dr. Malcolm Mackay (the Liberal MP) does today, Benedict was indulging in what Mackay calls treason. It was just like him to say, as quoted in The Ad vocate, that: "A conscript state is in ef fect, a slave state, hence it is something to be resisted unless in the last resort." He also said that militaris ation of civil life had been "for more than a century the true cause of countless evils." In August 1917 Benedict compounded all these of fences by offering to mediate and thus save the lives of countless millions. Naturally, this was angrily rejected by the so-called Christian powers. However, Benedict found an echo far away in Aus tralia, where Daniel Mannix, Archbishop of Melbourne, demanded that it be taken up. Archbishop Mannix had al ready, the previous year, aroused the white-hot wrath of the Government, the rul ing class and its press by op posing Conscription and tell ing the people to Vote NO. Outside the Labor movje- ment, he was the only emin ent personage to take this stand. He told a huge Melbourne meeting in 1916 that, though he wished for an Allied vic tory, Australia should con tinue with the voluntary sys tem in a war which was, in some respects, "a sordid trade war". A big part of the crowd rose later and sang "God Save Ireland". A year later, in the second conscription campaign, Man nix went further and said "Like all wars, this is a capitalists' war". He boldly linked the cause of Australia's freedom with that of Ireland: "We are here for a double purpose— to vindicate in Australia the right of free speech and to stand behind a small nation —Ireland", he told the No rally. He didn't worry about the brainstorms he was creating among the Doctor Mackays of that day. He said he had offended them in the first campaign and "I promise I will offend every one of them again. And the reason is I am what I proclaim my self to be— an honest man". Dr. Mannix found a sup porter in the Very Rev. M. J. O'Reilly, the distinguished principal of St. John's Col lege, in Sydney University. As today, the anti-Labor press frantically rounded up as many clerics and laymen as possible to counter the ef fect produced by these two powerful orators. But no his torian denies that they help ed to carry the bulk of the Catholic vote into the NO camp and thus to defeat both the conscription refer enda of 1916 and 1917. No protestant leader of the day came forward to sup port NO. Mostly, they used their pulpits as recruiting platforms. But 10 rank and file protestant ministers sav ed the honor of their churches by issuing a cour ageous NO call, basing them selves on "those fundamental principles which are com mon to all churches. "We can conceive of no more amazing or incongru ous spectacle than that of ministers of the- Prince of Peace advocating, often with intemperate' zeal, the sub ordination of the rights of individual conscience to al- leged military necessity," they said. ? These ministers, said the ; courageous ten dissenters, were "grievously misrepres- ? enting their Master and ir reparably damaging the mor- ! ai prestige of the Christian church". - In the tempest of warlike pulpit oratory, this was only a still small voice. But as Dr. Mackgy should remember, it is sometimes that sort of . voice : that is most worth listening to. 4 , ; A- recent Vietnam demonstration. 7: 