 On Bennelong's point a great achievement Sydney Opera House: some data By Harry Roberts The first recorded structure on Ben-' nelong Point (at the eastern end of Sydney Cove or Circular Quay) was a brick house twelve feet square built in 1790 for the use of Bennelong, one of the more celebrated and publicised Aborigines who greeted the First Fleet, and after whom the point came to be known. | ATER the site was elab- orately fortified and set aside for the use of the "redcoats" and was named Fort Macquarie. After the fort was demolished some of the land was set aside as a public reserve and a tram depot built which was still called Fort Macquarie. Now that, too, has been demolished, the latter name has fallen into disuse and we now have arising from this historical site the giant sail-like shells of the Sydney Opera House which, strangely enough, remind one of the bark gunyahs fashioned by the original inhabitants of this country. 22 3 entries In 1956, after the site had been chosen, the New South Wales Labour Gov ernment held an architec tural competition for the design of an Opera House for Sydney which attract ed 223 entries from 30 countries. The judges unanimously selected the design sub mitted by Joern Utzon, of Denmark, and he was com missioned as architect of the project. Ove Arup and partners of London were appointed Consulting Struc tural Engineers. Sydney Harbour and sails go together. Take a look I at the harbour any week- 1 end and you will see it dot- I ted with sailing boats, j Mr. Utzon, with keen L perception, produced the appropriate design. He then accepted the challenge and came to Australia to turn the idea into a reality. However, he has been repeatedly criticised, usual ly regarding the cost. It is worth recalling that controversy surrounded also the work of another architect who. worked on public buildings in Syd ney—Francis Greenway. - Today we cherish each of the few remaining exam ples of his work and re cognise his genius. Bur- ley Griffin, the designer of Canberra, was another vic tim of this type of per secution and has only just been honoured by the nam ing of a lake. . Once again today there is some danger that politics and profit may be allowed to interfere with a great project — the Opera House. Some danger This magnificent struc ture will bring fame to our harbour, a stream of world famous artists will come to perform in surroundings and with facilities equal to the world's best. This cultural centre will permanently house the Sydney Symphony Orches tra and provide the Eliza bethan Theatre Trust with halls to stage its produc tions with efficient tech nical equipment. The centre will perhaps encourage Australian art ists to spend more time here and also give them the opportunity to study visit ing artists. It will be an inspiration to the young. The inside will be just as spectacular as the out side. There will be four main performing halls and twen ty rehearsal halls, all soundproofed, the largest of which will accommodate an entire symphony or chestra. About fifty dress ing rooms with windows will overlook the harbour and a restaurant, with a , view across Sydney Cove, 0 which will cater for two j hundred and fifty persons, j The Opera House will I have large workshops, 0 adequate storage space and jj offices. The stage of the = major hall will consist of | seven platforms which can jj be individually lowered | down through four floors ! of storage spacfe and work- g shops. | Revolving stage J A platform could be low- | ered to the basement floor J where the heavy stage j props would be positioned, j raised to the next floor ? where furnishings such as j chairs and tables would be g added, then up to the next | floor for curtains or drapes j then to the next where j vasies, ornaments and wall I pictures would be arranged. j By the time it reaches j stage level it is ready for | the next scene after the j previous set has been low- j ered from sight. I The Minor Hall will be j a replica of the Major Hall I but on a smaller scale and j will have a revolving stage « weighing 210 tons. In the s centre of this stage there | will be two elevator plat- j forms similar to those in j the main hall and two I more in the fixed area be- j yond that. j Particular attention has ; been paid to stage lighting I in both main and :; experi- J mental halls. A wide var- i iety of lighting effects will ! be at the disposal of the j producer. For instance an electrical sterm could be simulated, or the light J could be set to gradually | increase from semi-dark- ness to full light over a j period of tame thus giving j the impression of day j break. ' Great care and thorough ' scientific research has been essential in dealing with acoustic problems. A ceil- j ing was designed and a j scale model built which ! was sent overseas and test- | ed by leading specialists | with modern technical I equipment and found satis- | factlory. The ceilings will j be constructed from ply- S wood, and, if in practice I found faulty, can be alter- j ed at minimum cost. j j i A view of the Opera House from the Sydney Harbour Bridge. 