 SEATO men run into 'ambush' By Our Parliamentary Roundsman £ANBERRA, Monday: Foreign ministers met with two different types of welcomes as they arrived at the Canberra Theatre for the opening meeting of the SEATO Council of Ministers' meeting. Alongside of the welcoming flags and bands were 40 stu dents from the National Uni versity holding banners that read: "Withdraw foreign troops from Vietnam" "If these are our allies, who are our friends?" "Alms not arms" The arrival of US Secretary of State (Dean Rusk) sparked off among the demonstrators loud boos and a single voice that shouted: "Go home, you murdering Yank". Girl grabbed A member of the National University staff holding a ban ner told me he wanted to see Australia helping to raise the living standards in the villages rather than the sending of a military task force to Vietnam. The demonstrators waited outside the theatre and again held up the banners as the Council of Ministers left at 1 p.m. An 18-year-old girl student raced across the road to put her banner in front of Dean Rusk as he left the theatre. She was grabbed by uniformed and security police, pulled to the ground and her banner ripped up. She told me she did this as a protest against the USA who, she felt, were mainly respon sible for continuing this ter rible war against the people in Vietnam. No UK troops The British Foreign Secretary (Mr. Michael Stewart), speak ing at a National Press Club luncheon, evidently anticipated that Britain might be pressur ised during the meeting to send troops to Vietnam. He said: "We don't intend to send troops to Vietnam. This would be inconsistent with our role as co-chairman of the Geneva Conference." He softened the blow to the USA by adding "We fully sup port US policy in Vietnam." Answering a question, Mr. Stewart also showed he was not in agreement with the Has luck line that China is the ag gressor in S.E. Asia. Question: "Do you see the Vietcong attacks, the incipient insurgency in Thailand and the insurrection in Sarawak as all part of centrally directed com munist aggression, and if so where from? Stewart: If you look at the pronouncements of certain Chinese leaders you would get the impression they are actively engaged in promoting insurrec tion in every conceivable part of the world. "Fortunately for all of us, the actions, the actual deeds of the Chinese Government have not always matched some of their bellicose pronouncements. "So there is a danger of over simplifying these matters. If ever you are faced with prob lems of insurgency, it is not a sufficient answer to relate them back to central communist dir ection. - "You have got to look at the circumstances of each country and say to yourself that even if there is some direction from outside, why is it able to take root in this particular country?" Bases Mr. Stewart said the use of bases in Australia by British forces would be one of the things he would be discussing with the Australian Government. He made it clear that agree ment had been reached with Australia for the use of bases in Australia under certain con ditions. The East of Suez defence pol icy as outlined by Mr. Stewart meant that if Britain had to leave such bases as Singapore, her troops would fall back to Australia and develop new bases in the Indian Ocean. The policy in essence means the continuation, with econo mies, of the military system to protect the richest area of the world dominion of British cap ital, whose overseas assets are now estimated at their highest- ever total of £10, 000-£1 1,000 mil lion. Maybe that's what Kipling meant when he wrote "Some where East of Suez : . . where there ain't no Ten Command ments." 