 SHATTERING CANBERRA'S CALM yBOUT 800 trade unionists, pensioners, women and youth from three States converged on Canberra last Wednesday putting forward demands for the protection of living standards and for the Holt Government's withdrawal from the Vietnam war. A special train carrying 250, and numerous cars, brought people from Sydney. Three buses and 20 cars brought another 250 from Wollongong . A chartered air craft arrived with 44 from Melbourne and a further 16 flew in from Newcastle. A delegation of eight also arrived by car from Adelaide. Canberra workers, Port Kembla wharfies, Melbourne naval dockyard workers, Sydney printers, building and metal workers were among the 50 unions who marched 800 strong through the centre of the Federal capital. The quiet atmosphere of the city was shattered by the loud chant: "Hey! Hey! LB J, how many kids have you killed today?" It was planned that at Parliament House the poli ticians were to be asked to give straight answers to such demands as price control, ending . conscription and more finance for health and education. But it wasn't to be. A line of police, standing on the steps of Parliament, barred the way. No more than 35 were allowed into their "own" parliament. Japanese tourists and school children were admitted, but not these Australian tax payers, representing hundreds of thousands of citizens. Earlier a mass meeting, held in the park opposite parliament, declared the rally as the opening shot in a national campaign to defeat the Holt Government on November 26. The meeting fully sup ported the policy statements by Opposition Leader, Mr. Calwell, pledging a Labor Government: To put on end to the fraudulent practice of filching away increased wages by means of in creased prices. To introduce price con trol. To withdraw penal clauses of the Arbitration Act and anti-union legislation. To introduce a new bud get anid to take cjther necessary steps to halt the downward trend in the nations economy. O To introduce means of ar resting increasing unem ployment. To put an end to con scription for overseas ser vice and the withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam. To provide sufficient fin ance to meet hospital and education needs. To intervene on the side of the worker in ACTU demands for increased margins and the defeat of the employers' total wage claim. To provide relief for wage earners' families by means of reduced taxation, in creased pensions, etc. A union, workshop and public campaign will be mounted to achieve the above objectives. In moving the resolution, NSW Metal Trades' Feder ation. of Unions secretary, Mr. C. Brown, warned that the employers were planning a big attack against the wage structure. "A total wage has in fact been agreed to. They aim to have a maximum wage set by law and will try and take away over award payments". Victorian Transport Wor kers Union secretary, Mr. T. Doyle, 'said that American and local mpngpolies have taken oyer this' country. "Is Australia to be another star in the Stars and Stripes?" he asked. The meeting was also ad dressed. by Labor MHRs C. Cameron (Hindmarsh SA) and E. J. Harrison (Blaxland NSW) and South Australian Labor Senator, J, Cavanagh. Mr. Cameron said he believed there was a large silent vote against the Holt Government's support for "the dirty war in Vietnam. "All the atrocities are being done in the name of "anti-communism. "The giant armament indus tries of America would go broke if peace came. "These millionaires are the ones preventing the Vietnam ese people from having the right to govern themselves", he said. , Senator Cavanagh told the meeting that the welfare of the workers rests with the trade union movement. "All benefits and reforms have come through the struggle of the militants." He said that he and his wife had declined an invitat ion to attend the barbecue for President Johnson. "When I consider how LBJ has been responsible for the slaughter of Vietnamese women and children, it would make me vomit to eat in such company. "Yes, I want to meet him, but to tell him why the labor movement opposes his policy in Vietnam," he said. A delegation of 22 trade unionists submitted a, long list of demands to the Parli- mentary Labor Party's Indus trial Committee. Anti-war . . . / The crowd assembles opposite Parliament House 