 Chinese CP criticised on Vietnam ROME: Criticism of the Chinese Com munist leaders for their attitude to the Vietnamese independence struggle was made by Mr. Luigi Longo, general sec- retary of the Italian Communist Pary, at the 11th congress of the party here. Expressing solidarity with the people of Viet nam, in their resistance to the aggressive war being waged by the United States, he said: "We thank the Soviet Communist Party and other communist parties of socia list countries Who are generously aiding the Viet namese people's struggle." This aid, he said, "could have been more effective had proposals on a united stand of socialist countries against the imperialist aggression been accepted by the Chinese comrades and had the repeat ed proposals of the CPSU and other parties on the imple mentation of unity of action in the struggle against im perialism's offensive led to positive results." Chinese iCommunist Party leaders were making absurd charges against the USSR, but facts spoke for them selves, said Longo. There was no doubt who was giving most help to the / Vietnamese and other peoples struggling for freedom, who bore the main brunt of the anti-imperialist struggle and tied up the main forces of imperialism. "Who helps the Vietnamese by modern weapons to strike heavy blows at the American aggressors? It is the socialist countries and primarily the mightiest of them all — the USSR. To them belongs the place of honor in helping Vietnam." Longo said that the bold and consistent initiative of the USSR and the socialist countries aimed at easing tension and winning peace ful co-existence brought about a crisis of the cold war policy, blocked all the imperialist attempts to overthrow social ism in the countries where it was established and helped many Asian and African coun- v Will Opening for peace struggle Because of these facts, fruitful co-operation was es tablished between the newly- independent and socialist countries. "In these conditions the USSR acted as a mediator between India and Pakistan which increased the prestige of the whole socialist camp, not only of the USSR, in the world's eyes. "It became possible pre cisely in these conditions to mobilise ever greater masses in the struggle to defend peace and defeat imperialism. The realisation of the need to stop nuclear war im planted itself into the mind of mankind. "Our Party will act fur ther in this direction, being convinced that despite the present profound differences, there exist common interests of the socialist community, of the communist and work ers' parties; there exist ob jective prerequisites for ac hieving united action in the struggle against imperialism." 