 1 J,VAWV 9 » 9 ? W« — MINUTEMEN HELD JUST IN TIME: ULTRA-RIGHT'S TERROR SCHEME — Enormous arms haul NEW YORK: Not a small-time action by a crackpot bunch or a lunatic fringe, but "a small part of a terrifying scheme to impose a dictatorship of the ultra-Right". This is the New York Worker's estimation of what was revealed by the arrest on October 29 of 19 fascist "Minutemen" and an arsenal of weapons. The Minutement take then name from a patriot organisation of the US war of independence whose members were ready, to fight the British at a minute's notice. The Worker ridicules the assurance of New York Queens County District At torney Hentel that the organ isation in his area has been "broken up". Says the Worker: "The Min- utemen's plot in one sub division of New York City is only a tiny segment of the vast nation-wide ultra-Right ist conspiracy of terror hid- d den behind the John Birch Society, the Ku Klux Klan, the reactionary Republicans, the white-supremacist South- em Democrats and the racist gangs in the north. "If, as Hentel says, in one isolated raid, police could find 'the biggest haul of weap ons and death-dealing mater ial seized in this area in the memory of veteran law-en forcement officials, it takes little imagination to calculate the tremendous stores of munitions hidden in caches in communities large and small in preparation for armed in surrection, for terror and violence against the people." Rampage Recalling the assassination of John Kennedy, the bomb ings and burnings of the Worker and other leftwing of fices and the rampages of gangs in JNegro gneuues uus Worker adds: "The .baring of the New York Minutemen's plot lifts the lid on a wider network of enemies of the nation who, it is now clear, have been active ly promoting violence against the Negro people, the Jews and other national groups and who have been sowing divi sion among the people to weaken their defence against the assault of the ultra- Right." The Minutemen describe their main aim as being to "resist Communism" — the same objective as is proclaim ed by the Birch society, the .Ku Klux Klan and the White Citizens' Councils. The exposure of the New York Minutemen coincided with attacks on progressive and Communist headquarters and bookshops ranging from San Francisco to New York and against Negro churches. Hours after the New York cache was uncovered an at tempt was made to burn the main campaign headquarters in Brooklyn of the Peace and Freedom candidate for the 12th Congressional District, Herbert Aptheker. Two days earlier a smoke bomb was thrown into the Frederick Douglas bookstore, Boston. Murders The Worker fills three col umns with the details of as saults on, and murders of, leftwing individuals and or ganisations since the death of Kennedy. Newsweek magazine notes that the Minutemen have pub licly advertised their aims since their foundation in 1959. (Penalties and conditions im posed on the Communist Party have never been applied to them, nor have they been . it ; _ J. 4-Vtrt TOia to register uiiuci wic McCarran Act). "The only surprise that came out of last week's crack down was that guerilla action seemed to be so close at hand." Besides attacking Apthe- ker's headquarters the Min utemen had aimed to bomb Camp Unity at Wingdale New York, Camp Midvale at Ring- wood, New Jersey, and "Paci fist Farm" in Voluntown, Con necticut. . The police collected (from just one district of New York) 125 rifles, 10 pipe bombs, five mortars, 12 machine guns, 25 hand guns, 20 brass knuckles with daggers attached, 220 knives (including cleavers and machetes), one bazooka, three grenade launchers and six hand grenades. Mr. Hentel said a state policeman collaborator passed them guns and information about police searches. It is assumed, of course, that the fascists could not have collected such an armory without highly-placed collab orators. The 19 fascist would- killers arrested are not in jail. They are out on bail. 