 ("NEITHER KING NOR KAISER, BUT IRELAND" Specially written for Tribune by SEAN REDMOND in London, Associate Editor of the "Irish Democrat . The first of several articles. THIS EASTER, through out Ireland (and wherever Irish people may gather ) celebration will take place to commemorate the 50th anni versary of the Irish Rising of 1916. : In the midst of the imperialist war for the "freedom of small nations", a determined band of Irishmen and women decided to tight for the small nation at home. On Easter Monday, April 24, (1916, members of the Irish Volunteers end Irish Citizen Army, approxim ately 1,000 in all, seized various buildings in Dublin. The General Post Office was taken over as the Headquarters of the Provisional Government. At noon, Patrick PearCe appear ed on the steps and read the Proclamation of the Irish Repub lic. One of the seven signatories to the Proclamation was James Connolly, Ireland's greatest Social ist leader. Space does not permit the full telling of the story of the Rising. Suffice to say that after gallant resistance which lasted a week, in the course of which the British reduced the centre of Dublin to rubble by the use of artillery, the — insurgents surrendered. , Fifty-six of them were dead, and many, including Connolly, were wounded. One hundred and thirty British soldiers had been killed. But the bloodshed was. not fin ished. One by one the leaders were court-martialled and shot. On May 12, Ccmholly, still ' suf fering the effects of his wounds, was tied to a chair to face the firing squad. Michael Mallin, sec ond-in-command of the Citizen Army, was also shot. In all fifteen leaders were ex ecuted. On August 3, Roger Case ment, who had tried to smuggle arms from Germany for the rebels, was hanged in Pentonville Prison, London. The rising of 1916 was different from previous attempts to over throw British rule in Ireland by armed revolt. It was the first in which the working class participat ed as an organised force, and this was to bring to the Irish struggle an element of determination and discipline. In 1916, James Connolly was an international figure in the Labor movement. He was known in Brit ain where he had. first learned his socialism. For seven years he lived in America, for a time working as an organiser for the I.W.W. He returned to Ireland in 1910 and joined Jim Larkin in building the Irish Transport and General Work ers' Union. In 1913 the Irish Citizen Army was formed to protect the work ers from police brutality during the 1913 strike. It has been describ ed as the "first worker's army in the World". When the news of the Rising ieached Britain there was bewil derment fn the' Iibor Movement. How had Connolly the socialist becdme involved in a "nationalist" rebellion? Some, like William Gallacher, understood. But the Rising coin cided with the collapse of the Second International, when the majority of European "socialists" had been stampeded by jingoism into supporting the imperialist war. Not so Connolly. Nor did he support the "leftists" who counter- . posed socialism and the national ism of an oppressed nation. Connolly's greatness as a social ist theoretician lies in his correct working out of the relationship between nationalism and socialism, and its application in practice. He was out for a Workers' Rep ublic. But he understood that the first task was to clear British im perialism out of Ireland. In doiqg so the working class must be the vanguard, with the aim of uniting all anti-imperialist forces. Thus Connolly's Citizen Army joined with the Irish Volunteers in a glorious bid for freedom in 1916. It should be pointed out that Lenin vigorously attacked the cri tics of Connolly and justified his stand. It seemed at first as if the Ris ing had failed. From the military point of view it had. The numbers who took part were small. The mass of the people had failed to rise in support. At this time thousands of Irish men were fighting in France and Belgium, on the vague promise of Britain that by so doing, a limited form of Home Rule would be granted Ireland after the war. But the executions shocked Ire land, especially the execution of Connolly, who was dying of his wounds anyway. Ireland was never the same again. In the eyes of the Irish people, the "old enemy" had not changed. Within weeks Pearce and Connolly and the others had joined Wolfe Tone and Robert Emmet in the hearts of the Irish people. They had stood up to the might of the British Empire and fought bravely. Their heroic action breath ed a new spirit into the Irish peo ple, and brought to the surface all the feelings which had been ingrained in the Irish people through centuries of oppression. The Easter Rising was the first revolt against the carnage which had engulfed Europe for the en- richment of the war-lords, against which Connolly posed the slogan, "We serve neither King nor Kaiser, but Ireland". Within Ireland it set off a chain of events which were to have far- reaching consequences. The ultra- respectable Nationalist Parliament arians were swept off the stage and in their place were the surviv ors of 1916, who carried on the fight which resulted in 1922 in political independence being won for 26 counties of "Southern Ire land". Let us therefore honor the mem ory of those who fought and died in Easter Week 1916. But pious words are not enough. The Ireland of today is not what they fought for. We haven; L got Connolly's Workers' Republic. Far from it. Six Irish counties (northern Ire land, so-called) are occupied by Britain with a "puppet Parlia ment." North and South, the peo ple are suffering from neocolon ialism. Britain's "oldest colony" still has not won complete free dom. But the signs are that Ireland is entering a decisive stage in the fight against imperialism. Connol ly's principles have never been lost in Ireland and happily they are once again spreading rapidly. There is growing unity in the Labor movement North and South of the border. The working class are following the trail blazed by Connolly and fulfilling what he expected of them when he said that "only the working class re main the uncorruptible inheritors of the fight for Irisl freedom". Ireland's greatest hour is still to come. In the struggles which lie ahead we look to the International Labor Movement for support and encouragement. The ruins of the Dublin General Post Office, after it was shelled during the Easter rising, 1916. 