 HBmnaBBaBBBBHHBnBiBBaiBBBBBBBaBHBBBBHHflBBBBBBBBBaBBBBBBaPBa THE TRUTH ABOUT ANZACl Veteran Digger I , called for peace action "PROBABLY at no time in the world's history has such superb courage been shown by a body of men as was shown by Australian and New Zealand soldiers at Anzac." This is stated by a Gallipoli veteran, Captain I W. Jacka, of the 14th Infantry Brigade AIF, in an appeal to Australians issued some years ago. "Shattered by shells; riddled with bullets and suffering the pangs of hunger and thirst, many of these men gave their lives believing that in so doing they were making I the world safe for democracy and would end for all time I the butchery known as war. I "Today we know only too well that the world has not I been saved for democracy and that the last war was not I a war to end war. I "It is plain that the sacrifices of the men who gavel their lives on Gallipoli will have been in vain unless we— 1 the people of Australia — unite in a determined refusal of do I the bidding of the small minority who thrive on the business 1, of war. I "To the returned soldiers, the mothers and fathers of the | &lt; splendid young men and women who have grown up since I' the last slaughter I appeal, as one who took part in the |> Gallipoli campaign, to let the rulers of Australia know I that you will not tolerate a repetition of what occurred 1 . . . . that you will not allow your determination and heroism I to be prostituted by the masters of the old world, whose only god is profit. 8' "Display your courage by refusing to . fight in imperialist | wars on any pretext whatever, and join with those who j fight only in the cause of; peace and give your hand to 1 the | task of building a new world wherein . peace and liberty I shall flourish and men and women shall live in harmony I with their fellows'." I Captain Jacka, member of the famous Melbourne family | which also produced Albert Jacka, V.C., made his appeal I in L. P. Fox's pamphlet "The Truth About Anzac". 1 