 Djakarta whips I up prejudice yHE whipping up of extreme nationalist 1 prejudices — particularly against the 1 , Chinese People's Republic and its represent- 1 atives — since the new Indonesian cabinet 1 came to power have left little doubt of its I political complexion. The new cabinet, of which Defence1 Minister General Suharto is the main spokesman, includes other representatives of the extreme Rightwing. Back in power is General „Nasution, responsible for the repressive measures against the Communist Party in 1949. In line with these minis ters' political views is the new wave of arrests started since they took over, encour agement of anti-Chinese ac tions. by the Rightwing mobs and— last week— the closing . of Chinese schools in Ja karta. Working with imperialism In a major article on .In donesia's present situation, the Moscow paper New Times says that the reaction aries are working in collu sion with international im perialism. The article points out that the triple alliance ("Nasa- kom") of Nationalists, Mos lems and Communists was the decisive factor in achiev ing and buttressing Indon esian independence. However, when the first stage of the national revol ution was passed the ques tion arose of how to achieve better conditions for the people and at this stage dif ferences emerged between the parties and the social classes they represented. They were aggravated by the worsening economic sit uation and the increasing military burden arising in connection with Malaysia. Subversive Rightwing par ties stepped up their activ ities as did imperialist agents inside, the country; Japanese and West German capital made deep inroads. In 1962 the New York Times called on Indonesia to be "realistic" and accept more foreign capital. The semi-official US mag azine Foreign Affairs called on the officer corps to "be the nation's salvation". On September 30 last Col onel Untung, battalion com mander of the presidential bodyguard, arrested a num? ' ber ' of ; generals ' and accused; j them of plotting a coup d'etat. Massacre Next day the Rightwing militarists crushed Untung's movement and started a massacre of Communists and other progressives. . Refuting claims that the Indonesian Communist Party took part in the ' Untung movement, (excuse for the terror-campaign against it) New Times points out that even according to the of ficial version very few peo ple were involved in the September 30 affair. "Millions and millions of Communists and Commun- 1 ist supporters had absol- | utely no connection with 1 it and learned of it only 1 from the press and radio." I The Communist Party, says New Times, has followed the Party program adopted at the Sixth, Congress in 1959, reaffirmed at the Seventh in 1962. The program said that the ' party's aim— popular govern ment— could be peacefully achieved— "This is fully pos- . sible and we must exert every effort to translate this possibility into actuality. "As far as the Commun ists are concerned the peace ful parliamentary way is the best, ideal form of transition to people's democracy. And if it depends on the Com munists, that is the way that will be chosen." New Times says that the Communist Party program has nothing in common with the tactics of adventurism and conspiracy. The present reign of ter ror is part of the tactics of reactionaries working with international imperialism. The New Times article notes the statement of Com munist leader Njono at his trial, backed by another Communist leader, Pardede, who gave evidence for him, that the Generals' Council had planned a coup against the President and the -Left forces on October 5. HaMnManA 