 HOT BOLONEY BY THE BUCKET AT MANILA — -All Johnson wants is scalps By the Foreign Editor "|HE communiques and speeches at the Manila Conference and those of President Johnson in Vietnam which followed Manila, soon dispelled the rosy glow of "peace hopes" with which the President surrounded his Australian tour. In Australia and New Zealand he addressed nobly worded appeals to the Vietnamese to stop fighting and join in the battle against poverty and hunger. But at Cam Ranh Bay he told the US invasion chiefs to "come home with the coonskin on the wall" — that is, after having successfully hunted the Vietnamese' "quarry". At Manila he was said co have promised Commander in Chief General Westmoreland "everything you want"— as many troops as he wanted, presumably, and permission, to escalate as desired. In Australia Johnson claim ed to see "light at the end of the tunnel"— but nobody saw t after the Manila communi que. "Concession" Much was made of the one supposed "concession"— that the allies will withdraw from Vietnam within six months of a cease fire. But it was quickly explain ed—even by the American press— that even if the Demo cratic Republic of Vietnam immediately complied and withdrew the alleged "north Vietnamese troops" (which the DRV says are not in south Vietnam anyway), the Ameri cans would not call it a cease fire. They would stay until the "Vietcong" in South Vietnam also laid down their arms. " In other words, there must be a total cessation of all Vietnamese resistance, north and south, before the US in vaders will consider depart ing. How little this "concession" is really worth was in effect admitted by Holt when he an nounced a big "change" in allied strategy. This would now be to "clear and hold"— not merely "search and des troy". The object he said, would be not only to remove the "Vietcong" but prevent them ever "coming back" an objec- tive that clearly points to the long term foreign occupation and policing of almost every square mile of South Viet nam. How far the invaders have got so far with their "hold ing" was shown when John son went to Cam Ranh. Screened Every Vietnamese working at the base (and they would bo the most carefully "screen ed" in all South Vietnam for "security risks") had to be evacuated first because the Americans could not be sure that even these Vietnamese did not include ' sympathisers with the National Liberation Front. No wonder the military authorities are talking in terms of a force of three quarters of a million foreign occupation troops being neces sary to police the whole of South Vietnam against anti- American "subversion". This is the real Manila pro gram, despite the pledge to "conquer hunger, illiteracy and disease" and "build a region of security, order and progress". (The pledge of a social revolution in South Vietnam, which figured bold ly in the Honolulu declaration of last February, was con temptuously scrapped at Man ila.) Nor did the US militarists halt for one moment tlfe rain of bombs, napalm and poison sprays on Vietnam while these pious pledges were be ing drafted. So the conference did not take a one-inch step towards peace. Holt's boasts centring on the so-called "Asian" charac ter of the conference do not conceal the reality— that only four of the Governments rep resented were Asian and they could claim to control a pop- plation of not more than 90 millions out of Asia's 1500 mil lions. Discredited The conference proved to be no more representative of "Asia" than the discredited SEATO organisation. It could claim to have at tracted South Korea— an American-occupied territory though not a SEATO member —but Pakistan, which is a member of SEATO, did not attend at Manila. South Vietnam, which was at Manila as a mere US pup pet regime, has always been associated with SEATO as a "protected" state, so its ad herence marked no gain to the American cause. Further the four Asian Go -ernments which were at Manila are all military dicta torships, either open (as with South Vietnam) or with a thin disguise (the Philip pines). South Vietnamese premier Ky's pre-Manila cabinet crisis tore away the democratic dis guise he had begun to assume after the rigged "elections" of September 11. Most of the civilian part of Ky's cabinet resigned — but, as the New York Times reported — he told them he didn't need them any way 