 Is Govt, stalling inquiry ? By our Canberra Correspondent "THE &lt;lay after an Ansett- ANA Viscount crash ed near Winton, Queens land. the Minister for Civil Aviation, Mr. R. W. Swartz, promised a public enquiry. A fortnight has gone by since then, and as Tribune went to press the Minister had not as yet announced either the terms of the inquiry or the judge to preside over it. opposition members are . - pointing out r that -because of the delay it is difficult to see how the inquiry can really get under way before the House rises on October 28. They are suggesting that the Holt Government is fearful of a major scandal over lack of air safety pre cautions and is stalling to keep the issue minimised during the election cam paign. Following his stinging attack on civil aviation policy in Par liament on September 21 (the night before the Viscount crash at Winton) Mr. L. Devine, Labor, NSW, has placed four searching questions on the notice paper. The questions challenge the complacency of the civil avia tion report recently tabled in Parliament by Mr. Swartz, which said that "high safety levels was one of the key points of Australian civil avia tion during 1965-66". Answers needed Mr. Devine 's questions are.: With what instrument unserviee- abillties are commercial aircraft operating in Australia allowed to fly to the next overnight stop so that repairs can be carried out? For what period of time is an aircraft allowed to fly with instru ments unserviceable? Do Trans-Australian Airlines and Ansett-ANA have stationed at Mt. Isa a certified' or licensed main tenance engineer to carry out main tenance and attend to any tinser- viceability which may occur in commercial aircraft that are sta tioned there overnight? It so, were the engineers avail- ,on the night of September 21, 1 966? What are the names of air safety officers stationed at Sydney and Canberra airports whose duties in clude on-the-spot checks of aircraft loadings, refuelling and mainten ance procedures and adjudication in disputes between pilots and airline companies? What is the approximate time token by a pilot, prior to the de parture of a commercial aircraft on its first operational flight of a day, to carry out checks according 'o instructions laid down in the aircraft manuals? . Mr. Devine's questions, which mdicate that he may have I some very disturbing informa- Continued on Page 1 Z Is Govt. stalling ? Continued from Page 1 tion, have been backed up by a special article on the Vis count crash in the October 1 issue of the "Nation". The "Nation" makes the stag gering accusation that "it is known to everybody in avia tion circles that the schedule of 'permitted unserviceability' now runs to 10 pages". Also that "the flight life of the Rolls Royce Dart engines themselves used to be less than 2000 hours when they first started flying; this life in prac tice has grown in some cases to more than double". The Minister has done noth ing about the petition signed by 125 civil pilots which asked for "immediate steps to be taken to have all DC3s oper ated by their companies flight tested" so that a more realistic all-up weight may be estab lished. It is reported that Ansett- ANA have been permitted to remove de-icing equipment from DC3s operating over Bass Strait, so as to allow more weight to be carried. One of Mr. Devine's questions on the notice paper implies that there are no air safety officers of the Civil Aviation Department to make on-the- spot checks at airports on air craft loadings and refuelling and maintenance procedures and to adjudicate in disputes between pilots and airline com panies. 