 The economy 1967: the year of the big crawl? By Jim Cooper UOW that the elections have been decided in a manner satisfactory to big business there is no longer any reason to persist in the distortions and downright suppression of the real position of the economy. The stagnation which has been a feature of the Austra lian economy for the last year, was well-known to the read ers of the various business indicators, but this fact has been carefully glossed over by the daily press on which the mass of the people rely for their information. Even the White Paper issued by the Federal Treasury Dep artment referred to the neces sity for the Budget to provide for increased consumer spend ing. The Sydney Morning Her ald (Dec. 12) gave an excel lent coverage of a report by the Australian Industries Dev elopment Association, which advised the Federal Govern ment that it would have to take action if the economy did not improve soon. It reported: Malaise "The creeping malaise that has affected the stock market for some time seems now to have pervaded the economy. "Were it not for accelerated defence call-ups, reduced mig ration and the reluctance of industry to dismiss labour which it would need if activ ity recovered, unemployment woild be considerably higher than the recorded figure. The large numbers coming into the labour market at the end of the school year could still build this into alarming pro portions. "There is obviously a great lack of confidence in the in vesting community and those in productive operations. "There is also some lack of confidence in the community generally as judged by retail sales." The ANZ Bank business in dicators do not think that the lack of confidence arises from the lack of spending power: — "The rate of growth in the economy continues to be slow. There is a high degree of liquidity in the community, largely as a result of the heavy government expenditure in the early months of the financial year. "However, the easy liquidity conditions have not yet en couraged the community to spend. As a result the economy is running below capacity, with resources not fully em ployed in a number of areas. "Some impetus seems neces sary to stimulate consumer demand if the slack in re- sources is to be taken up, and the rate of growth restored to a satisfactory level." The ANZ Bank Report stat ed that retail sales rose by 1.5 per cent in the September quarter over the same quarter in 1965, but adjusted to the increased population this ac tually was a decline of retail sales per head of population. Declined Its Index of Factory Produc tion shows that since June overall factory production has declined on a seasonally ad justed basis. Now that the Holt Govern ment has been confirmed in power, it can be expected that they will seek to correct this "malaise" at the expense of the workers. It does seem that the "hor ror" little Budget predicted for February will be imple mented, with fierce taxation assaults on the workers' wages (probably through in direct taxes), a call for a wages freeze, a stepping up of war expenditure coupled with - an expansion of the call-up drawing in a wider age- grouping. "Yes. we did it," a triumphant Sidney (Peter Dyke) exults over the phone, but part-Negro Alton (Colin Turner) has problems on his mind — a scene from Lorraine Hansberry's play, "The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window", now showing at New Theatre, St. Peters Lane, rear William St., East Sydney. Performances will be suspended over Xmas weekend, resuming on December 30 and January 1 (no show New Year's Eve) and will continue until January 15 on Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights. The Saturday matinee perform ances of "Pirates at the Barn", New Theatre's popular children's romp, will resume on January ?. 