 'what happened at thai-binh EXCLUSIVE TRIBUNE PHOTOS OF U.S. BOMBING OF NORTH VIETNAM 'THE United States propaganda machine has tried to giP the world the impression that the targets of US bomb ing of the Democratic Republic of (North) Vietnam are nothing but "selected military and strategic installations" which it claims to hit with almost scientific accuracy. It has been obvious that this is a deliberate attempt to conceal the truth — that the US has been deliberately or at best indiscriminately bombing non-military targets and killing large numbers of North Vietnamese civilians. This is graphically confirmed by this series of exclusive photos received by Tribune from the DRV, showing the results of the American bombing of the Thuy Dan secondary school at Thai-Binh on October 21. 40 people were killed in this callous raid—including 30 pupils aged from 13 to 16 years, a woman teacher and two pregnant women. Six others — including 4 pupils — were Wounded. Nothing but kill, kill. . . CCORDING to a Vietnamese Commission of Enquiry, the USA has destroyed in north Vietnam alone 294 schools, 74 hospitals and 80 churches and pagodas. Some hospitals have been strafed six or seven times and others as many as 39 times, says the report. Last April US defence secretary McNam- ara, testifying in the US Congress, said that 638,000 tons of bombs would be poured onto Vietnam during this year, compared to '"only" 250,000 tons last year. He said that the monthly average in the second half-year of 1966 surpassed the quantity of bombs released each month all over Europe and Africa during the second world war. To the aerial bombardments must be added the devastation by the guns of the US seventh fleet, constantly patrolling off the coast. No wonder that Britain's Lord Brockway, at a recent' Labor Party conference, called the Vietnam war "the greatest crime against humanity since the bomb was dropped on Hiroshima." "'J'HERE was nobody in the village except wcmen, children and old people. Today there remains nothing of that area, every thing is razed. "I've seen my believers" burning amidst napalm. I've seen the bodies of children and women dismembered by bombs. I've seen our villages levelled to the ground." This was the statement of Roman Catholic Father Currien, who cared for 17,000 Cath olic refugees near Due Co in the High Plateau of south Vietnam, after his village had been bombed by US forces. Father Currien's statement was quoted in the Paris Match of October 2, 1965. This was in South Vietnam. It was typical of what is being done there by the US ai.r force. But the air war is waged with the same savagery in the north, and the school pictured in the accompanying series of photo graphs was only one of many. A rescuer frantically digging out the bodies of two pupils of the Thuy Dan school — indentified in the captions accompany ing the photographs as Lo-xuan-Thao and Nguyen-van-Quynh — buried alive in rubble during the bombing.. This child survived — but some 30 of his mates were killed when American planes bombed his school at Thai-Binh in North Vietnam. REMEMBER GUERNICA? All that remained of the Thuy Dan secondary school at Thai- Binh in North Vietnam after LBJ's peacekeepers had flown overhead. 