 The facts en Mt. Isa dispute Audited statement spikes attacks on union honesty A total of £107.839/ 8/7 was donated by trade unions, other organisations and in- dividuals to the 1964- 65 Mt. Isa Dispute Fund. -"HE amount donated is dis closed in a detailed audited financial statement of the Queensland Trades and Labor Council's Mt. Isa dispute fund made up to September 30 last. The statement has been printed by the T & LC and is being distributed throughout the Aus tralian trade union movement. The strike, beginning late in 1964 and lasting over four months, was in support of higher wages and better conditions. During the dispute, the American owned company, Mt. Isa Mines Ltd., received the full support of the Nicklin Liberal Government in Queensland which even introduced "emergency" police state legislation in attempt to break the strike. The appeal for public support for the Mt. Isa Workers' struggle produced the largest collection for a single dispute since the timber workers' struggle agains,t the in famous Lukin award in 1929, on the eve of the depression- Campaign of slander Its publication completely answers slanders about the fund made during the dispute both in. Federal Parlia ment and by the National Civic Council's newspaper "News Weekly." These were part of a planned cam paign by the forces supporting the wealthy American-dominated Mt. Isa Mines company, aimed at discredit ing the trade union movement by implying dishonesty and cpnspiracy ij&|he .handling "of relibf funds. A front page article in News Weekly on April 1, 1965, said: "A great deal of scepticism exists about the funds collected for the. Mt. Isa strikers. "Have the funds been conserved so that the strike could be strung out indefinitely or to finance other left- wing activities throughout Queens land. Again the slander is repeated the next week (April 8) in this front page editorial: "There is strong suspicion that there was a good, deal more in the kitty than was ever paid out." A Liberal M.P., Mr. K. Cairns, also sought to smear the Queensland T. a.nd L.C. by innuendo that the Mt. Isa fund was not properly adminis tered. The Queensland T. and L.C. state ment .shows that expenditure from the iund in dispute pay, provision of fruit and vegetables to strikers' families, fruit juice to children and travel and associated costs totalled £100,323/1/6. This left a fund balance at Sep tember 30 last of £7,516/7/7. It is anticipated that this money will be absorbed in the continuing fight to secure the reinstatement of the 45 men victimised by Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. after the end of the dispute. In presenting the Financial State ment on the Fund, the Queensland Trades and Labor Council President (Mr. John Egerton), Treasurer (Mr. Bert Milliner) and Secretary (Mr. Alex Macdonald), emphasise that the statement has been fully audited by a qualified accountant and auditor. Reporting on the struggle to secure the reinstatement of the 45 victi mised miners, the report recalls that on August 5, 1965, Mr. Commissioner Taylor, in the Queensland Industrial Commission, ordered Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. to reinstate the men. Mt, Isa Mines Ltd. appealed to Mr. Justice Hanger, who allowed the appeal and set aside the Order of Mr. Commissioner Taylor. At the time the report was issued, the Trades and Labor Council had appealed to the Supreme Court of Queensland to have the men's appli cation for employment with Mt. Isa Mines heard and Mr. Justice Hanger's decision set aside. Since the report was issued, the Supreme Court hae upheld Mr- , Justice . Hanger's decision and re jected the men's application for employment at Mt. Isa Mines. Statement The Financial Statement report then adds: "It will be seen that pro tracted legal actions may still lie ahead in order to win industrial jus tice for the men victimised by Mt. Isa Mines Ltd. "Legal costs and payment of dis pute ' pay have considerably reduced the finance available for this struggle, which can be a. long and hard one. "It is our estimate that all 'the money subscribed to assist Mt. Isa workers will be used in this struggle. Payment of dispute pay in Mt. Isa commenced in early January, 1965, and was increased to give a married couple £9/10/- per week, a single man £6 and a child. £1/10/- with an additional £1 for each child under one year. These payments continued for a number of weeks until the decision was made to return to work on 7/4/'65. It was estimated that over 3,000 men, women and children were sunnorted bv thp> fund at tha t.ima of the peak payment. This was the week ending 22/3/65, when the payment exceeded £8,30)0. The report said . that during February, 1965, "the Australian Workers' Union refused to honour its responsibilities to its members at Mt. Isa and abandoned them hy withdrawing payment of dispute pay. "This responsibility was then itaken over by the T. and L.C. of Queensland even though the A.W.U. and its members were not affiliated. The 45 victimised men, whilst they remained on the dispute fund were paid, as from late April, 1965, £27 per week. At December 31, five of these workers were still receiving this pay- ment. Donations An itemised account of the monies donated show that the biggest indi vidual union contribution was £27,383/0/6 from the Waterside Workers' Federation. The Barrier Industrial Council also made a major contribution of £15,217/12/- and the Miners' Federa tion gave £9,200. Over £14,000 was given by the metal unions and almost £5,000 by the building unions. State and provisional Trades and Labor Councils and unions, too numerous to list here, sent substan tial donations to the fund. Apart from hundreds of job collec tions sent through various unions, £3,224 was also collected in work shops and jobs and sent direct to the fund. Over £771 woo serif n.s inriiviHnal donations. Political parties Donations from organisations in cluded £151/15/- from Australian Labor Party Branches; £135/5/- from organisations of the Communist Party of Australia and £247/10/10 from others including £35 from the Union of Australian Women. Financial support was also re ceived from overseas including £4,689 from the New Zealand Fede" ration of Labor and donations from mine and smelting unions in the United States. All who assisted the Mt. Isa workers and their families were thanked by the Queensland T. & L.C. "The T. & L.C. has set out to use the money so collected in the interests of the struggle of the workers in Mt. Isa and against the Mt. Isa Mines monopoly. "This struggle must never be given up and the Trades and Labor Coun cil will do its very best to see that this foreign-controlled monopoly, with its huge profits, which refuses to give a proper measure of wage justice to its workers, will not be allowed to victimise any worker for his or her part in an industrial dis pute. , "This we believe to be correct and fundamental trade union principle," the T. & L.C. said. COLLEEN BULLEN came to Sydney during the Mt. Isa strike to raise funds for the miners. 