 h |i| ||i | |pi| _ II |FI| ; 'v |P| njTl Ma IL 0 Lilkl E liiii ibJcSyi 'Free elections' US style CANDIDATES standing in any elections in South Vietnam will be hand-picked. Tran Van Do, South Viet- nam s new r oreign Minister made this clear at a press conference on arrival in Canberra as an observer at the recent SEATO Council meeting. He said that they would hold an election to elect a Constitut ion Assembly. Their task would be to draw up a constitution. Asked by press men who could stand in the elections he said everybody except Viet Cong or neutralists. That's what the "Free World" calls "free" elections. Questions are being asked "rpHE People the North Com mittee" news officer Larry Foley has been given three months notice. As his work in publicis ing the activity of the Committee has always been first-class, ques- tions are being auced why the boot. It is no secret that ever since the Country Party candidate was defeated by Dr. Patterson in the Dawson by-election in Queensland the Committee has been under heavy pressure from the Liberal and Country parties. This is because the publicity and activity of the Committee directing attention to the lack of northern development, lias been an indirect criticism of Federal Government inactivity. It is ironic that the last pub lished report of the Committee drew attention to the danger of (he northern development cam paign slowing down because of pressure from the Government parties. Supporting Pope John TjTEDERAL Opposition Leader Mr. . Calwell told a public meeting in the Sydney Town Hall recently that he was one Catholic support ing the peace efforts of Pope John. There were many Catholics who were not, said Mr. Calwell. It is clear from an editorial in the July Melbourne Catholic Wor ker that there are other Catholics who feel the same way as Mr. Calwell. The paper said: "... We have said that the Bishops have not faced up to the moral issues involved in the Vietnam and conscription debates; Bishop Fox for example has simply presented the war in Viet nam as a holy war against Com munism which end justifies gloss ing over the moral implications of the means (including conscrip tion) being used to achieve it. "Cardinal Gilroy on the other hand, has told us that the Gov ernment knows best in this matter and that we may entrust our conscience to Mr. Holt. "But we have had no word from them or any other Austral ian Bishop about the obligatory that Pope Paul VI has tirelessly insisted upon, of Catholics striv ing for peace. "Pope Paul has for example negotiated with both north and south Vietnam and he has sent charitable aid to war victims in both north and south Vietnam impartially. "In other words he has not been content merely to utter the familiar anathemas against Com munism and Communists and so to speak leave peace to look after itself. "Any Australian Catholic attemp ting to emulate the Pope in this would most likely find himself' labelled 'fellow traveller' ..." Morality of war makers QNE df the fears Australian mothers have of entrusting their sons to army brasshats is because they feel they have a vested interest in war. An article published in the Australian Army journal as far back as October 1964 shows that their fears are by no means groundless. This was an excerpt from an article "War and Morality" by Anthony Harrigan reprinted from the June 1964 issue of "Military Review" of the US Command and General Staff College, Fort Leven- worth, Kansas: "One need not dig very far into the history books to prove that warfare is the real state of relations between blocks of humanity "The equating of life and con flict cannot be avoided by res ponsible interpreters of human ; behaviour and history. I "Certainly, no people who have read the lessons of history are I of the belief that non-conflict can prevail forever, or that peace is natural to human existence. To hold what one possesses let alone to make new advances requires constant struggle." 