 IT JUST AIN'T GOOD ENOUGH |F there is any conclusion to be, drawn from the Michael Powell film version of John O' Grady's famous "They're a Weird Mob , it is that one of the direst needs culture- wise in Australia is the estab lishment of a fair dinkum film industry. Here we have actors' of the calibre of Ed Devereaux, Slim de Gray, John Meillon, Nigel Lovell, Anne Haddy, Doreen Warburton and Chips Rafferty manfully— or womanfulfy as the case may be battling with one of the worst movio scripts since Cecil B. de Mille's last epic — and, it must be admitted, most of the time suc ceeding despite the distressing banalities of the material. John 'O'Grady's best-seller — although no world-beater in quality —at least captured a lot of the Australian essence in its good- natured send-up of the national character. But in Michael Powell's film, most of the original's charm is thrown to the wolves in a con fused script that ends up losing itself somewhere out in the mulga on Middle Head. Even much of O'Grady's basic plot goes down the drain. Nino spends most of his nights sleep ing in an empty newspaper office and later pursues his unappetis ing and impossibly arrogant love Kay through a tangle of Bondi life-savers, jet-set barbecues on Sydney Harbour and wedding parties at Italian restaurants. Half the time the film seems to be telling us how wonderful we are and the other half to be acting as a publicity handout for the Federal Government to attract foreign migrants overseas. This latter aspect becomes de- pressingly apparent from the film's opening moment's. A BIG chorus, accompanied by a BIG band, sings a BIG song entitled "It's a BIG, BIG Country" against the background of a passenger liner, entering Sydney Heads. That sets the tone throughout. There are some good moments — like the famous mattock scene and Nino's first introduction to Sydney's magnificent beer — but generally the humour is as heavy as a Harbour Bridge pylon. Don't get me wrong. I'm not knocking our actors and technic ians, but I am complaining about a set-up whereby when an Aus tralian film is made it has to come out as superficial and corny as a Fitzpatrick travelogue. The only way out is for a per manent film industry, giving our great acting and writing talent — as well as our frustrated directors and camermen— a real chance. Private enterprise won't do the job — it's too worried about mak ing money from land deals and hire purchase, and the cinemas are tied up in a few Overseas hands. But with a small whack of about ten million smackers from that $1000 million, defence vote, and government action to guarantee release for Australian films, we could really go -places. How about it, Mr. Calwell? Might be worth a few thousand votes on November 26. R.M. 