 CARD-BURNERS IN COURT MHnBHHiHnnnBnBBHnnHHBHBBBHBH . . and oMfsiefiif m -g , 1 ' M - 7t> r the court CYDNEY : While two young men faced the magistrate on a draft - card burning charge last I hursday another young man, as a gesture of solid arity with them, burn ed his own card at the entrance to the court building. The young man was Mr. P. ("Paddy") Dawson, a second-year arts student of Sydney University. Inside the court, the Federal court of petty ses sions, Wayne Haylen and Robin Jeffrey Melrose were remanded till . May 20 on charges arising from destruc tion of national registration certificates. About 150 supporters stood with banners and placards along the Phillip Street pavement near the court entrance. They cheered as Mr. Daw son burnt his draft card and gave a tremendous ovation to Messrs. Haylen and Melrose \when they emerged from the court. Young people predominat ed among the demonstrators who included trade unionists from Chullora, union offi cials, students and members of women's peace organisa tions. Mr. Dawson told the press he opposed the Vietnam war and opposed conscription. He had no respect for the Holt Government's motives in Vietnam. He hoped others would follow his example. When they left the court building, Messrs. Haylen. and Melrose congratulated Mr. Dawson on his stand. Welcoming the adjourn ment, Mr. Barry Robinson, secretary of the Youth Cam paign Against Conscription, said the youths' legal advis ers were preparing a full case. Mr. Wayne Haylen said the situation in South Vietnam of civil war within a civil war clearly refuted the Holt Government's claim that it was backing a democratic regime in South Vietnam. After the demonstration, several women picketed the Church of England Diocesan House with placards, while others went inside to pro test aganst the bishops' let ter supporting conscription. Placards carried such slogans as "Which is the crime — to burn a draft card or a Vietnamese?" "Is it better to burn a draft card or a child?" and "Bis hops! Is this Christian?" (with a picture of a napalm- ed Vietnamese woman). ? gYDNEY: Two conscripts already doing their training are seeking regis tration as conscientious ob jectors and release to civi lian life. This is believed to be the first time such registration has been sought. The law provides that it may be made at any time after, as well as before, the conscript is called up. The youths are C. N. Park and R. L. Stead, now in train ing near Wagga (N.S.W.). Mr. J. F. Staples told Mr. H. Berman, S.M., in the Special Federal Court on Thursday that both had reached a firm conviction since they started training that military training of any sort was against their prin ciples. Hearings of their cases was set down for May 19 and May 30. ? MEW YORK: 23-year-old Roman Catholic con script David H. Mitchell will serve five years in jail rather than take part in an unjust war. He was given the maxi mum sentence for refusing to serve. His defence counsel called Mitchell a patriot who would one day be praised for his stand. Mitchell was among the first young Americans to burn his draft card. TOP: Paddy Dawson burns his draft card outside the Commonwealth Court in Sydney last Thursday. CENTRE: Mingling promi nently among the demonstra tors last Thursday in Sydney were these two detectives from the NSW Special Squad, shown here closely question ing two leafleteers. BELOW: Section of the demonstrators outside the Court. BaHaaHmnHnBav 