 Why Holt CAN be halted COME of Canberra's more respected political observers have already laid their money on Labor to improve its electoral position in the com ing elections. They expressed their opinion following reports from Liberal, Country and Labor Party organisers in the electorates, that the "swinging" section of the women's vote is solidifying against the Govern ment over conscription. Such a trend could, in a few more weeks find the Government facing defeat. There are no less than 600,000 mothers in Aus tralia with sons aged between 1 5 and 20, very many of 'whom today are considering how they- can effectively take a stand against conscription. The election offers an opportunity. Then: the migrants' vote. Even the! governments of some of their homelands have protested to the Australian government for breaking international law by the1 military call-up of unnaturalised migrants. This issue is undoubtedly related to the report that 9 to 1 6 per cent of migrants are re turning to their homelands. The fact that the Government has been reported as proposing to give small loans to discharged national Servicemen indicates how worried it is over the public opposition to conscription. However, it appears that only those in business or on the land are eligible. This confirms all the more that the loans really arise from pressure on the coalition by Country Party MPs who are feeling the backlash of criticism from the rural areas over the call-up of farmers' sons for the war in Vietnam. There are other, issue which could lose, the gov ernment parties many of their traditional voters. One example is the decision of a joint confer ence of the ACTU, ACSPA and the High Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations to campaign against government candidates over the refusal to grant the Commonwealth employees an extra week's leave. There is the Commonwealth's newly announced cut of 56 million dollars in the amount recommend ed by the Australian Univerisities commission for higher education establishments. Large scale increases in public transport fares, hospital fees and o'ther charges in all States arising from the starvation of States by the Federal gov ernment have already led to major protests, includ ing demonstrations, in State and national capitals. Election campaigning on this issue by trade unions and other organisations and their individual members can have a fundamental influence on the outcome on November 26. Tongue but no ears s President Johnson has warned the Chinese People Republic that her developing nuclear and rocket power "invites danger to herself". He "advised" the Chinese to use their resources for economic development rather than for nuclear power. This advice comes from a government which in troduced nuclear war to the world with a mass slaughter of Asian people. The basis of Johnson's lectures and ultimatums is the assumption that somehow or other the US has the right to intervene in Asia. But what do Asian people think. It turns out that the big demonstrations during LBJ's visit, in Canberra, Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane against the Vietnam war helped to set off a chain reaction in Asia. Even ferocious police-state repression could not stop patriots demonstrating against Johnson and US aggression, from Manila through Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore. Instead of demanding that China do what he himself refuses to do, Johnson would be well ad vised to listen to what Asian people are saying to him. 