 : : — those SOVMTANS livlonger than Am tralians From RUPERT LOCKWOOD in Moscow. TTtTHO could believe that Soviet Russians, Soviet Asians and. Caucasians are basically healthier than Aus tralians? They had it tough under the Tsars, in World War I, civil and intervenfionary wars, famine and blockade, World War If and the lean postwar years. No area of ifhe USSR is frost-free; the growing season is too short even in the Moscow, region for tomatoes to ripen without a. hothouse start for the plants; fruit and vegetable production is well below the needs of 233 million people, and in winter, potatoes, onions, carrots and ageing cabbages are the standby. The harsh sub-zero temperatures send many Russians down with flu, aches and shakes. Russian winter flu can be a killer. Australia has never been ravaged by an invader, like the USSR; was free of the burdens and heritages of feudal backwardness, and has a fertile, productive zone ranging from equatorial in the north to cool in Tasmania, with far better natural diet and re creational opportunities. "TJtTHV, then, has the Soviet Union been able to reach the stage where its citizens will live longer on average than in Australia? Life expectancy for the two countries has drawn near enough to equal, but the Soviet death-rate is now lower. The Soviet loses 7.3 people in every 1 ,000 of population per year, : while Australia loses 8.7 per v 1,000 (1964 figures). Are Soviet doctors better qualified, more skilled than Australian? In important fields of medicine and surgery, Australian doctors enjoy high international regard. In some fields they may even be ahead of the USSR; in others they certainly lag. Whatever, the differences in skill and numbers of doctors available per head, of population, these would would not be the main factor in giving the SayjSt Union, a 7.3 per 1,000 death rate (it would have 'beeriT better except for severe flu epidemics) against Australia 8.7 per 1,000. ' " : cT T WOULD think that the main reason thatUdc Soviet Union has overtaken Australia is the system1 of free, universal medical check-ups in the USSR tkfe emphasis on prevention. s £j,,srn Workers, children, youth, housewives, pensioners "antf particularly pregnant women are carefully checked0" Industry, difficult and noxious industrial occupations55' medical-checking is very thorough. T ! USSR Health Minister Dr. Boris Petrovsky points) oi1 that checks of pregnant women at regular intervaisoouton infant and maternal mortality. Check-ups of industrylb workers allow precautions against occupational . driton : ments. The general check-up rescues vast numbersop from death by cancer or TB; it detects blood, hqtt, liver, kidney, skin and other illnesses in time. , j On ot Blood and blood-pressure tests, x-rays of the wholbot body, urine and heart tests are routine, and th'ew obligation is on the potient to draw doctors' attention to signs of deafness, failing sight, rheumatism, arfh\ ri'tis, .or other aches and pains, dermatitis, and so.-, oruott Specialised treatment is available at hospitals dhd' polyclinics, whether the trouble be with eyes, So V's,1 skin, muscle, heart, blood, liver, kidneys, brain' !-"6r K lungs. - teofii Soviet emphasis on' prevention has eradicated seyero)!'33 serious diseases that once ravaged large areas ' of 'tfieh Tsarist Empire, including cholera, plague, .malaria and typhoid fever. VD has been virtually jj eliminated; diphtheria, scarlet fever, TB, tetanus w polio have been cut sharply. I "piFFECTIVE prevention not only requires free metP1 cine, it requires a lot of doctors. ''&lt;) HIIIIB IIIIIH Ml !! I lllll II I IIIIIIMIi Ililll/lliWTITTlllWIIIHI i 'in—ffHTftfflffB iThe USSR has 446,000 doctors, or 20.6 per 1 0,000, Thea'USA at recent date had 12.1 per 10,000; West Gerrrtany 14, France 10.7 and Turkey 3.5. To supplement the army of doctors the USSR has 356 000 surgeon's assistants, 660,000 trained nurses, 147 000 midwives and ether trained medical helpers, mt-r.'. . Jarly 400,000 free clinics and outpatients' depart ments also play a vital role in prevention, and the 90 hospital beds per 10,000 of population and the network of sanatoriums give the sick a chance to recover properly before discharge .from medical care. 2:: ' ' DOCTORS have to take an interest in health far I,LJ beyond their surgeries or hosipitais. The' doctors naturally noted that large hospitals can give better oll-nowrid treatment and specialist services, so the (rend now is toward larger hospitals, which cost the government less per hospital bed. riifrfth affects labor efficiency. Doctors are obliged to help in improving working conditions, to make factories and offices healthier places. The Soviet medical profession runs. 18 special industrial injury institutes, with a view to accident prevention. Air - and wafer pollution are enemres of health: they may be factors in cancer. Several medical groups areL„qt wcrk to fight pollution. Nqtrition, as the Soviet Health Minister said, must be .based on science. Nutrition, as one of the Imost important influences in human health, is re- |||ceiving attention from doctors. ||j Soviet doctors not only accept responsibility of . W keeping people alive for longW; they' arp' ensuring gffhey Sviil eat better in youth and age. ' it Sovietan'. a term coined by Aus- I tralian writer Colin Simpson "Take Me yf Russia") to describe Soviet citizens. UBSnrannnnnMnBaMHBHBMa 160 years old and still going strong — The world's oldest inhabitant: Azerbaijanian mountaineer Shirali Muslimov 