 U.S. in VIETNAM: INTEBVENtlON, AGGRESSKM-BEJECTION — — — — a— — mm j j— » n— .a— 1 Cowboy in the saddle of a nation - BUT NO FRIENDS "--HE so-called fight for democracy is no longer relevant to the realities of the situation," said the Uni- ted Nations general secretary, U Thant, on May 25 in a remarkable attack on US policy in Vietnam. A lineup" of the great nations of the world (printed below) shows that the US does 'NOT have the field support of those nations. The USSR, China and other socialist countries: Strongly op- posed. |J India: Says that the US should || withdraw. Britain (a NATO and SEATO ally of the US) : Refuses to send troops and disapproved the re sumption of bombing of North Vietnam. France (nominally US ally in NATO and SEATO) : Strongly cri tical. Pakistan (SEATO ally) : Won't help. West Germany (NATO ally) : Sends only medical aid. Japan: Disagrees with US pol icy. Canada (NATO ally): Refused to send troops in any circum stances. The only countries to send troops are those under govern ments subservient to the US- Australia, New Zealand, South Korea., Thailand. |"HE anti-American demon stration in Saigon on May Day was the first unmistak able sign, acknowledged by the Americans themselves, that the South Vietnamese people are at least as op posed to the invaders as are the North. Australian External Affairs Minister Hasluck denied it, of course, but the Americans them selves did not. As the American United Press International newsagency re ported on . May 1: "Eight thous and anti-American demonstrators marched on the US Embassy in Saigon today. . . "Demonstrators chanted "Yan kee, go home!' and chalked 'US go home!' on the streets and walls near the embassy. . . After May Day the tide of anti- American feeling continued to rise and reached a peak a week later when Americans, helped the Ky troops attacking the main Buddhist pagoda in Da Nang. Last week there were further anti-American demonstrations in Saigon when a US soldier in a truck shot a man in the street (mistakenly, the embassy claimed) . Vietnamese overturned and burned two other US army vehicles. By last Thursday, Stanley Kar- now, of the Washington Potst, quoted in The Australian, was ad mitting that "another discourag ing sign has been the growing anti- Americanism, espe c i a 1 1 y among the Buddhist youths. "Much of this stems from the traditional chauvinism in central Vietnam, where the Buddhists are strong. . "It has. also been animated by the social and economic disrup tion caused by 285,000 American soldiers in Vietnam." Buddhist leader Thich Tri Quang last week publicly ap pealed to President Johnson to cease his support of Ky arid to allow general elections to go for- Johnson's refusal to do this has publicly identified the US even more clearly than before with an unpopular regime and an equally unpopular w&r. Showing why the US military just has to back Ky and his no- election stand, Newsweek writer Emmet John Hughes, just back from Vietnam, said he was told by "a most authoritative spokesman for US policy in Saigon": "If any elected assembly sits in Saigon, it will be on the phone negotiating with Hanoi within one week." 