 [?] US is bombing itself into Vietnam defeat SYDNEY : Every additional American bomb dropped on the Vietnamese means an additional enemy for America. hAR. FRANCIS JAMES, editor of The Anglican, who recently visited Hanoi for talks with Democratic Republic cjf Vietnam leaders, said this in an interview with the Tribune in Sydney this week. "Escalation is self-defeat ing," Mr. James added. He said that the DRV want ed pesce and that their four- point peace terms were "sen sible, reasonable and work able." (The DRV proposes peace on the basis of terms already agreed to in the Geneva agreements of 1954. The DRV demands the withdrawal of U.S. and other foreign troops from Vietnam, cessation of all e-cts of war against Vietnam, recognition of the South Vietnam National Liberation front as the , organisation representing- the south Viet namese people, and recogni tion that future ralations be tween north and south Viet nam must be settled by the Vietnamese themselves, with out foreign interference. Easy to talk to "All these people want is to be left alone", said Mr. James. The north Vietnamese did not see the need for further talks, but only for agreements already reached to be carried out. They were ready for negotiations on this basis. All that was necessary was for the Americans to accept the four points and there would be peace. Mr. James said he found the north Vietnamese leaders easier to get on with than those of south Vietnam. Eden praised They were full of praise for the role of British Foreign Sec retary Sir Anthony Eden (now Lord Avon) at the Geneva Con ference in 1954 and recalled his resistance even then to US efforts to frustrate the agree ment by force. : Asked about statements that the Australian peace movement was "directed from Hanoi", Mr. James said he "regretted" to find that the DRV did not know very much about Australian peace activities and there could be no question of its "con trolling" them. Mr. James said that every road and rail intersection be tween, Hanoi and Haiphong had been bombed by the Americans. So far most of the bombing had been directed against com munications. If the Americans bombed the Red River dykes "a terrible lot of people" would be killed. However, the DRV believed that such an atrocity would swing world opinion decisively against the Americans. Win — or die Last week Mr. James told The Australian newspaper that the Vietnamese believed they would win and would die rather than accept .defeat. They were ready for any escalation of the war, even for nuclear war. Mr. James' mission aroused widespread interest. When he addressed a meeting of the Institute for Internation al Affairs on Wednesday night, 200 people had to be turned away for lack of accommoda tion. 