 ! SERIOUS DROP | I ilN WORK ON I ! 1 WATERFRONT i jWharfies protest against \ | j unemployment, Bow wages 1 A » » | SYDNEY: An angry meeting of 700 waterside fj workers last week in Sydney protested against wide- || spread unemployment on the waterfront and the |p subsequent lower wages. i' MA»Y , men received only £8 in wages last week . following one of the worst periods of unemployment on record for this time of the year. Aggravating the hardship for wharfies' families is the attendance money penalties imposed on the men by the Stevedoring Authority during the disputes last year. Most men have at least 12 days' penalty. This means the 28/3 a day paid when no work is available is not received until the penalties are can celled. The above meeting and others held throughout the Sydney waterfront last week asked the Federal officials of the Waterside Workers' Federation to call stopwork meetings as a pro test against the freezing of attendance money payments. The Federal Government is also called on to implement a regulation that waterside workers be paid no less than £3/16/6 a day attendance money. This demand for increased attend ance money is more than justified in light of the strong insistence from the Federal. Government and ship owners that additional men be recruited into the industry. Much has also been said about the % so-called £30 a week average wage of 1 | a waterside worker. ; Government spokesmen in using S the figure of £30 took an abnormal J pay period, waterside workers say. | The real facts are that young men !| with families are leaving the industry h because of the uncertainty of their pay packet. In Sydney alone, 129 men have left since last October because they say Js they need a regular income. ''J From October to Easter is usually | the busiest oeriod for t.hp industry. ,'t On the first four days of the New ,|1 Year the average daily uneniploy- ment in Sydney was 1200 men. J4 Reports from all the main ports throughout Australia show large , unemployment figures during De- I cember. ft In Brisbane alone the peak unem- '4 ployment last month was 1353 men 't out of a port strength of 2300. Sydney Branch president of the J WWF, Mr. J. Young, said the ship- ping lists show that January will be | as bad as December for the small I number of ships in the port. f Mr. Young said the Federation last Cj month requested the Minister for H Labor (McMahon) that the attend- j ance money penalties be suspended > whilst the present inquiry into the waterfront was being held. 'jj Up to now the Minister has not ,J| indicated his intentions on this J matter, he said. yi. 