 [?] Greu tale of blue dirt By a Special Correspondent THE big-scale construction of expressways and other modern road links now being faced by traffic-snarled Australia is increasingly at the mercy of a handful of private monopolies controlling the basic raw material — blue metal for concrete. This fact has been under lined by new takeover moves in the blue metal quarrying industry. The directorates of such companies are able to dictate prices and control supplies to municipal and shire councils as well as state road-building authorities. The profitable records of the metal companies indicate that ratepayers and taxpayers are carrying unnecessary burdens in paying the big bills for modern concrete highways and bridges and the increased mon opolisation means this will be come worse. Recent takeover moves for Melbourne-based blue metal quarry companies of Bayview and Rowlands have been re ported. The big firms making the moves are respectively Boral Ltd. and Pioneer Con crete — two of the Big Three in the industry in Australia. Boral not only controls quarries but has virtual control of bitumen surfacing compan ies. With an issued capital of over $16 million, it has con nections with Caltex oil and controls road surfacing in Sydney and Melbourne through Boral Road Surfaces Ltd and Damman Asphalt. Pioneer Concrete Services Ltd is connected with the De velopment Finance Corporation and with Conzinc Rio Tinto in both Australia and Britain. Last week came the report that the third of the big trio, Blue Metal Industries Ltd is putting through a takeover of the Emu and Prospect Gravel and Road Metal company, a 60 year-old firm with assets estimated at $600,000. BMI, with a capital of more than $11 million, has most of its interests in New South Wales although its 50 per cent holding in Ready Mixed Con crete gives it exploiting in — terests in most towns and cit ies in Australia apd beyond. RMC have an issued capital of almost $10 million held 50-50 between BMI and Colonial Sugar Refinery, one of Aus tralia's biggest industrial giants. The question for a country- on-wheels like Australia is, can the restrictive effects of tight private monopoly be allowed to complicate the massive task of road development? Surely, here is an industry ripe for nationalisation. 