 Hundreds expected at standards conference SYDNEY: The Living Standards Conference convened by the NSW Labor Council for Saturday, July 30, is one of the broadest gatherings in the interests of the people ever proposed by tihe trade unions. It is estimated that 2500 dele- Bates will attend the Confer- ence, including representatives from 106 unions affiliated to the NSW Labor Council. The conference will be divid ed into four sessions to discuss Australian economic policy, education, housing and social services. Papers will be delivered by Mr. J. D- Kenny, secretary of the NSW Labor Council, (eco nomic policy), H. Schoenhie- mer, Senior Lecturer Monash University (education), Mr. B. j. McFarlane, Research Fellow in Economics, Australian Nat ional University (housing), and Dr. G. W. Ford Senior Lecturer in Industrial Relations, Univer sity of NSW (social services). Delegates have been elected from all community organisa tions throughout the State. The NSW Labor Council car ried a resolution last February that decided on a broad Con ference of representatives of people's organisations to plan for improved living standards for the people. The session on economic pol icy will discuss such questions as a family needs wage, foreign policy, price control, equal pay, shorter working week, a "nation al overseas shipping line, tax reduction, Federal Government finance for the relief of drought stricken farmers and rural , workers and nationalisation of Ay&riilihri " industries by the Government. Replacement The education program will call for the replacement of out moded schools and modernisa tion of existing buildings and a school building drive to cater for increased enrolments. It will call for provision of adequate teaching staff from kindergarten to university level, adequate student scholarships at secondary schools, free terti ary education for all eligible students with a liberal living allowance. On the question of finance to achieve these . needs the . confer ence will call for an immediate substantial Federal grant to all State Governments for educa tion. A suggestion will be made for a National Committee of In quiry patterned on the Murray Committee to investigate and report on the needs of educa tion. The session on housing will call for allocation of sufficient finance at low interest to State housing authorities. It will also discuss the sug gestion that more money should be made available through banks and housing co-operatives to enable people with low depo sits to buy their own homes, and that the 1945 Common wealth-State Housing Agree ment, which provides for rental housing, a rental rebate system and low. interest rates, should be re-introduced. Control of prices of land and building materials, reduction and control of all interest rates associated with building of homes, maintaining an adequate work force in slack periods, will also he discussed. A program of replacement of the 40,000 sub-standard dwell ings in Sydney is one of the other, main topics, as is the idea of adequate apprentice training, with State authorities employing their own construc tion teams as a means of reduc ing costs. The session on social services will range from homes for the aged to medical benefits. It will call for the restoration of free hospital accommodation, to patients in public wards of private hospitals and control of fees for those in intermediate and private wards. Some of the other demands will be: Increased hospital accom modation with extensive out patient facilities. Special hsopital facilities for the chronically ill and con struction of adequate homes and institutions for the mentally ill. Increased medical benefits to equal half the amount of medical fees and these benefits to be paid irrespective of mem bership of benefit societies. Rigid control of doctor's fees. Other proposals and demands to be raised before the Confer ence will be outlined in next week's Tribune. 