 [?] Retailer gain from new carpark f hut HYDE PARK GOES DOWN THE DRAIN By Eddie Gabriel JYDNEY City Council approval of a big-business backed recom mendation for car parking station under Hyde Park will deprive the public of another big slice of park land. The original plan was to build a parking station cost ing over $1 million, with space for 500 cars, but now the Council Finance Committee has called for a report on the cost of extending, the plan to provide space for 1000 cars. Cost of parking space is estimated to be in excess of $2000 a car. This type of parking station is not built completely under ground as any one who has seen the above ground section of the parking station in the Sydney Domain is aware. It appears that we are to have a similar monstrosity in Hyde Park, in the heart of the city. Snarls Added to this, the proposed entrances in Liverpool and College Streets will cause" traffic snarls, especially in peak hours where traffic has already reached saturation point. Spokesmen for city busi ness interests claim the pre sent car parking stations are monopolised 'by all-day park- ers and blame the fall-off in trade on lack of parking for shoppers. However parking is not the main cause for the inner-city slump. Over a number of years vast numbers of work ers and their 'families have been forced to move from near city areas to the outer suburbs as homes have been demolished for factories, workshops, petrol stations, etc. The growth of new shop ping centres, the decline in public transport services, higher prices, increased fares and taxation are the real reason for the decline. Civic Reform Alderman G. Nock, who represents big business and inner-city com mercial interests, put the Hyde Park proposal before Council, (Organisations affi liated with the Civic Reform Association are the Chamber of Manufactures, Employers' Federation, Master Builders' Association, Master Carriers' Association, Retail Traders Association, Sydney Chamber of Commerce, Sydney and Suburban Timber Merchants). Lid Commenting on the pro posal the Retail Traders' As sociation secretary, Mr. J. B. Griffin, said: "The lid should be lifted off the park, the station built and the park put back again." (Daily Mirror, July 19). Two major construction companies have submitted in dividual proposals ' to the State Government, each for a 1000-car parking station under the park. They have been attracted by a free building site and the suggestion that all-day park- ers would be charged high fees to discourage them from taking the shoppers' parking . space, but are confident that many all-day parkers would have little alternative but to pay . the high charges, thus giving investors big profits. Only by the development of , high density housing in the near city areas, better trans port services and an increase in real wages can the drift in inner city trade be stopped and not by robbing the city of another area of park land. 