 | Soviet-Vietnam Agreement t From RUPERT LOCKWOOD I MOSCOW : Increased Soviet jj aid to Vietnam to fight the | invaders will follow the visit to i Hanoi of" fchft Snvi»i- rlppor»Hnn j headed by Presidium member j and Communist Party secretary, > Alexander Shelepin. An agree ment for increased assistance ! was signed in Hanoi. j "A new vivid page in the history ! of fraternal relations between Viet nam and the Soviet Union" is how the Tass correspondent in Hanoi interprets the Vietnamese people's unanimous view of the Shelepin mission. | Premier's praise I The Soviet delegation was cheered | and feted everywhere by vast crowds. I Premier. Pham Van Dong in his j farewell _ speech told Shelepin, j "Your visit is a living expression I of militant solidarity and fraternal j co-operation between the peoples j of our countries." i Shelepin said that the Hanoi talks ! "provided' another evidence of unity I and solidarity of the Communist j Party of the Soviet Union and the . Workers' Party of Vietnam, of the USSR and Democratic Republic of j Vietnam, and doubtless will contri- i bute to further consolidation and promotion of our unbreakable friend- | ship and close co-operation." In the final joint communique the j Vietnam side thanked the Soviet Union | for "its great help in developing !l the economy and strengthening the defence potential of the DRV and for powerful support to the Vietnam | people's liberation struggle." \ The newspaper Mhari Dan, central | organ of the Workers' Party, lauding j the agreement, said: "Our people I are grateful to the envoys of the I Soviet Union for bringing them the | friendship and support of the great | Soviet Union." In South, too Nguyen Huu Tho, president of the I South Vietnam Liberation Front, said I in a telegram to Shelepin that the j South Vietnam people "responded with great joy" to his delegation's L visit. The- telegram added that the Soviet Union was "from day to day rendering ever greater support to the South Vietnam people," and that the visit would make "an. active contribution to the defence of peace in Asia and throughout the world." The Liberation Front expressed the belief that the South Vietnamese people themselves "would enthusias tically meet a delegation from the Soviet Union in liberated South Vietnam." A. Shelepm 