 Talking about elections . . . yHE promise made by Air Vice-Marshal Ky, the puppet premier of South Vietnam, to hold elections in three to five months and return to a civilian government was forced from him by the overwhelming strength of the mass opposition, which includes a large part of the Buddhist majority and the Catholic minority. That this militarist dictator, backed as he is by the lull power o! American imperialism, was forced into headlong retreat from his previous declared position is a tribute to the power that can be exer cised by a united people, unarmed as they are, over . militarists. Significantly they were joined by some thousands pi Ky's own 5 troops who showed plainly that they would defy any orders from him to suppress the 'i-j .opposition. : i-uu.- . . r-vr«rf ' ' ' ' .1 "'1 t.y> , ' 1 .'.What exactly is the significance of Ky's election promise? . Any election held under Ky's supervision would have to be restricted to the areas Ky and his troops hold. These, as the recent map in the Sydney Morning Herald shows amount to less than a fifth of south Vietnam. . Only in the main cities is Ky's rule made reason ably sale by US bayonets and "elections" held by him would result in the election of local authorities —nothing more. Ky, so desperate that he speaks of bombing' China, .is certain to use every means to eliminate the gen uine opposition from contesting any such election. ? What value can be attached to US Defence secre tary McNamara's pledge that the US would be ' prepared to stand by and watch while the National Liberation Front took part in an election? The south Vietnamese have -, heard such promises before. Were they not categorically promised, at Geneva in 1954, that they would be able to take part in a nation-wide election no later than 1956? By this promise they were, in effect, hoaxed into laying down the arms with which they had just defeated the French— after « which they were told that the election could not be held after all because (as Eisenhower and others admitted) the Commun ists would win it. .. ... The, USA, which had promised not to use force to upset the Geneva settlement, promptly did that by use of its puppet Premier, Ngo Dinh Diem, who claimed that Geneva did not bind him. The USA, which protected Ky during the recent , crisis and allowed him to use its planes to try and overawe rebel Da Nang, is not likely to let him go ithout a struggle. As though to confirm this, US state Department spokesman McClosky repeated last weekend that in . any peace conference, the present south Vietnamese - regime must represent south Vietnam. 1 his effectively blocks peace by barring from the conference the representatives of the south Vietnam Liberation Front — main opponents of the USA in south Vietnam, and administrator of some 80% of the territory south of the 17th parallel. Eventually the USA will have to recognise the wishes of the south Vietnamese as expressed at an election or otherwise but the fight to ensure this still has to be won. Conscripted to prop up . . . what kind of. democracy? 