 For and against: The / case of Soviet writers pOK writing two poems accusing the Regent of France of having designs on the French . throne, Voltaire was sent to the Bastille. On his release, he wrote thanking the Regent for tak ing care of his board and re questing that, in future, he be allowed to look after his lodg ing himself. One parallel between Vol taire's incarceration and the position of many Soviet writ ers over the past years is that they have lived in a kind of mental Bastille, board and lodging found, in return for acquiescent attitudes. The controversy appearing in the Tribune on the impri sonment of the Soviet writers Senyavsky and Daniel reflects a significant divergence from these attitudes both in the Soviet Union and in Commun ist parties throughout the world, focussing attention once again on the old struggle between entrenched power and its critics. Two questions profoundly affecting every creative writer emerge. Has he the rightj, or liberty, to say what he thinks and has he the right to seek publication anywhere he chooses? In answering these questions it is necessary to point out that the creative writer is not employed by the State, nor is he a journalist working for the press and subject to editorial policy. But he certain ly is at the mercy of the whims and policies of publish ers and writes with the hope, rather than the certainty, of publication. Allowing that his work is of professional standard, his temptation is to write what he thinks a publisher wants, which tends to coincide with what the publisher thinks the greatest number of people want to read or axe condition ed to accept. And this applies in both socialist and capitalist coun tries. Power fosters a status quo and seeks to support it through mass media channels and publishers and writers are an important link in the chain of established authority. The liberty of the creative writer to say what he thinks is, therefore, automatically re stricted by influences which emerge as covert censorship, and this is what the sincere writer struggles to ignore. The measure of his integrity is that he writes what he thinks and, in doing so, pre serves his individual identity as a self employed artist. And, in my view, the freedom to do that is inviolate. But the freedom to see his work in print is another mat ter. In capitalist countries the writer is seriously proscribed by business values, which are also the political values of those whose power is vested in the ownership of produc tion. His work is alienated' from its original concept as art and becomes goods to be marketed, with profit the prime motive, and in a society that tends constantly to lower taste through mass media channels, the quality of those goods does not have to be high. That it often is high is a tribute to the creative spirit and not the conditions under which a writer creates. Ideally, the socialist concept is the divorcement of art from commodity values, the lifting of mass taste and the release of the artist's creative poten tial. In my opinion, the corrup tion of that ideal stems, not from economic causes, but from the political hegemony of the writer that was a feature of the Stalin regime, the tendency to impose the cliches of political dogma through such terms as "social- ist realism" and to turn the writer into the servitor of lit erary theory rather than allow him to interpret society as he sees it and in his own way. The result is either distor tion or the damming of the writer's critical and delinea- tory senses by pushing creativ ity into prescribed forms. The hazards of acceptance of a writer's work are there fore real in both socialist and capitalist countries and are not lessened by the fact that he is dependent upon expen sive industrial and distribution processes over which he has no control. Thus embattled, it seems to me that the one concession due to him is the right to have , his work published byj anyone who will accept it, any where. The alternative . for Pasternak was to be held in communicado and it is pretty obvious that the same fate was in store for Senyavsky and Daniel. I do not know the work of the last two writers, but up hold; in principle, their right to obtain publication outside their own country. The assumption of Mr. Watt that the Soviet people would reject their work must surely be worthless when the Soviet people have had no opportun ity to read it. Such omnisci ence is part of the censorship mentality which negates the right of people to read and make their own decisions. To publish under a pseudo nym is perfectly legitimate, though it seems that these writers felt the necessity to do so out of fear of official reprisal, and the public expres sions of dissatisfaction over the conduct of their trial inside the USSR denotes that their fear was not unfounded. It is hardly the climate in which to seek publication in the first place, and this is per haps the saddest feature of all. Intransigence merely for the sake of trying to be sensa tional is an old trick and, if these writers were indulging in.it, publication in the Soviet Union would surely have been their downfall. To make martyrs of them espouses their cause by lend ing it the strength of a prin ciple and such phrases as "poison pens" "capitalist market" "anti-Soviet crea tions" "unprincipled and demoralised persons" "betray al of trust" serve only to con- firm this and to highlight the atmosphere of their trial. v The reaction of Australians y to the trial of these writers,' is,, not likely to shake the world, > but I hear the laconic com ment that is meaningful to me mnl-A rtf\ " I rail gu, ULOtVC. JL CUl 5«-r. D. H. CRICK, (Newport, Sydney). ? | THE case of the two Soviet writers raises | a very important ques- | tion. The decision to | use court trial and jail- ings as a means of t | "dealing with" writers | of unpalatable books suggests an unwilling- ij ness even now to trust i| the wisdom of the people sufficiently. It would have beea fax better to have published at least some of the writings of tlhese two pc»ple an"l expose them to the good sense of public opinion. There can be no doubt that if the writings were j so terrible, and if tbe j writers were traitors (& point that lis still not clear to me) they would have got their deserts from the people. . I therefore agree strongly b with the central committee statement. $ Joyce Hawkins. ' Babnain | &lt; T HAVE just finished reading l Mr. Aaron's statement on | the two. Soviet writers. 1 I wholeheartedly disagree. I Why did these writers have g to smuggle these books out o p the Soviet Union? There » > . still room for criticism in tD Soviet Union. . In my opinion it was \ ' financial gain and there \ little doubt these books are » Hollywood right now, when the movie comes to Sy» ney I'll send Mr. Aarons » ticket I would say off-hand would be too late then 1 j him tn retract his statement. | T. Paton, I Seamen's Union membe i 