 WHY DO THEY SAY " Americans go home"? wUterB to the iiiniiiiiuii — iii)in|iiin mi iiiiiiiiiii— win Editor | AM an average Aeri-: can and J still believe in all . the patriotic heri tage arid purposes of our American life and the role it should play in world affairs. I try hard to believe that our world aims and doings are just arid unselfishly motivated and executed. In my daily life as a teacher, a father and as a "trying citi zen" I move arid live in the average strata of citizenry and am able to gather just what the true feelings and opinioris of the average American are. There is a feeling of loneli- . ness and depression with us f(very day. We get the feeling what the heck is the use." Since World War I we have been proud of the part we Played in world affairs. Our general opinion until the pre- sent was that we were always on the right side of , "right versus wrong". We thought with much pride that we were the saviours, that we were a people, and nation that others looked toward as "Big Bro ther"; that our contact with the people of other riations was motivated by the heeds of those . people— whether for food, clothing, counsel or the need to secure their freedom from aggression or oppres sion. - I hope you can understand why we felt "big and proud" and sometimes "cocky" about being Americans and were justified in feeling we were the "saviours of the world". We felt we were loved and respected by the rest of the world. We were proud of the ideal that we were a nation of peace, never an aggressor. We. are still proud of our strength, wealth and free- doms (though the latter seem to grower fewer in practice each day). The average person has. felt the pinch of heavy taxation in order to meet the economic demands of federal spending. As long as we felt that it was reaching the "average and needy" we had no real com plaint. There is now a slow, strong change taking place within the heart of the average American as to foreign relations. We have seen those nations which we felt were friends turn against us strongly, bitterly and in many cases violently. We now know there must be something wrong some place, because the setbacks and turn ing away from us are too fre quent and too plainly stated. Even our own leaders are in hot and questioning debate as to the wisdom, correctness and direction of our foreign policies and obligations. Most of the people with whom I discuss our position in world affairs have this feel ing oif uncertainty. Regardless of the propaganda published by "Higher Authorities" there is not now the wholehearted backing of the people that was so dominant previously. We just have the feeling that regardless of what we do, it is going to be wrong and eventually will be turned against us. We wonder just what is the true opinion of us, just what we do that is so wrong, what causes this "American go home" feeling. Ben O. Bullard, 122 E. White Ave., Archdale, North Carolina, USA. (Perhaps some "Tribune readers may care to write to Mr. Bullard explaining why his country has be come so unpopular.— Ed.) 