 Australia must shape own policy at home, abroad Dixon's strongest impression after European visit SYDNEY: "The strongest impression I have is that Australia must assert its in dependence in foreign policy," Mr. R. Dixon said on Monday on his return from a visit to Europe. ' The Tribune had asked Mr. Dixon for a comment on his visit which had been made in company with Mrs. Dixon and Tribune editor Alec Rob ertson. "There is no future for us so long as we remain subordinate to the United States and have our foreign policy decided in line with the thinking in Wash ington" Mr. Dixon added. "We must shape our own pol icy and create an Australian image in Australia and the world. Criticism "In Europe, both east and west, there is strong criticism of, and opposition to, the US 1 aggression in Vietnam. "The movement in western Europe to throw off, the yoke of US imperialism and. to end NATO control is becoming ir resistible. "France is playing a major role in this development. Gen eral de Gaulle's visit to the USSR earlier this year was very significant. "In its conflict, with "the USA France felt the need to reach closer understanding ' with the USSR and the socialist world. "De Gaulle's visit to the USSR cut right through the US'; cold war policy. Franco- Soviet relations have entered a new phase which will serve the ends of peace in Europe and the world. "Specific agreements provide for increases in trade, economic and cultural relations and for exchange of information on scientific and technical develop ment. "General de Gaulle was aware of the big economic changes taking place in the USSR. Publicists in the west try to write down these econo mic developments or to claim that tHe socialist countries are resorting to capitalist methods of production. Advances "The very last thing they want to admit is the rapid economic! advances now taking place leading to the further strengthening and consolidation of socialism. "The facts, however, are be coming known. France has taken steps to strengthen her relations with the socialist countries and other countries of western Europe are doing likewise. "As they move to closer understanding with the social ist countries they strengthen their own independence from US domination. "Another very important re cent event was the Bucharest meeting of the Warsaw pact powers. This meeting declared in favor of a meeting of the heads of state of the countries of Europe — a European confer ence to decide on the problems of Europe and its security, without the United States. "The Bucharest meeting also called for the abolition of the NATO and Warsaw military pacts and a new approach to peace in Europe. It condemned the brutal US aggression in Vietnam. Divisions "The press has made out that there were serious divisions among the Warsaw Pact powers, resulting from a Ru manian demand for revision of frontiers. But this also was false. In fact the Bucharest .confer ence declared, in reply to the west German revanchist de mands for a redrawing of fron tiers: "The question of Europe's boundaries has been settled fin ally and irrevocably," and went on to state that the War saw powers declare that "they have no territorial claims qn any European power. "Rumania, as well as all other eastern European states, subscribed to this statement. All Warsaw Pact powers were unanimous. Trends "The trends in Europe today are clearly towards the solution of European problems by Europeans themselves. US dom ination and influence is declin ing and relations between east ern and western Europe are growing closer. "These trends are progressive. They strengthen peace in Europe and the world. Also they spell out the increasing isolation of the USA. "In these circumstances Aus tralia also should resist US domination and establish its independence in foreign and economic policies." Mr. Dixon. 