 THE MAD I WORLD OF VERWOERD From ROGER MILLIS in Johannesburg. EVEN after Rhodesia, your first glimpse B of South Africa comes as & shock. At the 1 border-post, a sign says, in Afrikaans and I English: "Toilets — Net Blankets — Whites Only". You don't see signs like that in Rhodesia, with all its blatant racial ism and discrimination. But in the crazy world of Henrik Vervroerd the notices are so common that you end up dreaming about them — a debilitating nightmare in which every image is brok en up into finely gradated areas of colour demarcated by enormous fences. You wonder at the mentality Of the men who devised the whole fantastic scheme, at their insanity and colossal self-imposed neurotic fear. ? pRED gives us a lift for some 200 miles through the Transvaal to his home near Johannesburg, and later puts us up for the night. He's a private detective, but there's nothing of the James Bond type about him — he mostly travels round the coun try for the hire-purchase sec tion of a Johannesburg bank repossessing cars from time- payment defaultees He and his wife and their six children have an aging three-bedroomed council cot tage in a. suburb like any working-class area in Sydney or Melbourne. But he too has an acutely developed sense of colour, with an underlying fear of the African— or "kaffir", as he calls them. After all, there are only three million whites and twelve million Africans. He has no trade and little education: anybody could do his job. What will happen, to him and his precarious secur ity if Africans are given equal opportunity? He carries on at length about the inherent "b/eauty" of the European, cosnpared with other "races" "You never see a beautiful native. You know what I moan? But give me a pure European wom an—you can't beat them." PARTHEID on the large- scale means the division of South Africa into two separate parts— one white and tihe other black. It means the shovelling of the African people into care fully defined reserves whose function is to keep the mines, factories and farms of the country supplied with a con tinuous stream of cheap lab our. It means the alienation of the best agricultural land for exclusive white use — as we saw for ourselves in the Transvaal: mile after mile of huge farms, baked by tne drought but still obviously in exhaustibly rich, interspersed by neat white homesteads sheltering behind discrete en circlements of tree, and every now and then a village of shabby African huts. In its extreme, this elebor- nte policy of "separate devel opment" means the creation, of "Ban tus tans" — like the Transkei along the south-east c9as_k — where the African pop ulation are supposed to live- entirely cut off from the Euro pean world — free to do any- thing except to decide whether want to live in Bantus- tans. even the "final solu- f the African questions . .the form of Bantustans is a aouble-edged sword for Vesr- oerd and his gang. If white is white and black is black, and never the twain shall meet, where is the lab our going to come from for the white economy? And the cheap domestic labour? The expense of shifting in dustry to the borders of the Bantustans — as the brilliant blueprint lays down— is en tirely prohibitive. It is on these grounds — rather than any moral con siderations—that the Bantus- I tans scheme is being oppos ed, even by the whites them selves. Ultimately, apartheid itself is self-defeating and can not work. ? TN day-to-day affairs, the hand of apartheid is more noticeable in its work ings: it pervades every aspect of life, for black and white alike. Toilets, buses, trains, rail way entrances and exits, post- office counters, street-kiosks, park-benches are all control- B led by the arithmetic of I '"Whites Only" or "Non- Whites I Only". I The cities themselves are masterpieces of conspiracy. You would never think- that the vast majority of South Africa's people are dark-skin ned. Johannesburg is a gleaming metropolis of sky-scrapers and luxury shops, full of affluent whites, the only Africans in sight being messengers, car riers or waiters— not even shop-assistants. The resort town of Durban boasts a beach almost as good as Bondi or Manly, but only whites can avail them selves of its pleasant facili ties. Cape Town has a slightly more liberal tradition, with a heavy Coloured population— an embarrassing reminder to the whites of their former sin of miscegenation. In Johannesburg, there are separate buses and trains for white and black, whereas m the Cape non-Europeans are actually permitted to travel in the same vehicle. But not, mind you, to contaminate a - white person by sitting beside him. Even the non-racial white is an unwilling victim of the system. We dump our bags on a platform at Germiston Sta tion and sit on the first avail able bench:, Everybody around — Euro pean and Non-European alike —stares: this, is plainly a Non- White seat. We sit it out until a couple of white railway workers, lunch-cribs in hand, come along and tell us we're in the wrong seat. In Cape Town, we droo into the La Fiesta Restaurant for a cup of coffee. We sit down and wait to l:e served. Finally the European manager comes sliding up. "You've made a mistake." he says smoothly. "This is for Coloureds only." We tell him we only want a drink. "You'd better go to the Wal dorf or Stutterford's," he re plies. After incidents like tnis, you feel somehow less than human, ashamed to be identi fied with the creature in front of you by some accident of complexion. And less of a man for not having dropped the fellow on the spot. NEXT WEEK: The fight against apartheid | 