 " THE PINK APLE FAIRY WAS VERE BIZY" Jim Stevens pays an Education Week visit to his daughter's school | |T was after unsuccess fully searching the faces of youngsters in five classrooms that I found the familiar one, hiding behind an impish grin showing the usual number of missing teeth. This was how a father entered the world of his seven year old daughter on the occasion of Education Week. Throughout the State thou sands of parents must have gone through a similar per formance and learnt first hand how their little Debbies and Johnnies were being educated. For some' parents the occas- sion meant a frank talk with — «TITTnTW«TII HIIIIMII !! I Ml I teachers as to the vocation their sons and daughters should choose, or whether the boy or girl in question should continue at school or get a job. And for the teachers of this age group, the big problem begging solution is the lack of teachers and facilities "to cope with the sixth year public high schoolers next year. A comparatively few par ents, however, on the other side of the railway tracks with their offspring in pri vate schools, no doubt feel full of self-satisfaction that their children are getting superior sort of education they think they deserve. And to help them along their far-from- needy way, the Government is generously dispensing pub lic funds among them. The world of seven-year-old public school children can also be pleasant, particularly when they are together with their little mates. I first found out that my daughter was being taught by a very attractive young wo man—a strange phenomenon, as I distinctly remember that all my teachers fell into the category of "old women". Miss Munroe told of how she taught the 42 children who constituted 2B. "If I only had about 25 children in the class I could give each child individual attention." She also pointed out that the better private schools p were not overcrowded. This brought home to me again the ' truth of the Tea chers' Federation demand for urgent government finance for public education. I also saw for myself "the sea whosh over our bucket" and "a stable full ov stror." I further learnt from my daughter's dictation book that "we went into our pritty garden" and that "the pink aple fairy was vere bizy in the spring." Jammed into one of the school desks (they seemed much bigger when I went to school), I sat examining the books of tables, compositions and all the other achievements of a seven year old. Other parents were having a similar experience and also learning from the teacher some of the "slight imper fections" of their children. Some children whose par ents could not be there (no doubt due to work) were eager enough to show off their talents to their class mate's father. And what that father learnt above all was that , our kids deserve the full back ing of the trade union move ment to ensure they get the best from a wealthy country like Australia. 