 [?] How Sydney voters will be hit 1 By E. Gabriel DEGARDLESS of the financial burden to home owners and rent- payers, the New South Wales Liberal Govern ment plans to wrest control of the Sydney City Council from Labor by implement ing drastic changes to the Council boundaries. This move is to satisfy big business and inner-city com mercial interests that back the Askin Government, and is one in a series of moves designed to tighten the Liberals' grip on the State. The Askin Government in September 1965 asked the Local Government Boundaries Com mission to examine: 9 Whether the pre-1949 boun daries (City Council) would he appropriate to the Government's views; If not what boundaries would be suitable and appropri ate. Details On March 30 the Minister for Local Government (Mr. Morton) tabled the Boundaries Commis sion report which stated: — "... the Commission is of the opinion that the boundaries of the City of Sydney as existed before 1949 would be suitable and appropriate . . . "However we also consider that several modifications, mainly of a minor nature could wiffi flHvflnffltyp "hft mfldft to these boundaries." The report recommended the slashing of the City Council from 11 square miles to about 5 square miles by wholly or partly transferring the follow ing suburbs: — To Leichhardt Council 238 acres and 5,650 voters at Glebe. To Woollahra Council 330 acres and 10,383 voters in Pad- dington, Darlinghurst and Edge- cliff, including about 350 homes on 28 acres of Church Trust land about to he redeveloped. 9 To the new Municipality of Northcott to he formed from 2,603 acres with 23,954 voters in Redfern, Darlington, Golden Grove, Waterloo, Zetland, Rose- bery, Alexandria, Erskineville and Surry Hills. Will up costs The new Northcott Council area will include some of the oldest established suburbs in Sydney and the residents, pre dominantly workers, are to be put to the expense of re-estab lishing a Council. The costs involved in set ting up the new municipality will mean a sharp increase in rates. This also means big rent in creases as the Fair Rents Court regards increased rates as the number one reason to grant rent increases. This will have a snow-balling effect; on .all rents. Home owners and tenants in the Paddington, Darlinghurst and Edgecliff area to be trans ferred into Woollahra Council will also be in the same posi tion regarding rates and rent increases. Although the City Council rate of 2.5c in the dollar is nearly double the Woollahra Council rate of 1.4c in the dol lar, the average terrace house or small home owner who now pays the. City Council between $20 and $30, depending on the unimproved capital value, will be forced to pay Woollahra Council's minimum rate of $50. They will also receive a much inferior service: — Only a twice weekly gar bage service instead of the pre sent three times weekly ser vice; No poliomyelitis and diph- teria immunisation service. Woollahra Council has no town hall and the baby health centre and library at Double Bay would be of little use to Paddington residents as there is no direct transport service to, them. The non-Labor forces on the Woollahra Council have a major ity of 14 to 1. If pro-Labor aldermen gained all seats in the new ward they would still only control four votes in a council of 18. The anti-labor Civic Reform candidates would be also cer tain to win control of the high ly developed high-valued area that will remain in the City Council. With comparatively small maintenance costs the wealthy commercial and big business interests would he able to en- I joy a low rate. I Even the largest section of I parkland remaining in the new city boundaries, the Domain and Botanical Gardens would he at no expense to the Council as these are controlled, cared and paid for by the Department of Agriculture. 