 Ten days to Living Standards Conference 'Pockets of poverty' on basic wage CYDNEY : "Large families whose incomes barely exceed the basic wage are in a pocket of poverty," said Mr. D. Beswick, the publicity officer for the NSW Livincr Standards Conference. The conference, to be held in Sydney on July 30, has been convened by the NSW Labor Council to allow for public dis cussion and action on the pres sing problems of social services, housing, education and an Australian economic policy. In .1950, said Mr. Beswick, the baby bonus was £15 when the basic wage was £7/2/-. Today the bonus ranges between £15 and £17/10/-, yet the basic wage is now £15/15/-. In order to get back to the 1950 level, we would have to have a mini mum baby allowance of £31/- 10/-. Surveys by the International Labor Office in Geneva show that in 1940 Australia was in fifth place in providing social service benefits to the commun ity. In 1960 the survey shows that we have dropped to 19th place. Mr. Beswick said pensioners do not have the purchasing power they had 16 years ago. The average weekly earnings for males in 195(0 was £9 and the maximum old-age pension was almost £3/15/-. Today the maximum pension is £6 compared with the average earnings for males of £28. A paper on social services will be presented to the con ference by Dr. G. W. Ford, Les- turer in Industrial Relations at the University of NSW. Dr. Ford has stated that "in past years Australia established an enviable international repu tation in the field of social ser vices and we were looked upon as social experimenters. "Recently, both the range and comparative level of Australia's social services has fallen below those of many countries less affluent than ourselves." In the field of education Aus tralia compares unfavorably with Japan. Over 90 per cent of Japanese children attend six years of secondary school com pared with 23 per cent of Aus tralian children. Mr. Beswick said over 2500 delegates were expected to at tend the conference, which will be opened by the Lord Mayor of Sydney, Alderman Arm.- strong. Accepted The organisers are pleased that many community organi sations have accepted the op portunity to utilise the confer ence to air their views on pro blems associated with living standards. Credential forms have been received from pensioner groups, school staffs, church bodies, metropolitan and country coun cils and the State Federation of Parents and Citizens' Associa tions. The morning sessions of the .conference! will be held in fout inner city halls. At these ses sions papers will be given by experts in their fields. Dr. Schoenheimer (Education), Dr. Ford (Social Services), Mr. B. McFarlane (Housing), Mr. J. D. Kenny (Australian Economic Policy) . Each morning session will re port back to a plenary session to be held at the Sydney Town Hall at 2 pm. All community organisations, with the exception of political parties, have been invited to participate. Enquiries may be made by contacting Mr. T. Mawdsley, Organising Secretary, phone 61-2393. 