 Nurses prepare for further battle over wages, conditions TOLLONGONG: A mass meeting of nurses from public hospitals on the NSW South Coast will be held tomorrow night (Thursday) in- the Wollongong Town Hall as a continuation of their campaign for higher wiages and better conditions. The meeting has been called by the N.S.W. Nurses' Association and will be at tended by nurses from hos pitals at Wollongong, Port Kembla, Nowra, Kiama, Bulli and Coledale. Last month over 3000 nurses packed the Sydney Town Hall and later held demonstration marches through the city in support of their demands. Several hundred also demon strated outside State Parlia ment House. Low wages After paying board, taxation and other expenses, a first or second year trainee nurse gets about $10 a week. A first year nursing sister receives $36.55 and after 15 years' service gets only $45.10. It is anticipated that this week the State Industrial Com mission will make an interim wage offer ranging from 10 cents to $6 a week. This will mean that those lasses on the lowest pay will get next to nothing. Sydney action Psychiatric nurses are also stepping up their campaign for equal pay. A mass rally will be held at the Balmain Town Hall on the evening of April 26, the date that the Industrial Commis sion hearing begins in Syd ney. The Health and Research Employees' Association is or ganising the meeting as part of a series of public activities in support of its equal pay claim. Other planned activities in clude distributing leaflets at shopping centres and packing the court during the hearing. A mass rally will also be held in Hyde Park on May 4 at 3 p.m. to be followed by a march to Parliament House. Female psychiatric nurses sny their duties and responsi bilities are the same as those performed by male nurses. They point out that cooks, radiographers, pharmacists ' and medical officers at public hos pitals receive equal pay — as do also teachers, bus conduc tresses and policewomen. PERTH jpERTH: Trained nurses from every State attend ed the third biennial con vention of the Royal Austra lian Nursing Federation in Perth on March 23-25. The theme of the conven- tion — "Focus on Nursing" — proved to be an invitation to the public to criticise the nursvig profession and offer constructive advice on how to improve . the nursed role in society. This was a healty trend showing there is a genuine desire to give greater care to the sick in both the physical and mental aspects'. The discussion included: The nurse arid local authority. The nurse ?,n peace. A critical review of nurs ing services at Common wealth level. Another session, "The nurse in , civil disaster", > brought forth the idea that nurses, al ways more interested in pre vention than cure, should pay a more positive role j,n work ing for peace. Three points crystallised from the three-day convention: An awareness of the great wastage of nurses and the necessity of immediate action to overcome this. The importance of improv- ing the nurse-patient relation ship. The need for two levels of nurses — the highly skilled technical nurse and the "bed side nurse". In the internal matters of the 'Nursing Federation, the concept of a national union incorporating trained and un trained nurses was discussed and is a distinct possibility in the future. A noticeable feature through- cut v/as the soft-pedalling of present conditions in nursing. Nobody attributed the great shortage of nurses to the poor conditions. However, Miss Lorraine Jar- rett, executive secretary of the Royal Australian Nursing Feder ation, drew attention to this as pect when she arrived in Perth. .. "If we are to attract people to nursing we must make it worth their while financially," she said. The value of nurses to the community was much more than shown by their pay, she added. ' 