 Arrests, jailings were unnecessary and wrong! ! — Says CPA secretary, Laurie Aarons, | at a press conference SYDNEY : The arrest and trial in the Soviet Union of the writers Sinyavsky j and Daniel had been discussed by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of ! Australia Mr. L. Aarons, the party's general secretary told a press conference in Sydney ! last Wednesday. The press confer ence dealt with a num ber of issues, including the Vietnam war, the Australian labor move ment and the situation in Indonesia. Mr. Aarons said in a state ment to the press confer ence that the Central Com mittee had discussed the matter of Sinyavsky and Daniel before the Soviet court verdict and sentences were given. "Our approach therefore dealt with the principle in volved and without full knowledge of the facts. "We do not consider these two writers are men of high principles or worthy of sup port for their actions, which, on what we know, are inde fensible. "They wrote in one vein for the Soviet public and made good livings; they wrote in the opposite way and smuggled out their writ ings to make money in the West. "However, we consider the arrest and sentence of these men to be unnecessary and wrong. "They certainly broke Sov iet law and the Soviet Union has a right to uphold its law. But we consider it would have been far better to rely upon publishing the truth of their double stand ards and dealing, and allow public opinion and that of their fellow writers to decide. "The great achievements of the Soviet Union speak for themselves and need fear no mudslinging from two obscure men like these. "Already this year, the Soviet Union has achieved two great things in different fields of peaceful endeavour very important to humanity. One is the landing of Lima 9; the other is the Soviet initiative which resulted in the Tashkent Declaration. "The anti-Soviet views and writings of these two men are puerile compared with these things. Their views certainly have no support in the Soviet Union and will only influence those people abroad who are already rigidly set in anti-Soviet views. "In our view, the best way to deal with such people is to answer their arguments in wide and vigorous public discussion. The ideas of Communism need fear no debate or confrontation." QUESTION: Is it a fact that the accused writers were held incommunicado "since last September by the Soviet authorities? ANSWER: I don't know that they were held incom municado, but think it un- likely. QUESTION: Why was the trial held at this time, in view of the fact that it was generally understood that the "thaw" was moving to wards more free expression in the Soviet Union? Why was Tarsis allowed to go to the West (NOTE: Valery Tarsis, a Soviet writer with strong anti-Soviet views, whose work has been published in the West, is at present on a visit to Britain). ANSWER: We cannot do j more than speculate on these ! questions. We hope to dis- j cuss such matters when our j delegation shortly visits the \ Soviet Union for the 23rd J Congress CPSU. We disagree j with the views of Tarsis and I of the other two, but think J the official Soviet attitude to I Tarsis was correct, and are j puzzled that it could not be j taken also with the others. I QUESTION: If we as- I sume that there might be a | good deal of underground S support for the works of I these writers and it began ! to snowball, could that be j the reason to punish them? | ! " ANSWER: That is specul- | ation. We don't think it is ! so. We have never seen or j heard evidence of basic dif- j ferences towards socialism | and communism among any I significant section of Soviet I writers and artists. Next g -> month, Yevtushenko is com- S ing here. He has sometimes | f expressed critical views, but ,| . 1 has always been basically for ? socialism and communism. 1 QUESTION: Is the CPA | planning any function for j Yevtushenko? | ANSWER: That depends J on his other commitments, I with the Adelaide Festival, g for example. We hope to J meet him and it is possible j a function would be arrang- j ed, but no decision has been ! taken. I .. . . Mr. L. AARONS, Secretary of the Com munist Party of Aus tralia. 