 The Realist: protected from impurities? /""NN the debate about The Realist, "First Citizen" and Jack Pen- ber.hy, have expressed a lot of the general dissatisfaction that has been passed to and fro amongst the Realists internally. The letter from Joyce Hawkins admirably shows the dividing line between the con tenders, in that it pays no attention to the case put by First Citizen. Joyce merely reiterates the devotion of the formal realists who produce the journal, no matter what, and makes the claim that new writers aire being brought onto the Australian writing scene, who would not otherwise see the light of day until it is too late. What I think are the facts, is that the young writers who , are making their way are not Realist trained, and can possibly owe their success to this fact. However, I want to make the point that the dilemma is not only that of Realist, but of the left wing publications generally, in cluding Tribune, which has set the pattern of secretarian writing for the left for as long as most left wingers can remember. I sometimes wonder how many aspiring writers there who might have become reason able practitioneers if they had not become enmeshed in the snares of oversimplification, of black and white, of goodies who were always good, and baddies who were always bad. The reci.pe for Realist writing has always been, the puritanical worker is always pure, and always wins, and the bad capitalist is always bad, and always loses. If you say that they are all victims of the same prin ciples, and largely think alike, you are a villainous enemy of the working class, and must never be printed., . To this end, the people who control Realist at the moment, protect it from impurities, and mostly from any reasonable standard of writing, with any thought attached to it. And they, good souls, will go on doing that as. long as they can, and will need to use all the sales tactics they know, to pass it onto a. suspecting public. Meanwhile there are a number of literary editors who will publish material of a good standard, and. the writer can be assured that he will appear in company which will not be held up to ridicule. This situation in the literary scene calls into question the need for a journal such as Realist, which says it is for the new writer, and apparently doesn't think that the public are entitled to ask for literary standards. Merv. Lilley, (W.A.) 