 i State Aid issue I "diversionary", CPA warns CYDNEY : The "State Aid" issue was being used to divert people from : serious thought and action around ways and means of solving the crisis in education, the Communist Party's Central Committee warned in a state- I ment last weekend. The full text of the Committee's statement is as follows: Australian education isv not keeping pace with the scientific and technological | advances of this era and the consequent industrial i requirements of the nation and the social needs of the people. Australian education is lack ing in the number of fully qualified teachers, in adequate | school accommodation and | equipment. The Australian Edu- 1 cation Council stated in 1965 that the country was 4600 class- 1 rooms short. The Martin report I stated in 1963 that 47,000 extra I teachers over and above exist- I ing training output, would be I needed by 1975. 1 Conservative official estim- 1 ates are that $92 million a year 1 is needed above existing ex- I penditure to cope with immedi- I ate capital expenditure and run- i ning costs. I inadequate 1 Although the education crisis I is denied by Federal Govern- |8 . ment spokesmen, state ministers H of education and premiers have II had to proclaim repeatedly that 11 their resources are inadequate P to meet the education needs of Ml the community. m .They and. the daily press are I agreeid that' if Australian' educa-' I tion is to meet even the limited & needs of the present day soci- || ety, the Federal Government must provide huge . sums of M mney for public education. 'M Because state governments % fave kuiit their education sys- H tems on the principle of provid- jg ing education without "sectar- m ian or class distinction", the H provision of Government aid for private schools cannot begin to solve the problems of education in this country. The proposal to provide such aid is a diversionary move and is being used by certain parties as a form of political bribery, a way to buy votes. It arouses sectarianism and disunity among the people and tends to sidetrack people from demands on the Federal Government for the provision of large sums of money to the state governments for public education. It tends to turn people aside from con sideration of, and action around, major issues demanding solu tion. Plight Such government aid as has been provided for private schools has not assisted the parents of most children at tending private institutions. Their personal plight has,( in fact, deepened. The hand-outs mainly assist the schools at tended by children of the wealthy. The provision of allowances on a liberal scale for students in all forms of post-primary and tertiary education institu tions is a demand adopted by the ACTU many years ago. This policy should have the support of all sections of the working class movement. .Such allow? ances should, not be provided in such a way as to give ad vantages to those who attend residential private schools, as living away from home allow ances have done in state and commonwealth scholarships.. As ' an immediate issue the labor movement should work to end the use of educational changes as a form of electoral bribery and should insist that the provision of public funds for private institutions must he accompanied by public control. It is the view of the Com munist Party that the state has the responsibility to ensure that all children and youth re ceive the fullest education which they are capable of ab sorbing and that all pupils should have equal opportunity. Schools of privilege and special sectional interests do not serve the community welfare. In the opinion of the Com munist Party the duty of the labor movement is to maintain the education system as free, compulsory and secular; and to resist all tendencies to re place it by a dual system with its emphasis on class privilege and sectional interests. The need is to remove the question from one of public support for private schools to one of united action to resolve the nation's problems of solv ing the overall crisis in public education. This is a national, not a sectional, issue. The Communist Party joins with many other organisations of the people in calling for support for the immediate demands formulated in the campaign for educational ad vancement in Australia, develop ed by parents, teachers, union- . ists, students and,, others: r'; ; 1. The setting up by the Com monwealth Government of a riational committee of enquiry into pre-school, primary, second ary and technical education in Australia. 2. The provision of emergency funds to the state governments to enable them to meet the urgent needs of their govern ment educational institutions. 