 Expansion' Budget shrinks pay packet By the Parliamentary Roundsman While State governments inflict heavy new charges and taxes on the people, Federal Treasurer McMahon sits back bleating "it's an expansion budget". He is obviously thinking of the ?70m extra dollars the Commonwealth has grabbed from higher taxes arising from the $2 basic wage in crease, or the $70m the State governments are grabbing from higher charges and taxes to offset his miserable budget. One consequence has been the sharpening this week of the State Liberal Governments' criticisms of the Federal Gov ernment and the openly ex pressed fear of some Federal Liberals that this will diminish their chances of a Federal elec tion victory in November. As a result of these criticisms Prime Minister Holt had to agree to meet the NSW and Victorian premiers, but only after they have increased charges and brought . down their budgets. This dispute should have the effect of improving Labor's chances in these elections— if it sheets home responsibility for the new tax rises to the Holt Government and its Vietnam war policy. While Liberal Premiers in NSW and Victoria are publicly squabbling with the Federal Liberal Government about more Commonwealth aid, a hospital bed for one week in a public ward in NSW and Vic toria will now cost at least twice the basic wage. The average worker will now have to put aside every week $1.10 a week in combined Medical and Hospital Fund con tributions for public ward coverage. A worker in NSW will have to find another 50c a week for higher train, bus and ferry charges. On top of this there will be cumulative increases arising from higher freight and port charges as well as from the many new increases when the State Government brings its Budget down next week. There can be no argument with the fact that the Common wealth Government holds the purse strings and is starving the States. They have earmark ed great portions of the Budget for military preparation for the Vietnam war. At the same time Liberal Governments in Victo ria and NSW are wholehearted ly supporting the Vietnam war and are soaking with their higher charges and taxes those least able to afford them. For example the imposition of a capital gains tax by the State Government on big busi ness could cushion off the lot or a large part of the new increased charges. Could big business afford it? Mr. John Eddy, Melbourne Herald economist, recently showed that out of 247 main public companies who last month issued annual results, 144 showed a higher profit, 33 showed about the same and only 70 showed any decline in profits. The sacking of hundreds of motor car industry employees has also left, the Common wealth Government cold. While everybody knows that the market for cars in Aus tralia is over-produced, the fact remains that a slump in the motor industry will affect thousands of other firms. 