 Labor Council plans huge Sydney rally for higher wages SYDNEY : A huge daytime rally of trade unionists throughout the city area of Sydney has been planned for Wednesday, May 18 in support of the unions' basic wage and margins claims. The NSW Labor Council's Co-ordinating Committee has endorsed the rally which was sponsored by the building un ions. A mass meeting has been planned to commence at 1 p.m. in Wynyard Park. It is expected that thousands of building workers from big , projects in Sydney will hold a demonstration march through the city. Last week's meeting of Labor Council unanimously endorsed the rally and all unionists in cluding industrial and white collar workers have been invit ed to take part. Building union leaders anti cipate that many jobs through out the metropolitan area will support the demonstration which is expected to develop into a widespread four-hour stoppage. Speakers at last week's Labor Council were enthusiastic in their support for the building unions. Mr. T. Wright (NSW secretary Sheet Metal Workers Union) said that metal workers will also want to join with the build ing workers. Mr. R. H. Sutherland (secret ary of the Public Service As sociation of NSW) said his members would be " happy to take part in the rally. ff He said' the PSA has more members than any other union in the city area and they would want to be there. Mr. L. Schurr (secretary of the Building Trades Group of unions) said the rally is open to every worker to support the ACTU wage claims. He said this included metal workers, public servants, shop assistants and maritime work ers. "We will show that NSW workers can also demonstrate their support for these claims I as have the Queensland and 1 Victorian workers," he siad. 1 Mr. R. Marsh (assistant sec- 1 retary of Labor Council) an- 1 nounced that a "Living Stand- 1 ards Conference" would be held 1 towards the end of July. . 1 Representatives of people's 8 organisations will be invited to I attend. I The agenda is to be based on 1 the Australian Council of Trade 1 Union's economic policy, hous- 1 ing, education and social ser- 1 vices. | A meeting of unions on May 12 will set up a committee to organise the conference. Mr. Marsh said unions will be asked to make an official available to organise for this conference. Newcastle WCASTLE : Thousands of trade unionists in New castle will hold a four-hour stopwork rally tomorrow Thursday) in Civic Park to back the unions' wage claims. The decision to hold the stop page and rally was made on April 20 by over 300 delegates at a wages-prices campaign meeting in Newcastle and later unanimously endorsed by the Newcastle Trades Hall Council. The Australian Council of Trade Unions is at present argu ing before the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission for a $4.30 a week increase in the basic wage and $5.90 in trades men's margins. A leaflet publicising tomor row's rally said "all trade union experience has proven that the issue cannot be left to arbitra tion alone to determine. 'The ACTU has called for a big campaign in support of its policy." It is pointed out that from- 1939 to 1965 prices have increas ed from seven to 40 times whereas the basic wage has only increased by a little over 31 times. There has been no basic wage increase for two years and mar- gins have increased only 30 to 70 cents in the same period. The recent delegates' meet ing declared that "the most ef fective action to back the ACTU claim and to win firm price control is to enable unions throughout Newcastle to rally in demonstrations at a central point." The delegates also declared their support for the NSW Lab-, or Council's decision on the wages-prices campaign which states: "That all industry groups of the Labor Council be requested to intensify the wages-prices campaign by means of direct approaches to employers seek ing payment of the full trade union claim immediately. "Such approaches to be sup ported by activity in accordance with the circumstances and traditional forms of activity in each industry." The Newcastle delegates said where circumstances, for safety or other reasons, do not enable some unionists to leave the job and attend the rally, they are asked to display their solidar ity through meetings on the job. Page 1 1 : Cost of living. 