 Protest on Portland T AM writing to. protest over the article on Portland (Tribune, Noy. 2). I have never read such unadulter- ated rubbish in my life and suggest that the writer, Jim Stevens, seek a position with the Daily Mirror, which would appreciate his attempt at journalism. I do not live at Portland so this is an' outsider's com ment. Sure there, is. a- bit, of dust around at Portland, but no where near the amount claim ed by Mr. Stevens. After describing the works he exclaims, "This is where men work." How naive can you get. I suggest Mr. Stevens takes a tour around some Sydney foundries, the glass works, or for that matter any heavy industry dealing with raw materials. As to the company itself. Yes, its policies are hard, but one has only to look around Portland and see the swim ming pool and bowling green that this very company fully supported to know that there must be considerable co operation between the com pany and the community. Speaking of . community spirit, let me say that Port land would be one of the closest knit communities in Australia and if every town and city could emulate this spirit' it' would make this M country outstanding. « Reporting on a two-bed- I room home for $700, Mr. I Stevens indicates this as a | decline in values around the town. But houses could have been purchased in Portland from half this figure when I moved into this area some 14 years ago. A friend of mine purchased a house in a key area for $400 and I can assure you there was not three inches of cement on the roof— not one-eighth of an inch for that matter. In conclusion, Portland is a damn fine little town and it does not owe its soul to the Cemeiit company but to the many fine people in the com munity who have made it what it is — a warm friendly country town where any visitor is made welcome and where a person can live with out sending his wife to work or working excessive over time- In regard to the wage claims, I am completely in accordance with the men working at Portland. They are underpaid and I sincere ly hope they get the wage rate they wish, but that they never resort to sensational journalism (such as Mr. Stevens' article) to spread the word to fellow unionists. H. C. Murray, Wallerawang, (N.S.W) Jim Stevens comments: The information contained to the Portland story was obtainea during a tour of the district on works by myself, while aceom' s panying three union officials from j Sydney. I These union leaders have ver,!®r the authenticity of the story whie" they say if anything "is inclmea to be a bit mild". . The writer agrees that Pei". in cement towns are worm-heortca. ; The story is not intended « j "knock" these people but '"toe ; focuses attention on the need r these people to get a better 9 j from the companies. , j Unionists interviewed at Por $ land recognise that the co,;,p?". 3 supplied material for the j ming pool. They also knoW.oon I their own labor which was 9»ven without pay to build the P®' ... | K The proposal that industries such as glass manufoet » | foundries, etc., should be J vestigated is good and one i Tribune will act upon. | This however does not det | from the need to tell city wor &lt;j how their mates in the eem || I towns live and work. || 