 On the industrial scene I Sardine treatment for trainees SMALLER TECH CLASSES URGED gYDNEY: The NSW Labor Council has decided to press for the introduction of smaller class sizes for the training of apprentices in technical colleges. This decision follows a dir- ection from the NSW Public Service Board that in 1967 the standard practical work group must be at least 18 apprentices per teacher. The NSW Teachers' Federa- tion and technical teachers say that for many years 13 to 15 apprentices per teacher was a standard class and the Board's direction could increase classes to 23. Labor Council's Apprentice ship Training Council will seek a deputation to the Board, and unions are being asked to press for apprenticeship awards to incorporate the maximum num ber of apprentices required for instruction by any one teacher. ...... Submission. The Teachers' Federation has made the following submission 10 back the demand for smaller classes: The conditions under which apprentices labor and learn are historically and properly the concern of the trade un ion movement. Guided by this concern, the unions in this State have gained for ap prentices the right to be fully trained in their employers' time. But much of the improve ment in training opportuni ties for apprentices created by day-time attendance at tech. has been cancelled out by action of the NSW Public Service Board in raising class sizes. The excuse used to raise class numbers was that four or five apprentices out of every practical group would not attend constantly and therefore this extra number should be enrolled to ensure the attendance of 13 to 15. Economies This excuse had no basis in fact but was used to effect economies in technical edu cation at the expense of lads — learning -to -become skilled tradesmen. Based on long experience of trades classes, technical teachers claim that 12 ap prentices per teacher is the maximum that can be pro perly instructed. The Public Service Board, with no exper ience of trades teaching, in sists that at least 18 appren tices be assembled in the standard practical work class. The need for reasonable class numbers has been fur ther emphasised recently by the change in attendance pat terns to provide that the technical college course be done in the first three years of apprenticeship where for merly the attendance was ' spread over four years. APPRENTICES IN CLASS AT NORTH SYDNEY TECH A squeeze for the New Year 