 JUNIOR TRIBUNE RJj ELLQ, Tribune Juniors, This week from South Australia comes a poem about a problem that is really causing some concern in Australia — the drought. Our poet is Lorna B., aged 1 3 years — it is about time we heard from the boys. Thanks for the letter Lorna — good luck with your future efforts. THE EXTREME Out in the parched sunbeaten desert Where crows hover over dead animals and birds Where water is as scarce as diamonds, Lies a lonely oasis, weatherbeaten and ruined, And hardly a glass of water to quench one's own thirst. Mirages tricked everyone's eyes, And there they lay to die beside The imaginary pool of clear; fresh water. Over the sea where the cows graze on juicy green grass The farmers are seeing to the new-born lambs, Children helping around" the house with chores And wishing for warm, sunny weather, While over the sea they are wishing for cool weather. ' LORNA B. (South Australia). Out at Prairie From Queensland comes a letter of a holiday had by the Salmon family. They went to a place called Prairie and found it fascinating. "For miles and miles there are no trees except those that have been planted around the farm houses.' There never have been any trees; it is a grass plain and is believed to have been a huge lake in years gone by. Wells have been put down to a great depth and the bones of fish and shells have been . found, also the footprints of prehistoric animals. . "In the mornings you may see a farm dozens of miles away. By dinner-time it is gone, but others have appeared at dif ferent places, some seeming to be floating in feet of Water." This sounds a really exciting place to go on a , holiday. So many of us think that you have to go to another country to find fascinating places, but Australia seems to have the. lot all in one country. In every State there is some thing different. What is the best place you have been to? Thank you for your letter and ideas for the column, and particular thanks to Mrs. Salmon. What is your Emblem? .Edward Salmon asks that we ask the Tribune Readers .what is the floral emblem of YOUR STATE? Can you name the floral emblem of every State? Does every State have a floral emblem? I There will be prizes for the I best entry (and try your hand . I at illustrating your entry). I Send them into Dinewan, I Tribune, 168 Day Street, Sydney, I NSW,, with your name, age and I address by the 29th June, 1966. l The best entry will be puh- I -lished in the column. . I Wonderful Dancers I wonder how many of you were lucky enough to go an see the visiting Beriozka Dane Company. These dancers are famous in their own country— .the USSR— and have made a name for . themselves in many other countries. The men leap and twirl in mid-ai,r, dance on their knees, and do many dances that maK you gasp. The girls' specially is a gliding dance — they seem to he on ice. One astounded young watcher was heard sav. "They're on skate-boards.. Dinewan. 