 | With NOEL COUN1HAN THE Italian Institute of Culture, Flotta Lauro Ship ping Line and the National Gallery of Victoria have mounted at the Gallery a lovely exhibition of the sculpture of the Sicilian Emilo Greco, born in 1913. A very fine sculptor Greco, along with his fellow Italians Marino Marini and Giacomo Manzu, has done much to keep alive the humanist tradition in sculpture, not only . in Italy but in Europe. $ # # AMONG outstanding con tributions to the Victorian State Conference of the Communist Party last week end was that of State presi dent John Sendy. . He drew special attention to the importance the Party places today on the role of the intel lectual, academics, writers and artists, along with the working class, in coping with the big issues of modern life. He laid great stress on the seriousness with which our Party today stands for intellectual and artistic freedom, not only in/ society at large, but within the ranks of the Party itself. When he outlined some of the enormous contributions made by intellectuals tP|working class movement, cowing naturally with Mara, ©lg and Lenin, I was reminded'!! the words ' wiitten in Pli Gabriel Peri, editor of L® ffie, daily organ of the French munist Party, who was muri |g by the Nazis and after jgmany streets were renamed oughout France on the Liberal |d peri wrote $ so many in tellectuals M withstood the Nazi terror/1 pely because their comm# pas a matter nf nrofound ® actual convict- \on , irrespecttrt | their class origins. I # i INTEREf! I changes in public I3316 within the USSR; 41 Ned by A. Baigustev gcent article in Soviet Wy- entitled Whither B Hp nbserv'Barked falling nff in atte H shows of Sth ce V art which "?yun8,Xrloni! urged to M w„t attenWecords. have hroken at tIw- 15th cen- Russim S"' Rub" ST Dicnisi,® anonymous -Kremlin , se har inttfflfc y tw mfjal lnnov- atlons boun|ta of medievai & g . Remarkable recent restoration successes have brought much more of this, glorious art before the people and the painters of the USSR. It is strongly influenc ing the younger painters like Nikonov, Glazounov and others, and could' be leading, according to critic Baigushev, to perhaps a new Renaissance in Russia. The 'English critic, Terrence Mul- laly, of the Telegraph London, hag written similarly. Matisse was deeply impressed by the perfection of colour and design he found in this Russian art, in Rublev especially, solut ions to problems he had been concerned with all his life. Optical illusion played4 no part in it, eastern and western trends met there, but it followed its own path, fertile and withstanding the test of time. # # # I strongly recommend Spring Art Book "M!ifchelangelo'\ with its 53 full colour plates of archi tecture, sculptures and paintings and copious text, quotation from the master himself, other notes and a biboligraphy, all for $2.50, Wonderful value. I got my copy from Inter national Bookshop. Spring Books are published! by Paul Hamlyn Ltd. of London, magnificently printed in Czech oslovakia, hence the low price. Other titles include Dairer, Pic asso, Soutine, Cezanne and Mtod- ern Art. 