 [?] I With Tribune's Industrial | . Roundsman 5 TWO incidents last week during the wage hearing show how "sensitive" arbitra tion judges are. In one, an apology was de manded of Mr. J. Patterson (Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Association' . research officer) for an article describing last year's judgement as "sloppy." It also said: "The advocates . might as well have addressed the three wise monkeys." If these remarks are consi dered "wantonly contemptuous" : of the Commission, the remarks : from workers who felt they were cheated and insulted by . the paltry 5/- to 6/- wage in- crease would have devastated ; the learned judges! : . # # # Secondly, Justice Gallagher . thought ACTU advocate, Bob Hawke, also guilty of a "wan ton and reckless statement." Mr. Hawke had earlier said that a paragraph in the 1965 judgement was a "cheap and unnecessary gibe" on the 1961 wages case Bench. This paragraph in effect ac cused the 1961 Bench of fixing wages "on sentiment". Rightly Bob Hawke demand ed respect from the Bench for the unions advocate. Workers while not expecting any "sentiment" are demanding a lot better treatment than they got from Judge Gallagher last year! ? 'pHREE journalists employed by the Sydney "Daily Telegraph" will appear before : the NSW executive of the Australian Journalists' Assoc iation tonight (Wednesday) to answer charges that they , per formed duties normally done by printers, during the recent printers' dispute. ? Q.ENERAL MOTORS' $600,000 a year chairman, F. G. Don- ner, was in Australia last week to check on profits, j His "brilliant mind for fig ures put him in the top job," said the Sydney Morning Her ald. No doubt such "brilliant minds" were responsible for "not one cent of American mon ey" being used to produce a so- called Australian car. The truth is Australian mon- -. ey, know how and labor start ed and continue to produce the , Holden! The Federal Government al lows this giant US company to get all the profits. Without this shocking betrayal of Australia, chairman Donner's "brilliant mind" for figures wouldn't be worth a cent. 