 [?] A disagreement with CPA statement | WISH to state my disagreement with the statement of CPA gen eral secretary L. Aarons at a press conference concerning the trial and conviction of two Soviet writers. The role and importance , of writers is fully under stood by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, . writers are a key link in translating progressive or re actionary ideas to a mass audience. Writers must be viewed objectively; the right of a writer to write for or against his government, in his own language, using the national press is a right belonging to e-11 Soviet writers. The right to smuggle out of his native country, and have published under an as sumed name, political mat erial which is used by a foreign hostile class press for the destruction of his native social system, is not a right, but a traitorous act. Writers do not work pro tected by some sort of divine right. If this was so Goeb- bels, propaganda minister in Hitler's fascist govern ment who through his writ ings was responsible for the death of millions of human beings, could have evaded the 'wrath of mankind be cause he used a pen and not a sword. Emotionalism aside — the reality is: (1) the CPSU is forced into a public ideolo gical conflict with the Chin ese Party; this conflict gives the false impression that now is the time for all part ies to show their maturity by publicly criticising some forms of Soviet life; (D The Soviet Union is fprced into a cold war strug-. gle with overtones of mili tary invasion; (3) The US militarists are casting the war net over South East Asia. War. is in the nostrils of the Pentagon leaders. In a world in which the above exists, to call c. press conference and talk of prin ciples, is an actL of petty bourgeois idealism and is to be regretted. The Soviet legal code has been tested in war and peace and is a democratic instru ment which operates in the interests of all Soviet citi zens, and safeguards the se curity of the Soviet State. — Arnold Collins, Sydney. 