 [?] The advertising racket Yankee touch behind the brainwash firms By a Special Correspondent )URING the last five years in Australia the leading advertising agencies have either sold out totally or sold controlling inter ests to United States companies. There is only one exception, that is the firm of US Fubnci- ty-Benson (United Service Publicity) which sold 25% of its interests ostensibly to the British 1 advertising agency Benson. But when one considers that Benson is tied to Ogilvie Benson of New York and David Ogilvie is the pharaoh of American advertising one realises that it is in fact a total sell out to American in terests and attitudes. This is a most serious thing. In Australia advertising has the biggest influence in the field of mass communication. The size and influence of an agency is measured by its an nual billings (value of the ad vertising contracts it handles). In order of rating they would run like this: George Patterson, $17 million a year billings. This company sold out in toto some three years ago to the American firm of Bates. It is now Bates-Patter- son. This is the company that handles General Motors, Lever Bros., and firms of this order. Next comes the Australian owned company, Jackson- Wain. This company has been building up to an American takeover which is now being negotiated but which has not yet taken place. It is the only major agency that is still Aus tralian owned. Rockefeller Next to Jackson-Wain comes McCann Erickson. McCann Erickson began as a kept agency of the Rockefeller Group. Mr. Rockefeller is said to have looked round one day and said: "Why the hell am I paying out all this money for advertising. Why don't I start my own agency?" Which he did. McCann Erickson own in Australia Hansen Rubensohn and the alleged British firm of Pritchard Wood. Between the three compa nies, McCann Erickson prob ably bill as much as Bates Patterson. This American out fit indulges in political cam paigns, and in various types of research information which is useful for the US Central In telligence Agency in Australia. It is probably the most reac tionary, the most dangerous organisation of them all. Its association with the Lockheed Aircraft group alone shows its close ties with the Ameri can militarist influences. Next would come the totally American owned firm, the big gest advertising agency in the world, J. Walter Thompson. J.W.T. would bill between 3rd and 4th of billings in Aus tralia including some of the plum accounts— Coca Cola, Kelloggs and the key food ac counts. Then comes USP Benson (see above) in order of im portance. Next, Foote, Cone & Belding. This agency was ori ginally established as Briggs & James, became Briggs, James, Paramour and Kenny when they amalgamated with a Sydney agency, then sold their entire interest to the American international agency of Foote, Cone and Belding. After them would come a series of companies of indif ferent size: Nixon-Compton, the Compton being an Ameri can Californian agency with a big holding; National Ad vertising Service which has a fair inflow of American cap ital; then Thompson, Ansell & Blunden. It is a long and sordid story. It means in effect that the brainwashing communications influences which affect the thinking of the entire Austra lian community are American owned. You cannot place an advertisement for a major company in Australia on any national medium without do ing it through companies whose policy is controlled by American sources and influ ences. These advertising companies of course have changed the pattern of advertising consi derably. No longer do they merely advertise goods— to day they conduct intensive surveys and opinion studies and research to decide what the community thinks, alle gedly wants, can be induced to buy, suffer or tolerate. Moronic This means that the subt lety of advertising, the subli minal influence on the Aus tralian consciousness, is tre mendous. These agencies now operate on the so-called "tyr anny of the ratings," that is the alleged measure of popul ar support for television or radio programs. Their influence is anti- cultural, quite moronic, utter ly unethical; the emphasis on violence, savagery and stupid ity, on the lowest class of en tertainment, is quite clear and deliberate because these are the programs which they claim have the highest rat ings. The selection of this kind of junk program goes back to the agency who says to the client: "No, don't buy that, it is too high brow, they won't watch that. Put on Tom Mix and they will watch it." This is the way their minds work. Generally speaking, there is an unwritten understanding between the management of the television companies, the advertising agencies and the clients that the object of their advertising support for programs must be to gain the widest possible audience. To gain the widest possible audience you have to put on the least controversial, the least confusing and the least adult programs — violence, bru tality, crime, sadism, low- level humor. Disastrous The long term effect on Australian culture, on the community outlook, on the level of social and political consciousness, and in fact ultimately on our whole national outlook is disas- trous. The pattern of advertising today is an American pattern The old Australian pattern was merely to seek the main sales advantages of the pro duct and highlight it, the so- called unique sales proposi tion. The American pattern is more subtle. It is to research basically into psychological or emotional impulses or impres sions -or attitudes people have and to exploit them. This sort of brain washing, this deliberate and quite cal culated distortion of decent social values and standards of judgment is not a product of the Australian advertising mind; it is certainly a pro duct of the American influ ence on Australian advertis ing. "Look, kids . . chock-full of plastic toys and comic books, no room for cereal!" 