 Political interference charge S.African police activity alleged QANBERRA: A smear campaign against the Liberal Party candidate for Warringa (NSW), Mr. Edward St. John, has resulted in the Deputy Leader of . the Opposition, Mr. E. G. Whitlam, calling for an investigation into the alleged political activity in Australia by the South African Embassy. Calling lor the investiga tion in Federal Parliament last Thursday he said that Mr. St. John believed that South African security police had attempted to interfere with his campaign for party pre-selection. Mr. Whitlam said that he had asked Sir Robert Menzies two years ago whether the Govern ment was acting to deter the Embassy from sending pro- apart.heid letters to Australian newspapers. In the course of Mr. St. John's Liberal Party pre-selec tion campaign a document, circulated in an attempt to damage the candidate, bore every mark of having emanated from the South African secur ity police, Mr. Whitlam said. The letter In a letter published in the "Mosman Daily" (October 12), circulating in the Mosman- Warringa district, Mr. St. John replied to published attacks on him. His letter said: "My interest in South Africa was sparked by a visit to that country in February, 1959, as an official observer at the famous Treason Trial. "I learned then to know the policy of the South African Gov ernment as an evil and unjust policy, which it still is and I believed I had a duty to help its victims with legal aid and material support for their dependants. "It was for that purpose that the South Africa Defence Fund was formed, and it is that pur pose alone which it has serv ed. Of this I am proud . . ." Mr. St. John wrote that the , quarter from which the attacks , on him had come was most significant— Australia's newly discovered "rabid Right", or Right-wing extremists. "They are the' people who support the policy of apar theid and racist views gener ally and the Government of South Africa, which has just chosen as its Prime Minister a man who was interned during 'he second world war for his Nazi sympathies, the people who smear as 'Communist' any person or organisation opposed 10 their views, without a shred of evidence to support them, Ihe anti-Semites, the people who bring nothing but discre dit to the anti-Communist cause. "For those who wish to read more about them and their activities I recommend the book 'Voices of Hate' by K. D. Gott, and the authoritative article in 'Quadrant' of March- April, 1966, entitled 'Australia's Radical Right'." He said the attack had open ed up with a letter to "The Australian" written by Sir Raphael Ciiento, a regular con tributor to the "News Review", whose lecture to the League of Rights Annual Seminar, as pub lished in "News Review", was described by the "Quadrant" article as a "justification of racial inequality and the 're cognition' that the black races must remain the hewers of wood and drawers of water". Cilento's article to "The Aus tralian" contained a repetition of the utterly baseless allega tion (originally made at Liberal Party meetings within the elec torate) that the South Africa Defence and Aid Fund in Aus tralia was "dangerously close to a Communist front organisa tion" and other damaging im putations. "The Australian" published a full withdrawal and apology on its front page the next morning. !— Ill— — IMI— nil— HIMH mil IIIIIBIIIIIIII1IIIIIIHHHIIIIIIII mill ill 