 STATE AID ISSUE IS A CLOAK By a Special Correspondent The hullabaloo kicked up by Labor deputy leader E. G. Whitlam and others about the State Aid issue is seen to be only a means to a political end when it is understood that the Catholic education system is already in a state of crisis far beyond the reach or any forms of State Aid at present envisaged. There are reliable re ports that in the recent period strong1 forces in the Church have been pressing to have it vacate the sec ondary education field entirely, because of the great cost burdens involved today. As the Communist Party forecast as early as 1964 (see "State Aid for Education — a Public Mischief" by W. E. Gollan) the State aid provided by the Federal Government has not assisted the Roman Q&tholic community. Despite the Federal Com monwealth Scholarship scheme, the provision of laboratories and interest-free loans for school buildings, the .position of parents, particularly of the working class, with children at Catholic and private schools, has grown steadily worse. School fees have risen, lay teachers in the Catholic schools are receiving only a pittance as salaries, and the Church is making heavy demands on par ents for free gifts and loans to meet the ever-increasing burden. At the same time the child ren in the poorer private and denominational schools, taught by under-paid teachers, in huge classes, are receiving an inadequate education; whilst those in the schools of the wealthy and privileged are re ceiving Federal handouts on the same basis as the schools attended by workers' children. The Federal Labor Party proposal announced by Mr. A. Calwell and derided by ALP rightwingers, the daily press and sections of- the Catholic hierarchy, is an extension of the child endowment system, traditionally part of Labor Party .policy. The proposition is that all school children should receive an endowment of $1 (10/-) per week or $52 (£26) a year, to assist in the cost of schooling. A family with four children at school would receive in effect an increase in income of $4 per week. Real needs Despite the predictable pro tests from those to whom the Church and privileged private schools are an investment, it is clear that the grant of $52 a. year to all children, both in public and private schools, would mean a real gain for par ents of the lower income groups. In the State education field school teachers and parents' organisations are raising sharp er and sharper demands for increases in the school build ing program to meet urgent needs, for the training of more, teachers and for expensive equipment to meet the require ments of the State schools. If demands continue to in crease for more State aid to private schools in the present form, the esxisting sharp con flict between the two fields will intensify with an accumu lation of social ' division and sectarian bitterness. Mr. Whitlam and the Labor Party rightwing, like the Gov ernment, are following a pol icy of political expediency, supporting what they believe to be a vote-getting issue, but which brings harm rather than benefit to the people by push ing aside the planned expan sion of education. Teachers and parents' organ isations, supported by all of the State Ministers for Education, have pointed to the need for public inquiry into educational needs and a vast program of expansion of public education- based on the massive provi sions of Federal funds. The complex problems of resolving the overall education crisis cannot even be properly studied and. tackled without a high level of unity of the labor movement, and a mini mum of divisions deliberately often cultivated on the basis of sectarian bitterness. Useful proposals, such as that of the ALP leaders for the 10/- for every child, should be calmly and rationally dis cussed, even though in this case the, result could be no more than a reduction of the burden on lower income homes. 