 [?] 4IUNSNUFT — 4 'Sku llduggery ' ' alleged By our Industrial Roundsman SYDNEY: The NSW Teachers' Federation last week strongly condemned the Federal Government for its opposition to an interim increase in margins. This protest followed last week s submissions bv the Com- monwealth Government to the Arbitration Commission, at pre sent hearing the unions' claim for a $2.30 interim increase in margins. Counsel for the Government said the Commission should not deal with the unions' applica tion at this stage, submitting that "if "granted, pri'fies would' "certainly rise again". Anti-social The Teachers' Federation said the argument that wage increases must inevitably pro duce price increases and that wage increases must be resisted in order to produce price sta bility, flowed directly from anti social and anti-worker philo sophies by which- no govern ment should be guided. "Through their attack on wages the Commonwealth Gov ernment has again stated that the economy should be regu lated through the control of wages. "This action of the Govern ment should be compared with its continued reluctance to use its existing .power and power which could be acquired with State collaboration to curb re strictive trade practices, con trol profits and fix prices," the Federation said. The Federation also asked the NSW Labor Council to pro test against the Government's attitude arid to demand that workers receive an adequate living wage which contains a fair share of the increased pro ductivity. The Labor Council was asked to press for the introduction of Federal and State price control. For their efforts the teach ers were told by Council secre tary and ACTU senior vice-pre sident Mr. J. Kenny "that this was already ACTU and Labor Council policy." Mr. J. Heffernan, Sheet Metal Workers' Federal secretary and secretary of the Metal Trades Federation of unions, told Council that the trade union movement has not given enough publicity to this matter. H,e strongly attacked the "skullduggery of the Arbitration Commission and Government in having the margins case post poned until after the Federal elections". "The aim of this move was to hide from the workers the Government's intention to op pose increased margins", he said. i Concern . Workers and unions have ex pressed growing concern at the failure of the ACTU leaders to develop a vigorous campaign on wages. As the recent Building Work ers' Industrial Union's Federal conference said: "What workers want from the AcTU leadership is action, not talk!" Three weeks ago the Metal Trades Federation, represent ing 250000 metal workers, at tacked the postponement of the margins case and called on the ACTU to initiate a national campaign to include lunch-time meetings and protest stoppages. The Amalgamated Engineer- ing Union's Commonwealth Council also asked the ACTU to call a 24-hour stoppage of metal workers. Earlier, the ACTU executive had rejected by 11 votes to two a proposal for a special ACTU Congress to discuss wages and prices. This proposal was made at an ACTU-sponsored conference of Federal union officials in Syd ney on October 11. The paltry $2 basic wage in crease granted last July fol lowing months of argument, was less than half the amount claimed and did not even com pensate the workers for the price increases since the 1964 wa.ge increases. Nor did it give the workers any share of the increased pro ductivity. It has, however, already been swallowed by increased taxa tion and charges in Govern ment budgets and by price in creases. 