 STEEL LAG ADDS TO j CRACKS IN ECONOMY! By a Finance Writer J LAST week's poor report by the Australian iron and steel j monopoly, Broken Hill Pty. Ltd., is the latest of a series of j cracks appearing in Australia's economy. j BHP reported falling demand for its steel products and increased com- ! petition from overseas producers, particularly Japan. 1 The big families behind BHP are objecting because their pockets are being hit by the Liberal Government's non-existent economic policy. The current crisis of over production in the motor car industry has cut down the demand for steel products. This is not the only sign the Australian economy is headed for trouble. Other major signs include the current crop of company failures and profit slumps, headed by the H. G. Palirier fiasco, and the continuing slump in the housing industry. Housing slump The slump in housing has already badly dented the profits of BHP off-shoot, John Lysaght. Unless housing demand in creases soon John Lysaght and BHP will probably start laying off thousands of men. General Motors - H o 1 d e n s stood down workers last year when it first felt the pangs of overproduction. Other car manufacturers recently an nounced that they did not intend to employ any more workers. The motor and steel indus tries are Australia's largest employers. Any major slump in either will create a chain reaction leading to a complete economic collapse. This perhaps explains why Australian industrialists have suddenly become concerned with jumping on the Vietnam bandwaggon. Many see the continuing struggle in Vietnam as their economic salvation, a diversion for their overproduction. Therefore don't be surprised to see an accelerated Australian j involvement in Vietnam as the j economic troubles at home j multiply. | Many capitalist economists I are blaming the drought as the j main cause of industrial pro- j duction falling and nagging j unemployment, particularly in j Queensland. ! However, both were evident | long before people began I talking drought. j The increasing industrial 9 decline is also allowing over- 1 seas interests to increase their s stranglehold of Australian I manufacturing and mining industries, on the cheap. US takeovers The current low market price of Australian industrial shares is permitting US in terests in particular to make j bargain takeovers- of whole | sections of Australian manu- 1 facturing industry. I Most recent blatant examples I of this have been in the fer- I tiliser industry with the Cresco | and current Amalgamated ! Chemicals takeovers, and in I the aluminium industry, where | Alcoa is grabbing control of j the local aluminium building I supplies market. | Scarceness of local finance j capital is also allowing the | rich overseas combines to get | control of our mineral and oil I and gas resources. 