 ' Criminal neglect I of education in NG (By Jim Cooper) Only one per cent ©f adults in Papua-New Guinea receive a full primary .education and less than a hundred have completed a full secondary course, according to a World | Bank report on the economic development j of the Territory. f| "CURTHER enrolment in the upper forms of secondary schools is still so small that it will be at least 10 years before the Territory can count on any substantial numbers of young indigenes with a full secondary or university education", the report says. The Bank Report is referring to a country administered in one way or another by Australia for the past 80 years, and where Australian mono polies amass vast fortunes from the exploitation of the natural resources and the people. The isolation of New Guinea from the rest of the world prevented the people from participating in world trade and gaining knowledge of crops that could be grown for export. Obvious For a rapid advancement of the people the obvious requirement was and still is education; the adult population needs at least to be able to read and write. For rapid expansion of production it is essential that the adult popu lation be shown that their best interests will be served by engaging in farming for the market. It is true that some advances have been made in cash-cropping by practical demonstration and those who have had the opportunity of contact with the new methods have accepted the challenge and are now making a marked contri bution to the economy. Extension would be greater if, alongside agricultural demonstrations, the people could read of experiences and problems of others working in the same field. A campaign for literacy to achieve results should be developed in the people's languages. In the process they will learn the need for a common language, and this could be English. It will be argued that it is impos- sible to produce educational material i, in all the 500 New Guinea languages, J hut this has been answered by Pro- fessor Wurm of the Australian Na tional University, whose investigations have proved that a large number of || the languages are dialects of the . \ parent language, and this is under- V stood by most of the aaeople. % In Dr. Wurm's view education could be carried out in not more than 20 .:;fy languages. "The Australian" editorial (January m 10) is notable for the fact that no- 0 where is reference made to the use ''% of a New Guinea language as the -i language of the Territory. Typical of colonialists everywhere, 4 they see the solution of the language 5 problem in terms only of their own language, and this is in defiance of academic research and advice. t Dr. Capell, Emeritus Professor of Languages, Sydney University, in a lecture some years ago said: "There is no substitute for the mother tongue." This applies with equal force in New Guinea as in Europe, where campaigns to eliminate the j mother tongue ended in futility. ) All experts in this field seem to be a in agreement that English is a dif- ficult language for the New Guinea people and Dr. Wurm, of the Aus tralian National University, has pro posed that, education be conducted in a number of New Guinea languages : with English as a second language. i The present policy of schooling in n English is not based on a general advance of New Guinean literacy, but for the production of an elite, separ ated by language and outlook from the rest of the New Guineans. The proposal of using Pidgin, atti- buted to Mr. H. R. Niall, Speaker of the House of Assembly, is perhaps best answered in the words of writer Colin Simpson — "Pidgin is a caste language, a lingo for . lesser breeds. Inferiority made half literate." : The cheapest proposition for Aus tralia is to rapidly develop the New '\ Guinean people to literacy and im proved living standards, and this is | what Australia contracted to do when entering into the Trusteeship Agree- IjB ment with the United Nations. i 