 The economy: has it reached saturation point? By ALF WATT USTRALIA'S econom ic growth has ex ceeded all the expecta tions of 20 years ago. Last year alone a record $1747 millions was invested by private business in build ings, structures, machinery and other capital equipment, making a total for the past five years of $6387 million. Some big business and Gov ernment spokesmen liken the present stage to the year 1928, which closed with the U.S. President, Calvin Coolidge and U.S. business tycoons prophesying everlasting pros perity. "The country can re gard the present with satis faction and anticipate the future with optimism," Cool idge told Congress then. They should give some thought to the ominous build up of unsold stocks that fin ancial writers admit have be come a depressive burden on the economy. In only one of the past five years have the statisticians returns on the movement in the value of stocks shown a decrease. That was in 1961-62, when there was widespread unemployment. In the suc ceeding four years unsold stocks increased by $1242 mil lion, or nearly half as much as the net increase of $2520 of the last 10 years. Figures for the total amount of stocks on hand are not available from the Common wealth Statistician, but the Commissioner of Taxation issues figures compiled from taxation returns. These show that, in 1963, only ten years after consum ers were plagued with short ages of many lines, business had stocks on hand priced at over $4,000 million. Since then, if we take a line from the Statisticians' reports, they will have increased by an other $1000 million. In part these are necessary reserve stocks for production. But in another part, how big we cannot say, they represent a disease as old as capitalism itself. This disease, it is now claimed, can be stopped from becoming an' epidemic of un employment and small busi ness bankruptcy, by govern ments applying a brake here and a stimulus there. It would appear, however, that a far greater stimulus than has so far been given is needed to check the rapid build up of unsold stocks, especially as new factories will now begin to swell the volume of goods available. "Pacemaker of a Nation" is how starry-eyed headline writ ers have described the motor industpr, but it is labouring along in second gear. It might have been expect ed that, with civilian employ ment greater by some quarter of a million in 1965-66 than two years before, and with what the Statistician calls "personal disposable income" greater by some $1,500 mil lion, the demand for motor vehicles would have risen in proportion. But in fact the sum spent on their purchase was $18 million less, or $71 million less if we compare it with the peak expenditure year of 1964-65. The motor companies blame the government for a budget that didn't stimulate the mar ket, and the government, in the person of Interior Min ister Barnes, blames the companies for over-estimat ing the market. Orgy There is some truth in both recriminations, though how the government can produce a stimulative budget and also finance a capitalist motivated war program, or how young marrieds can with facility find the money for a new car and a home, has not been ex plained. There is more truth in the fact that the industry vhas in dulged in a government en couraged orgy of expansion costing nearly $300 million in recent years, and the car market, to put it mildly, is reaching saturation point. Related industries also, all got themselves an expansion ist hot rod. The oil oligarchs, for instance, built a retail outlet for every 150 cars or less, so that if each car visits a service station twice a week, the average will serve only 40 cars a day in a seven day week. The tyre makers can pro duce one quarter more tyres than they are selling and . Goodyears, nevertheless, will open a new $10 million plant next year, and Firestone Rub ber, the biggest tyre manufac turer in the world, is seeking an opening for production here. When will saturation point be reached? M. K. Prowse, a recognised and former gov ernment expert, believes it will be when the motor pop ulation has increased from the present one vehicle per 2.9 people to one per 2.4, and that, he believes, will be in 1970. After that point, the market will be in replace ments and the needs of new population, and sales will fall by some hundreds of thou sand a year. Time alone will tell whe ther his definition of the brink is over-optimistic or not, but what will happen to the nation when its pacemak er goes into low gear? Marx, that "outdated ob solete fellow," had his own comment to make on this kind of thing. "... the pov erty and restriction in con sumption of the masses as compared to the impulse of capitalist production to devel op the productive forces as if only the absolute power of consumption were their limit "was one of the causes of economic crises, he said. The electrical appliances was, in its heyday, a glamor game. Today, according to one estimate, it can cater for a market of 100 million, eight times the population of Aus tralia. The same source fore cast imminent closure of several plants and rationalisa- tion of the industry. It seems we build in order to pull down again. Parlous The woollen textile indus try has, according to P. A. Management Consultants, a capacity about 50 per cent above market demands. The position of many mills is parlous, and one, a. well established Victorian country mill, has actually been ad vertising for someone to take it over. The petro-chemical indus try, synthetic rubber, alumin ium, fertilizer and even Broken Hill Pty. Ltd., who for years were able to keep the market short supplied, all face the same dilemma, mounting over production and a shrinking market. This economic law applies in the same manner to the manufacture of nearly all other commodities from car pets to paint and biscuits to boots. Mr. McEwen, Minister for Trade has warned us that we will have to double our ex ports by 1975, and on a fierce ly competitive and over sup plied world market. These problems, of unsold goods, excess capacity, inter national balances, community services, and yes, of war, call for attention. So does their cause. And until we can be rid of that sacred cow, we should yard it into a small but strong stock yard where every one of its activities can be tightly con trolled. WORKERS LEAVING HOLDEN PLANT AT PAGEWOOD, SYDNEY What's good for General Motors . . . 