 Protests needed on jailina of artist By H. McClintock -|-HE savage sentence of three months hard labor passed last week in Syd ney on artist Michael Gordon Brown for having "delivered indecent paintings to Gallery A for exhibition" is another in a long series of official acts of repression. Not having seen the paintings j,n question, I cannot comment either on the moral or artistic merit of the offending works. But the general principle in volved is of extreme import ance. The fact that the police un dertook a prosecution and the severe sentence imposed on the painter need to he closely examined and should be the subject of protest. Previously pictures which have been complained of, have simply been removed from gal lery walls by the police, and no further action has been taken. In other cases publishers and gallery proprietors have been prosecuted, as in the famous case in London arising from an exhibition of paintings by D. H. Lawrence in 1929. Merit Seventeen paintings were re moved from this exhibition by the police and Phillip Trotter and his wife, managers of the exhibition, were summoned be fore the court "to show cause" why these paintings and a book of reproductions should not be destroyed. It is interesting to note that the reasoning of the Sydney magistrate in holding that artis- tic merit in such cases is be side the point closely parallels the London magistrate's view in the Lawrence case, when he refused to hear such dis tinguished artists as William Orpen and Augustus John on this point on the grounds that "it is utterly immaterial wVioflior f Vto inainfiriore a rn works of art. That is a col lateral question I am not ask ed to decide. The most splen didly painted picture in the universe might be obscene." It is an historical fact that what could well be the most splendidly painted picture in the universe — Michel Angelo's huge fresco in the Sistine chapel — has suffered from this prudish indifference to artis tic values. This colossal i masterpiece has been sadly mutilated by the work of a number of mediocre painters employed to paint drapes over offending parts of the hundreds of naked figures that make up the com position. This is all the more emphatic, when it is considered that obscene, immoral and pervert ed mass-produced pictures and publications can be readily purchased from any book stall. It is hoped that some organ ised protest will result from the jailing of this artist as, if officialdom takes no note of artistic merit, then action could be taken against work other than that which can be described, by such vague terms as indecent or obscene. 