 Hill S Fala MMHU wrU STRONG thread in Prime Minister Holt's policy speech broadcast last week was the claim that his Government's foreign and home policies were best for the national interest. Tribune on this page comments on some of Holt's more notably hypocritical and im moral statements. It is significant that — for the first time over a long period — he avoided laying stress on the importance of the "United States alliance", which he had emphasised so much during President Johnson's visit. Observers have already concluded that Liberal Party advisers felt this theme had been overdone and was provoking some reaction among the growing sections con cerned to see a policy in Australia's own interests. At his Brisbane meeting on the following night, Mr. Holt made a very important admission that throws light on the above quotation. This time he said that the present $1,000 million mititary budget would be built on "as occasion required." This should be seen in context of the statement early this year in the London press by ex-PM Sir Robert Menzies that Australia would over the next 20 years be come increasingly involved in military ex penditure and in South East Asia. On the basis of these statements and one made in Army Secretary Bruce White's recent Canberra lecture that the American and allied forces in Vietnam would have to be doubled to finish the job, it is con sidered that the Holt Government, if re elected, would build "Australia's future" on:— v Expanding the Vietnam force from 4,500 to nearly 10,000, with a greatly in creased conscript proportion. Extending the conscription age group ing. "Dor national policies look to Australia's future" — Holt Consequently increasing the military budget, possibly in a supplementary budget to be announced early in 1967. Further curtailing expenditure on the expanding needs of health, education and other needs of the working people, as well as national development. These facts, combined with the extremely general and cursory "program" for national development announced last week by Mr. Holt show clearly enough the reality of what he means by Australia's future. Two statements in Holt's policy speech came to the essence of the Government's real anti-national policy on the exploitation of Australian resources:— ( 1 ) New arrangements and facilities for provision of capital for the exploitation of resources which need more capital than Australian companies can marshal." (2) The provision of money for beef roads "would promote the development of our northern areas greatly." That is to say, in place of Australian public investment in the genuine develop ment of resources there is to be extension of the present policy already condemned by the Country Party Leader (Mr. McEwen) as "selling Australia piece by piece." The beef roads reference is impressive until it is realised that some 40 of the largest beef cattle holdings are owned and controlled by overseas capital. The oversea interests, usually operat ing through Australian-registered subsidiaries, include: Vestey, 6 NT holdings totalling 1 5,054 square miles plus 7 WA holdings; Scottish Australian Co., 3| NT holdings totalling 4,043 square miles plus 3 Qld. holdings; Australian Agricultural Co., 5 NT holdings totalling 10,909 square miles plus 4 in Qld and one in WA. These are all British owned. Tha American King Ranch runs Brunette Downs in the NT, 4,730 square miles. The beef roads project is to serve these and big Australian owned holdings. The same Government refuses to concede the demands of the Aboriginal workers on whom beef production really depends for immediate equal pay. "The friends and allies of free Asia . . . have strength and staying power to defend the right of , every people to choose their own social and econ- I N correspondent on the spot said it was to help the 1 villagers of Hoa Long, a mile from the Australian f South Vietnam headquarters, "choose their own social and | economic order" that they were raided on October 31 last. The trouble was, it seemed, that they had already made their choice — the wrong one, from "our" viewpoint. They spat on the ground when our troops went by, said the Sydney Daily Mirror man. To help them choose better, 1,500 (all the able-bodied adults) were taken away by the Australian troops for ques tioning. This revealed that some 40 had "chosen" to be Viet- cong" and another 40 had "chosen" to desert from the Saigon puppet army. Presumably they were handed over to the puppet forces (as is routine) whose torturers may persuade them to choose more wisely in future. Later the Australians were reported to have "arrested a whole village" and, later still, to have "captured a South Vietnamese island" whose people had to be helped to choose, not "their own social and economic order", but the order that Mr. Holt had chosen for them. These villages and islands are not exceptional, but typic al, as Time magazine admits. "The Viet cong's control of the villages, where four out of five Vietnamese live, has hardly been touched" wrote Time on November 11. "If anything, say US observers, the local Red cadre of headmen, police tax collectors and schoolteachers may be stronger than ever. "Both the US and South Vietnamese troops will put 50 per cent of their numbers next year into guaranteeing security for areas wrested from the enemy" says Time. So even when "the enemy has gone the US-Saigon troops (or half of them) must stop — for fear the people still make the free "choice" that Mr. Holt says he wants to uphold but in practice uses every form of force and terror to deny. "We have sough above all things to keep «wr country at peace , . « We seek a peaceful settlement ' of 1 the conflict through negotiation"— -Holt. " "MOT one commentator of repute says that the US is doing anything but plan further heavy escalation of the war. The New York Times reported early this month that the | generals were already "drafting blueprints for another signif- j icant escalation of the bombing of North Vietnam." The focus of the new assaults would be targets "particularly in the vicinity of Hanoi" I Added point was given to the threat of further escalation by the announcement that US planes had swept low over the Hanoi rooftops to drop more than a million leaflets. ! The new escalation was intended, said a Pentagon official, to "increase pressure on the Vietnamese leaders" and to remind them that "the quotient of pain will continue to rise." Specific targets have already been announced. They include j the Thainguyen steel plant about 40 miles north of Hanoi, power plants and what the Americans call "defence industry broadly defined". ; This phrase covers any factory, however small, and what- | ever it makes. Pentagon officials admitted that air attacks so far have failed to halt North Vietnam's defence or the activity of South Vietnam's national Liberation front forces. One officer complained "We devote a lot of effort to sever ing a rail line and then, a day or two later, come back to find it repaired. "The railroad tracks come from the Thainguyen plant along with the bridge repair sections." The same official also complained that "regular replenish ment from Soviet tankers" had built up North Vietnam's decentralised reserves and thus nullified the effects of US raids on oil installations. Soviet tankers were moving right into Haiphong harbor and unloading their oil into Vietnamese lighters, which moved to shore under cover of darkness. In Saigon a US spokesman admitted heavy fighting in Tay Ninh, 60 miles from Saigon. This is in the famous "War Zone" which the US claimed to have wiped out some time ago. Time magazine in its latest issue, admitting that the Vietnamese, north and south are nowhere near defeat or capitulation, confirms that the US will "bring a variety of fresh pressures" to hear on North Vietnam. "The Pentagon is pressing for— and is likely to get after the elections— presidential authority to expand the list of targets for air raids around Hanoi, adding new power plants, rail road junctions and freight yards and defence factories "American troops are likely to move into action in the Delta hitherto the province of the South Vietnamese army, where scant progress has been made and where live half the nation's people." Not a word in any of this about Mr. Holt's "search for a peaceful settlement". On the contrary while escalation con tinues peace is ruled out since the Vietnamese have stated they will never discuss peace while they are being attacked and invaded. 1 "Think otf the consequence . of abandoning our. I objectives"— Holt. ' I 'pHE people of the twin villages of Lien Hoi I and Lien I Hoi II Binh Dinh province, South Vietnam— or such f as still survive— are probably working and hoping for Mr. Holt to "abandon" them so that they can rebuild their destroyed villages. j These villages were burned to the ground by US marines on September 14 last, the deed being recorded by a US National Broadcasting Company cameraman and an Am erican United Press International journalist. On September 16 the US command spokesman in Saigon admitted what had been done. "These two villages were a danger for the First Air Oav. Our troops burned them down so the enemy may no longer use them". Similarly "abandoned" by Mr. Holt and his friends the South Vietnamese who once lived in Phuong Dinh village, burned down by the Americans last March, could start life anew. "Abandoned" by the 173rd US Brigade, the South Viet namese who once lived on the fertile plain south of the Vam Co Dong river could know peace and security again. This plain, reported American Associated press on Jan uary 6 last, was the main target of the 173rd Brigade para troops' scorched earth tactics when they landed there. No house was left standing within a two-mile radius of their camp. The troops burnt everything in their way. The same will apply to the people of countless other villages destroyed by the US forces on the pretext that they harbored "Vietcong". The consequences of "abandoning" such activities are not as hard to "think of" as Mr. Holt suggests. What is. hard to think about is the consequences of continuing them— to ourselves as well as the Vietnamese. "Our political creed pieces the highest value upon human personality . . . there is the desire of " free ; people to win a better way of like , . . the support : , we are giving is providing a shield behind which / ' ' ' a new Asia can emerge"— Holt. '' QARE for the "personalities" of the Vietnamese has not been conspicuous among US aircraft recently attacking north Vietnamese dykes and irrigation works, attempting thus to starve or drown the people. A statement by the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (north) Water Conservation Ministry in September said that US air craft had been repeatedly attacking the important dyke sections of the Red River and Thai Binh river. Their aim was to cause inundation, sabotage production and threaten the lives of millions. When the rivers began to swell, in late August and early September, US aircraft stepped up their round-the-clock attacks. On August 25 and 26, when the Ma River waters were mount ing, the US imperialists launched many air raids on two sections of the dykes holding it. On September 7 the US forces Mr. Holt says are providing a shield behind which Asia can emerge bombed another Ma River dyke, destroying many houses and killing and wounding r. number of civilians. After listing another series of raids on various dyke and irrigation projects, with particulars as to time and place, the DRV statement sums it up: "Theso savage raids by US aircraft on the dyke systems and hydraulic works of the DRV in the flood season once again lay bare the barbarous and aggressive character of the imperialists". 