 Anyone for the Kissing-hooth? A P. Be C. Committee Member laments the money-raising morass bogging doxun par ents' organisations in their efforts to give today's youngsters .the accessories of a decent education. "|T has been agreed that we shall hold a School Fete" said the chairman of our Parents' and Citizens As sociation. "We now have to elect a committee. Any nom inations . . . volunteers?" His tone, while inviting, did not suggest too much expectation that a fierce competition for positions on this power-laden committee would result. Nor did it. Mr. Smith said sor ry. Mr. Jones said he was too busy. Mr. Robinson, was going on a business trip to another state. Mr. Brown, his efforts to hide proving vain, said "Yes" in a strangled sob that showed only Loo plainly that his heart was not in it. He would be a fete commit tee "National Serviceman". Of course our fete will succeed despite the foot-dragging males. As everyone knows, they are need ed chiefly as a facade for the tire less cadres of the Ladies Auxiliary, who will do the main work as usual. Not that the males will escape. Tears, sweat and blood in plenty (if the dart-throwers get too wild) will be demanded of them on the uay libeu. rout, a usuier wj.ii uure to wag it from the Fete, nor— seriously — would they want to. They, too know what it means. Without the funds to be raised, our children's teachers will go seriously short of much-needed equipment. We hear about this every monthly meeting. with every other P and C in the land, our money- making demands on the par ents oscillate between the cold bite and soft sell. The last bite (a letter from our secretary which narrowly evaded the ambit of the law about de- , manding money with menaces) flopped. So once again the pendulum swings towards the fete and once more the chariot of Enlightenment will be drawn in this area by Mr. Brough ton's Hot Dogs and Mrs. Buckingham's White Elephants. (Or rather they would be if Mr. Broughton, in a powerful speech to the committee, had not proved, on the basis of an economic in quiry into the industry, that due to changes relating to the higher component of constant capital, (see Marx, Volume III) he had been toiling all day at our fetes for a constantly declining rate of profit — a bare twopence per dog, in fact. In terms of effort his Gogs were mastiffs — in yield, chihuahuas.) But the White Elephants still carry gold in their tusks. This is , a stall which preys on the popul ace's perversion. Mr. Johnson, of our committee, hurled out, for the last council clean-up some ancient, :nuoldering, rootless cactus plants. Inspiring in him nothing but revulsion, they were instantly snapped up by some prowling devotee of their amazing cult, who will get his next consignment, for hard money, from our White Ele phant stall. Then there will be a Pick a Box Stall, a Garden stall, cakes, sweets, hoop-la, a Kissing Booth. "Any more helpers needed for the Kissing Booth?" our non-glam- crous, rather serious-minded chair man asked at our last meeting as, with furrowed brow, he pored over the stalls list. The Headma 's guffaw, rapid ly becoming, eral, made him belatedly and- shingly aware of the nature of service he could appear to be:i :ing. \yi a plsinger to open it, wil narching girls, darts, fairy oss and fizzy drinks our i will succeed. But as in n P. and C.s there is a rumble evolt. More and more the cry, ;s: "The Govern ment should® , We already pay taxes— why doj||still have to pay for essential dement?" " ; Nor has stMfaid- to-- private schools bh'eJfbMld. The word has passecatfie local St. Trin- ian's, wheell girl is a semi- millionaireMJhter, got $48,000 from the G«i|f|ent for a science iaboratory-ttippassed the hat around to m|$78,000, without trouble, for a®i new assembly hall (no needfldogs, elephants, kisses or fflojE|d cacti). The Goveriffit has us in a cleft stick— ei'lgtoil as we do, or see the child o without. But novj, ui he murk of this situation, step a angel of light and wisdom! I not in saffron but in the s -hued Cremorne Girls' High Si 1 uniform. Young Newt ;st's letter in the daily press to eek had a sensa tional impact This school- northside folk tell me-ws > 'prestige" school when selectivity reigned uncheck ed. Children wept (and their par ents stormed) when not allowed in. Why? — Neroii asked, in effect. We're being taught in the stair well and will soon move into the hatroom. Soon we'll be out under the trees. Three dailies Look up Neroli's complaint. Results were rapid: Education minister Cutler rushed to promise -a New Deal in build ings for Cremorne GHS. Ashfield Boys' High teachers marched out in a body into the press in Neroli's train, to tell of their own school's worries. The minister, they probably thought, . could scarcely cane them for something that had just got top marks for a pupil. S the campaign rolls on. Somewhere along the route someone will surely raise the basic question: "Why not spend money building in Australia instead of burning in Vietnam?" And all because a youngster, like the fairly-tale child, spoke up where her elders were muzzled, to say that the departmental King r« n lrrtd Wuij HQIVvUt Rubbish, . that king replies. The reforms were already scheduled. In another year or so— by 1968 at least— I will have my pants on. The headmistress spoke to Neroii because the aim is to educate girls into "level-headed women". Before the departmental concept of the level-headed woman the P and C movement will always bow with sincere respect. But it will also, I think, give an occasional cheer for the hot-headed woman, . the Joan of Arc type, who can sometime move mountains imper vious to her quieter sister. > Neroii, I love you. Let but the rumor spread that you will be in our Kissing Booth on the big day and the queue will stretch for miles. Jostling for positions, along with teachers and pupils will be the legion of bone-weary, shin-sore workhorses of the P and Cs, tired of their toil but afraid to drop it least the children suffer, and there fore eagerly looking round for new solutions whose relevance will become ever more pressingly ob vious. All characters — except N:roli Best — are purely fictitious.) 