 [?] | PINCHED myself, rubbed my eyes and drank two big cups of the Ensemble Theatre's excellent coffee, but it was a struggle with the sandman right through The Apple Cart, which opened last week for a six- week season. It may have been the warm, cosy roof radiators, or the com fortable seats or the soothing voice of Rhoderlck Walker as the unflappable King Magnus. But I think it was just George Bernard Shaw who, as he passed the 70 mark, tended to get more prolix. For a 90th birthday present somebody suggested a blue pencil. Shaw always tended as Phillip Guedalla remarked, to see his audience spread out there in front of him, ready to be lectured to. The intervention of his char acters became more and more of a formality. ! His skill consists in making his plays grip despite this. In The Apple Cart, he puts this skill to the severest test. Apart from the sprightly second act. which is a love-scene between Magnus and Orinthia (Judith Fisher) it is all talk and no action. In coping with it the Ensemble cast also had to cope with the problems of a' "theatre-in-the round". The actor has to try to face all ways at once or else talk through the back of his neck to the people behind him. Only a company as skilled as this one could have succeeded as well as it did, in these circum stances, in keeping the majority of the audience keenly awake and interested. Mr. Walker, who was also the producer, might perhaps have done even better if he had brought out more clearly some of the more serious points that (Shaw did in fact make. The speech by the Power Mis tress General, Lysistrata (Pam ela Greenfield) indicting Break ages Limited, the monopoly con cern that buys up and suppresses inventions, is not meant to be funny, But as delivered, it raised smiles. The producer seemed to make of Lysistrata a sort of caricature of the developed "career-women" who is "married to her depart ment". That, too, could scarcely have been what Shaw wanted. As it was, nobody really cared much whether the Apple Cart was upset or not. Arriving to announce that the US had retracted the 1776 Dec laration of Independence and the intriguing consequences flowing therefrom, the American Ambas sador, played with distinction by Peter Wagner, seemed to be in troducing q, needed new topic. Sydney ought to see more of Shaw. The New Theatre's recent Androcles springs to mind. Let the highly-talented Ensemble company put on, say, The Devil's Disciple, or Candida or Major Barbara. Its coffee service would then be a luxury and not a nec essity even to the minority who had such urgent recourse to it during The Apple Cart. W.A.W. 