 AFRICA WANTS FORCE: RHODESIA SPLITS THE CLUB ! By the Foreign Editor REFUSAL of the Wilson and other "white" Governments of the British Commonwealth to contemplate force against the Rhodesian racialists (while strongly backing it against Vietnam) threatened this week to split the British Commonwealth. v i As the 23 Commonwealth countries prepared for their conference in London it became known that Australian Prime Minister Harold Holt was once again lining his country up with the white minority against the African majority. This, following Judge Percy Spender's ruling in the South West Africa case, will further compromise Aus tralia's reputation in Africa. As the conference opened it became plain that two "white" governments — Australia and New Zealand— with the possible addition of Malawi, were the only ones among 23 likely to join Wilson in trying to dodge a showdown on Rhodesia. And nobody will believe that in Holt's case, at least, the motive is a reluctance to "use force" — when Holt loses no' opportunity to pledge aid in the use of force against Vietnam. With Holt , in London is External Minister Hasluck, author of the famous declaration that there was "no present alternative to force"— in Asia. Why not use it in Africa when faced with the arrogance and brutality of the white racist regime in Rhodesia, the Africans will ask Hasluck and Holt. SANCTIONS The conference will have before it the report of the Com monwealth Sanctions Committee ' that the present level of Sanctions wiir not overthrow Smith. ' And' if Holt and company --shrink, from, force against Smithy Smith is not shrinking 'from using it against the Africans but is resorting to it even more. On the eve of the Commonwealth conference he published draft, amendments to the already illegal Rhodesian. consti tution giving himself roughly the same rights to jail Africans without trial as racist premier Verwoerd is already operating in South Africa. Officially to apply to all, there is no doubt that the African resistance movement is the main target. "Reports that the Smith regime will take powers to impose a ' still "tighter dictatorship on the country ' are\ a new proof of the need for a change in Britain's policy" comments the London Morning Star. "The limited economic sanctions have not brought down the regime. Smith has been encouraged by the talks which have been held, between his representatives and those of Britain. "FTA hflR rpanf.PrJ Vm plomn. 