 V ' " &lt; . - > ' ' J 's - N- , vf A v v %-> I-! \ r>-"5 w r >&lt; . . ST- ' 1 „ ' .? ) " TWO SHADES OF THE COLOUR QUESTtOtf 1. TerK the Land SlIiLe Free pjN Labor Day, Monday evening, September 2, 1957, the six officers -of the Cyclops chapter of the jCu Klux Klan met at Mabry s home in Birming ham, Alabama. They were Joe Pritchett, Bart Floyd, Grover McCullough, Wil liam Miller, John Griffin and Mabry. A' Klan chapter's officers often have titles .like the Army: the presiding officer of Cyclops is a major; under him are cap tains and lieutenants, their number depending on the size of the chapter. The business at Mabry's home was this: the chapter had no "captain of the lair." Bart Floyd wanted to -be captain. He told the others he thought he could qualify/ He said he was ready to prove himself worthy of being captain of the lair. What did Floyd mean by "proving himself"? He meant he was willing to "get nigger blood on his hands." He was ready to show his fellow officers that not only could he put on his robe and hood and "scare a nigger," but that he was capable of "cutting (cas trating) a nigger." . They drove off about 8.30 : P-m. 'Average" Look at those six men. They thought of themselves as "average Americans." They thought they were a little superior because they were Klan officers. They were also members of the "country club Klan"— Citizens' Council. All were members of Protestant churches; all said they believed in God. All had grade-school educations and could read and. write. Two were high school graduates. The first stop was at a drug store, where Floyd bought, a package of razor blades and a bottle of turpentine. . They xdrove farther . and spotted a Negro couple walking along a country road. The man was Edward Aaron, thirty-four a quiet, slender, peaceable citizen, five foot nine, 148 pounds. He had been born in Barbour County, Alabama; during the war he had served honorably with the Army's Quarter-master Corps in Eng land and in the Philippines. He was barely literate. He was about the least combative Negro male the Klansmen could have found. Floyd said: "We'll grab him and chase her off." ,, The cars stopped, and before the Negroes could suspect danger the Klansmen leaped on Aaron and threw him into the back of Floyd's car. Aaron said: "Whatya want with me? I ain't done nothing!" Floyd answered by slugging him with a pjsto1, then sitting on him while Mabry drove Floyd's car about six miles to the lair, i j116 ar Klansmen un- the d00r and lighted in Then they brought knJ u-mgeer" None of them knew him or had ever seen him. ariS dn't his name. They or yoiThi b?1 only as nigger on no black sonofabitch. Not 2S« a"0W Um' to a re'd'TX as CyolI,s' Put on hod adorned with gold. Aaron, kneeling in the dirt and lamplight, knew he was helpless. He didn't even have a pocket knife. There were no houses nearby: he could scream his head off and no one would hear. '"Do you know me, nigger?" Pritchett asked. "Naw, suh," Aaron replied. "I ain't never seen- yuh." Pritchett kicked him hard in the eye. For half an hour the group baited their helpless victim.. With curses, kicks -and four- letter filth they "interrogated the nigger." Pritchett finally halted the baiting with a "judgment." Pritchett turned to Floyd and snapped: "Do your duty!" Slugged x- xcajucL ao x&euuii- aiiu slugged him with the pistol. He didn't knock him uncon scious, but he partially dazed him. The others grabbed Aaron, made him pull off his pants and shorts, and spreadeagled him in the dirt. Floyd jumped between his legs and with a razor blade severed the entire scrotum. Pritchett imperiously held forth a paper cup and Floyd dropped the testicles into it. Then Floyd doused his squirming; bleeding victim with the turpentine. Pritchett passed the cup of "evidence" to each of the lieutenants, and each nodded agreement that Bart Floyd was now worthy to become captain of the lair. One lieutenant proved himself 'unworthy: Miller sickened and vomited. They dressed Aaron, tossed him into a car trunk, drove about eight miles and threw him out on the side of a road. I AST week world opinion was outraged by the callous and premeditated shooting— in full view of nearby State troopers and FBI agents— of famous Negro-rights leader James Meredith, the man whose courageous campaign for the right to enrol In the previous all-white "Old Miss" University in 1963 spot lighted the struggle of US Negroes for elementary human equality. The attack on Meredith, who was on the first 30 miles of a 320-mile Freedom March- through the Deep South, is an act that has grown out of the organised race brutality and terrorism epitomised in the operations of the Ku Klux Klan. Much worse barbarisms have been— and are — inflicted on Negroes in the Not-So-Great Society, as this excerpt from "Three Lives for Mississippi," by William Bradford Huie, shows: Aaron then managed to crawl to the road and stagger to his feet. ... At the Veterans Administra tion Hospital in Birmingham a surgeon closed the wound and Aaron was given whole blood. For four days his condition remained critical, with his tem perature reaching 105. He then began to recover, and after three weeks he was able to leave the hospital. Confessed In those pre-Wallace days the people of Alabama were still capable of racial humanity. The press reacted violently against the. Klan, particularly after police found the lair with the blood and turpentine in the dirt. Two of the Klansmen, Miller and Griffin, confessed, became State's witnesses, testified against the other four, and were given suspended sentences. (My account of the atrocity is from their testimony.) Mabry, Floyd, Pritchett and McCullough were advised to plead guilty and hope for a sentence pf no more than ten years. But they insisted on pleading not guilty because, as members of the Klan and the Citizens' Council, they did not believe an all-white, all-male jury would convict them. Mayhem "You are wrong," they were warned. "Had you accused Aaron of being a troublemaker and shot him dead on the roadside, you'd be freed. But this is different. The law calls what you did mayhem, and the penalty is two to twenty years. You'll get the extreme penalty." The district attorney of Birmingham is the Circuit Solicitor of Jefferson County. At that time he was a remark able man named Walter Em- mett Perry. Coming from generations of Alabamians, he reverea the "Southern way of life," but with one difference: He hated the terrorists. Mabry, Floyd, Pritchett and McCullough were tried separ ately, and the State's case was the same against each of them. After Aaron told his story, the women left the courtroom and Aaron partially undressed and stood before the jury. A doctor told the court that Aaron's castration was a "hideous, traumatic experience in which the psychological damage can be expected to be even more severe than the physical damage.'' Not only had Aaron been rendered incapable of siring a child, the doctor said, but he had also been robbed of (Right) High - pressure fire hoses used on demonstrating Negroes in Birmingham, Ala bama, in 1963. the glandular secretions of the testes which are necessary for general health and he might be expected to withdraw from society and live in a state of embarrassment in which sexual activity would be impossible. The verdicts were prompt in each case; guilty and twenty years. But for the following eighteen months, during which the verdicts were being ap pealed, the Klansmen were freed on bond, and Klansmen throughout the State, along with more fervent members of the Citizens' Councils, boasted the four would never serve time. They were wrong. The Alabama Supreme Court af firmed the verdicts, and by the end of 1959 Mabry, Floyd, Pritchett and McCullough were in the State prison. Hate-filled In January, 1963, however, with Klan support, a hate- filled little man named George Wallace became governor of Alabama. The head of the Klans in Alabama and Missis- sipi, Robert Shelton, boasted that the Klan had supplied Wallace's "margin of victory." It was then, assumed through out Alabama and Missippi that as soon as Wallace made his first appointment to the parole board, the four Klansmen would be paroled. Wallace's first appointee to the parole board took office on July 11, 1963. Two weeks later, on July 25, 1963, the board reversed its 1960 position and voted unanimously not to re quire the four Klansmen to serve . one-third of their sen tences before parole. In October, 1963, Mabry was given his first hearing by the parole board. In February, 1964, he was free, and the board announced that the other three were being favorably considered for parole. BITTER FRUIT. Forty years ago, but it could be today. The body of a Negro dangles above a crowd of lynchers in the Deep South in the early 1920's. 