 When 180,0 trade unionits burned ther draft cards! By a Staff Correspondent |j| It means a great deal today that the Australian Council of Trades Unions and all the leading labor councils of Australia should have gone on record against the conscription of Aus tralian boys for the war in Vietnam. Today's unionists follow an Australian tradition established long before there was a "Moscow," 1 a "Hanoi" or a "Peking" available to be blamed by the warmongers for such "treasonable" conduct. In 1885 miners opposed the a sending of a contingent to the B Sudan war and helped force its B recall before it could do, or suffer, I any damage. I The Australian Workers' Union stand against the Boer war ( 1899- 1902) heartened peace supporters and helped achieve a compromise peace. - And in 1916-17 trade unionists were both the spearhead and back1 bone of the victorious No-conscrip- .tion campaigns. In 1914 Australia already had its devoted bands of self-sacrificing, heroic peace advocates. But so small in numbers- were they, while big in courage, that they were ineffective until the half-million- strong army of, Australian prole tarians listened to their voice and took up their cause. The workers of 1914 had nothing like the knowledge of imperialism and its wars that the workers of 1966 have. Not many openly pro tested when Labor leader Fisher promised "the last man and the an last shilling" for the imperialist war effort. i- Just a few months of war was enough to persuade many of the ® workers that their class alone rt was to yield both men and shil- :ir lings. re Wages were frozen at pre-war a- levels, but food and groceries o- prices showed a rise of 50 per cent, between 1911 and the end of 1915. Mid-1915 found the NSW Labor Council already protesting that the Council was ready to do its pat riotic duty, but could not accept the wages freeze, since the em ployers had not frozen rents and prices. In September the Council carried a resolution rejecting conscription of manpower unless there was a corresponding conscription of wealth. Secretary E. J. Kavanagh said the unionists believed that a man should not be compelled to give his life while "stay-at-home capi talists" would not even lend their money except at high interest. Soon afterwards Prime Minister Hughes broke a solemn promise by announcing" that he would not after all, hold a referendum to give the Federal Government price control, powers. At the same time a War Census Bill, followed by a questionnaire asking able-bodied men why they had not enlisted, aroused the unionists. The Melbourne Trades Hall : Council suggested a boycott and i' the others also reacted strongly. A hundred and eighty thousand workers "burned their draft cards", as v/e should say today, and wrecked the scheme. Early in 1916 five Labor Councils and 97 unions met in an Interstate Trade Union Congress (this was before the ACTU was formed), representing 280,000 u n io n i s t's (nearly half the total) to declare "uncompromising hostility" to conscription. The State ,ALP Executives took their cue from the unionists, and when Hughes came back from London in July, with demands for conscript Australian cannon-fodder for the Western Front, the workers were ready for him. Headed then by Interstate Trade Union Anti-Conscription Congress rll ( with futuriei|j|®nister Curtin as secretary ?e'pf, moved into action andiljjtion banners were raised tljpter city. When HughilEnced a call- up of AustrattfrfLfor compul sory militaiyLpslat home, the workers ahsllibth political , strikes in -iaife|feities on the nall-up day, .pp. In Melboujylney, Brisbane And Broken! ffejre were city marches and' mnhn resolutions were carriai il&m halls or trades halls. |f|l The unifliijffergy, enthu siasm and ok faction heart ened all di|||ons of the peace mova '.guaranteed the "No" rijtpr. October 28, 1916. W The umty.Qjfpiees, with the workers the key to everythisTire . ' was "no formal pactfw$|Ei.' W. Camp bell in his lfti|f|fie Australian Labor Movefflpi-'real united front arosefrnqisame. A huge in the Sydney Donpn«i915 was ad dressed ibyMY'-'from the Industrial the World (IWW), the llpA' NSW Labor Council, thelAtliE'!; Australian Freedom the Aus- tralian Soc&IEaerty (which later combm|$ers to form the Communiutfeyrlmr: This unity tentae served throaabout'ytmy: events of the ec nfl tP8w which won a sr u b victory on Decembei ® L In tune Wtofy workers of Britain «fs were be- comng Prance and -d e 3ia- whose workers :pollScountry out of the war)#® er, 1917 the Australiarfjfnt on from anti-conscripMeia militant anti-war They joine |Msfc: .movement which at-Mf'an end to the slaughti .''fovember 11, 1918. iUL 