 [?] An Oscar for poor taste "|"HE "Melbourne Spy" of the magazine Nation has awarded the well-known right wing radio commentator Norman Banks an Oscar for poor taste. In the July 9 edition he writes: "The very next morning after the gunshot attack on Arthur Calwell, Mr. Norman Banks (who could have stopped him?) was on the air upon this nasty subject. "Mr. Norman Banks said that Arthur Calwell, being the sort of politician he was, could be expect ed shortly to push his chin for ward (as though he needed to) before the TV cameras, in an ef fort to exploit to the utmost all the potential sympathy and votes that the occasion afforded. "With Mr. Norman Banks, no detailed or intellectual argument is required. The Spy asks readers simply to reflect: making a modest allowance for an elderly man of excitable temperament, who of us would have come through such an incident with such dignity and restraint as Arthur Calwell?" Hangover ahead JEVELATIONS in testimony to i& congressional committee last week that there are 10,000 barbiturate drug addicts in the US armed forces and another 100,000 marihuana takers has further rattled US morale on Vietnam. An ex-serviceman told the Com mittee that while in Vietnam under the influence of drugs he had mistakenly shot some pro-US Viet namese in mistake for "Viet Cong". A poetical rash "yHERE will it all end, this rash of poetry that has broken out among the politicians? First it was Sir Robert who, "I ' did but see her passing by" Then there was that famous in cident on a fairly well-known lawn. Now it is the Minister for Repatriation, Senator McKellar who not only composed a poem about Australia's role in Vietnam but recited it at last week's con ference of the Victorian RSL. When some of the "peasants" at the conference cried out what about repatriation, the subject he was supposed to speak about, the Senator put them in their place by saying "The defence of the country is more important than repatria tion." The question we'd like to ask is, does a rejection of improvements in repatriation benefits sound bet ter in bad verse? A word from the Guv. WE don't often give the views of . Governor Generals an airing in Tribune, however Lord Casey's . recent remarks at the Hobart Uni versity are worth noting. He told the Council of the Hob- art University that "well-informed public opinion is a factor of the highest importance, and I do not believe that the thinking people of Australia are provided with adequ ate opportunity to keep themselves informed. "Our organs of public informa tion, press and radio, have only too few permanent and direct representatives in important centres. ttn "The thinking Australian public needs a reliable service of uubilo information from the main centres in the Asian countries that is bet ter and in greater depth than what we are now getting. "Australia is a remote and isol ated country, and as such we newi all the links with other countries that can be provided. Being well and broadly informed about our neighbours is a link. Australia more than any other country t know, cannot afford not to be well- informed about our neighbours." You can bank on it F)EPUTY Prime Minister McEwen commenting on the overseas grab of our natural resources lik- ened it to selling the farm off a bit at a time. Now more of the farm is being sold off through the inroads into Australia of huge overseas banks. The official policy of the Aus tralian Government is against the establishment of overseas banks in Australia. Yet unofficially they are letting them in by the back door. The First National Bank of New York (Citibank) has moved into the hire purchase industry, which is really fringe banking. It is now known that the Bank of Tokyo arid other overseas banks are looking for a similar way in. This development, alongside the selling out of our natural resources to overseas monopolies will be a key question in the coming federal elections. 