 QLD. WORKERS DOB IN FOR STRIKERS From PETE THOMAS in Brisbane THE workers — men and women — had just decided unanimously on a generous levy — a shilling in the £ in the following week's pay. But as they walked away, one woman said: "That levy is good. But you can put me down for a quid." What she said reflected some of the feeling aroused among workers at Borth wicks' Moreton meajjworks last week by Captain Major and Dexter Daniel as they told of Northern Territory Aborigines' struggle against the big pastoral interests. As Mr. R. Anear (Moreton local board of control secret ary) said at the meeting: "We meat-workers are in constant struggle against the meat mon opolies. So who should under stand better than us what the Aboriginal workers are up against in the Northern Ter ritory?" Dexter Daniel and Captain Major were at the Borthwicks meeting — an hour's authorised stopwork meeting — during their Brisbane visit in the course of their interstate tour to rally support for the struggle of Aborigines on Northern Territ ory cattle stations. The Aborigines' demand is for the full basic wage now, instead of having to wait for this until 1968 (as a Common wealth Industrial Commission decision requires them to do). Captain Major, a gnarled 50- year-old, led Aborigines off Newcastle Waters station in April, in the first of the strike actions. Dexter Daniel, who is 25, is an organiser of the North Aus- tralian Workers' Union and is on leave from that post so as to concentrate for a period on the struggle for Aboriginal rights. Support They both said, when asked by Guardian last week, that throughout their interstate tour they had found the unions' support very good, — and, to prove it, there is money in the bank for funds. They were especially grateful for the great support from waterside workers and meat- workers. And, to confirm them in this, Brisbane watersiders last week voted $1 a man — in addition to previous donations from their union — to help the struggle, and Borthwicks meatworkers and Provincial Traders wor kers levied themselves. Also, two ships' crews (Bul- warra and William G. Walkley) addressed by Captain Major and Dexter Daniel pledged financial support, , and a wo men's gathering, including women from many different organisations, held at the UAW rooms, vpted support and con tributed over $30 in a collection. Tragic At the Borthwicks meeting, Dexter Daniel and Captain Major were introduced by the union's works acting-president (Mr. Norman Hughes) as "two distinguished comrades from the Northern Territory." The workers gave them a big hand. Captain Major told a tragic story of conditions under which Aborigines have had to work. Captain Major said that on one occasion he had worked for two months for eight shillings. When he injured an eye (in which there is, as a result, I now practically no sight), the station manager offhandedly said: "You'll be all right," and didn't bother about it. Speaking of his own part in leading the Newcastle Waters Aborigines in their strike. Cap tain Major said simply: "Some one said to me, 'Captain Major, you have done the wrong thing; you will be in trouble,' and I replied, 'I am doing my best'." Help Referring to their interstate mission, Captain Major said; "we have come to see all you good people. We need help." "What Captain Major has been saying is very true," Dex ter Daniel said at the start of his talk; "work seven days a week, live in humpies, get little pay." Dexter Daniel said that the big pastoralists and the Gov ernment want Aborigines as cheap labor, and they have got away with it for too long. "It must come to > an end now. Aborigines must be treated as other Australians are," he said. "We are fighting for our rights and we won't give up the fight.. "We have waited too long, and we won't wait any longer. "The Aborigines aren't going back to work until they get the wages now, not put off until 1968. "The discrimination against them must; be ended, and ended I now!" 