 Fools in high places External Affairs Minister Hasluck' s speech in Parliament last week aroused even more anxiety and concern than usual among those interested in a peaceful future for Australia. Apart from his parrot-like repetition of the American stand on Vietnam it was his reiteration of the old, sterile and proven futile policy of invincible enmity towards the Chinese People's Republic which most attracted the comment of critics. These included such national newspapers as the Sydney Morning Herald and The Australian. Last week once more Hasluck repeated his own previous admission as to the need to reach a "detente" with China and that ";No one but a fool would think that China can be ignored or destroyed or reduced, or forced to become something else v' than China". In the Minister, we appear to have a fool who not only thinks all that but acts accordingly. .What is his refusal to give diplomatic recognition to the 16-year-old People's Republic except an attempt to "ignore it? And how can he expect any one to believe he wants a detente with it when he won't, diplomatically speaking, even admit that it exists? And what is his recent appointment of an am bassador to Taiwan except an act of direct aid .to those who in fact aim to "destroy ' or "reduce" China or force it to become something else than what it is? As Mr. Hasluck very well knows, that is the precise program of the Chiang Kai-shek clique who, with American aid are using Taiwan as a base from which, they openly boast, they will reconquer the mainland. Even those who may temporarily swallow the story about the impossibility of "handing over" 13 million Taiwan people (they are still Chinese) to China will find it hard to accept what is implied by his new act — that 700 million mainland Chinese must be handed over to the Chiang militarists who claim to be their proper rulers. Does he really think anyone will believe his claim that we want to live with China and are willing to explore new ways of doing so" while such policies prevail in Canberra? He would do better to be honest and admit that the Menzies and Holt Governments have been moti vated by bitter haitred of the' Chinese People's Re public from the very beginning. They have support ed the US in every act, and pact, hostile' to China. ? How about pink gin? the RSL is to bar from its employment — even as barmen and clerks — those who are even suspected of affiliation "with the Communist Party or kindred bodies". That will be a big relief to the brasshat types who feared that their vodkas might be poured by a member of thq ALJP, seen by these elements as the worst of the "Communist kindred bodies". Ex-nazi thugs who sneaked into Australia along with honest migrants could have the run of RSL buildings according to this ruling. But the RSL bigshots will be freed from their worst nightmare — possible presence, of Australian Tobruk veterans among those sending solidarity greetings to embattled Odessa in 1944 — or others who thanked the Red Army for freeing them from prison camps in Europe or Manchuria — or just cheered on the Soviet soldiers as gallant and suc cessful allies. Those after all, were only soldiers. And the illusion that the RSL brass cares more for soldiers than for reactionary politics took another knock' at the late Congress. 