 ; iHmiiiw j iLi J iJMSiii j biEiiiiJS b 1 Putting the finger on caflup AAEETING in Hobart last week the National Union of Australian Uni versity Students resolved to oppose . conscription for ser vice in Vietnam. They said it was contrary to democratic principles that those opposed to the war in Vietnam should be forced to fight there. The resolution sought a nego tiated end to the Vietnam war. Of the delegations from 12 uni versity student bodies who at tended the conference, 9 voted for the motion, one (Queensland University) opposed it and two abstained (according to the ABC report). And just in case some police superintendent is about to cry "Educated louts!" we hasten to', add that, in Melbourne, the Cath olic Worker newspaper has come out against conscription for Viet nam. Hot time for Hubert? "VA/HEN Vice - president Hubert Humphrey ar rives, ask him how bombs can bring peace to Vietnam says a leaflet issued by the Association for International Co-operation and Disarma ment in Sydney. "Join one of the buses to Can berra. (for details, phone 211-0077). If unable to go to Canberra, send j a telegram c/- the US Embassy asking Sen. Humphrey to end the | bombing. Watch the newspapers j for his arrival." j Looks like Hubert may discover ! — despite the feeble display by I the Holt Government — that all j Australians are not yes-men. Blitz on oyer Bondi scheme DONDI residents (Sydney) are rallying around a v protest against the proposed I erection of a 1 3 - storey j block of flats and private hotel on the South Bondi ! beachfront. | In a petition requesting action, | addressed to the Waverley Coun- I cil and initiated by Mrs. Hanley, j a resident of Dudley Street, ! Bondi, residents "emphatically" j protest against the erection of the building because it will be a further defacement of the beach front and most likely a. forerun ner of others. Also, it would block out ocean and beach views of many resi dents and lead to the lowering of their own property values. Residents fear that the large Oceanmore boarding house will be demolished to make way for the proposed block. Residents feel that individual rights have been ignored. One said: "Some of the aldermen in the council are involved in real estate and seem more interested in making a quid than in proper development of the area." r Building "on blink" "pHE Federal Government was strongly condemned last week for "its failure to deal with growing unemploy ment in the building in dustry". Dishing out the criticism was a 'body that ought to know— the NSW- Labor Council's building trades group. . The unions stated that at the end of the last financial year there were 18,000 new applications for Housing Commission homes. "This clearly shows the incom petency of the Federal Govern ment and indicates that it has little regard for the people who require homes or for the workers who hop|e to build them," it said. The NSW . State Government, too, was condemned "for its pol icy of curtailing finance required for the building of new Housing Commission homes, schools and hospitals." Mr. L. Schurr (secretary of the BTG) said the painters' union alone has 60 members, unemployed He said that a random check of Housing Commission tenders shows a decline since the Askin Government came to office in NSW. .On September 9, 1964, tenders were called for 150 flats and 94 cottages. On September 8, 1965, tenders were called for 65 flats , and 46 cottages. Mr. Schurr said that on De cember 1 last year tenders had dropped to 15 flats and 47 cot tages as against 205 flats and 63 cottages on December 2, 1964. £2700 worth of congrats jAST week the N.S.W. Attorney-General (Mr. McCaw) congratulated the legal profession for having taken advantage of recent amendments contained in the Law reform Act (1965). He referred to a case in the Appeal Court against a jury ver dict in a motor accident cae. The court gave judgment to the plaintiff for £4324/5/- without the parties having to go back to the jury for a further determina tion. This saying of time speaks for itself, sdid Mr. McCaw. . u When a reporter rang the At torney-Generals Department to find out the amount that the jury had originally awarded the plaintiff there was a wall of sil ence. A few hours later a message was received to say that the jury had originally awarded the plain tiff over £7000. Too much joy at the ABC THE tip comes from West ern Australia, but it's said that in ALL states, the Australian Broadcasting Commission is cleansing its programs of all protest songs that "send up" Powers- that-Be. Bondi's Oceanmore ... for demolition? 