 Gollan sounds warning- Cousins' anti- freeze attack j_ONDON: Britain- s ec onomic growth had keen strangled by the Government to satisfy iureign Danxers regard ing the pound, John Gollan said on the eve of the Labor Party confer ence at Brighton. Quoting the Times Business Review, Mr. Gollan, who is secretary of the British Com munist Party, said that by the end of 1967 British industry would be smaller, older, and Jess potent than it might have been. No one could say what tht Unemployed level might be before the Wilson freeze was over. To think that all the unem ployed would get alternative "Work was to live in cloud cuckoo-land. Government spokes men were claiming that there would be only a small reces sion. But the Labor Govern ment had not been elected by the workers to organise any recession, large or small. Once sackings had begun, who could say where they would stop? Britain's balance of pay ments difficulties could have been wiped out by eliminat- ' ing military expenditure abroad and cutting business investment abroad. Why keep a single British soldier a day longer in Ger many, Mr. Gollan asked? Who believed that Kosygin wanted to invade the west? Unions were being asked by a Labor Prime Minister to join employers in breaking collective agreements, forego ing wage rises and putting men on the dole. This should be resisted, said Mr. Gollan. In fighting to re tain their jobs the car work ers were fighting for all work ing people and everyone should support them. A similar stand to Mr. Gol- lan's was taken by Mr. Frank Cousins, general secretary of the Transport and General Workers' Union when he suc cessfully moved an anti-freeze resolution at the Brighton conference. Delegates cheered when Mr. Cousins denounced the Gov ernment for taking powers to enforce the wage freeze and boldly declared: "We shall be in conflict with the law be cause it is unfair to union ists," adding: "This is a tragic day for principles. . . This is negating what many of our forefath ers went to prison for." The conference, by a small margin, carried Mr. Cousins' resolution deploring the sack ings and demanding that there be no further dismis sals without consulting the unions. The rightwingers, able to carry the conference on the basic freeze principles, could not defeat Mr. Cousins' mo tion. Twenty-eight Labor Par liamentarians have risked disciplinary action by sign ing an anti-freeze statement. Lunacy of trying to improve the "trade balance" by sack ing workers in the car in dustry, which specialises on exports, is stressed by the Morning Star. The French car industry is happily moving in ten seize the export markets vacated by Britain's frozen car mak ing plants. Anti-freeze action by the workers continues at grass- . roots level. 