 Author warns Sydney peace meeting: BBaBBBBIBmBBHM' BBSHBBBBBBB HO - HBHHnraaamBSHBranBBHBH "Warfare state" if Holt wins JYDNEY : The question in the electorate was whether Aus tralians would submit to an "authoritarian warfare state," said author Alan Ashbolt at a Sydney Town Hall election rally called by the Association for International Cooperation and Dis armament on November 15. He suggested that the pres ence of Security Service mem bers in the audience indicated the Government's trend back to the colonial days when the Australian community consist ed only of jailers and jailed. Objectors to the Govern ment's Vietnam conscription, like young teacher William White and high-school student Robert Michaelis, represented the conscience of the com munity, he said. The rally followed a city demonstration and parade of 1,000 people. Thronged . For half an hour, beginning at 5.15 the pavements of the city centre, Martin Place, were thronged with men. women and children carrying posters and placards calling for the end of the Vietnam war, and the Holt Government's defeat. Among them were some' 50 ex-servicemen wearing cam paign ribbons and medals. Warning against the growth of violence in politics, Mr. Ashbolt (also wearing service ribbons) told the Town Hall meeting how at Gordon in February the Australian nazi leader Arthur Smith had .mounted the platform at a peace meeting and had tried to take it over. His efforts had received "tremendous support" from the young Liberals and other right-wing people there — un- . til they found, out who Arthur Smith was. "In that way barbarians take over," Mr. Ashbolt said. Noting the pattern of assas sination developing since the murder of Congo patriot Lumumba in 1960 (with the connivance of NATO agents) Mr. Ashbolt mentioned also the attempt on Mr. Calwell at Mosman this year. The attitude expressed was that murder can take the place of reason and decisions be achieved by burning down villages with napalm, said Mr. Ashbolt. It' was not very dignified, he said, alluding to the Pres ident Johnson visit, to throw yourself down in front of a car but it was even less so to "prostrate your soul be fore the image of power". Mr. Ashbolt referred to the Vietnam conflict as an old- time undeclared war .for which troops were sought by a lottery-type conscription. The Chairman of the AICD (Dr. Allan Lawes) said that the Australian and New Zeal and general elections vote could alter the course of history and be the first big step towards peace in Viet nam. Medals Dr. Lawes, wearing service medals, said that for the first time on November 26 the Aus tralians and New Zealanders would have the opportunity of saying whether or not they favored conscription for over seas service and the Vietnam war. If they endorsed it, this could, mean another step to wards a possible third world war and nuclear catastrophe. Dr. Lawes noted that AICD vice-president Francis James was contesting Lowe. He men tioned Mr. James' distinguish- ed war career as a Spitfire pilot and this gallant escape from a nazi prisoners' camp. Removal of the Government, said Dr. Lawes, would need a mighty effort and he called for all peace supporters to give all possible time to it before and on election day. Bishop J. S. Moyes said the Government had done- nothing to assist peace negotiations. He had. been shocked to read the judgment of Senator Wayne Morse, of the USA, that the Australian Govern ment was nothing more than an American puppet. No one could respect a Government that did not have an independ ent policy and stand on its own feet. WE'VE been through it — we know what it's like . - . Some of the fifty ex-servicemen who participated in last week's big peace demonstration in Sydney brandishing anti- conscription and anti-war placards in Martin Place before marching with over 1000 other citizens to a, rally in the Town Hall. 