 5135 Turbulent Years — i V . IOHN SENDY reviews. \ RALPH GIBSON'S "My My'ears communist Party" ( International Book- ' Mv hop, Melbourne, 1966) .,$1.7 5, 1 ||8r postage. m |— |ERE is a book which all friends of peace and democracy, all students and activists of the cause of socialism should read, learn from and enjoy. Ralph Gibson's "My Years in the Communist Party" is not merely the personal reminiscences of a man who has been a leader participant and observer in all the main political happenings in this country for 35 years. It is also a political history of the period and a record of the activities of the Communist Party in Victoria against the background of world-shaking in ternational events. While critics may complain that the personal side is not sufficiently to the fore, this weakness is a commentary on the character of the author. For a big part of the legend which Ralph Gibson has become in Victoria is made up of integrity and modesty. Personal interest, however, abounds in this book. Politicians, business men, lawyers, judges, academics, church leaders, trade union officials, living and dead, pass through its pages. There are penetrating pen por traits of important figures such as Judge Foster, Frank Anstey, Sir Douglas Copland, Maurice Blackburn, and Dr. A. E, Floyd; the gentle or devastating des criptions of incidents involving many political figures such as Tunnecliffe, Scullin, Lovegrove, Menzies, and many others are interesting and instructive, for Ralph Gibson has known, wor ked with, or fought against, many of the public figures of Victoria. Hundreds of readers of this book will find themselves men tioned, analysed or commented upon within its pages. This par ticularly applies to the "little" people, the battlers of the dep ression days, the leaflet distrib utors, the union or student act ivists, the fighters for peace and democracy. I first "heard" Ralph Gibson in 1943. To "hear" Ralph in those days was something of an exper ience. He is a fine speaker "to day but 23 years ago he was magnificient. Without a note he would enthral and enthuse packed audiences at the Prin cess Theatre and Yarra Bank. They were stirring times; fas cism was being fought and de feated, thousands were joining the Communist Party, the vic tories of the Red Army and the allied forces were emblazoning the hope of freedom and a better life in the minds of ' of millions throughout the world. Stirring times demanded stirring speakers. I first met Ralph in April 1949, after the war and during the cold war. Attacks upon the Party members had reached serious proportions. Fanatical RSL and Liberal Party members had been attacking meetings, watched by hundreds of on lookers. Ralph faced this sort of treatment night after night in Kalgoorlie, Boulder and Perth — a series of meetings, described in his book under the heading "A Wild Week in the West", which received national pub licity. As p, young Communist Party country organiser in South Australia's industrial north I had expected he would be some what chastened by harrowing experiences of torrents of tom atoes and hundreds of inter jections of a few days before — far from it. He jumped from the train, refused to let me carry his case and eagerly questioned mc about the meeting to be held that night. Imagine my shame when the man who had just come from addressing thousands and mak ing headline news had to address SIX people in the local town hall. However the following day my spirits were raised when 330 railway workers at Port Augusta turned out for an excellent fac tory gate meeting. /MY Years in the Com munist Party" is filled with pride in the past and hope for the future. Faith, optimism and whimsical humour fill its pages. Ralph always sees the bright side as illustrated by the follow ing passage: "My first1 masting in the West was on the evening of Saturday, April 2, at Boulder, in the Golden Mile. During the day kids had been asking each other at school if they were going along to see the 'fight'. The meeting was held in a poorly-lit street and without an amplifier. The whole population gathered for the spectacle. "It was the tomato season, and before the meeting the local fruit erers were doing a roaring trade in tomatoes. This was a good sign, as tomatoes are actually the soft est of missiles." The book is a veritable mine of information about the unem ployed struggles of the depres sion, the free speech fight of the '30's', the thrilling peace move ment episodes surrounding Egon Kisch, the important strikes, the Lowe Royal Com mission into Communism, (Ralph was four days in the witness box), the fight against the In dustrial Groups, the Petrov affatf, differences and splits in side the Communist Party of Victoria, election campaigns . . . the list is very long. All are briefly described and analysed with often apt quotations which will prove highly valuable to the political student. One of the founders of the Melbourne University Labor Club in 1924, the author's com ments on the history of that organisation and on student politics generally are of special interest at a moment when stu dent political and social activity is on the upgrade: "The idea af launching If (the Labor Club) had come almost sim ultaneously to me and to two others, Lloyd Ross, secretary of the Students' Representative Coun cil, and Brian Fitzpotrick, who became at this stage first editor of the new student paper 'Farrago'. I would estimate that both Lloyd and Brian were af this stage poli tically on my left, as was Winston Rhodes, now of Chrlstchurch Uni versity, New Zealand. The first Labor Club secretary, - Macmahon Ball and Bob Fraxer (now Sir Robert and a big British radio chifef) were, I think, politically on my right. "In addressing university aud iences I have more than once cri ticised the ("See Both Sides") slogan of the old Public Questions So ciety, In that, if carried too far. It can lead you to become a life long fence-sitter carrying no real weight in society. People have the duty to keep on seeing both sldoa and also the duty to keep on making up their minds, to form firm convictions which they can ACT upon. But to this end a lively INTERCHANGE of views Is very tafportant Hence the vafee of forums, debates, teach-ins, etc., in the life of our universities." many of Ralph Gibson's former colleagues have left the Communist Party. Some have been expelled and have become its (and his) bitter opponents. However he is no believer in the "unperson" treatment which unfortunately has marred some overseas writings. People like the late Ken Miller, Ted Hill. Clarrie O'Shea and others are accorded their role in events and campaigns. Chapter Seven entitled "Victory over the Hill Group", deals at some length with the Sino-Soviet dispute and the split in the Party in Victoria in 1963. "Tho departure of the Hill group left me with mixed feelings. Many of them were people with whom I had worked closely for years. One of them, the late Ken Miller, H was a close personal friend whose fl friendship I valued highly. I was B conscious, too, that insofar as they fl had made errors in the past, I as H a leading State Committee member H had shared In making them. B "What angered me with the i group was their obvious resolve H to pursue their own views regard- H less of ma|ority decisions and so H break, if they could, the Party B which they had spent years in H helping to build. Then came the fl long outpouring of slander stories fl against the Soviet Union and fl ogoinst Australian Party leaders. fl This outpouring of slander did more fl than anything to destroy any cs- fl malning sympathy I could have fl felt for Hill in particular." fl Because Ralph Gibson has fl always been in the forefront of fl the fight for world peace and fl in support of the colonial fl peoples' struggles for indepen- fl dence, these aspects receive pro- fl longed treatment. National, fl Victorian and international peace Eg conferences and campaigns are fl dealt with at considerable length, fl likewise movements in defiance fl of democratic liberties. fl Criticism may be directed at fl the author for dealing entirely fl with the past at the expense of fl the present and future, for fail- fl ing to pose at any length prob- fl lems facing the Communist move- fl ment and giving thought on the fl way forward to the victories of fl socialist ideas in the complex fl context of modern Australian fl conditions. However, this was fl not his purpose. But such mat- fl ters are posed as briefly as, for fl example, on page 267: fl "New eventa In both capitalist fl and socialist world (and In the world B of the newly-free, semi-colonial B and colonial countries) challenge us B to creative Marxist thinking of a fl high order — the same kind of fl thinking with which Lenin supple- fl mented and enriched Marxism In his B epoch. The changes In the world fl between Lenin's day and ours have fl been greater than the changes be- fl tween Marx's day and . Lenin's. fl Hard creative thinking is forced B upon us, not only by the magnituda B of these changes, but also by dif- B ferences between Communist Parties B in estimating the changes." fl The book is extremely val- fl uable — the first of its kind to fl come from a leading member fl of the Communist Party of Aus- fl tralia. It is a tribute to the man, fl his ideals, his party. A lifetime fl of political campaigning often fl in adverse conditions with wide- fl spread support and applause fl mixed with arrests, fines, jail- fl ings and assaults, has left Ralph fl as energetic, enthusiastic and fl confident as ever. fl Personally unassuming, Ralph fl Gibson Is a man with his head fl held high. That is as it should fl (Available from Now World and fl other progressive bookshops.) H | Ralph Gibsotim 