 Socialist ideas and young Anssies £YDNEY : Socialists of various tendencies got together and talked in Melbourne last Sunday at the symposium organised by the Eureka Youth 1 League on- the subject "Have Socialist Ideas a i future with Young Australians?" The symposium was part of the League's celebrations of its 9Rf.h unnivdrcoru wbinb fnllr this month. More than 70 people attended. Those presenting papers for discussion were Dr. Ian Turner, senior lecturer in History at Monash University; Mr. J. Halfpenny, Amalgamated En gineering Union activist; Mrs. Audrey Blake, foundation sec retary of the EYL; Mr. Paul Marriot, editor of the Monash University student newspaper, Lot's Wife; Mr. Doug Kirsner, member of the Melbourne Uni versity Student Representa tives' Council; and Mrs. Mavis Robertson, national secretary of the EYL. The symposium was marked by the striving to relate so cialist principles and theory to the realities of present-day Australia- It is expected that it will be' the prelude to a more ambitious and far-rang ing discussion. Dr. Turner expressed the view that socialism in Aus tralia would not arise from "aoa puvciK, tui CUUiiUUUU crisis or even the sweeping in troduction of automation. Discontent He said: "I feel that the major source of discontent will be the widening group of highly skilled and increasingly more educated members of the working class, who will see that despite their education they are still excluded from the realities of power." Mrs. Blake, contrasting the position of youth in the 'thirt ies with today, declared: "For the young people of that time, socialist ideas were a true guide to reality, helping the youth to be quite clear about the issues of the day— the trial of Dimitrov, the Spanish civil war, the rise of fascism". AlrViAi:nfV» j-orloiT'c wnvl/1 ni«n_ blems do not seem so clear- cut, she believed that socialist ideas would prove enormously fruitful in helping young people to find the way forward. Mr. Marriot told the sym posium: "I am a socialist be cause I believe it can produce the best framework for the individual and not because I feel it can achieve Utopia." Socialist ideas in their old form had little future with young Australians, but they could become influential if so cialists refused to rest on the laurels of yesterday's victor ies. Challenge . Warning that not only soc ialist ideas, but also rightwing ideas, were seeking the support of young people, Mrs. Robert son spoke of the challenge to socialist youth to give expres sion to youth's many demands. "Socialists have a good al ternative tn offer. The future lies with them, with the new and different, not with the old conformism". Mr. Kirsner argued that the most revolutionary element in modern society was not the working class but the intel-. lectual students. The importance of the work ing class contribution to social change was, on the other hand, strongly upheld by Mr. Half penny. "Socialist ideas are the only ones which can meet the needs and problems facing young people", he said, adding that the trade union movement of fered a favorable battleground on which young socialists could fight for the way forward- Closing the symposium, the Victorian secretary of the EYL, Mr. Max Ogden, spoke of the gulf between young workers and students. He said: "This gulf must be bridged. A start can be made by students taking their pro blems, such as the struggle for improved education systems, to the factories and telling the workers about it. "By the same token, workers could take their problems, such as wage demands, to the uni versities, and explain their stand there." Mr. Ogden suggested that a much larger seminar, discus sing the problem of youth in general, should be organised. The symposium was chaired by the EYL's national presi dent, Mr. Barrie Blears. 