 Mission for Mankind TO- 2 : The Wjorld's first man-made space vehicle to orbit the Moon, Luna 10, launched by the Soviet Union on April 3, 1966, will continue trans mitting its important scientific observations for months. The Luna 10 space station was put into orbit at a minimum dis tance o£ 350 km. and maximum distance of 1000 km. from the surface of the Moon. The station so far has travelled more than 4,000,000 km. and has completed more than 300 orbits of the Moon. Top Soviet space scientists at a recent Moscow press conference indicated that the fact that a man- made satellite has been put into orbit round the Moon is of tre mendous importance to science. Artificial Moon satellites out fitted with the necessary equip ment are capable of sending exact information on many of the pro perties of the Moon and the space in the proximity of the Moon which are either totally unknown or insufficiently known. These include studies of the temperature conditions on the Moon, possible volcanic activity on that planet, concentration of meteorites near the Moon, the Moon's magnetic field, its radia tion and reflecting properties in the infra-red and long-range ultra violet rays, direct photography and TV transmissions of images of the Moon's surface and many other things. The absence of an atmosphere at the Moon makes it possible to study jatnany properties of the lunar surface by registering gamma-radia tion, Roentgen, fluorescent and infra-red radiations. Vital information on the Moon's gravitational field will be obtained. Th Luna-10 space vehicle will obtajn more exact information about the dimension of a possible magnetic field of the Moon, to study the chemical composition of its surface, the radiation situa tion in selenocentric regions, and other vital scientific problems. (Selena is the name used for Moon in astronomy.) Initial scientific data has already been obtained concerning the com position of rock on the lunar surface, radiation in nearby space, magnetic phenomena arid density of meteoric matter and .plasma in the vicinity of Moon. The determination of the radio activity of the rock comprising the lunar surface is important for the solution of a number of problems connected with the origin and the evolution of the Moon. The solution of these problems is impossible without the know ledge of the chemical composition of lunar rock and its radioactivity. Luna-10 also helped to investi gate the meteorite situation in the circumlunar space. Between April 3 and 12 the apparatuses for the registration of the meteor particles in the circum lunar orbit supplied their infor mation durihg several communi cation sessions with a total time of 5 hours 16 minutes. ? Some weeks after the launching of the space station, a press conference was held in the USSR at the. Moscow Scientists' Club,! ./ Academician M, V. Kel- dysh answered the questions of journalists, some of which are reprinted below, Q.: How many cameras are on the Luna-10? A.: There are no cameras on the Luna-10. It can be said that the station is designed to conduct physical research of the Moon and circumlunar and circumter- restial space. Undoubtedly, cam eras can be set up, in principle, on such a type of sputnik. How ever, at present, this was not envisaged. Q.: How long oan the lunar sputnik exist? A.: It will exist for several years. It is impossible today to precisely determine the length of its existence: to make such com putations it is necessary to know exactly the Moon's gravitational field. The period of the sputnik's active work, i.e., the period during which the sputnik will transmit measurements, will continue for months. Q.: Will the flight of a cos monaut to the Moon, as you see it, require special additional train ing as compared with a flight designated for the exit into space? A.: Most probably this will be required because conditions there will be rather unusual as the force of gravity on the Moon is approximately one-sixth of that on the Earth. Cosmonauts will have to become accustomed to this. On the Moon's surface it will be necessary to wear special suits because the influence of radiation and other emissions are much stronger there than on the Earth. This is why anti-radiation shields will be required. Q.: What .qualities should as semblymen of space laboratories possess? Has their training been started? 1 A.: We have already spoken about the assembly of space ships in orbit at our press conferences —their assembly is one of the promising means for building ships for distant space flights. Naturally, our cosmonauts are preparing to tackle such tasks. Qu US scientists are planning this year and next to send up a series of man-made Moon satel- lites that will pass by the Soviet Luna-9 station landing area and photograph the craft. Is this photographing of any real scienti- fic interest? A.: It is, of course, interesting to have one more look at the spot where the Luna9 touched down. If such pictures are made we shall be interested to see them. But as for the scientific aspect, scarcely could that be so significant. Q.: Do present technical levels allow of placing in a ropnd-thC- Moon orbit a craft large enough to carry one or two persons? A.: If all the related tasks were technically achievable by . now, a space vehicle of this nature Would have been launched. In . principle this is possible. But apparently further work will need to be done if such a launching is contem plated. Q.: What sort of Moon experi ments are needed to work out a fool-proof system of recovery? A.: It is hard to say how many experiments of this kind will be needed. We firstly need the motor to provide the Impulse for swerving from a round-the-Moon orbit to an Earthwards trajectory. Technically speaking, as far as control systems and ballistic prob lems are concerned, this task is analogous to that of retarding a rocket in the Moon's vicinity and turning it into a Moon satellite. So by now, this is not unusual. I said before that re-entry is the crucial problem. It is still hard ' to say how many launchings will be needed to tackle this and other problems. Q.: Could the Vostok and Vosk- hod spacecrafts have flown with the radiation level detected in the near-Moon space? A.: I think that they could have. But it should be noted that radia tion exists not only around -the Moon but in interplanetary space as well. It can increase at times due to changes in solar activity. These questions require systematic research. THE unfolded map f the Moon's surface with a diagram of the flight of Luria 10. A drawing of the Luna 10. ( 1 ) Radio system measuring equipment. (2) The artificial satellite of the Moon. (3) System for separating the artificial lunar satellite. (4) Astro-orientation system equip ment. (5) Engine unit. 