 ALP speakers on Vietnam : "Make your voice heard" PERTH: "It is immoral that a handful of our young men are being called on to carry out the foreign policy of our Government. The war in Viet nam is a -bottomless pit. Now more of our young men are going to De sent there — to die. Fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, must rise to defend the lives of our young people being thrown away in a futile, dirty war. "Take this message to others. Hold similar meet ings in other areas. Help make vocal the deep concern ol the -Australian people. 1 lie world is not divided into AArest and Commun ism. I he barriers are falling down. 1 believe it is a friendly world with friendly people -in it. People can be communist ami human, too. It is human beings we are dealing with in. Vietnam — -not ideologies." This was the substance of the quietly spoken, but emotional address by Gordon Bryant, MHR for Wills (Victoria) , one ol the speakers at a public meeting on Vietnam convened by the Bassendean Branch , of the ALP in the local town hall and chaired by Federal Labor member for the district, Harry Webb. An attentive -audience of close to 200 people warmly applauded speakers, who included WA Senator John Whceldon and Mr. L. Wilkinson, endorsed Labor can didate for the Senate by-election. All speakers stressed the growing opposition in Aus tralia, USA and elsewhere to the immorality and folly of the US-Australian intervention in the social revolu tion taking place in Vietnam today. "The Viet Cong .'are not a band of guerillas, but a well-organised government that is producing results and has the support of the people. The Saigon government is the tenth in 20 months of US-engineered coups", said Mr. Wilkinson. "The Finns, the Austrians, the Pakistanis, the' Bur- mes:— the dominoes themselves reject the domino theory", said Senator AVheeldon in a witty and biting exposure of the "domino theory". Because of the way the USA kept intervening in places like Vietnam, Cuba and Dominica, President de Gaulle of France has announced that from 1969 any foreign troops in France would have to be under French command. Quoting de Gaulle: "It is the will of France to dispose her own fate", Senator Wheeldon called on the RSL patriots to study the Frenchman for what true patriotism meant. It is said that it is necessary to back America now as a premium on an insurance policy of American support for us if we were invaded. This just does not happen and it never has. USA" fought Japan in World War II and the Vietnamese Liberation Front fought the Japanese. Now USA and Japan', are allies and the US is fighting the Vietnamese. "America would only come to our defence if the US thought it was in the best interests of the USA", the Senator stressed. "This should be Australia's approach to foreign policy — what is in the best interests of Aus tralia.1 We must live in Asia. We must be at peace with Asia." 