 THE TRANSPORT SCHEMOZZLE RENSHAW: Govt. drives clients away Labor's plan to bring 'em back "1"HE transport problem has worsened since the Askin Govern ment was elected," Mr. Jack Renshaw told Tribune last week. Mr. Renshaw, Leader of the Opposition in N.S.W., was commenting on the cur- rent controversy in Tribune on the crisis in the state's public transport system. Since taking power, Mr. Renshaw alleged, the Govern ment had not only forgotten its election promises, but had increased bus fares by 20 per cent and in some cases cut services severely. This, he said, would only discourage passengers from using Government transport. Mr. Renshaw told Tribune that he fully agreed with ARU Stato Secretary Dr. Lloyd Ross that, "there was a need for a co-ordinating council to tackle the overall problems of transport." "In fact, the Labor Gov ernment in 1965 had worked out a six years' co-ordinated plan for transport which still remains our policy," Mr. Renshaw said. "It was a multi-million program embracing new and improved metropolitan rapid rail services, expressways, and road transport, both public and private." The plan, said Mr. Renshaw, includes: An electrified rail service between Sydney and the first satellite town in the Camp- belltown area. Construction of the Eastern Suburbs Railway from Chalmers St. through Town Hall to Martin Place and on to Kingsford via Bondi Junction. Construction of a rail link between East Hills and Liverpool. Augmented and new" feeder bus services to cover the areas to be eventually serviced by a Warringah Railway. It was essential, Mr. Ren shaw continued, to have the Eastern Suburbs Railway completed by 1971. Unless this was done, those areas with no alternative means of -public transport would have to put up with acute road congestion. The former. NSW Labor Government, said Mr. Renshaw, had asked the Com monwealth Government for financial help to build the Eastern Suburbs Railway be cause of its "national char acter". The Labor Government had realised that the pace of work would be retarded without federal aid, he said, but despite this, "we planned to proceed without it". Section of an expressways network already completed in 1965, Mr. Renshaw claimed, included the Gladesville- Tarban Creek-Figtree Bridge complex, as well as the Taren Pt. Bridge, parts of the Southern Expressway, the Cahill Expressway, and the first section of the Eastern Distributor. In its six-year transport plan, the ALP had envisaged the fist stage of the North- western Expressway, com mencing at the rear of the Town Hall and extending to Rozelle, and the first section of the Warringah Expressway from the Northern approaches of the Harbour Bridge to Cammeray. It also provided for road tunnels under William St. and Oxford St. at Taylor Square, sections of the Western Expressway to by-pass Parramatta and Pen rith, and a further extension of the Southern Expressway from the. Southern approaches of the Taren Point Bridge. Mi'. Renshaw also agreed with the need for extra park ing facilities for commuters at suburban railway stations to leave their cars during the I day. I . Thirteen years ago, he re- 1 called, as Minister for Local- M Government, he had urged mi Councils to acquire land for i| this purpose. $ OPPOSITION LEADER RENSHAW Electrify and co-ordinate 