 Rape of New Guinea timber is confirmed in l,H|r t&e S«Uto% BIG business man in Rabaul (New Britain) has t publicly warned against the despoliation of New Guinea's forests by private interests in terms that fully vindicate Tribune's past warnings on the subject. The business executive, Mr. J. Xi. Chipper, who is a for mer Legislative Councillor, quoted in the South Pacific Post. (18/5/66) as having said that: "Overseas logging companies were marching through the forests of New Guinea in seven lqague boots leaving nothing behind but paltry royalties. If action is not taken quickly it would be too late and the people of New Guinea would lose their birthright." The future is even more bleak than Mr. Chipper's statement indicates. The leases now being exploited' were mad'e over before the Minister, Mr. Barnes, had invited foreign firms — Japan ese and American — to come in and write their own ticket. The old ordinances pro vided for an ordered' approach to the question of logging and a requirement for some plant, but the invitation issued by Mr. Barnes to these foreign timber interests was to move in and condit ions of lease would then be discussed with them. Mr. Barnes envisaged a big development of the timber industry and the leases now being despoiled are small in comparison. Surveys are be ing made of over 4 million acres and some 2 million are leased, now open for tender, or being prepared' for tender. The immensity of these areas can be gauged from the fact that in all the 80 years of occupation an acre age of 3i million has been alienated and 1.3 million is held under lease or freehold by private landholders. The Japanese pattern of exploitation is now well established, accounting for 70 per cent of the timber trade of New Guinea and, through New1 Guinea subsid iaries, Japanese hold substan tial timber leases. They are not milling tim ber in the Territory but are cutting the forests and shipp- ing out the logs. This method is an outrageous rape of the country's timber resources denuding the forests and as Mr. Chipper stated, only the "paltry royalties remain". "With knowledge of the mismanagement and' destruc tion of forests in most countries of the world avail able to us, it is amazing that the situation, so clearly por trayed by Mr. Chipper, is per mitted. The growing world shortage of timber should be an incentive to real develop ment of the New Guinea timber industry. Arrangements for forestry leases must be tightened and lessees required to mill the timber in New Guinea so that a real timber industry be established there. The Administration should begin training New Guineans in all phases of timber mill ing industry and seek to establish timber cooperatives on the pattern of the Mov- eavA Coonerativo in Panua. Jim Cooper (Sydney). 