 Resign now ! JjAST Saturday the election result in the blue ribbon Liberal seat of Kooyong was a censure- on the Government for conscripting 20-year-olds to fight in 'the' dirty war in Vietnam. The seven and a half' per cent swing against the ' Government in Kooyong, translated in terms of a general election could : mean the defeat of the Holt Government. This followed the heavy defeat., of the Govern- , ment in the Dawson by-election earlier this year. The Government is under increasing fire inside and outside parliament over its policy of conscrip tion for Vietnam. Prime Minister Holt's public appearances are marked by angry demonstrations, while in the last parliamentary session the Labor Opposition mauled the Government at question time and in debate. Holt's desperate attempt to win public support by delivering three speeches in 10 days left the situa- . ..... tion. unchanged- Federal Treasurer; McMahon, 's announcement in &lt;- pv. >-s parliament -Xljat jan expenditure of. $ 1000 million fort-/'', overseas military expenditure was yet to be paid for .will add fpel to the fire, particularly when trans lated into increased taxes and other burdens that will flow from this year's Budget, due in August. There is more tension and worry among Govern ment backbenchers today than for years past. At the last two joint Liberal and Country Party ' meetings angry backbenchers have demanded action ; by the Government to convince the people to support its policy. Liberal and Country Party members attacked the Government for its "inertia" in northern develop- ; ment. Members and Senators warned the Govern- : ment that the pattern of the Dawson by-election could be repeated unless the Government did some thing to develop the north. ' . Significantly, last week a Country Party M.P. called for the establishment of a conscription , appeals tribunal that would include somebody with .- rural experience. . -This pointed to increasing hostility in rural areas to coscription of young farmers. . .The Holt Government is clearly turning towards police action and threatened court intimidation of draft card burners as well as contemplating extend ing the call-up to 20-year-old unnaturalisecl migrants. Another move — towards giving the vote to under- age servicemen — is a clear attempt to fob off the protest movement. The crux of the anti-conscription movement today . is not the question of the vote but the compulsory sending of men into a cruel ancLunjust war. In this situation, the sweeping Labor Party victory in the British election is helpful to the growing movement against war and reaction in Australia.' But it is the tremendous upsurge in South Vietnam itself, against United States occupation and the anti-democratic and militarist regime that will, now strike the heaviest blows against the Washington- - Canberra axis of war against the people of South- East Asia. The Holt Government' should resign now and . allow the people to determine the course of an independent Australian foreign policy for peace and .security. . 