 S.A. PARLT. BATTLE LOOMING By the South Australian Correspondent ADELAIDE: An important battle over electoral democracy is looming in South Australia. The Walsh Labor Government is pressing its Bill to increase the size of the House of Assembly from 39 seats to 56, to bring about a more equal distri-i bution of seats and to establish one role for both the Assembly and the Legislative Council as a step towards the abolition of the Council. The Liberals are preparing to defeat the Bill. They defend the Playford gerrymander (one-third of the electors elect 26 members of the House of Assembly while two-thirds elect only 13). They also seek the continuance of the undemocratic Upper House. The Communist Party is supporting the Labor Gov ernment's Bill in the interests of democracy. CPA policy, however; goes a stage further and stands for proportional representation. An indication that certain Liberals sense the unpopu larity of the restricted Upper House franchise based on property qualifications is shown by statements by at least two Liberal members that they support one franchise for both Houses. The stand taken by these Liberals also indicates manoevuring to defeat the aim of abolishing the Upper House altogether. Mr. Quirke (Liberal) said that the Government's attempt to get rid of the Upper House was based on the ground of class distinction. It is a fact that class distinction plays a big part in the very existence of the Upper House and its restricted franchise. The House originates from the desire of the wealthy privileged class to dominate in SA and mono polists have used the House as one of their watchdogs. The Premier (Mr. Walsh) said that the ALP had pro mised electoral reform and the people had endorsed the Party at the last elections. . The Liberals can be expected to use domination of the Upper House to defeat the Bill. . Attorney General Dunstan, addressing last year's Metal Workers' Conference, said: "It may be necessary for us to come to the industrial movement for support. If this happens, we need the support of the ordinary people to help us." The Succession Duties Act Amendment Bill has been defeated by the Liberal-controlled Upper House. The aims of the Bill, as outlined by Premier Walsh, were: To increase exemption for widows, ancestors and descendents, and also upon certain primary pro ducing property. To increase the duty on large estates. To eliminate loopholes which enabled certain pri vileged people with large successions virtually to cheat the State out of revenue they should legally pay- . 1 Mr. Banfield (Labor) said they (the Liberals) "did not want the 70 per cent to benefit, but only the 30 per cent Who could afford to exploit loopholes in the exising legislation by taking out insurances and by other means". A third Bill, now being debated, is the Road and Railway Transport Act Amendment Bill. The Minister of Transport (Mr. Kneebone) said the Bill seeks to give the State railways an opportunity to gain their fair share of the profitable trade to offset the losses incurred in providing essential transport services to areas which do not interest the road transport operator. He pointed out that the railways have to provide a public service while the hauliers operate for profit. A system of taxes on road transport operators has been devised to give effect to the aim of the Bill. The Labor Government has moved in the Assembly to establish a State planning authority to develop the metropolitan area, country regions and towns along proper town planning developmental lines. The Government, too, has moved for establishment of an Apprentices' Commission which will "approve" only those employers who provide a satisfactory standard of training. Daytime technical training also is provided for in the Bill, although a period of time is allowed before its introduction. 