 Action qgalnsf "wis buckets" Rail workers' stand for public safety (By a railway worker) SYDNEY: A mass meeting ©f over 500 workers at the Chullora Electric Car Workshops last Friday, refused to allow a carriage to leave the shops for passenger service because of its deplorably unsafe condition. The workers have branded these carriages "rust buckets". On Monday several union officials condemned the cars and backed the stand of the men. Two Labor Party members of the NSW Parliament, Mr. N. Kearns (Bankstown) and Mr. Cox (Auburn) inspected the cars at the request of the men and said that moves to send them out were unbeliev able." For months, the repair wor kers have been critical of the "unsafe carriages" being used for the general public. This resentment reached a climax last Friday when they saw the condition of a carriage to be put into service. The mass meeting, held near the car in question, declared that it' would stay until trans port Minister Morris personally inspected it. The workers are concerned that not only are the general public forced to ride in these unsafe cars, described as death traps by some of the workers, but their own families are among the travelling public. Two other cars have since been banned by the workers. One had rope lashing to hold down the roof. The cars in question are a wooden frame type with steel panels, most of which were rusted through. Door weather strips are non-existent and the condition of the roof and ceiling's "unbelievable". Much of the wood framing is so rotten that when the brakes are suddenly applied, the top moves in the opposite direction to the base. Other carriages in the work shop are now to he "inspected" by the men. They also recall that Electric Bond and Share Company of America (EBASCO) were given an open go to find out every thing worth knowing, invest ment wise, about our railway system. This company discovered some rich pickings for private enterprise and as much as said so in its report, which said:— Rich pickings "Forget your unprofitable traffic— concentrate on freight." Now monopoly, such as Thomas National Transport, skims the cream off railway revenue while train travellers are threatened with higher fares and a risky ride in a "rust bucket". Proper repair of carriages would also help stop the loss of thousands of jobs now disap pearing at the rate of 2,000 a year from the railway industry. Railway workers have the skill and will to do a good job but are not permitted to to so. Nor are they permitted to have a decent living standard on take hoihe pays from $30 to $40 a week. 