 Over a heer at the Billys Some sobering facts about the Hill By HARRY STEIN BROKEN HILL REVISITED JT'S been two years. since I'd visited Broken Hill last, and the new TV aerials sprout- ing from the house-tops only partly answered the question "What's new in the Hill?" There is nothing new about Broken Hill hospitality; as usual they made me welcome at the "Billys" club, one of the city's favourite watering holes. Its real name is the Alma Sporting Club, but everyone calls it the Billys. This goes back to : the days when a south Broken Hill group used to have a drink to-' gether on a Sunday, and agreed they were goats to he without a club! The Billys is a beautiful modern club with sporting,, educational and many other facilities. It's the favourite spot for the miners who live on the south of the city. What's more, you can get a middy of beer for l'/4d! To be fair, the welcome was just as warm at the "Demos" (Social Democratic Club), "The Legion" and elsewhere. When I was at the Hill recently the miners were at grips with the hungry Con- zinc Riotinto group of mines. It was at the Billys that I heard the story of the miner who was rushed to hospital for an emergency operation. When he came to, his first sight, was a beautiful nurse crying at the foot of the bed. Putting on a brave front, he said "Nurse, tell me the worst, I can take it!" "The worst," said the nurse as she wiped away the tears, "is that they cut off your lead bonus." Automation There are very important changes taking place in the Hill to which the trade un ion movement is beginning to react, and which led to the recent conflict between the Miners' Union (W.I.U. of A.) and the CRA mining group. On the surface the miners' main anger is directed at the CRA group; but a deep, underlying bone of conten- ton is the development of in strumentation and automa tion in all the mines. This is leading to continu ous increases of production with a shrinking of the work force. In 1955, .the two main mines of the CRA group produced 1.57 tons of ore per total employee-shift. By 1965 it had increased to 2.83 tons, with the work force reduced by 689. Or. put another way, with a total, on the pay roll of . 3290 in 1955, production was 1,177,406 tons; in 1965 only 2599 employees produced 1,711,640 tons of ore. Simply, it means fewer .miners are producing great er quantities of ore and greater profits for the min ing companies. While the miners were con fronting the companies over the price cutting, new mach inery to further develop mechanisation and automa tion in the "mines was wait ing at the railway siding to be unloaded. This trend is bound to con tinue and is the real back ground to the pinpricking and aggressive actions of the Conzinc Riotinto group against the unions. It also explains why they . would like to see the unions brought under a Federal Arbitration award, the lead bonus pegged as in Mt. Isa, with conditions and rewards in the mines made uniform at the lowest possible level. Denying that they were carrying out a prices cutting policy, the CRA group have published figures which showed that miners had in creased their earnings over a period of years. The president and secret ary of the Miners' Union, Mr. A. C; Treglown and Mr. J. Keenan, replied and point ed out that: In 1961 production in the two mines ' was 1,293,480 tons and profits $4,194,830. In 1964 production had increased by almost 300,000 tons and profits to $15.5 mil lion. Deaths Another thing disturbing many miners is the number of miners dying before reach ing the retiring age of 62. Since 1948 when the pen sion scheme was introduced, 1,190 have retired at the age of 62; in the same period 409 miners died at the aver age age of 47J. "Look," said one miner to me, "we are breaking all records in production and yet for every three miners retiring on a pension at 62 one miner is dying at the age of 474. "Why shouldn't we get higher rewards and retire earlier with a bigger pen sion to enjoy our retire ment? "Why should the mining companies reap the main benefit of mechanisation and automated processes?" There is a new industrial ' situation developing in the Hill which requires new thinking by the trade unions. If the trend is for more mechanisation and automa tion leading to fewer miners producing much more, then, the unions must fight for greater rewards, shorter . hours and a much earlier retirement age with a much greater pension. And most important of all, is what, a rank and file mem ber of the WIU of A said at the recent mass meeting: "We are fighting giant monopoly and we can't fight unless every union fights solidly with one front!" That idea fits into the traditions of the Hill work ers, with their proud record of militancy and highly developed trade unions unit ed in the powerful Barrier Industrial Council. A diamond drill machine, capable of drilling holes to a depth of 5,000 feet, in operation underground at New Broken Hill Consolidated. 