 The big illusion : "We've got to fight them over there!" NO THREAT TO AUSTRALIA JHE general secretary of the Communist Party of Australia (Mr. L. Aarons) has accused the Holt Government of crudely exploiting racial ism to justify its foreign policy and intervention in Vietnam. Speaking to the party's central committee meeting ,on June 17, he said that Army instructors were urg ing recruits attacking tar-v; gets made up to look 'like Asians in rifle and bayonet practice to "get those Chinks before they get ' you!" He said this dangerous brain-washing was typical . of widespread government incitement of Xenophobia and racialism playing for and stirring up primitive and dangerous sentiments. "Government spokes men, and their vocal far- right, supporters, lean al most exclusively on the crude and false slogan 'We've got to fight them over there, or We'll have to fight them here'. "This means that Aus- ' tralian troops are, in fact, fighting ! an undeclared . preventive war against the Vietnamese; people, . a 1 - though no-one in his right mirid would suggest that they could or would ever invade Australia. Lies "All the rest, the lies, half- | lies, distortions and waf- I fling which make up the ' Government case make very little impact, if only be cause they have been so well answered by those campaigning against Gov ernment policy, and still more exposed by what is really happening in Viet nam. "So the Government tries to frighten people with the 'Chiriese threat' and invents the 'southward thrust'. "The anti-China ; cam paign is the main obstacle.- to the fight for a new for eign policy which would attune our national inter ests with those of the emerging new Asia instead of with the interests of .either that imperialism which tries to impose a Pax Americana, or the dis illusioned and reigning practitioner of the Pax Britannica (preparing to retire from East of Suez, but still prating, via Har old Wilson, of Britain's 'influence in Asia) . "It is necessary to re peat our clear position, stated at the last Central Committee meeting. "China, a socialist courL try, does not threaten to inyade pr annex Australia; or any other' country; the real threat to peace in Asia comes from the USA and its allies; Australia must adopt a new policy towards China (instead of the absurd, dangerous and widely-condemned diplo matic recognition ,of the - Chiang Kai-shek, regime) . "We .further pointrout to those who nevertheless fear China that, even if China were the wouldbe itggressivs , nation that the Government, press and Santamaria claim it is, - its industry; navy, air force and merchant navy aire in capable of ' mounting or sustaining an aggressive y war; andicoUld not possibly be capable of this for at least 25 years. Prepared "These are facts which . no well-informed person seriously contests, not even US military experts. It is, of. . course, very true that China could successfully fight a defensive war against US military power. It is precisely this, type of defensive people's war for which Chinese military x power is prepared. "In the longer term, this is the most important for eign policy issue for Aus tralia, and indeed may be decisive for world peace. "This is what makes so stupid and so dangerous the decision to expand its . relations with the Taipehi regime. This is not policy at all. At best it is an emotional reaction com pounded of racialism and 1 Jear; at worst- it is diplo- 1 rriatic and domestic pre- r , 1 paration for the war- hawks' Gotterdammerung dream of war with China. , B Turning to the campaign against prominent B Chinese Communists accused of "revisionism", B B described as a new "proletarian cultural revolu- 9 1 tion", Mr. Aarons posed these questions: 1 Eg What is happening in the Communist Party of 1 | China? What is its significance for international B B politics and for the world communist movement? B B He 'said : B B "It is not easy to discover thb full implications B B of repent events. -The official Chinese Party . B B statements are written : in a . special version /of what /B 1 Lenin, ; in ia different context,: called- "cursed " B B Aesopian language." The issues are cloaked in I B modern allegories upon ancient Chinese classical B I themes, in very specialised jargon. The opposing 1 1 views, so violently condemned, are suppressed." B I Mr. Aarons put the following ideas ais sugges- B I tions in an attempt to analyse these important B I developments." B "It is suggested, and there are good reason's for this, that recent eyents are an expression of . a struggle for power, for : succession to Mao's lead-. ership, with Lin Piao emerging as the successful contender. I would sug gest that the explanation goes much deeper. - "The issue is not just who is ' to lead China but what policies China is to pursue. Lin: Piao represents an ex treme development of the 'Thought of Mao Tse-tung' which in our view has become a' serious a-nd dangerous dis tortion of Marxism-Leninism. "The views summarised as the 'Thought of Mao Tse- tung' cannot be considered as simply an internal issue for the Communist Party of China. It is claimed to have universal validity and to be the only guide to socialism for eveiry country. The wide dis semination of such intemper- . ate -and exaggerated articles as those recently appearing can only harm the cause of socialism among workers and people everywhere. . .... "Explaining the reason for - this struggle, Chinese official statements say that; ' unless this campaign goes on, a Hungarian-type counter-re- : volution can take place, Chiang Kai-shek can . be re stored, and 'millions can lose their lives'. ' This theoretical justification stops just short, but only just, of asserting as Stalin did that 'as socialism, comes closer to final victory, the class struggle intensifies'. Earlier this conclusion was re jected by all parties, including the Chinese. "Causes, of these develop ments ,are to be found primar ily in .the great problems of building : socialism in a pre dominantly peasant country, with only a small advanced in- ; dustrial and technical base. Pressure Of peasant ideology, .' the oppressive weight of tra ditional Chinese thought and national pride, combined with a doctrinaire extension of con clusions from China's success ful revolution to the whole world have produced a new 'cult of , the individual'. ... .'"The,, 'Thought of. Mao Tse- .tung' is now represented as the final development of the magical solution of. all prob lems, great or small, Chinese or international. "Thus an essential process — applying Marxism-Leninism to national conditions — is turned into its opposite and becomes an attempt to' impose one national experience on all countries. "The1 result is this sort of 1 harmful non-Cbmmunit pan- egyrici; 'Mao Tse-tiing's thought represents the peak of Marxism-Leninism in our era, it is living Marxism-Len inism at its highest. The theory and practice of com rade Mao Tse-tung may be likened to the ceaseless move ment in the skies of the suri and' the moon and the endless flow of the rivers and streams on earth'. (Hongqui, June 13, 1966.) ' 1 "Such statements are dis- quieting - enough; they are much worse when linked with very significant breaches of inner-Party democracy. "September this year will be the 10th anniversary of the last CPC Congress. It was admitted then that it was a serious weakness in party de- ' piocracy that the previous congress was 11 years before. "Specific changes were made in the rules;; to. (prevent any ? repetitions, „ Congresses , . were to meet every fiv.e years, , and between congresses annual sessions of the ejected . dele gates were, made obligatory. One session was held in 1958; none has been reported since. "Very important policies decided by that Congress have been greatly altered or entirely changed, without any open discussion of the reasons for the change, or even of the fact > that they have been changed. These changes con- ; cern not -only international politics, and the way to struggle for peace, or policy of the international Commun ist movement, but also ob viously concern vital questions of building socialism in China, relations with the USSR, and military strategy. "The former Minister ! for : Defence, Peng' Teh-huai, elected a member of the Poli tical Bureau of the 8th Congress, was removed from office in 1959, accused of be ing a Rightist. Since' his dis missal many other' leaders have disappeared from any public position, the most im portant being Chen Yun, elected a Vice-Chairman of the CC (alongside Liu Shao- chi, Chu Teh, Choii En-lai) and the foremost economic : planner in China. : "The VIII th Congress de voted its main attention to combating subjectivism , i,n ideology. Liu Shao-chi's poli tical report said: 'Our sub jective knowledge must con form to' objective reality'. 'Congress decided targets for the Second Five Year Plan —steel output was to be be tween 10.5 and 12 million tons in 1962; grain output was to be 250 million tons; coal was to be between 190 and 20|9 mil lion tons. These were pro bably fairly close to objective reality, although it is impos sible to say how they corre sponded" to actual 1962 out put, because no statistics of production have been pub lished in China since 1959. In itself, this is further evidence of departure from objective reality. "But within 18 months these figures were greatly increased. In early 1958 Li Fu-chen said that the 1962 estimates would be greatly/exceeded that year — steel was to reach 18 mil lion- toiis (iLw about ^mil lion in 1956) ; ' grairi vbutput ; was to be 525 million tons, coal was to reach 380 million. The figures had to be re vised downwards later, but they were still widely exag gerated. When Chou En-lai finally admitted that some production figures, especially grain, were way out, he blamed cadres 'lower down'. "Subjectivism was firmly in the saddle; mistakes were not admitted; let alone analysed, and unreal policies continued. These : were not confined to internal policies; the split in the world movement was pur sued vigorously from then on, as was a foreign policy based upon an unreal estimate of actual forces in the world. "In this period subjectivism found expression in the con cept of 'uninterrupted revolu tion', internally and extern ally. "Economists, planners, scientists, technicians and; ex perts, Chinese and foreign, 'who counselled against the ex cesses of the 'great leap' were called 'Rightists'. In this per iod a certain deep-seated em piricism of the Chinese lead ership hardened into a delib erate elevation of practical experience above theory and science. This has become more extreme and rigid in the pre- . sent 'cultural revolution'. "The serious international consequences of Chinese pol icy on its diplomatic position are well-known. They are also reverses for the whole move ment, as are the consequences of the divisions in the world movement, which the Chinese leaders stubbornly perpetuate and refuse to take even one step towards healing. "The most immediate and serious of these— but by no means the only one — is the re percussions of this division upon the heroic struggle of the Vietnamese people. This is expressed in the refusal of common united action with the . other socialist countries and the majority of the Com munist parties in support of Vietnam. , ' 'There are obvious serious . dangers inherent in what is happening in . China today. But there are other implica tions, giving rise to, a, more optimistic view. Despite the long campaighS' of " remoulding and. rectification, massive machinery of ideological ;work, and an unparalleled campaign against almost all the world's Communist parties, resistance has long existed within the party to the policies of the Central Committee majority. Extent and persistence of this opposition has come as a sur prise to most of us. ."It is rather unconvincing to read that the 'horde of monsters' are just landlords' ahd bourgeois elements who have 'wormed their way into the Party'. Some of the lead ing figures attacked are Com munists of many years stand ing, and there are scarcely veiled hints at even more important figiires 'behind the scenes'. ' "This latest inner-Party struggle is much more vigor ous and alsO broader than . earlier, ones ; (and there were a. number of important strug gles in the last 11 years) . "It is much more likely that the social roots- of this opposition are: to be found not in , landlord elements but in .the emergence of an in dustrial Working class. These social forces are scientists ana other intellectuals connected with large-scale industry and a new strata, and must he thinking for themselves, Searching for new ways to build socialism, basing them selves upon large-scale indus try, modern technique and rj/>1 pn pp " "They will not be satisfied with an ideology strongly m fluenced by the special con ditions of a peasant economy whose influences were e - plained by Mao in these terms . . . 'The cult of the individ ual is a foul carry-over nj51" the long history of mankin .' . . (it) is rooted not on y in the exploiting classes _ also In the small produc As is well known, pa.triarcn- ism is a product of sm producer economy . f when ... a socialist soc has been founded, ceita rotten, poisonous ideolog ca survivals of the old so may still remain in peoples minds for a very long time. . Continued on P. 12 No Threat Continued from P. 4 stirring up anti-China feel ing and even deeper and more dangerously primitive feelings. It is unfortunate that some statements by the Chinese leadership give ammunition to this campaign and make much more difficult the develop ment of opposition. "Take such a statement as that of Chen Yi: 'If the US imperialists are de termined to launch a war of aggression against us, they are welcome to come — as early as tomorrow. Let the Indian reactionar ies . . . British imperialists ... Japanese militarists . . . come along with them!... We will still win in the end. For 16 years we have been waiting for the US imperialists to come in and attack us. . . . Perhaps I will not have the luck to see the US imperialist invasion of China, but my children may see it. . . "There are two aspects to such statements. One, they stress the essentially defensive nature of Chin ese policy, which views' an imperialist attack as vir tually inevitable. Two, they well express those Chinese views — rejected by most Communist part ies — that it would be good if the US imperialists were to unleash a major war, for this would mean the end of US imperialism, worth even the inevitable tremendous sacrifices. "It is our view that such a war can and must be pre vented, just as -.we believe that US aggression against Vietnam can and must be defeated and ended", Mr. Aarons said. 