 Franco-Soviet detente continues BIG ECONOMIC DEAL IN OFFING? PARIS (Tass) : A 10-15 year Soviet-French economic treaty | was suggested by Soviet Premier Kosygin as an example of practical steps that could emerge from his talks with President de Gaulle. Such a. treaty, he predicted, could provide a solid basis for co-operation in the develop ment of various branches of industry and open a broad road for expansion of economic rela tions. Kosygin was answering ques tions at a press conference of 450 correspondents in Paris. Stressing also the favorable basis for political co-operation, he said that although the two countries had different social systems, both adhered to the policy of peaceful co-existence. He indicated that there was a big measure of agreement on the need for European nations themselves to solve problems of Europe's security without outside interference. Reaffirming that the USSR was opposed to the further spread of nuclear weapons, he said:. "I am sure that General De Gaulle and the Government of France, as well as the Soviet Government, do not want nu clear weapons to spread among . the countries of the world." I After stressing that the war j in Vietnam must be ended on > the basis of the proposals of J North Vietnam and the South j Vietnam National Liberation j Front, Kosygin said: ! "The positions of our coun- | tries (USSR and France) on j many international problems ! agitating mankind are not only j coming closer but coinciding j . . . both our countries adhere to positions which can be des- cribed as positions of peace, | positions of search for a detention co-operation with all states." ' Communique Meanwhile a joint Franco- Soviet communique issued at the conclusion of Mr. Kosy- gin's visit indicated basic agreement on a wide range of important international issues. In particular, it stressed the need for building a stable peace in Europe by passing through successive stages of detente, entente and co-operation." Both sides "deplored" the "exterior" — or American — in tervention in Vietnam. They also proposed the form ation of a Franco-Soviet chamber of commerce, to facili tate the expanding economic relations between the two coun tries. The communique also called for the continuation and expan sion of the present scientific, cultural and technological pro grams of co-operation be tween France and the USSR. The full text of the com munique had not yet been re- I leased as Tribune went to press, j 