 npnBnHBMaBIUBBHDHn Rough on WA card burners pERTH: "That's one of them, get him" — and 20 - year - old Kpvin Edwards was dragged by four police men towards a car. This happened on the steps of Perth GPO last Saturday morning during a demonstration organised by the YCAC against con- Iscription for Vietnam. Kevin earlier burned his draft card, following a. protest march which climaxed with a meeting in Forrest Place. Up to 1000 people crowding round also saw another 20-year-old, Les Heindrichs, burn his card. Les, together with 20- year-old Rolf Gerritson and Gordon Payne, was also arrested. Many people comment- i ed on the excessive force > used by the police in mak ing the arrests. Kevin Ed wards later told Tribune. "The police caused more strife than we did." Charges were laid of disorderly conduct against all four, and resisting ar rest against Rolf Gerrit son. The attitude of the pol ice throughout showed discrimination against the young people involved in the demonstration. A handful of counter de monstrators" led by DLP secretary John ' Martyr were allowed to continue demonstra ting when YCAC members were be ing moved on by police. Mr. Ray Collie, secre tary of the Save Our Sons t movement, . commented : There is doubt whether police took action to keep | the peace or to discourage | future demonstrations." | While the arrests were i being made young people ; called out "Freedom now, ; not later." Par from being intimi dated by the actions of the police, the young people in particular were encouraged to voice their feelings more boldly and | strongly. Mr. Collie point- | ed out; "Previous demon- I strations have been organ- I ised by adult movements. | Young people are more | emotional, so this demon- | stration had the expected | result." | REMANDED I In Perth Court on Mon- 1 day morning, the four | young men were remand- | ed for eight days on j renewed bail. Of the it thrflfi l'ATWflCSAMfnfiirne | Mr. Henshaw made a statement that as the p Council for Civil Liberties, of which he was a mem ber, was bearing costs of the case, he would limit his appearance to making an application for re mand. Police rough-handle young Perth demonstrator. 