 W.A. METAL WORKERS ! VICTORIES IN 1965 PERTH: An unprecedented upsurge of action last year won West Australian metal workers major break throughs in the struggle for over-award payments. By the use of leaflets, mass meetings, area meet ings and the formation of shop and area committees; wage demands have been rolled in shop after shop. Short stoppages, overtime re strictions, "work to regula tions", judicious "resignations" at appropriate times have driven home to the employers the de termination of the men to gain a measure of wage justice. In the past, with relatively a few metal shops and a static employment position, the trade union movement has found it difficult to obtain the over- award payment breakthroughs so common to the more indus trialised States. Industrialisation in WA is ac celerating, both in the metro politan area and at the iron-ore deposits in the north-west. In the Fremantle, O'Connor, Bassendean, Belmont and Welsh pool areas a minimum of £2 over-award is being paid; £3/3/- and £4 is being paid in many shops. On the waterfront, break throughs came with Southern. Cross slipways and Frantivich, who paid up to £3 a week over. The hard core of ship repair firms h,ung out through some months of direct negotiations. Finally all cracked and all pay at least £3 over now. Hume Steel came good with £2/10/-, which has risen since by another £1. ALCOA pays £2-£4 on years of service. Out in Welshpool the "old guard" J. & E. Ledgers, Tomlinsons, Forward Downs hung out for some time. Meanwhile Vickers- Hoskins paid £2/10/- over and numerous small shops came good also. Finally stoppages and over time restrictions forced the "old guard" into line with ether shops. Railway workers, following their industry allowance win, won a service allowance in crease of up to £1/7/6 a week after a sustained campaign. The year showed a remark able growth of job unity and organisation, despite the re fusal of the Australasian Society of Engineers leadership to par ticipate with the AEU, boiler- makers and moulders in the campaign. Already in 1966 construction workers at the BP extensions employed by Forward Johns have had a day's stoppage in support of a 10 per cent wage increase demand, plus free work clothes. This is being followed by other tactics to convince the employer concern ed. At present the Metal Trades Award is lip for review. The hearing has proceeded for sev eral months and a decision is expected in March-April. Some rightwing officials have strenuously tried to head off action because of the court case. Workers have responded by winning a "quid in the hand" in preference to waiting on "two in the bush" of the court. 