 Attack on school | needs meeting by ; Liberal Minister | JYDNEY : Attempts by a minister of the Askin Liberal Govern- j ment to belittle and ridicule a successful public meeting to j stress the needs of Shoalhaven area schools have shocked the j citizens says the local paper, the Nowra News. j "The amazing chapter of I events that has followed the i formation of a special com- i mittee to focus attention on the needs of schools in the Shoalhaven area reached a fantastic climax" the News said. "One of the largest and best :onducted public meetings ever leld in Nowra, after reaching Umost unanimous decisions on ihe major questions before it, was reported to have been labelled 'a flop by the member for South Coast and Minister for Conservation, Mr. J. G. Beale". The meeting was attended by ' about 350 people and carried (with only three dissentients) two resolutions calling for im mediate State and Federal action to overcome the desper ate shortage of school accom modation and education facili ties. It was organised by the Shoalhaven Education Needs Committee and held under the chairmanship of Rev. N. H. Symes. Delegates of the Teachers' Federation and the P. & C. Associations attended, along with four local shire council lors. "Panic action Mr. Beale's reported attack on the meeting seemed to be part of a pattern of opposition facing the Education Needs Committee all . along. "Right from its inception the Shoalhaven Education Needs Committee has found its acti vities hammered", states the Nowra News. "It met with insinuations, rumors and behind-the-scenes attacks. "Typical was the fiasco at Greenwell Point, when unpre cedented panic action was taken to order as many avail able policemen as possible from Nowra to prevent a rumored demonstration which, it was claimed, was being planned by the committee". Reports were spread that the committee was part of a left- wing movement aimed to em barrass the Government. The Nowra News says that he rumors shocked -committee 1 nembers who included leading. citizens of the district. They j were "amazed" at what was j lone to discourage the holding | of the public meeting. jj Some of them were warned jj that they were endangering | their future careers by going j on with it. I ' Newspapers were warned not j to publish cartoons on educa- J tion needs and somebody — not j a committee member — tape- recorded the public meeting S apparently as part of the intim- | idation campaign. | "Flabbergasted 5 The Minister's reported state- I ment that the meeting was a jj flop and the committee had x voted itself out of existence ® "flabbergasted" members, says J the Nowra News. j In fact the committee dis- j solved itself but only to make ! way for a new District Council of p.' & C. Associations which j it had aimed from the begin- ? ning to establish. j The meeting expressed "grave jj concern" at the delays in pro- jj viding necessary school facili- ! ties approved by the Education 8 Department. . , | It. called on the State Gov- j ernment to proceed with a 1 'i number of works of, which the I first two were erection of g Bomaderry High School and s the Nowra East infant block, 5 both promised for 1966. fi Later, Mr. Beale was report- | ed to have denied calling the | meeting a flop. He was said f to have claimed that this j) statement was issued on his | behalf by "a spokesman". S In a comment to the Tribune, j Teachers' Federation publicity j officer D. Broadfoot said that jj however much local State poli- S ticians might seek to excuse j their own inadequacies by con- j demning the protest move- x ment or blaming their prede- 1 cessors, the schools were in (j more urgent need of attention j today than at any time since j 1880. j Meetings such as the Shoal- | haven meeting were being held throughout the State. Par ents, teachers and local coun cils were co-operating. 