 Yale Dr. Johnson Johnson, former Dean of Canterbury, popularly known as the i oen ec! Dean '» who died last week aged 92, came to Australia in April, l&aO, a time of grave neril for Australian rlptYinpcarw Democratic liberties were cnreatenea by the Bill which had just been introduced by mine minister ivienzies to ban the Communist Party. It threatened jail and continual persecution to all democrats. The Communist Party's gen eral secretary, Mr. L. L. Sharkey, was already in jail. Dr. Johnson came to attend the first Australian Peace Con ference in Melbourne. Peace was then under bitter attack. American militarists were threatening Berlin (Men- zies had lately suggested they "use the atom bomb") and were about to launch their aggres sion in Korea. In the US it self McCarthyi, sm raged. Powerfully The Dean of Canterbury never hesitated from the moment of his arrival. He ranged himself solidly with the forces |of peace and pro gress. He spoke powerfully at the peace conference where, as the best known international figure, he won tremendous attention and support. Barred from Sydney Town Hall, then under Rightwing ALP control and from other halls, the Dean spoke to the people where he could find them— in the Sydney Domain, at workers' meetings, at the Waterside Workers' hall in Sussex Street, where he ad dressed an overflow meeting. As Dean of Canterbury, he could not be barred from St. Andrews Cathedral in Sydney and he preached a powerful peaco sermon to a greatly moved overflow congregation. In this sermon, as also in a special interview he gave the Tribune, the Dean refuted an old slander that he had advocated giving northern Aus tralia to the Japanese. He was in favor of control led migration, he said. He did not believe that the abolition of racialist policies in Aus tralia would lead to a mass influx of Asians. (Quite unaffected by this cleai' statement, sections of the Australian daily press last week trotted out the old story' to discredit the Dean on his death.) Undeterred Tho Dean was undeterred at all times by the torrent of abuse and slander from the capitalist press and politicians. This reached new heights on a world scale when he journeyed to the Far East in 1952 and powerfully exposed the horror techniques being used by the US in the Korean war. Dr. Johnson's book, The Socialist Sixth of the World, published i,n 1939, was, to millions of people throughout the world, their introduction to socialism and the USSR. Translated into more than a dozen languages, it gained a bigger circulation than any religious book since The Pil grim's Progress. The Dean was not a com munist, but believed that Com munism was progressive. He was at one time a member of the London Daily Worker's Board of Directors. "If capitalism thwarts science" he wrote in the Soc ialist Sixth, "it also outrages Christianity, making impossible the Christian demand for justice, freedom, a creative, abundant life and an. ever- widening fellowship for each human soul ... "The communist puts the Christian to shame in the thor oughness of his quest for a harmonious society. Here he proves himself to be the heir of the Christian intention." 