 Rent no more than 20% urges ANU economist £YDNEY : A substantial building program should be initiated in houses and Hats for low rentals and where posijble should be financed af. low interest rates through revised Commonwealth-State Housing Agreements. This proposal for tackling the housing shortage was in- cluded in a paper by Mr. Bruce McFarlane, a Research Fellow in Economics at the Australian National University, to the re cent Living Standards Confer ence. He suggested that rent could be fixed at about one-fifth of the average weekly wage. Owing to Mr. McFarlane's absence through illness, the paper was presented to the 254 delegates to the Housing Semi nar by Mr. P. Troy, also of the National University, Canberra. Mr. MacFarlane's paper made the following points: — Finance For private home building the pipeline of finance from banking system to home pur chaser needed to be cleared and strengthened and the banks should be compelled to lend more for housing at lower interest rates. The new institutions, the "Housing Loans Insurance Corporation" and the "Housing Subsidy Scheme" were not in troduced as part of a coherent program. They were the 'last cards in the pack' of a ruth less politician on the eve of the 1963 elections. It is possible to expand housing and other public ser vices by a socially just reor ganisation of the taxation sys tem. If taxes on very high in comes were increased (exclud ing any increase on the 4 mil lion taxpayers receiving less than $80 per week) and rates raised to those now prevailing- in Britain, government revenue would increase by $240 million a year. people with generous sup erannuation arrangements and wealthier people who take out large insurance were permitted to exclude them from income tax liability. This concession alone costs the Treasury more than $100 million a year. Scramble Mr. McFarlane suggested that the ALP could take up the de mand for a full investigation of the effect of monetary policy on housing. If it were unable to force the Federal Government to agree to this, it should under take its own inquiry, he said. Mr. McFarlane also criticised the lack of long-term govern? ment planning on housing. All that occurred was the annual scramble for funds at the Loan Council and for allocations un der the Commonwealth-States Housing agreements. No Federal authority was re sponsible for co-ordinating home-building, urban redevel opment and road construction. This was left to the States, whose day-to-day tackling of the problem often led to mud dle and inefficiency, as well as lower standards. Proof of this, said Mr. Mc Farlane, lay in- the quality of housing being erected, which he described as "asbestos boxes with holes cut in for doors and windows, either too hot or too ' cold." Part of the blame for the "minimal standard housing" provided by housing agencies, he said, lay with the readiness of politicians and administrat ors to "play the numbers game". With a limited amount of money, the only ways to build enough houses were either to use new construction techniques or lower standards. Apparently, said Mr. McFar lane, the latter approach had triumphed. It looked as if housing offi- cials were adopting the arro gant attitude of saying, "They're only for Housing Commission people anvwav." anu's McFarlane Pumping the pipeline 