 They have more to say While other parties are admitting that it is hard for their candidates to attract an audience, the Communist candidates in these elections are re porting better meetings. This reflects growing public concern over the vital issues raised by the Communist team and . growing recognition that Communist policies offer a realistic alternative to those of the Government. The standing of Communist candidates is based on a number of reasons in addition to preparing the way for electing Communists to Parliament. One is the fact that the election campaign is an opportunity for a more penetrating public analy sis of current Government policies and more far- . reaching proposals for a- different- course than is being offered by the 'Othfer&lt;rOppcidpn parties. On the key Vietnam question, the other opposi tion parties and groups, while opposing conscription and even involvement in ihe Vietnam war, stop short of laying bare the root cause of that war — the determination of US imperialism to achieve world domination and to develop a foothold in east Asia to further this aim.- The Communist candidates have exposed this. They have demanded .that Australia part company with the US militarists and develop an independ ent policy based on friendship with Asia. On domestic questions the Communists have ad vanced the boldest propositions for raising the people's living standards. While calling for immediate wage increases, free hospital and medical services, equal pay for wom en, age pension equal to half the basic wage, price contjrol and other urgently needed refornis, they have gone further. They have called for nationalisation of key industries and resources as a basic step towards improving the people's wel fare and strengthening national independence. They have explained the need for socialism. The money More successfully than other candidates the Communists have been able to show how best to meet the money cost of reforms featured in the Communist Party and ALP programs — not by any juggling of balance sheets or increased burdens on the working people, butj by the real savings to be effected .through stopping waste in military ex penditure, by a new approach to the taxation of the very wealthy and by the revenue gains through nationalisation. Further, the Communists alone among the op position candidates have been prepared to say what many others admit privately but won't say publicly — that the defeat of the Liberals requires the united opposition of all forces of the Labor and progressive movement. The attention the Communist campaign is arousing among increasing sections of the people in itself serves to underline the value of working to secure Communist representation in Parliament. The opening up in the campaign of a nation wide discussion on the vital national and inter national questions has laid the basis for a continuing united campaign for the implementation of the re forms which have been proposed. Whatever the result of next Saturday's poll this campaign will continue. 