 Li LJLrUi Another crime in S. Africa CENTENCING of Abram Fischer QC to life im prisonment by the South African racialist regime calls for the widest possible pro test from all democrats. Like the African leader Nelson Mandela who received the same sentence for the same "offence" earlier, Fischer is being punished for opposing the Verwoerd Gov ernment's apartheid laws which have been condemned by the United Nations and all civilised nations and individuals. At his trial, Fischer proudly ac knowledged that he was a com munist, while denying the accusa tion of sabotage. In London last year on bail to fight a Privy Council case, he could have saved himself by re maining abroad, but .instead chose to return home and help lead the underground struggle against Ver woerd. An Afrikaner by birth, Fischer, now 58, came from a wealthy family and took high scholastic honors, including the Rhodes Scholarship. He could have had an easy life. Instead he took up the struggle for a free South Africa, joininp in 1930, the only party which opposed white supremacy — the Communist Party. When the apartheidists came to power, Fischer used his legal skill to defend those prosecuted. Last year he saved the life of Nelson Mandela and others at the Rivonia trial. This further act of tyranny by the Verwoerd dictatorship will lift still higher the demand, in all parts of the world, for the re lease of Fischer, Mandela and the . thousands of ' other political pri soners in South Africa. Canberra please note AN opinion poll of 1,000 electors in Dr. J. Cairns' Federal electorate, Yarra (Melbourne), has dashed the hopes of its sponsors, the Liberal Party. The question was: "Do you agree with Australia's decision to increase its troop com mitment to Vietnam?" The overall result was: No, 51 per cent; Yes, 37 per cent; unde cided, 12 per cent. In one suburb, Collingwood, 62 per cent were against; in Rich mond, 59 per cent. That's plain Australian! Perpetuating drought "DRAIN drain" is not the most important point for concern in the impending departure to the USA of Prof. J. W. Green, head of the Department of Nuclear and Radiation Chemistry. NSW University. Deadly serious is the revelation that his pioneering work in chart ing Australia's major underground water resources by the use of radio-active istopes was being frustrated by lack of $100,000 for equipment. If bodies like the Water Re? sources Council, the Wool Re search Committee, and Farmers and Graziers have proved mean able of meeting Prof. Green's appeals, it is surely a crushing argument for a full-scale Federal Government take-over of financing and co-ordinating work in thi« field. That, and the re-allocation of money being wasted in Vietnam i "War" on playing field "|HE Government's war policy, with its unjustified inflation of military forces ana activity, is beginning to collide with normal life in this country. A group of women, some who carried children, held up an Army explosion for 15 minutes in Syd ney last week-end. They were protesting at the use of the Field of Mars Reserve (six miles from the G.P.O.) as a simu lated minefield. The women stood in the road, and parked cars in front of the Army vehicles. They had gone there because they believed the mines were a danger to their children who played at the reserve. The noise alone could terrify children. Local residents had earlier formed a committee to oppose the Ryde . Council plan to turn the park into a rubbish dump. The committee's publicity officer (Mr. A. Soady) has appealed to all the people of Ryde to help the committee to save the park. 