 NO PEASANTS IN KY'S PARLIAMENT ANRERRA: Dealing with the South Vietnam "general elections" on1 Sep tember 11 last, Senator A. J. Mulvihill, Labor, NSW, made the comment that no peasants had been elected although most' of the south Vietnamese people were peasants. Senator Mulvihill, who was quoting from "The Economist" of London, was right on the ball. Neither workers nor peasants were even among the 716 can didates who were allowed to contest the 108 assembly seats after the Government had purged 44 names from the list and another 75 had been per suaded to . retire "voluntarily". According to the electoral law not merely communists but also suspected "neutralists" were barred from standing. One result will be an as sembly of civil servants, mili tary men, district councillors and lawyers, but none of the workers and peasants who make up the overwhelming majority of the Vietnam pop ulation. By use of terror the Ky Gov ernment managed to get to the polls .(so it claims) some 4,000,000 voters out of a total South Vietnam population of 16 millions. The voting age was 18 and over. In Australia in 1964, of a population of 11 millions, nearly 6 millions were .on the roll, with the voting age 21. Young people are a bigger proportion of the population in Vietnam than in Australia. The London Times calls at tention to an odd feature of the official returns— the voting was heavier in the areas known to be anti-Government than elsewhere! "The high turn-out in the 1st Corps area where the Buddhist cities of Da Nang and Hue are situated contrasts rather mark-. edly with the Saigon figure of > 66 per cent, suggesting strong local pressure and some infla tion of returns," says The Times. The Soviet newsagency TASS says that active participants in the election were the 600,000 armed puppet troops and police who "stood guard" over the elections .(with 300,000 US troops in the background) and brought the voters to the poll at pistol point. Voters had to produce ident ity cards on demand and brutal reprisals were threaten ed against those not shown to have voted. "The returns of the elections are still being counted in the chancellory of the American pro-consulate in Saigon" said TASS last week. "The world will hardly be astonished if the most fantastic figures are given about the voting." 