 [?] By THE C HALLENGER Tell Sth. Africa: No I auartheid or no sport! 1 j I The exposure last week (by Daily Mirror's Pat Farrell) of a i ! possible sneak campaign to have the Test cricket batsman, j Graham Thomas, "diplomatically" omitted from the South j ! African tour, has caused a storm of protest j "THOMAS is re- i ported to have "a I trace of colored blood in his veins". This could possibly influence the Aus tralian Cricket Con trol Board selectors into dropping Thomas i from the team, thus I "diplomatically" re- I moving any clash j with South Africa's j apartheid (segrega- j tion) laws. ! However, the general | consensus of Australian j opinion, judging from j letters to the daily press, ! seems to be that we must | emphatically tell the South j Africans, "No Thomas, no ' cricket." j Because of apartheid, j South Africa will not play : against India, Pakistan or ! the West Indies. At pre- j sent, the New Zealand j Rugby Union is threaten ing to call off the next I All-Black tour of South j Africa unless Maori play- j ers are allowed to make ! the trip. j The International Olym- j pic Federation has banned South Africa from the j Olympics because' of its | apartheid. | The Australian working- class tradition has always I been one of "give a bloke I a fair go." The Australian I Cricket Board of Control j would do well to remem- | ber this and that the bounds of brotherhood j are international. Surfing I History j By RON MACKERRAS I C ONGR ATULA- | TIONS to Trevor | Mott for his fine article on the heed ! for more financial i assistance to surf life saving clubs — such articles make Tribune really breathe. Surf life saving is origi nally Australian and must be the only true amateur sport existing in the non- Socialist countries. Of the trade unionists and others who visit Syd ney's Bronte Park for their annual picnics, etc., how many know of the skill and fortitude of Sydney surf club mem bers, that prevented a tragedy at a surf carnival on Bronte beach in 1931? Mountainous seas that day made the whole bay a mass of howling foam as wave after wave crashed on the beacn. This was the scene which hushed the 7,000 spectators as a crowd of youngsters lined up for the junior surf race (16-18 years). Once in the surf, swim mers could not be distin guished from each other — all were taking a severe buffeting getting through the huge waves. Most reached the buoys with the aid of a strong outward current, ' but to return to the beach was another matter — tiring and against the current. The 40-odd youngsters were soon swept in all directions, many towards the rocks at the southern end of the beach. Others, battling frantically, were being swept further out to sea. Club mates on the beach leapt to their rescue. Surf boats seemed the surest way to reach the strug gling swimmers. Boat crews from North Steyne, Dee Why, Queenscliffe, North Bondi, Curl Curl and Maroubra were soon at their oars, but none could breach the oncoming dumpers. By now the swimmers were spread out up to three-quarters of a mile from the beach. Realising the seriousness of the situation, officials were ! soon on the phone to alert | the water police and the pilot steamer Captain j Cook, to come round from j the Harbor and search I for survivors. g Although every available | reel on the beach was I soon in use arid some of J Australia's best beltmen jj were in the surf, few I expected them to do much I good. j The crack North Steyne g crew with the famous I Rastus Evans at the sweep | waited on the beach for j a lull in the barrage of waves. When it came, j this famous crew was soon surging forward. j The spectators watched I breathlessly as a 20-foot j wave loomed up and | seemed certain to swamp ! them, but skill and per- I feet physical fitness saved j them as they topped the | wave just as it dumped. I They took on a load of j exhausted swimmers and | brought them to within 75 I yards of the beach, where l the juniors, sufficiently j recovered, were able to g dive overboard and swim 1 ashore, allowing the crew | to return and pick up j more survivors. g Meanwhile several belt- j man had reached the j struggling juniors. Roger g Riley, of Bronte, brought I in four exhausted com- I petitors on his line. | Encouraged by the sue- j cess of North Steyne, j other crews made further J atteempts until successful, I and picked up the remain- j ing swimmers. I Worried officials con- I ducted a roll call and I when the last of the 40 g juniors answered a spon- I taneous roar of relief j went up from the crowd. j The history of surf life : saving clubs can record g many such instances of I heroism and club disci- I pline so necessary in mass j rescues such as the Bronte g epic. I | Pan Hellenic were a tired but happy team as they left the field at Wentworth j I Park, Sydney, last Sunday after drawing 1-1 with the crack Czschoslavakian | 1 touring team Slova Bratislavia. j 