 Mine workers' hell on earth at Wittenoom gorge pERTH: "Devil's Island", "Hell on Earth" — these are some of the ways in which workers at Wittenoom Gorge asbestos mine describe toil in 115 degree heat and shocking living conditions. A key worker at the mine who recently returned to Perth said, "Up there I've seen blokes just about dead from the heat. "Asbestos miners work in stopes sometimes only 39 inches high. The maximum height is 45 inches, so the hard underground working con ditions can be imagined. The stopes are watered to keep the dirt down, but what can scarcely be imagined is the high humidity. "If you even walk in there, you come out sopping wet — the sweat just pours off. But the asbestos ore must be milled dry, and in the mill the dust is terrible. "The high turnover in the work force is undoubtedly one of the reasons for the unprov ability of the mine. In 1965 there was a turnover of 960 for a work force of 390 to 400. "They recruit everybody they can get, and people from cler ical jobs, for instance, just can't stand up to it. "Wages are high, but money isn't everything. I've seen new recruits take a look at the accommodation and catch the next plane back to Perth. "The single men live in bar racks, in 8ft x 12ft rooms, with no air-conditioning and no cross ventilation. There are no breezes up there, anyway. Sub-standard "The Housing Commission houses are sub-standard. They were built in 1948. The com pany administers them and gets 18/- a week for main tenance. This 18/- is certainly not spent, but mainly through lack of planning and system. "One of the main troubles is the shift work. Two shifts of 10 hours a day are worked six days a week. In that heat, in such accommodation, it's hard for a man to sleep. "Despite the high wages, and the fact that some workers have been there 17 years, in 1965 the average time spent underground was 16 days. The top miners earned $350 a week, and the trainees a minimum of $68 per week. Those trainees who showed a good effort could get $85 a week. "The extremely low accident rate showed how good the safety measures were." This worker is convinced that the decision to close the mine was made early in Sep tember when the manager made a rush trip to Perth for 10 days without apparent reason. He attributes the closure to CSR's difficulties in raising capital for the Mt. Newman iron ore project. Fearing the bad publicity, they held off announcement of the closure till the last minute in the hope, that other projects in the North would reach a stage where they could employ more of the displaced Wit tenoom workers. The callous attitude of the Brand-court State Government and its apologias for the Aus tralian Blue Asbestos and its pa-rent CSR have sickened not- only the people of Wittenoom, but Nor'West ports and work ers all over the State. 