 " Most backward nation" charge U.N. delegates lash Holt's N.G. policy By Jim Cooper N wonder Australia's United Nations Security Council rep resentative had to resort last week to abuse of delegates criticising Australia's role in New Guinea and Nauru. He could hardly argue away incidents like the reqent action of a plantation manager who tied a runaway worker to the back of a motor bike by a. rope and dragged him some dis tance. This individual was. given a mere suspended sentence of three months! Mr. McCarthy had to reply in the Security Council to charges made by delegates from Guinea and Tanzania. Tanzania's Mr. Malacela said that Australia ranked "among the stagnant colonialists". Af- OA T?nn HP UA nfofa/1 4-Vi a +n ivi \j jvcuo | lie OIMUCU) biie uci ritories of Nauru and New Guinea were still not ready for independence. Australia was chauvinistic and was abusing and humiliat ing the indigenous populations, he continued. He had the im pression, he said, that Australia had some sinister aims to in corporate the Trust territories. Australians, Canadians, Japan ese were making use of the mineral wealth of the islands. Mr. Diallo, of Guinea, told the Council that a tremendous rude awakening awaited Aus tralia, which he described as "the most backward nation when it comes to meet the dictates of the conscience of the world". Delegates from other coun- tries; basing : their'' ' views" on' Ministerial statements, the re tention of control by Minister ial veto over the House of, As sembly, the by-passing of the Administrator's Council and the discriminatory practices of a considerable number of Aus- tralians in New Guinea, could hardly be blamed for doubting the bona fides of the Austra lian Government. This is one of Australian Ter ritories Minister Barnes' state ments : — "There is no fixed path which a dependent territory must travel on the way to self-gov ernment or independence. "Nor is independence as a separate sovereign country the inevitable or predetermined re sult of political development as some' commentators on the Ter ritory would assume. "The historical and geogra phical ties between Australia and Papua and New Guinea are such that the people of the Territory might seek some closer association with this, country. "While internal self-govern., ment is probably the minimum and sovereign independence is the maximum in this stage of political development, there are a variety of arrangements which could be made within these two positions if the peo ple desired a continuing rela tion with Australia." (Official report of speech to Melbourne Junior Chamber of Commerce, August 27, 1965.) Fighting Parallel with this statement is "the" 'obviously" ' inspired "7th State" campaign. This, together with the Minister's reluctance to clarify his statement, could not help but cause the Tan- zanian delegate to arrive at the conclusions which he drew at the Trusteeship Council meeting. Mr. McCarthy's claim that Australia would hardly have introduced the common roll, universal franchise and a freely elected parliament if it in tended to annex New Guinea, would not influence delegates who are aware that the House of Assembly has powers, little greater than the endorsement of ready-made decisions hand ed down to them from the Administration. It is true that this is not accepted by the House of As sembly and that members are fighting for normal legislative rights. The last two sessions showed examples of their meth ods of struggle for self-gov ernment. Mr. McCarthy would have some difficulty in disproving the charge of chauvinism and the abuse and humiliation of the indigenous population (in the face of the "European-only" clubs which even exclude New Guinean visitors) and the hous ing of the indigenes in separ ate suburbs. Any worker, European or New Guinean, will testify to the humiliation and bashing of the New Guinean workers — the "you must keep the natives in their place" complex. Clearly Australia's reputation in international councils is sinking in the light of its fail ure to equate its deeds with its obligations. 