 Parliamentarians will vote on peace plan for Vietnam By the Parliamentary Roundsman JYDNEY: Two hundred and fifty members of parliament from 51 countries, now meeting in Canberra for a council meeting of the Inter Parliamentary Union, will have an opportunity to vote on a proposal for peace in Vietnam. The leader of the Soviet Union delegation to the meeting Mr. Justas Paletskis said this in Syd ney on his way to Canberra last Sunday. Mr. Paletskis is a Deputy Chairman of the Presidium of the ' Supreme Soviet of the USSR. He denied press reports that this was to be only a complaint against American aggression, and said that it was a positive proposal for peace in Vietnam. The proposal arose from an appeal sent to all parliaments and governments last December, by the Supreme Soviet of the USSR. The appeal called on all governments and parliaments to take all the necessary steps to achieve the cessation of US aggression in Vietnam, and give to the people of Vietnam an Opportunity to decide their own affairs. Mr. Paletskis said that current events in South Vietnam could help to make delegates at the council meeting give serious consideration to this appeal. Delegates will vote on this proposal toward the end of the meeting, which finishes this Saturday. The Prime Minister of Aus tralia, Mr. Holt, Sir John Mc- Leay, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the president of the IPU, Mr. Raniere Mazzili, from Brazil, welcomed delegates at the official opening yesterday (Tuesday). Committees meet After the official opening delegates joined meetings . of the parliamentary and juridical committee, the economic com mittee, the political and disar mament committee, the cultural committee and the committee, of non-self:governing territories. At the moment the commit tees are discussing parliament's influence on the conduct of foreign policy, practical steps towards disarmament and methods of strengthening regional security in . conformity w'.th the UN Charter. In preparation for the meeting both chambers of parliament in Canberra were equipped for simultaneous translations of the discussions into E n g 1 i s h, French, Russian and Japanese. Although Australia has only been a member of the IPU since 1956, the organisation has been in existence since 1889 and in 1894 created its own Statutes Secretariat. The aim of the IPU i.s to promote personal contact be- tween members . of all parlia ments and unite, them iri com mon action to advance . inter national peace arid co-operation. Mr. Jan Karol Wende,- deputy speaker of the Polish Parlia ment and a delegate to the meeting, toid a press conference in Sydney last week that one of the problems of the IPU was that it had no machinery to enforce decisions and it could only recommend findings to governments. Still, he felt the fact that these meetings brought together members of parliament from the socialist, capitalist and newly emerging countries, im portant in' itself. Mr. Wende is secretary of the Polish Democratic Party. A proposal from Indonesia to enlarge the executive of the IPU- from 11 to 17 indicates the desire of the emerging nations for more say in the organisation. MR. JAN WENDE, deputy speaker of the Polish parliament and secretary of the Polish Democratic Party. 