 Arbitration fails again By a Special Correspondent CYDNEY: Rejection by the Public Service Arbi trator, Mr. Chambers, of claims by the Postal Workers' Union concerning pay rates for mail sort ing at the Redfern mail exchange will cause resent ment amongst PMG employees. So far ar. the workers are concerned the decision is another arbitration failure. It is one more of the growing list of examples emphasising the inability of the arbitration system to resolve industrial issues to the satisfaction of the workers. The issue involved in this case was a pay rate for oper ating a new electronically con trolled. apparatus for sorting mail at the Redfern exchange. Installation of the apparatus and failure of the Department to reach agreement with the Union, resulted, in the institut ion of "working to regulations" earlier this year with associated bank-up of mails. Abandoned On a decision of the Aus tralian. Council of Trade Unions officers the "work to regulat ions." was abandoned and a case submitted to the arbi trator. The Union claims that the work in. ; dispute should be covered, by the existing desig nation of "mail officer" and paid at the currently prescribed rates for that designation ir respective of whether it was performed by men or women. The Department sought the inclusion of a new designation with a scale of salary differing from that at present prescribed for "mail officer" and c. lower rate for women. This is precisely what the Arbitrator decided upon and the pay rates he awarded, with only cnci slight difference, were . exactly the amounts put for ward on. behalf of the Depart ment. before the" arbitration proceedings commenced and re peated. during these proceed ings. So for all practical purposes the Union, wasted time taking the matter to arbitration. Parallel Many workers will draw a parallel between this arbitration case and its outcome and the case of General Motors-Holden decided only last week. In both cases the ACTU officers decided on termination of direct action and recourse . to arbitration; in both instances the decision favored the em ployers and in both instances arbitration proceedings, so far as the unions are concerned, were a waste of time. Both these cases and the arbitration, decisions have im portance for the whole trade union, movement. Mr. Chamberlain's decision cculd become a pattern for arbitration, tribunals in cases involving automated processes. On. this basis arbitration pro ceedings will result in lower rates ' than, those previously prescribed for male workers and the introduction of female labor at rates lower than for males. 