 7ki4> 1 First of a series by Tribune Editor ALEC ROBERTSON on his recent visit to Cuba. JT'S the typhoon season now in the Caribbean. In the past week, typhoon Inez has been swirling over island . after island— —Haiti, the Bahamas, Cuba ... Bad for all of them, but for Cuba it's only an added difficulty. Cuba, a long slim island easily fitted into New South Wales, lies just 100 miles from its most implacable foe, the United States of America, dispossessed overlord of Cuba and now coming under challenge in all the Latin Americas. Cuba's 7 million people are forced to maintain, year in and year out, a state of semi-mobilisation ready for the next US attack; and after five years they are still enduring the US- organised trade blockade and the ensuring shortages that still mean rationing of some things like rice, beef, soap, shoes, women's underclothes. It would be hardly surprising if the theme of Cuban life was I "how to survive"— but it isn't so. Despite the absorption of manpower and resources in security duties, Cuba is ambitiously and proudly building for the future, building in a peculiary Cuban way and Socialist society. Economically, it has chosen an immediate path which, unlike that in most other socialist countries, is based on modernisation of agriculture as the key to accumulation, industrialisation and' improved living standards. This means, above all, sugar (now over 6 million tons a year), tobacco, cattle, fruit and vegetables. (Offshore, it also means a big, modern fishing industry, extending now far beyond the Gulf of Mexico throughout the Atlantic and to the Arctic). There are big investments being made, with the aid of special credits from the Soviet Union and other socialist countries, to mechanise harvesting, loading and transporting of products. And modern industry is being rapidly built-l ihermal power stations, engineering works, chemical fertiliser p|aI .refabricated housing, factories— all geared to help, above all 5RICULTURE AND LIFE IN THE COUNTRYSIDE. f There also exists in Cuba vast iron and nickel beds, peat fuel and probably oil, but their exploitation will #elayed some what while agricuture is developed. p Even in such a situation, the Cubans not onluild for the future but seek to build better now. '/ I At Santiago, I was shown over a Soviet-made I Jory for pre fabricating concrete apartments, the first in alt itin America. Young Cuban workers had it humming up towards ipacity (1700 apartments a year) after only 6 months opera i. Two miles away was the first estate of apartment blocks ai iibled entirely from these "pre-fabs." I said to Bob Griffith, the negro site manager there, that the buildings were not only well designed, but the finish of the "fixings" and in-built furniture seemed better than what I had seen in the USSR. Said Griffith proudly: "Yes, and our Soviet friends are consid ering sending a delegation to study our finishing-off methods." In these new industrial plants, up to 60% of workers are under 30, all doing special technical courses, men and women, with black, white and brown skins. Among these young workers there is a boundless and infectious enthusiasm, energy and socialist patriotism that makes life in Cuba today very exciting. Only in such a context could the national slogan "Our country or death!" have the burning significance it undoubtedly has. 