 Holt's win spells war, restrictions, repression IT'S SERIOUS, BUT THE BASE IS THERE Editorial i 'THE sweeping Government victory in the Federal election is a serious setback to Australia's true "interests" yet there are some very positive aspects to the result. TWO SIDES The Liberal and Country Party coalition with a record majority of probably more than 35 seats, can be expected to treat the victory as a blank cheque for escalation of the Vietnam war and conscription. , It will move towards, repression of opposition forces and new restriction on the economic and social needs of the nation. .. It will further subordinate Australian policies to thpse of the United States. - / Ampler- cent.; (nearly million ) of the' electorate cast votes for parties and groups opposed to conscription and the Vietnam war policy is highly significant and (on the latter point) unprecendented in Australian history. The , minority vote is to varying degrees a vote against the war policy and United States domination . of Australian foreign and domestic economic policies. This 42 per cent is a very big base on- which the powerful movement for an independent Australian policy for peace and friendship and for real national development can be built. It is, incidentally, a bigger percentage vote than that which kept the Government in office in 1961. This result makes the actual political position much clearer. The campaign saw a variety of new forces op posed to the war policy — Liberal Reform Group, con script candidates, white collar unions, public advertise ments by hundreds of academic and professional people. This has widened _the potential basis for more effec tive unity in action against the disastrous war policy. FEAR OF ASIA This is a great achievement in an election conduct ed in the context o£ fomented war hysteria and the un scrupulous use, by pro-Government spokesmen and particularly the daily press, of deep-rooted though unjustified public fears of a threat from Asia. Associated with this, is the exploitation of the ideas of the World War II American alliance, to persuade thousands of people that their future now depends on United Stfates defence of Australia against attack by unnamed (and unnameable) Asian forces. The majority vote faces the Labor and democratic movement in Australia with a serious challenge on the undoubted fact that fear of the "Asian hordes" re mains deep in the nation. To dispel this fear on the basis of more effective explanation of the facts and concrete steps towards neighbourly" understanding must be a prime task for all who work for a peaceful future, j It would also be blindness to ignore the challenge I of the spread of conformism among the younger voters, j a majority of whom probably voted Liberal, despite | the simultaneous appearance of active radicalism among a minority of young people. RIGHTIST THREAT The government will soon reveal many things it I has sought to hide — for electoral purposes. At least I another battalion and possibly Air Force and other combat units to Vietnam, extension of conscription I ... these are already widely expected, I Continued on Page 12. Election summary Continued from Page 1. A supplementary budget, increasing the burdens of taxation, can be expected, to pay for the escalating military expenditure while education, housing, public health and development continue to be restricted for lack of finance. The extreme right wing forces already active in the Cabinet, in the Liberal Party and outside, will be the prime movers for attacks on the democratic right to protest, for wider political police spying and for -the use of political sections of the Crimes Act. Because of this, alongside of the sharpening division between Liberal and Country Party, the Government may be in danger of over-estimating its position. The communist vote varied considerably between the elec'/orates contested. While votes remained small, there were significant results in Victoria and Western Australia, and on the whole the position remained as in 1961, and 1963 ( see page 3). The Labor Party, despite some sabotage from right- wing circles centred in NSW, took a clear stand on conscription and Vietnam as well as important dom estic issues and campaigned positively for them. This will have- a big and lasting effect in the labor move ment as a whole. Post-election statements by Mr. A. Calwell and Dr. J. Cairns that the ALP must continue to fight, for these principles and policies are to be welcomed. At the same time, it seems clear that efforts to bid for the Catholic vote by offers of state aid for indep- endent schools have achieved nothing. On the whole the most determined ALP exponents of an independent, peaceful Australian foreign policy successfully withstood the blast of concentrated hostile campaigning. While some ALP rightwing candidates fared less well, the rightwing can now be expected to renew efforts to "water down" ALP policy and turn it to the right. ' . The Liberal Reform Group (as well as the abnorm ally large informal vote) undoubtedly drew off some former Liberal votes and it has announced its intention to continue its campaign. It reflects a burgeoning dis content in professional and business circles, including Australian business interesls concerned at the implic ation of the pro-American government policies. The extremist pro-war Democratic Labor Party has little cause for satisfaction, with significant declines in NSW, South Australia and Tasmania and only a mar ginal rise in its main .base, Victoria. The Government victory has given a breathing space and encouragement to reaction in Australia — but the basic issues, the effects of a wrong war policy on Australia, will intensify, bringing inevitably the op portunity for a united defeat of this policy and its sponsors. v.- 