 SIR GILES SPEU.S IT OUT 'Don't chance it with Ansett/ is the message If Anseff succeeded m getting the Government to seiB TAA he couSd hear — In the distance — the cry "seBS Qantas" &lt; — Sir Giles Chippendall said last Satur day night. By a Special Correspondent Sir Giles is former Chair man of the National Airlines Commission which operates the Government-owned com pany Trans Australia Airlines (TAA). He was speaking on Channel 2ABN's Four Corners session. Following his retirement, Sir Giles has now -spelt out plainly what has been well known for a long time, Since 1957 the Federal Gov ernment has been using the tax payers' money to build up the Ansett-Australian National Air lines (ANA) monopoly at the expenses of the Government's own airline, TAA. Those profits Sir Giles made the important Point that "TAA's profits go back to the nation or are used by the Commission to provide the best possible service at the lowest cost to the user. That is its role." He said, "that while in the ast two years TAA had to pay lo the Government $1,800,000, Ansett had paid only $20,000." Following his statement the 4.i.ssue for Australians is not ether TAA should be handed cofr Ansetts (as Mr. Ansett t(> £>e suggesting by im plication) but whether the Gov- ernment should not stop pour ing taxpayers' money into An setts and allow TAA to expand as it should. The latter policy could lead to cheaper fares instead of con tinuous fare-increases as at present. What Sir Giles revealed am ply justified the comment of Opposition leader Calwell that Mr. Ansett was "the pampered, petted darling" of the Federal Government. He said that development of TAA had been held back to suit the pace of ANA. Hobbled No other company in Austra lian history had ever been given so many concessions at public expense and seen its competitor so hobbled. In his earlier statement Sir Giles Chippendall said he knew of no company or industry that had received such Government support as ANA. He knew of many that would like it, and who, if they got it, might not still be passing the plate for more. He said that of 118 Austra lian airports handling 2000 or more passengers a year, An- sett-ANA served 91 while TAA was licenced to serve only 40. For the year ending 1964-65 ANA's total revenue (including its non-airline revenue) was more than $93 million or nearly twice the revenue of TAA's $50 million, Sir Giles said. In 1958-59 ANA's profit tax (Continued on Page 12) R. M. Ansett _ _ ; Ansett j exposure j (Continued from Page 1) was 1.66 times that of TAA. By 1964-65 ANA's profit (after add ing back TV losses) had risen to nearly twice that of TAA. During the six years ANA's pro fit rose by more than 375 per cent compared with a rise of 280 per cent profit by TAA. Thus ANA's profits rose 34 per cent faster than that of TAA, Sir Giles said. In June 1965 ANA's operations embraced 55,305 route miles, against TAA's 25,668 miles. For the year ended June 1965 ANA's share of total domestic traffic was 54 per cent while that of TAA was 46 per cent, Sir Giles said. Twenty-two per cent of An- sett's airline revenue had been received from routes over which TAA was not allowed to com pete and where Ansett was vir tually a monopoly. Sir Giles said that apart from correcting the imbalance TAA should be allowed to compete with Ansett in general tourism, accommodation, charter work and engineering for outside air craft organisation. He added that the "imbal ance" presented "a significant threat to the efficient working of a truly competitive system" without which Australia would lag behind the rest of the world in civil aviation; for example, in acquiring supersonic aircraft. What he clearly meant was that, under the present set-up, we will get these not when TAA is ready for them but when it suits Ansett's profit-prospects for us to have them. 