 B— — IW— I— I— IIHHMBHIIH— IIIIWlBBBM I— llll I MXIM llhllBIMMIIIMII II— !! I— IM f— IMMMUMIMIII !!! IIHI— MMHIIiMllH i II II— I — IIMWdl— H>M Ml— IIWIWI——I IM— — — — i From Australia and abroad coonardoo Katharine Susannah Priehard. Considered the best of its kind — the story of the relationship between a white man and an aboriginal woman — the book part reality, part symbolic — arrives at an inevitable and tragic end. Despite this the book has life and warmth and a heartwarming tenderness. $1.50 ($1.63 posted). the russian forest Leonid Leonov. Leonid Leonov is one of the great figures of modern Soviet Literature. This first English translation of his finest novel shows his consummate versatility as author, artist, philo sopher and citizen. This epic reads like a kaleidoscope of the twentieth century Russian scene. We find here half a century of Russian life, the Great Patriotic War, the harsh clash of scientists, a maturing new generation and a range of differing life patterns. The characters that cross these pages are bold, clear and sharp, yet finely drawn. All are linked with the central character Vikhorov, a. forest scientist, and ultimately with the history of the Russian forest, a symbol of national life. $3 ($3.25 posted). Smyths and legends of Australia A. W. Reed. Illustrated by Roger Hart. Few primitive peoples can claim as rich a heritage of myth and legend as the Aborigines of Australia. Observing the mysteries of sun and stars, bird and animal, man and woman, life and death, they wove legends of great fantcsy and beauty. Some of their legends strove to explain the earth, some celebrated heroic feats, others were comic — from this wealth of material the author has written fifty- five tales, authentic and without distortion, so that the tales are seen "as it was in the beginning." $3 ($3.16 posted). threepenny novel ( Bertolt Brecht. I Dry and humorous — a biting satire on . decaying capitalism 1 during the Boer War. The Dicken-like characters behave I predictably and logically, depending on their relative posi tions. A book to read and re-read. 85c (95c posted). general council of the first international minutes 3 volumes Now available are the first three of the five-volume col lection of the complete texts of the minutes of the General Council of the First International. The material in this col lection shows the leading role played by Marx and his followers in the fight he carried on for the victory of ihe theoretical and political principles of scientific socialism in the international working class movement. Most of the minutes, including Marx's speeches at the sittings of the General Council, are published here for the first time. Vol. I $1 ($1.19 posted); Vol. II $1 ($1.16 posted); Vol. Ill $' ($1.22 posted). New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607. 