 "Inexcusable Betrayal" rpWENTY-FOUR years ago as Australia Day came round, the Australian 8th Division, with air force and navy men, were fighting desperately as the Japanese pressed them down towards Singapore. On January 23, 1942, Prime Minister Curtin cabled Churchill: "After all the assurances we have been given, the evacuation of Singapore would be . . . an inexcusable betrayal." Four days later, the British commander decided to evacuate Malaya; on February 15, Singapore was surrendered. What followed is well-known. What is perhaps forgotten is that when Australia, for the first time, put its troops at th disposal of imperialist generals in Asia, it suffered the greatest military tragedy in its history. One immediate result was a total concentration on the genuine defence of Australia against the real 77 threat of the Japanese aggressor. Australia's foreign policy and military decisions thereafter became much more independent. But that was 24 years ago. Last Thursday, the London Times stated that the British Defence Minister (Mr. Healey) would bring to Australia in a few days proposals for a "heavy increase in Australia's defence expenditure." At the moment when Australia is observing the 188th anniversary of its foundation, this raises some grim issues. Having struggled out of military colonialism .7 various stages of self-government to a posi- tion of an "independent nation within the Common- wealth", how is it that Australia has to wait meekly while the governments of Britain and the United States cook up a scheme of new war and tax burdens to .impose on us? The; ansiver is to be found above all in the policies followed by the Menzies Government and likely to be followed by Holt, his trained stand-in. These are policies of playing junior partner to US and British imperialism in this part of the world. That means doing some of the dirty work in the hope that big Australian investors will get some of the spoils. It should not be forgotten that the preceding (Labor) postwar Federal Government, despite its weaknesses, was respected by emerging Asian nations, refused to grant Manus island as an American base, and planned to recognise People's China: all marks of a relatively independent foreign policy. A statement by the retiring Prime Minister Men zies at his ballyhooed press conference last week was a sharp reminder of the un-Australian essence of the foreign policy he has pursued. His government, he said, was not concerned with "a narrow coastal defence" of Australia but a "broader defence" with allies. More plainly, Australian military forces have been deeply committed, not to defend Australia, but to carry out. the strategies of the US and British Gov ernments in Asia, to suppress historic national revo lutions there. , ? The war against the Japanese aggressor was a just and necessary war, fought over a wide theatre, but' even in that war subordination to imperialism in Malaya proved a costly error and lesson. Today, when there is no aggressor threatening Australia, the policy is clearly even more danger ous. THEN, the Asian peoples were our allies in resisting aggression. NOW they see the US, British and Australian governments as the aggressors. Such a policy, bringing with it also the economic burdens so clearly displayed in recent cost-of-living figures, in fact is rapidly undermining the national security, legitimate defence interests and independ ence of Australia. It underlines the urgent need for an Australian government with an independent policy for peace, friendship and national and social security and development. 