 . Multi-million dollar plant for omrsem owners, but WORKERS IN GLADSTONE LIVE IN CARAVANS By BETE THOMAS gRISBANE : A ieatm of top Queensland union officials last month went to Queensland areas where enormous projects are under way- Places which they visited include Gladstone, Biloela and Coliinsvilie, where undertakings being constructed run into over $200 million. Heading the prejects are the alumina plant ajt Glad stone (that's a £104 million j job), the new Gladstone - M-Oura railway line for Tkiess- ! Peabody -Mitsui coal (this j line is to cost us about $27 million), the Caicap- power station, lit -mil?.-- f rt.- Bilocia (it will run into $47 million) and the Collins villt power station, 5U miles west of Bowen in North Queensland (that job is reckoned a,t $48 million) . With spending on that scale, and -with overseas ana Aus tralian contractors ge 1 1 i n g really big money for them selves, workers are rolling it up that they get some proper recompense for the work they do and for the disabilities. Stark new shape at Gladstone Gladstone, first place on the union officials' itinerary, is dominated by QlcL Alumina Ltd.'s vast $104 million alum ina project, whose stark shape at Parsons Point (about three miles from the centre of the city) is growing high and wide. The big monopoly names behind the Qld. AhaminE company include Kaiser of USA, Aluminium of Canada ( ALCAN) , Pech i n e y of France and Cenzinc Rio Tinto. The profits will drain away from Australia. As an extra plum for Kaiser of USA, Kaiser Engineers & Constructors Inc, is the engin eering and construction man ager for the project. Most of the steel for the construction — and there's a lot of it — comes from Japan. The construction of the Glad- stone plant may be finished about the end of this year, for production of (alumina from- Weipa to begin next year. There are about 140-0 work ers on the Gladstone site now. The number will rise to 1900 ; or 2000 ei its peak later this I year. "Workers are bitter about ex- i aggerated newspaper reports i on their pay. | In any case, whatever pay i they get is from working very i long daily .and weekly hours, j Most work nine hours a day, j six days a week. But one j tradesman told, of how he and I others had been called on, in ' two out of three recent weeks, j to work 10 hours a day on six ! days of the week and nine ' hours on Sunday. j USA , Japan will score from new railway Another big project in that area is the construction of the new Moure- Gladstone railway. That 112-mile line will cost us 1 about. $27 million. ' It is being built to shift five I million tons of coal a year, j I in seven 3050ft, trains a day. j ! from the Moure, field. | ! The coal gs»es overseas, ; j and so will most of the pro- i I fits. Australia will he left ; j with the big hole in the j | ground. ... i i Some set thai the job posi- I j tion generally isn't too bad in j Gladstone. But on the wharf in one , recent Ill-weeks period the 60-odd Gladstone wh&rfies got only one nay's work- As for housing, the Glad stone position remains acute. And in the showground A FAMILY of man. wife j and four children (from j two years to seven) have to j live in a rented 16ft. caravan j and annexe on tne Giaostone j showground. Even that costs j them $15 a week for the j renting and $4.5® a week for i the use of the few and ! crudely primitive showground amenities. About 6D other family cara vans also Eire huddled together in the dust and weeds of the showground — ana that's apart from all those at other caravan parks that have sprouted in Gladstone. The caravan communities of Gladstone reflect the fact that huge industrial projects have been launched in the area without anything like adequate parallel action to see that homes are provided. Dust, slush The Kaiser company and others hare provided fair ac commodation for single work ers. But hsving got the work ers they need, companies and authorities are far less inter ested in whether there's any where for the workers' fami lies. What sort of a life is it for womenfolk and children who have to spend their dav£ and nights in such dirty and shab by conditions as the show ground provides? "You might think there's no work in keeping a caravan tidy," said one woman, paus ing in her swishes of the "broom. "But have a look at this floor — covered with dust — End it's only an hour ago that I clesner it all out." She and her husband are paying off the caravan. It cost them $40D deposit, ana now $9 a week. They made their own annexe. Another woman was digging around what at showtime is a kiosk. She was trying to drain it. Three tubs, no copper "Things are bad enough any way', without having to have a swamp around our caravan,' she said as she swept some of the sweat off her face with the back of her hand. The ground there was swampy because this kiosk is now an elementary laundry for some of the families. The laundry facilities pro vided by the sbowgreumfi r, amount only to three wash- tubs. no copper, no washing machines. So families have to do their washing in their own jasach- ines. (If they haven't got a machine, then they're in worse bother still.) They have the machines either in their caravan annexes or, if they can't fit them there, in the showground kiosk. The washing is hung out in whatever way the showground families can contrive, Some is on lines strung from the caravans; other washing is on lines rigged up in front of what &t showtime are the cow stalls. Other bits and pieces of laundry are draped over the fences. Svery time a gust of wind comes, and every time a car drives into the ground, clouds of red-brown dust swirl up Rnri settle on the washing. There is no bathroom for the showground people. There are three showers— "one is ®l&y a pipe," & woman said— for women.. One of jhe thro# has warm water. Tnere are three showers for men — "one lukewarm, two icy cold," a rr.E.n said disgustedly. I asked some of the wcenen there if they had tried to get rented housing. They said the | position was hopeless, i The Queensland Housing ! commission has built some ! houses. But who gets them? ! They go to Qld. Alumina per- j manent staff men, local peo ple say- One woman told me of local people having had their names down for Housing Commission homes for years. TO? : The Alumina plant under construction at Gladstone, Queensland. BELOW : Worker's caravan at the Showground in Gladstone. 