 CANBERRA dodging in | PREPARATIONS for President Johnson's visit ranged from the planting of "instant grass" around the American War Memorial, | to scrubbing of the rocks surrounding Lake Burley Griffin. On Thursday evening, arriving at Fairbairn t RAAF base the President received a few cheers from the children but an otherwise quiet reception from a small crowd. As the President gave his first speech in Australia, beside the ever-smiling Harold Holt, it was clear that the message .he was j bringing was: the war goes on and the "American-Australian alliance" must be strengthened. ' Then the most elaborate public relations team ever seen in Australia swung into 1 action. Following the President's bullet proof car and the G men's car came an army of pressmen and photographers— two open trucks with photographers and TV cameras, then a A fleet of buses carrying 130 White House press- ' men and Australian journalists. | Every time Johnson selected a bonny baby &lt; to pat or spoke a few words he was photo graphed and reported in the American and Australian press. But the . schedule didn't . allow for the hundreds of demonstrators who were packed ten deep and strung out along the whole , width of the Canberra Rex- waiting for him to appear., There were 2000 people outside the hotel l by 8.30 pm, with the president already an hour overdue. Most of them had come to | let Johnson know that they were not "all | the way with LB J". I As the Canberra City brass band played, the crowd shouted "Hey, Hey, LBJ, how many kids have you killed today?", and held up a sea of banners such as "Go home, Johnson, and take Holt with you" and "We're not 1 cattle and this is not your ranch." At 11 pm there was a tremendous booing from the crowd, which surged forward. A policeman was heard to say "He's inside; we transferred him into a police car and sneaked him through a back entrance." The "most powerful man in the world," surrounded by the top security men of two countries, had arrived "home" in the national capital, carted through the back way and up the goods lift like a sack of potatoes. But there was no escape for the President. Next morning, as he stepped out of his car to enter Parliament, the booing demonstrators on the lawns outnumbered those who had just come to watch. 