 "NO MORE AUSTRALIAN LIVES": CAIRNS LASHES VIETNAM POLICY — Serious mistake 99 By our Parliamentary Correspondent £ANBERRA : Dr. J. F. Cairns (Lab. Victoria) called on the Government last week not to risk one more Australian life in the war in Vietnam. Sneakimr in the Bud&ret debate he said : &lt;4I believe that Australia's in- volvement in the war in Vietnam is wrong, that it was a serious mistake, and that the involvement should be brought to an. end as soon as possible." In opening his address, Dr. Cairns said: "I want to make it clear at the outset what I think about the war in Viet nam. I am convinced that it cannot be justified as a de fensive war against Commun ism or China, or as a war in the interests of the people of Vietnam and South East Asia." He said that until the troops are withdrawn the Australian position should be converted into a holding operation. Not one more Australian life should be risked in this un necessary and unjustified war. Political observers in Can berra followed Dr. Cairns' speech with interest because of the press speculations that since his visit to Vietnam he had changed his attitude to the war and Australia's participa tion in it. Although Dr. Cairns' Budget address on the Tuesday night should have ended the press speculation, on the following Thursday Dr. Cairns, in a per sonal explanation in Parlia ment, complained of being mis represented in the Sydney Morning Herald- He referred to a paragraph in a report of the Wednesday's Labor Caucus meeting which said: "Dr. Cairns and Messrs. Cross and Bryant are reported to have stressed that it would be im possible to follow the recom mendation of the Caucus for eign affairs committee that a future Labor Government . would 'direct the Army to bring home without delay' National Servicemen in Vietnam 'acting with full regard to the safety and security of the Australian force'." Dr. Cairns told Parliament "that statement is completely incorrect. In fact, I expressed an opinion which was exactly the' opposite of that statement." Stressed It is believed that Dr. Cairns in Caucus had stressed the importance of maintaining Labor's policy which was for a future Labor Government to bring home without delay Na tional, Servicemen in Vietnam, and if the Army said this was not possible then all the troops, should be withdrawn. Caucus members later indi cated that Dr. Cairns' extremely strong statement about the sit uation in Vietnam had rein forced the feeling of the ma jority of members of the cor rectness of Labor Party policy on Vietnam. It is understood that a. motion moved by Mr. C. Jones, MHR (Newcastle) that the reports of all Labor members who had recently visited Vietnam be re ferred to the Foreign Affairs Committee hardly got off the ground. There is keen speculation at the moment in Canberra as to who leaked the wrong, informa tion about Dr. Cairns' Caucus address to the SMH and what were the motives. Could this action have .been aimed at undermining support for Dr. Cairns as a contender for future leadership in the ALP? it is being asked. DR. J. F. CAIRNS It's still wrong 