 Pollution -a case of criminal negligence IF the morning paper head lines said, "Manly Beach Polluters Face Criminal Charges", or Yarra River Fish Poisoners on Trial , many Australians would feel that justice was being done. Soviet citizens certainly felt that way when Tass News Service issued a report headed, "Indus trial Executives to be Tried for Water Pollution." Prosecutions have been launched against a group of high managerial executives at the Volgograd- Chemical Plant. The charge is that they were "criminally respon sible" for polluting the Volga River with chemical effluent from the plant. The managers had failed to filter the effluent as required by Soviet health and beauty-preser vation laws. This negligence led to serious pollution of a section of the Volga River, of which Russians are certainly no less proud than Aus tralians are of their golden beaches. Many Volga River fish, including highly valuable sturgeon species, were poisoned, and, as the Volga is an important inland fishery, the national economy was harmed. When it was proposed some years ago to build in Far Eastern Siberia a great industrial plant whose effluent might find its way into Lake Baikhal in the Buriat- Mongol area of the Siberian Far East, an outcry was raised by press and public against the dangers of polluting this magnifi cent lake, the' deepest in the world, with manifold varieties of fish. I visited the construction site of this plant— the largest in the world for processing timber into pulp, cellulose and cartons — at Bratsk, the new city in the Siberian taiga, a short air-flight from Irkutsk. The timber-processing plant is on the Angara River, beside the biggest water storage in the world, banked by the Bratsk hydro-power dam. Although the Angara is the only river that flows out of Baikhal — 336 streams flow into the lake — pollution of dammed water at the river exit from the lake could affect the lake itself. Conflict between the needs of industry and preservation of natural beauties and resources had to be avoided. Bratsk had everything for the timber-processing industry— water for power and for transport for the birch, larch, pine and fir log- rafts, and the pure water essential for cellulose tyre-cord. Baikhal water is so pure that it can be used for car batteries. Poisonous effluent came from the production of cellulose, tur pentine, etc., in a timber-process ing plant. But Bratsk executives were well aware of public vigi lance — and public preference, perhaps, for natural beauties over their industry. So they installed a most expen sive filtering and regeneration plant at Bratsk. To aid the mechanical filters in preventing pollution, trillions of microbes are being put to work to get rid of substances that generate pollu tion. If, in spite of all these precau tions, any trace of pollution is revealed WW wsts of Baikhal wat expensive diversion P'|H be comPul- sory. 11L Contaminates,1' will be diverted River, . which doe?H streams feeding BaiM|||- Bratsk wiM.kss than 8 million cub® timber a year, but .forests is not permits® 1 :hugh con sumption at uld not eXst aether for i00 years. H , Forests are if Ranted as 1085 a and Lake Bai All this anti-pollution and re afforestation investment — and the trial of managerial polluters at Volgorad — underlines Socialist determination to conserve nature's beauties and bounties — to guard people's lakes, forests, rivers, harbors and beaches. The original cost of this civilised conduct may be heavy— but not nearly as heavy as the slaughter of fish, the spoilation of play grounds, of rivers, lakes and beaches, and the devastation of forests. It is within the range of science to stop pollution by industrial effluent. Pollution is the work of man and can be stopped by man. The wall of the Bratk dam, the world's largest until bigger ones at Presgg constructin in the USSR are completed. 