 CUBA: of the 4; IPS#®# i fMmm: > I lEl 'ZSSMrvBSlt .EMammmi' 14 ' ' I CUBA: Beacon of the Americas, by Eric Aarons and Pete Thomas. Price 25c. Published by the Queensland Guardian. Available from New World Booksellers, 425 Pitt Street, 'Sydney and other pro gressive bookshops. Few Australians have visited Cuba in the seven years since the establishment of the present revolutionary Government and very little has appeared in print about such visits. Those who recognise the special significance of Cuba as the first putpost of socialism in the West ern Hemisphere, will welcome this booklet on Cuba, by Eric Aarons and Pete Thomas, who visited Cuba late in 1965. The authors have not only writ ten of what they saw in Cuba, and about their discussions with Cub ans, but have also endeavoured to give an outline of the historical background of Cuba and a com parison of conditions past and present. In this they have succeeded re markably. A few years ago Cuba under dictator Batista was a country of mass unemployment and grinding poverty. In a population of seven mil lions about 600,000 were unemploy ed and a large mass of agricultural workers could count on only about four months work in the year. Disease and malnutrition, illiter acy and oppression was the lot of the workers and peasants. In seven years of the new regime illiteracy has been virtually abol ished and work is available for all with steadily improving living standards. Early in this century Cuba won independence from Spain only tc fall under the tyranny of United States imperialism which establish ed its military base at Guantanamo and restricted Cuban sovereignty. This led to economic domination and political interference and cor ruption. The Batista gangsters were back ed by the United States. The overthrow of Batista and the advent of a new government under Fidel Castro was followed by Un ited States efforts to work out a new robbers' bargain which would make the new Government a part ner in the continued exploitation of the Cuban people. What a shock for United States imperialism! For the first time a revolution in a Latin American country had led 'to a government genuinely of the people, a government which could not be corrupted by the American monopolies, but which took firm action to improve living conditions for the people and more and more acted against the Amer ican monopolies and then nation alised them. Then came the period of savage reprisals by the United States, boy cott and blockade, sabotage and murder. The United States aided and or ganised the counter-revolutionary forces. It equipped and aimed these forces and transported them to invade Cuba at the Bay of Pigs, in 1961. All of no avail. In a matter of hours the invasion was crushed by the Cuban people. When in 1962 the U.S. concentrat ed immense armed forces in Flor ida poised for the destruction of Cuba, the crisis was again over come with the aid of the Soviet Union. How was a backward Latin American country, without big scale industry, and depending on economic ties with the United States, able to withstand the sav age hostility and economic boy cott of the United States? The booklet maxes the answer clear. Fidel Castro's government joined the camp of socialism. The United. States boycott oi Cuban sugar, the mainstay of its economy, was ineffective because the Soviet Union and other social ist countries bought Cuba's sugar. The change of Cuba's trade from reliance on the adjacent United States to trade mainly with the socialist lands completely defeated the economic warfare of the Un ited States against Cuba. Further massive aid from the Soviet Union has opened up new avenues of economic development while agrarian reform and other progressive measures has set the Cuban people firmly on the path of socialism. The authors remind us that Aus tralia withholds diplomatic recog nition of Cuba and that this is another manifestation of United States influence over the Common wealth Government. This is against the interests of the Australian people and we should demand recognition and diplomatic relations with Cuba. The authors refer to Cuba as a "beacon of the Americas". This refers to the profound significance of the Cuban revolution for all of the Latin American countries. Many Latin American countries are in a position similar to pre- 1959 Cuba with American economic and political domination. The movements for national independ ence in these countries have found new inspiration and strength from the example of Cuba. The brutal intervention of the United States in Santo Domingo is an evidence of the great fear of the United States at all progressive developments in Latin America. The task of the United States in maintaining its domination be comes ever more difficult and more Latin American countries will become independent of the United States and turn to socialism. 