 City car parade to begin unions' Equal Pay Week SYDNEY: The trade union's national Equal Pay Week will commence next Monday, May 16, in Sydney with a car cavalcade through the city. MNIONS have been asked to provide veriiciesi mounted with special ban ners, for the cavalcade being held between noon and 2 p.m. The NSW Labor Council meeting next week will be given over to the theme of equal pay and workers from the job have been invited to attend. Special job meetings have also been arranged to take up the demand for equal pay. A leaflet issued by the NSW Metal Trades Federation of unions said "the job of winning equal pay is not the sole re sponsibility of trade unions with women members. "There are no real reasons why equal pay has not been introduced into Australia — ex cept the greed and desire for super profits — particularly the big monopolies who stand to gain most by the retention of this outmoded state of affairs, "- the metal unions said. They point out that for years the Sydney sheet metal firm of Malleys Ltd. have been paying the minimum male rates to all of their women employees. Last. year, by direct negotiation, women obtained an increase of $1 over the minimum male rate arid they now receive $36.10 per week. "If Malleys can pay equal pay and are still able to com pete on a highly competitive market, so too can other em ployers." Job meetings The metal unions called for the holding of job meetings to demand: 9 Immediate ratification by the Federal Government of the Convention 100 of the Inter national Labor Office on Equal Fay and the immediate grant ing of equal pay rights to all Commonwealth employees. ® extension of the State J equal pay legislation to cover I all women workers covered by 9 State wards. J ® Representation to employ- 1 ers seeking equal pay for all I women workers. 9 Psychiatric nurses in Sydney have already started a cam paign to back up their equal pay claim at present being heard by the State Industrial Commission. Leaflets have been distri buted to the public and a de putation of 100 recently went to Parliament House. The Liquor Trades Union leaflet said that work done by male and female cooks, pan try, kitchen and house work ers is equal. So too is the work | of packers, sighters and wash ers in aerated waters and wine stores. 