 [?] By an Industrial Correspondent IS the national wage case nears its end, it is clear that an award of any- fj| thing less than the unions' claims will be regarded as quite unsatisfactory |M by workers. 11 The claims — $4.30 increase in the basic wage and margins in creases ranging up to $5.90 for metal tradesmen— have been vigorously advocated by ACTU Research Officer R. Hawke and demonstratively supported by the workers. The proceedings have been . highlighted by the appearance as witnesses of three members of the Government appointed Committee of Economic En quiry—Sir James Vernon, Pro fessor Karmel and Mr. R. B. Myer. I The dramatic circumstances and character of their evidence —concerned mainly with the validity of a certain theorem of economic reasoning — tended to blot out the basic ground of the unions' case. i This basic ground was that the role of the Arbitration Com mission, as set out in the Act which created it and under which it functioned, is to settle industrial disputes by fixing award wages which aire just and reasonable. Mr. Hawke stressed this con sistently and, with equal force and consistency, attacked the view that the Commission had any role to play as an eco nomic determinator. He pointed out that the Com mission has no power to con trol prices, profits or any other form of income for people not covered by industrial awards. Tribunal He reminded the Commis sion that only the workers were obliged to plead a case for in creased, income by way of wage rises before an established trib unal and in a public hearing. Prices, he pointed out, were determined by market condi tions and fixed by manipulation while profits were not subject to any form of control. Heavy emphasis on these points was not for nothing.. The 1965 wage decision de clared "price stability" to be the main factor with which the Arbitration Commission should concern itself when fixing wage rates. It also declared that the Com mission's role was not solely or mainly to settle disputes but that of an economic determin ator in relation to wages and asserted that wage levels were a main factor in determining prices. These views were strengthen ed by being repeated in the re port of the .Vernon Committee. Obviously the employers plac ed great reliance on these views in the 1965 wage decision and in the Vernon Report. A main purpose of calling the Vernon Committee members as witnesses was to weaken this position of the employers and to strengthen the unions basic contention of the Commission's role — that is, to settle industrial disputes by fixing wage rates which are just and reasonable. Witnesses Allowing for the value of call ing the three witnesses— two of them employers and one a Pro fessor of Economics — the strength of the unions' case is not to be found in the demand for a just and reasonable wage in settlement of a dispute. Stating what is', just and reasonable in relation to the basic wage Mr. Hawke said: . . Getting it down out of ithe realms of theory to the realms th„» 3 matter to the worker ... T crease of $2.30 is now requimH H .merely to give to the worker nnS IS his dependents the ability now H 1966 to purchase the same amount I of goods and services that he coijIh lH in' 1964... in addition to that » H needs an increase to the nrrfJ I US $2 just to enable that wage M to have the same real sianifirnn Ht Which- it is entitled to "have g 9 terms of the. movement in the out 1 put of goods and services which h Z IS occurred since the time at whin, H it was last fixed." c" IS Workers will see anything less 9 than such increases in the basic 11 "wage— $4.30 — as being unjust M and unreasonable. J 1 S Strike if In relation to margins, thev 9 are unlikely to accept anything (H less than the margins now lit prescribed for tradesmen in the S Queensland and West Australian 11 State Metal Award and appro- ill priate increases for other classi- Hi fications as being just and 1111 reasonable. . E| Making the position of the fla workers clear, Mr. Hawke said 3 that if the Commission's awards Is do not give wage rates in line mm with increased productivity Eli workers will seek further over- H award payments direct from the 111 employers. |||| He added that if the employ- lft! ers say "no" and the workers N|& "do not want to leave it there, -|jli they have to go on strike." ' jpr With award rates for metal f|p| workers being now $5.50 lower I|fl in Sydney than in Brisbane and W|t| $5.45 lower than in Perth and $6.30 lower in Melbourne than in Brisbane and $6.25 lower than |ig in Perth, workers will regard |il anything but a substantial rise » unjust and unreasonable and 9 will regard their dispute as If remaining unsettled. 3 