 ' J Australia® books in Europe JUDAH WATER Ms impressions of a recent visit overseas. IN 1931 when I first visit ed Europe, precious little was known about Aus tralian writing. But it is a different situation to day. Morris West, I would think, is the best known in Western Europe. In the socialist' world the most popular are Frank Hardy, Alan Marshall and Dymphna Cusack. At the officially-supported Com monwealth Book Exhibition held at Marlborough House in London late last year, the Australian section was the largest. James Aldridge, Frank Hardy, Morris West, George Johnston, Patrick White and myself wei-e among the novelists whose work was on display. I am confident that in the com ing years more Australian writers will be published abroad in the west and the socialist countries. ? IN the Soviet Union there is a deep interest in literature, not only on the part of students but of the general public. Most people read good fiction, poetry is also very popular. Tvar- dovsky has said there is a public of 200 million. There is a great diversity of taste that can he seen by the number of different literary magazine— from Kochetov's "October" to Tvardovsky's "Novy Mir". Neither is there dull uniformity among the writers and poets. In Moscow I spent one afternoon in the Writers' Club with Yev- tushenko, the novelist Aksyonov and the poet Joseph Brodsky— as brilliant and outspoken trio of lit erary men you could find anywhere in the world. Yevtushenko had just finished a short period of military service, having been called up as all reserv ists are in the Soviet Union. He was bubbling over with stories and he read us his latest poem which had just that day appeared in the army newspaper. Joseph Brodsky has been trans lating some poets for the Austra lian poetry anthology. Brodsky is only 26. Many poets, including Yevtushenko, 1 s extrem ely talented. & Sap shortly to publish a bod5 pi 0v/n poems. Kenneth Slj S ro&lt;lsky's fav ourite Austin |S| ;et and he particularly $ pi 5. Visions of Captain Cook' || In recent y»ji 8t Puetry has won conside#® em overseas. In Paris, sH&Jfoe Soviet poets were iJBved with great enthuey included Tvardovsky, Kirsanov, Bella Akhmao ,hd Vosnes- sensky. Their j g read in French at puj hy Some of France's be! actors. VosnessensW 1 the same kind of eiJW reception when he weriW1 and. Soviet prow foes not match Soviet If11 sweep and quality. II There g00d novelists andjFory writers besides ShoJJphose best work was JfjSovfenT)' Per- haps the wel'jR fot Union's experience Was too deep and still too agitated for con temporary writers to draw fully from it. It took more than half a century for the epic of 1812 to find its expression in "War and Peace". However, there are some promis ing novelists in the smaller rep ublics and there is very good work being done in Yiddish literature. Recently novels by Shechtman and N. Luria — one of the best novelists in the Yiddish language in the world— had been published in Mos cow. The long awaited novel by Yechiel Falikman was to appear in the spring. There is proDaoiy more imagin ative Yiddish writing being done in the Soviet Union than anywhere else in the world. There is nothing in England:, and the number of new Yiddish novel ists ,in the United States wouldn't make a hand. This is something which is gen erally overlooked by professional anti-Sovieteers busy organising anti-Soviet demonstrations and calling for creative freedom for Jews in the Soviet Union. Not surprising though, for most of them know nothing about Yiddish culture and do nothing about it in their own countries. ? A great eat of recon struction had been performed in the German Democratic Republic, the country liter ally rising out of the ashes. It is not sufficiently realised that most of the GDR was flattened in the war, as indeed most of the socialist world from Stalingrad to Berlin. There was no US aid pumped into the GDR in the aftermath of the war. On the contrary every thing was done by the US to under mine the economy and destroy the first German socialist state. Culturally today the GDR is in the front rank in Europe. It has a rich musical life in which many people take part. Its opera houses are among the finest; the Comic opera is famous and has pioneer ed many innovations which have been introduced into opera houses everywhere. The Brecht ensemble is equally well known and there is not a theatre lover who did not try to see it either in Berlin or when it was on tour. Even in the six months between my two visits to the GDR I could see many signs of progress, especi ally in housing which is modern and most attractive. The London Times early in Nov ember had this cautious but reveal ing item from its Bonn corres pondent: "About 1,800,000 old age pension ers in East Germany have visited relatives in West Berlin and the Federal Republic in the past 12 months. The concession which was al lowed a year ago tomorrow, ap plies to men over 65 and women over 60 . . . "There have been several reports in the German press quoting im pressions of the pensioners on their stay in the Federal Republic. They have surprised many people in this part of the country, for the impressions were not all favour able." I was impressed with the young people I met, many held high posts in the economy, the sciences and culture. 