 SPENDER: A BUSH-LAWYER BOWS OUT By a Correspondent |T is a fitting finale to the career of Mr. Justice Percival Spender that he should be the toast of every white racist and fascist from Mississippi to Johannesburg, this being the consequence of his casting vote in the UN International Court in the South West Africa case, By the same token the resentment of the rest of the world— about 90 per cent— is focused on him. Spender, a run-of-the-mill lawyer, earned what most people thought would be a brief notoriety in 1937 by challenging a cabinet minister, Sir Archdale Parkhill, for the safe Liberal (then "United Australia Party") Warringah federal seat. The UAP was even more un popular than many had sup posed Percy romped home as the "independent" who would buck the party machine. Three years later, however, he was Treasurer, rapidly be coming known to the work ers as Parsimonious Perce under whose regime slums festered and dole queues lengthened. v With the war he was Army Minister, noted not so much for victories over the foe as for his rapid promotion of promising cadres at home. "The Minister for the Army" wrote the Sydney Sim on May 30, 1941, "blushed a brilliant scarlet in the House of Rep resentatives today when he was asked how he promoted himself from captain to lieutenant-colonel". The newly-fledged colonel said that he was in the Army Legal uorps. Mr. Archie Cameron: "A great fighting unit!" (loud laughter). &lt; . w'A PROFILE 1 > - n , « r ' If Spender did blush, that was the last time he showed any such compunction at helping himself to the good things of life. In 1941 Spender was dis missed from office along with Menzies and Holt. But though only 44 he saw just as little reason as Holt to join the AIF in the field. After the 1949 elections he was Menzies' first choice as External Affairs Minister whose job it would be to launch the policy of outright subservience to the USA which has been followed ever since. He went along with the US in the 1951 peace treaty which lined up Japan as a US Paci fic bastion and carefully preserved the seeds of Jap anese militarism for future growth. However, no single cabinet could contain two characters with the thrust and grab of Menzies and Spender. Out went Spender, consol ed with the plum of the Wash ington ambassadorial post, from which he rapidly leap ed to the still better paid job in which he has just got such notoriety. The Australian workers were glad to wave Percy fare well, believing that when he was moved onto the Inter national Court bench, his power to harm his native land had been definitely restricted, if not nullified altogether. How mistaken can you be! WORLD COURT SPENDER: Perce the Knife. 