 I HOLT'S WAR BUDGET BURDEN: WE PAY -BUT USA HAS FINAL SAY By a Special Correspondent 1 gACRIFICE of Aus- 1 tralia's independ- I ence, disruption of the a national economy ' and I increased taxation this year in the form of high er Statie transport fares and other charges have already been revealed as results of the Holt Gov ernment's huge military budget increases. The Government / has handed over to the United States the power to make vital decisions concerning future replacement of new military equipment now del ivered or on order. These decisions will cost Australia scores of millions of dollars above the huge sums already allotted for the equipment. Wasteful This is the reality behind pre-election statements by Communist and Labor Party spokesmen concerning the wastage of money in the exist ing $1,000 million war budget. Communist candidate W. J. Brown said last week: "The present foreign and defence (policy is unjustified and wasteful." Opposition Leader A. A. Calwell, i,n his policy speech, said: "We are spending too much on expensive sophis ticated equipment purchased overseas, the financial cost of which appears to rise be yond the control of the Gov ernment and with its value suspect." The Government has signed contracts and is considering others which differ from all previous Australian military contracts in that they with hold. from the Australian Government full control of the equipment after it has been delivered. The contracts particularly concern the Fill "swing- wing" bomber (delivery of which is due to begin in 1968) and the Adams-class destroy- ers (two of which are already delivered). Increase The 24 Fill bombers were initially estimated to cost $143 (US) million. This year's De fence Report revealed that there would be a price in crease of $80 million. There could be more increases be fore delivery. The three destroyers are costing $150 (US) million. In addition, the Tartar missiles on each ship cost $4 million, and a full set oi reserve mis siles is being bought. But the most disturbing feature was revealed by a special writer in the Finan cial Review of October 11, f who said: "Australian defence budgets are already linked irrevocably to the accelerated pace of technological change in the USA". In the past, refits and modi fications to Australian air craft and navy ships have been done by decision of Aus tralian military planners to suit Australian needs. But now the Review points out:— "Decisions as to refitting, modernisation and improve ment REGARDLESS OF THE COSTS INVOLVED will be made primarily by the US Defence Department." (Tri bune emphasis). Schedule It says that ships and air craft bought by Australia at enormous cost "will be up dated constantly according to a schedule made out in the US— not in Canberra." Even worse, "Australia will be dealing with US manufac turers who retain certain pro prietary rights over their equipment for as long as it is in use." It reveals that the Tartar missiles on the new destroy ers are already scheduled to be replaced twice by new models now being developed. "The cost of some modifi cation is unquestionably go ing to be very substantial," the Review says and adds that the new missiles will cost more than the present Tartar models. The same sacrifice of Aus tralian independence applies to future changes to be made to the RAAF Orion anti-sub marine planes, the army's Redeye ground-to-air missile and the missile-firing tanks being considered for purchase. According to the "Austra lian" defence supplement (Oct 24) the "explosion" of Australian defence expendit ure, particularly overseas, this year has seriously dislocated the economy. Squeeze It traces the 1966 increases in fares and other charges by stato governments directly to the Commonwealth financial squeeze due to defence spend ing. It also connects the 1965 and 1966 war budget increases with stagnant national real production and the decline in productivity in the same period. Because the Menzies-Govern- ment failed to maintain and develop Australian defence- building capacities, it predicts "an increasing proportion of our defence requirements be ing met overseas" including spare parts and replacements for most of the modern equip ment now being delivered. It is significant that Prime Minister Holt admitted on November 18 that the Govern ment did not regard the pre sent $1,000 million war bud get as adequate. On Novem ber 20 he openly predicted expansion of Australia's com mitment to the Vietnajn war. 