 Trapped in the Lucky Country TRAP , by Peter Mathers (Cassell Australia, Mel- . bourne ) . Pp. 298. $3.25. Reviewed by ROGER MILLISS pETER Mathers' irreverent novel, "Trap", repres ents much of a new1 depart ure for Australian literature. There are echoes in it of other strains in the Australian novel. In its savage irony (and also Mr. Mathers' use of satirical names for many of his characters), it recalls the work of Xavier Her bert, particularly "Capricornia". The style is often reminiscent of that of Patrick White's admittedly not-very-edifying satires of sub urbia. And, dealing as it does with the aboriginal question (if Mr. Mathers' complex theme can be summed up so inadequately), it possesses some generic connect ions with a whole stream of our writing, from "Coonardoo" on. But there the resemblance ends. Plot-wise, "Trap" is in a class of its own. In fact, it has practically no plot at all in the accepted sense; The story of Jack Trap himself is told in the form of extracts from a diary kept by .. a sympathetic Melbourne municipal clerk with the highly improbable name of David David. And who— or what— is Trap? He's a mysterious and very dis quieting figure — part-Irish, part- English and part-Aborigine, with an admixture, through an errant South American grandmother, .. of Tierra del Fuegan. He is just dark enough to be unmistakably Abor iginal, but light enough to be em barrassingly like "one of us" b From his IWW father, he has in- | herited a contemptuously anarch- istic attitude to the white— and I capitalist— society around him. All I of which combines to make him I a living symbol of. non-conform- | ism and a disturbing reminder of 8 that rejected and underprivileged I non-white section Of the commun- I ity— in short, a dangerous man. David David tries to solve the mystery of this social outcast by recording the results of his lab orious investigations into Trap's life and background. In particular he probes the details of Trap's family tree— from distant cousins to his lineal forbears in the Aus tralia's early colonial days. This provides Mr. Mathers with the vehicle he wants for what appears to he his main aim— a rollicking and sometimes sacreli- gious spoof of the great Australian myth. But it is for the most part only the less laudable aspects of the myth which come under fire —the pillars of society whose past is either stained with the blood of slaughtered aborigines or con- | nected intimately with convictism. | But dominating the book is Trap H himself — once a hangman, now a I factory hand, with no real place | in his own land, but whose very | existence pricks the national con- 8 science. I The outlook of "Trap" is frankly I . nihilistic. It ends with Trap being 8 arrested for throwing an axe at I a policeman while on his way I with a group of fellow-outcasts 1 to "fish, farm and fossick" in I Cape York. There is no way out, I but anarchy, apparently, for Trap 9 and his kind, says Mr.. Mathers,. 9 caught by the questionable values 9 of the Lucky Country. 