 GOD AND OP POP HERB McLLIN FOLK reviews this years Blake Prize "Chesterton observes in one of his short stories that it is not atheism which is most truly opposed to reli gion; it is indifference. It is this indifference which the Blake Prize has sought to overcome." — jprom me m axe rnze catalogue, i9bt>. plSPLAYED about the busy hall of the Common wealth Bank, are the entries for the Blake Prize for Religious Art. Whatever they may do for reli gion — at least they bring before a large public a massive parade of the most advanced products of modern Australian painting. For the most part, this art re jects representation of outward appearances for abstract impres sionism, appealing to the eye by its brilliant manipulation of sur face textures and holding atten tion by a formal arrangement of shapes and symbols, the best of it creating a significant mood. The newest trend is the Op Pop movement, and the catalogue fore word tells us that it raises fresh and interesting possibilities and that its black humour and deliber ate vulgarity are full of suggestions for religious art. Pop art uses everyday objects, such as toy pistols, bottles or newspaper posters, which are usually painted and fixed to a white board on which rule and compass designs or cartoons are drawn and filled in with raw col ours. Its interest to religious prota gonists must be in line with the attempt to whip up interest in the church with the use of Beatle- type bands and hot gospel singers. Although the exhibition is heavi ly weighted with abstracts — either of the drip and flow type, or brushed over rough cast layers of modelling plaster, there is a sprinkling of figurative works such as the strong "Deposition" of West Australian George Laazlo, with its stylistic echoes of French Com munist artist Fernand Leger. Perle Hessing shows two works of a lyrical quality that come nearer than anything else in the exhibi tion to the conception of art held by William Blake himself, who ab horred heavy dark oil paintings and favoured the light transparen cy of water colours and works of the early tempera painters. There is an interesting pen and wash drawing of Wolfgang Degen- hardt which is well conceived and executed with assurance, and Hans Selke shows the influence of Rus sian icon painting. Rodney Milgate's winning "Ascen sion" has been variously interpret ed by each of the daily press critics and by the artist himself: none of them actually agree on whether the content is in fact religious. This suggests that no m&tter how exciting or appealing an ab stract painting may be, it should be appreciated for itself and not given a literal interpretation. , Even if we accept and judge ab stract art on its own terms, we are still left with doubts as to its effectiveness as a vital impulse in a social cause, whether it be reli gious or political. Picasso has said on this point: "Consider an abstract hunter. What can he kill, this abstract hunter? Just nothing." And John Coburn, one of the Blake Prize judges, said of the winning ab stract that it gives the viewer a "strong religious feeling". Maybe I am impervious to reli- gious sentiment, but I suspect I would be more susceptible to the influence of Raphael or El Greco than the assaults of Op Pop or the more gentle persuasion of an ab stract painting. Tribune art critic Herb McClintock contemplates Mike Kitching's "Trikon — on the Third Day", an entry in this year's Blake Prize for Religious Art, reviewed below. 