 HATE TECHNIQUE AT PUCKAPUNYAL CAMP WmKBrn - ' r '1 fi '"f ' Letters . to the Editor : wmmanrnrrr . mum Y son, who is doing conscript training at Puckapunyal camp (Vic.), has told me ' enough about the Army brainwashing on Vietr nam to justifly adding to Tribune's front-page story last week. In the Permanent Army there are daily lectures on Vietnam. Senior officers from the C.O. down the line brain wash soldiers to regard not only the "Viet Cong" as "the enemy to be killed" but also "Communist guerillas". Lec tures cover possible rebellions in Thailand, Laos and the Philippines. Anti-Chinese pro paganda is constant. The walls of the lecture rooms are well equipped with maps of each South East Asian country, with emphasis on North and South Vietnam. All lectures on equipment, provisioning, tactics, etc., are based on Vietnam experience — "This is the type of war we will be fighting in the future." They include such topics as: The Chinese Communist Army— tactics and military philosophy; Winning the population in Asian countries; What is a guerilla fighter —how does he think and train? There is non-stop indoctrin ation of the soldiers on the Holt Government's policy on Asia. A typical answer to ques tions on the validity of this policy is: "We possess in formation not given to the public." National Service trainees eat in a giant new mess hall with the best cafeteria and kitchen equipment. At the en trance is a huge notice board devoted to "Topics of the Day". All the latest clippings from the daily newspapers are on the war in Vietnam— there are no other news clips at all. Photos of Australians in ac tion in Vietnam are pinned up, interspersed with type written messages such as "The Viet Cong is a guerilla fighter and a terrorist ... he has to use terror because he does not have the support of the population . . ." National Service trainees are given exercises based on experiences in the Vietnam war — "Search and Kill" exer cises, "Field interrogation of prisoners" are but two exam ples. For the first five weeks a trainee at this camp is not given leave to go home. Ap parently the theory is after five weeks it doesn't matter, because by then the boys will have got used to being in the -Army and will not express dis content or resentment at com pulsory training. Officers admit that the deg ree of wastage among volun teers has the Army worried and so they use the National Service training plan as much as possible to recruit to the permanent Army and the CMF. Conscript's Mother, Melbourne. 