 RED GUARD EXODUS- NEW POWER FOR LIN ? From Rupert Lockwood "|"HE mass exodus from Peking of non-resident Red Guards in 70 special trains and milit ary and civilian truck fleets is taken as an omen that the pro-Mao Tse-tung leaders consider the "great cultural revolution" has achieved its main objectives. These objectives included: Removal from the Com munist Party of all real, pot ential or imagined supporters of international communist unity, of improved relations with the Soviet Union and of joint action to aid Vietnam. To suppress agitation for democratic initiative in the party or among the people of intimidatory impos ition of "the thought of Mao Tse-tung". To undermine the pres tige and authority of the party and many of its leading cadres and thus prepare the way for a later military type dictatorship under Defence Minister Lin Piao. To divert attention from growing economic difficulties. The successes are destined to be temporary particularly in diversion of attention from economic trouble because the Bed Guards and their direc tors have badly disrupted both agriculture and industry. Just before the Bed Guards left Peking there was a strange shift in their propa ganda campaign. The Peking correspondent of the Soviet newsagency Tass points out that in their manifestos, speeches and leaflets the Red Guards used to swear "to defend Chairman Mao till death", but on the eve of the exodus they declared the nec essity to "defend" the Min ister for Defence and party Vice Chairman Lin Piao. Huge slogans that appeared in Peking streets read "We shall smash the dogs heads of those who come out against Comrade Lin Piao Chairman Mao's closest com rade in arms." Another slogan put up next to the Communist Party's central committee office reads "He who comes out against Lin Piao comes out against Chairman Mao." The recent activities -of the- Bed Guards had included accusations against several Ministries of "suppressing the cultural revolution" and against the First Secretaries of the Communist Party in Hupeh and Anhwei Provinces for "armed suppression" of Bed Guard actions, says the Tass Peking correspondent. Education Minister Ho Wei is in disgrace being branded as an opponent of Chairman Mao. The Bed Guards also called for "doing away" with Chang Tsin Fu, secretary of the Chinese Academy of Sciences party committee and alleged "ringleader of a group sup pressing the cultural revol ution in the Academy of Sciences." The Bed Guards have ex pressed joy at Chou En-lai's statement that 'studies' in edu cation establishments will not begin until at least the summer vacation". Aagios -on-haw. of Mao Tse Tung is being developed among Chinese officials in the era of the Red Guards were provided at a press conference given by the Soviet Friendship dele gation which had to cut short its visit to China because of organised hostility. The delegation headed by Viktor Mayevsky, well known Pravda commentator and writer, who toured Australia several years ago was invited to China to participate in the 49th anniversary of the Oct ober revolution celebration. On arrival in China they were subjected to angry dem onstrations by Red Guards who shouted provocative slogans under official direc tion. Thugs At Peking University, said Mayevsky, "our way was barred by a group of thugs who were raging around us." The delegation reported to the press" coherence tHat"Q'he Chinese Friendship Society leader had said that "the Chinese people will not forget the hostile attitude of the Soviet Union to China any more than the Soviet people could forget the hostile attit ude of Nazi Germany toward them." The man to whom this in sult was delivered was a Soviet partisan leader, much decorated, on whose head the Germans had put a price of marks: — The reply to an inquiry on the Chinese definition of rev isionist was "everybody is revisionist who does not support the ideas of Mao Tse Tung". Soviet delegates asked why Beethoven's music had been attacked. The answer was "because we know it's bad." Asked why Pushkin's statue had been smashed, a Peking chief librarian replied "that's natural — he wasn't a prolet- -arian poet" _ "CULTURAL REVOLUTION" LEADER LIN PIAO Chairman Mao's closest comrade 