 "The basic wage . . it ain't what it used to be" i v:; ''"' "V'\v :: "' v.:- : - ' . ' ' : : ;V / , V'. / '. : I 5000— strong Sydney rally demands wage increases NOW! SYDNEY: "The basic wage it ain't what it aught to be ... it ain't what it ought to be," sang 5,000 workers at the big wages-prices rally last Wednesday in Sydney . Building and metal workers, many still in their overalls and helmets, had stopped work from most of the city s building pro jects to attend the rally in Wynyard Park. Wharfies, railwaymen, seamen, printers and office girls were also there to ta'ke up the chorus sung to the tune of the "Old Grey Mare". Yes, "A quid and spin, it ain't what it used to be . . . the prices get higher all the time." , v > And that was the reason why Wynyard was packed last week. Delegations from fac tories, work shops and jobs kept arriving to the cheers of those already assembled. The lads from the Opera House, about 300 labourers, riggers, and crane drivers started a march from Circular Quay. "The men who build this city demand nothing less than the ACTU claim," said a big sign at the head of their ranks. This claim, at present being argued before the Common wealth Arbitration Commis sion, is for a $4.30 a week in crease in the basic wage and $5.90 in tradesmen's margins. Banners in Martin PI. By the time the Quay march had reached Martin Place it had swollen to 1,000 workers. Jobs such as the Goldfields House, Royal Exchange and Australia Square joined in be hind the Opera House workers, choking Martin Place with banner waving demonstrators. And in the Park the arrival of another marching contingent Was being cheered. This was led by a worker pushing his mate in a wheel barrow, signifying how workers are "being hard pushed for money." Labor Council president, Mr. P. Bowen, introduced delega tions as they arrived. Some came from Garden Is land, others from Tooheys Brewery, two bus loads from | the South Coast, delegations from Newcastle Garry Shearston and other folk singers who provided en tertainment for the early ari- rivers stepped aside for the speakers and resolutions. Labor Council secretary, Mr. Kenny, asked -the crowd: "Are you satisfied with the Present basic wage? "Are you satisfied with mar gins? "Are you satisfied with the failure of the N.S.W. Govern ment to control prices?" A thunderous NO answered these questions. "The unions cannot accept the wages offered. "We call on workers to ap proach their employers to pay the wage claims. "If the Commission fails to give us wage justice we have no alternative but to demand of the employers that they pay," Mr. Kenny said. The president of the Austra lian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations,. Mr. P. Allsop, told the rally, that 250.000 white collar workers fully supported the ACTU claims. "We have to stay united," he said. Who causes price increases? "Workers don't cause price increases," said Mr. Clancy the N.S.W. secretary of the Build ing Workers' Industrial Union. "These are caused by the monopoly forces in this coun-. try. "The judges hearing the wages case get about $17,200 a year. "Our demand is only equal to their daily expense allow ance." He said that the unsuspecting housewife is also deceived by the so-called specials by the big chain stores. But a "special" tin of pears has two less pears than an or dinary tin. A resolution moved by Mr. M. McNamara (N.S.W. secretary Builders' Labourers' Federation) and seconded by the N.S.W. secretary of the Plumbers' Union (Mr. R. Tyler) was' un animously endorsed by a forest of arms. .This declared that, as a re sult of increasing prices and suppressed money wages, real wage standards have fallen and will continue to fall unless urgent action is taken to correct this unjust situa tion. "We demand that immediate action.be taken to:— Peg prices of all essential commodities and introduce strict price control to pre vent unjustified price in creases. Increase all wages and sala ries to compensate for past price rises and to give all wage and salary earners a reasonable share of in creased productivity. "We therfeore call on the N-S.W. Government to immedia tely implement existing price control leigislation to safeguard present wages from further en croachment, and initiate a con ference of Premiers of each State together with Common wealth Government representa tives for the purpose of arriving at agreement for implementing a national prices control and reduction policy. "We declare our full support for the A.C.T.U. application now, before the Arbitration Com mission for $4.30 basic wage in crease and $5.90 margins to restore living standards which have been seriously eroded by soaring prices. "Intensify campaign" "We further support the A.C.T.U. demand that quarterly cost of living adjustments be re- instituted and declare our op position to the employers'" at tempt to institute a total-wage which is aimed at destroying the long standing wages struc ture of Australian workers, the resolution said. The rally declared support for an earlier Labor Council decision which said: "That all Industry Groups of the Labor Council be requested to develop and intensify the wages and prices campaign by means of direct approach to em ployers seeking payment of the full Trade Union claims imme diately. "Such approaches to be sup ported by activity in accordance with the circumstances and traditional forms of activity in each industry, as decided by the 1965 A.C.T.U. Congress which calls for such a campaign under the direction and control of the A.C.T.U. and State Labor Councils." Now demand increases The rally declared that all unions and unionists hereby rep resented return to their respec tive industries tomorrow and as soon as practicable submit their wage claims to the employ ers (providing this has not al ready been done) and if deemed necessary in order to gain a just wage, to implement the variety of forms and activity outlined in the terms of the N.S.W. Labor Council decisions. This rally fully endorses the decision of the Labor Council convening today's demonstra tion and declares support for all forms of activity in support of the demands for wage increases anr price control which may be instituted by the official bodies of the Trade Union Movement. Nurse demands equal pay A psychiatric nurse from Sydney, Miss Hornibrook, stole the show when she spoke in support of the unions' Equal Pay Week. At present her union, the Health and Research Employ ees' Association, is conducting a campaign in support of an equal pay claim before the court. She said female nurses do the same work as the men but are only paid as 85 per cen ters. "The high Parliamentary salaries have to come from somewhere, why not from us! "If the economy is in such a bad state as they tell us, Why don't those on high salaries make sacrifices? We will be prepared to forego our claim if judges are pre pared to accept a cut in salaries, or if the BHP, General Motors and other wealthy com panies are prepared to pay more taxes." Later Miss Hornibrook and her friend carried a big sign through the park: "Freud would agree, Equal Pay for He and She". "Hard pushed for money," these building workers were taking part in Syd ney's wages demonstration of Wednesday of last week. 