 "MILK RISE WILL HIT FAMILIES" YDNEY : 'The decision to raise the price of milk in Sydney and Wollongong will force many families to cut down on milk purchases/' said Miss Enid Hampson, NSW Secretary of the Union of Australian Women, last week. The N.S.W. Cabinet increased milk by 1 cent a pint last Tuesday on a u'ay celebrated by 50 nations as International Milk Day. At 11c a pint, Sydney will now pay; more than any other capital city for its milk. Miss Hampson pointed out that the Government's own Health Department had stated consumption of milk was al- ready beiow health require ments The last report of the Milk Board, for the year ending June 30, 1965, showed that supplies at the old price were at all times in excess of con sume? requirements. This was in spite a fall by 8.35% of the total of the previous year's milk production. The UAW national confer- ence last weekend called for the imposition of price control on inilk and other basic nec essities by all State govern ments. Mr. J. A. M. Stcckdale, Chairman of the North Coast Factories Association, told a press conference that big dairying combines had influ enced the Government into making this decision. He attacked the Government for refusing to allow north coast dairymen a small share of the Sydney market which they were prepared to supply at the old' price of 10c a pint. The government had also gone back on the pre-election promise to assist dairy far mers on the north coast by a 3d a lb subsidy for butter production he said. The Government's failure to give any relief to dairy far mers on the North Coast has placed in jeopardy the political future of the five eountry party MiLiAs in the area. If Cabinet goes ahead with a proposal now being considered by the Minister for Agricul ture (Mr. Chaffey) to eliminate many small north coast dairy farms by amalgamating them with bigger holdings, it is cer tain that political support will be withdrawn from all these five MLiA$. This would mean the vir tual forcing out of the in dustry of hundreds of small dairy farmers. Mir. L. Kelton, a spokesman for the Communist Party in N.S.W. said: "It is time the Government ended its piece: meal approach to the milk in dustry and placed its control under the one authority. "The present Sydney Milk Board had' all the powers nec essary to carry this out. "It also has the power to control milk from the point of production to the consumer, and by eliminating the big monopoly distributing concerns keep down the price of milk. "Then it might be possible to have a real enquiry into the high cost structure of the industry which, to a consider able extent is caused by large scale manufacturers of mach inery, fertilizers, and other products needed by the dairy farmers," he said. ABOVE: Delegates to last week-end's national conference of the Union of Australian Women caused a big stir when 200 of them marched through Sydney on M onday. They are seen displaying slogans outside Prime Minister Holt's Sydney office, in protest against his refusal to meet a deputation. The huge toy doll called "Peaceful Pete" was carried at the head of the demonstration. It was sent by the No War Toys Committee, Los Angele s (USA) . 