 Something for the whole family — and Mum as well WOMEN OF THE WHOLE WORLD, No. 1. 35c. OUR WOMEN, July-Septem ber, 1966. 15c. JHE latest issues of these two magazines will, of course, be of particular in- - ----- terest to women readers, but both contain items of general appeal. This number of "Women of the Whole World" is the first in a new series. Published by the Women's International Democratic Federation, which celebrated its 20th anniversary last December the magazine "will now con centrate on publishing important studies on the large questions of interest to all women and it will in future he issued every three months." Interesting articles include the WIDF anniversary and an outline of how International Women's Day came into being. . How women live and the struggle for equal rights in Africa, Britain, France and Japan are among , the main . articles. Of special appeal to Australian readers is "Grand Old Lady of Literature", an account of Kathar ine Susannah Prichard's life and work, and an extract from her novel "The Roaring Nineties". "Our Women", the journal of the Union of Australian Women, is bright and informative. Two short stories "The Gloomy Day", by Joan Lang, and "Vera", by "Kupe" are about women in different spheres — one about a housewife, and the other about factory workers. Recipes, "Fashion on a Budget" and "Finger Painting's Fun" are among the practical articles to help readers, the last for mothers whose children do not attend kindergarten. On the more serious side is a continuation of the series on Women in Local Government, in troducing Councillor Esme Flet cher of Fremantle City Council and Alderman Jean Howie of Brisbane City Council. For those interested ' in lapidary there is information from two collectors and illustrations on the back cover; a look at education .by correspondence by Mrs. Marie Gollan, formerly of Blackfriars correspondence school, and "Pro file on Conscription" dealing with the present-day situation and the struggle during World War I. Weil illustrated and written, this issue of "Our Women" will hn cnnri reariina for the familv. J.M. Available from the UAW, 64a Druitt St., Sydney, and New World Booksellers. 