 Enrolments up, teachers too few , funds inadequate EDUCATION: Recine of crisis By a special Education Correspondent "T HE possibility of a stoppage of second ary school teachers has effectively drawn atten- tion to the crisis facing secondary education in 1967. What of the primary schools? Are they also facing a crisis? A Survey conducted by the New South Wales Teachers' Federation at the beginning of this year showed that primary schools too, are feel ing the effects of inadequate funds and are suffering from the shortage of teachers, school buildings and equip ment. Approximately 100 primary schools reported that build ings approved for 1966 had not been begun, with the result that classes had to be conducted in unsuitable ac commodation, ranging from weather-sheds to rented halls. In all, 167 schools reported that they were short of class rooms; of these, 90 schools had classes in rented accom modation, sometimes at con siderable distances from the schools. The Survey points out that even with the use of emergen cy accommodation, some schools still have overcrowd ed classes. Thus one school, although it is using the Dep uty Principal's office, the library and a rented hall, as classrooms, still has classes of 47, 45, 44, 43, 41 and 40, because there is simply no where else to put another class. Libraries The shortage of school ac commodation is not confined to classrooms. The Survey states that library rooms, though essential for the work of the school, are either non existent at many schools, or are taken over as classrooms. Comments sent in by schools on this aspect of the problem include the following: "Library most pressing need; plenty of books, plenty of money for more books— nowhere to make use of them." "Library held in class- rooms; previously housed in Oslo Lunch centre, which is now a classroom". The Survey showed that ap proximately 230 large primary schools need a library room. Assembly halls are also a necessity for schools to func tion effectively. Without an assembly hall it is not pos sible for the school to come together as a unit and to develop the standards of con duct, discipline and cultural appreciation which are a vital part of the child's educa tion. But assembly halls are no longer provided for primary schools, and the Survey shows that many schools are feeling keenly the lack of this neces sary provision. The following comment gives some idea of the difficulties faced by schools which have no as sembly hall — "Arrangements for assem blies can only be described as primitive; junior and sen ior .assemblies have to be held separately; even then about 250 pupils are cramp ed into a double classroom and must sit on the floor". Teachers While the inadequacy of school accommodation is dis turbing enough, even more serious is the shortage of teachers, because as the Teachers' Federation points out, buildings can be provid ed in a few months when the necessary funds are available, but it takes years for a teach er to be trained and to acquire experience. The shortage of teachers is reflected in the size of classes, many of which are too large to permit the indi vidual attention which chil dren need. Teachers consider that no class should exceed 30, but in the larger primary schools, 15% of the classes— amount ing to at,, least 34,000 children — are in classes of 40 or more. In the smaller schools, where classes may consist of children from several grades, the numbers in each class need to be much smaller, be- cause the children are work ing at different levels, but in these schools 40% of the classes (numbering 15,000 children) are in classes over 31. One inevitable result of over-large classes is the need for remedial teachers to form special classes for those chil dren who have been unable to receive sufficient individual attention from their teachers and who have fallen to the bottom of the class. They may be migrant chil dren who are having difficulty with the language; they may have lost ground because of an illness; or because of some emotional disturbance; or they may be simply slow learners: All these children need skilled 'remedial teach ing to enable them to catch up with the rest of the class and to restore their self- confidence. Replacements Every school of any size needs at least one remedial teacher, but the Survey shows that of the 720 largest schools in the state, only 250 have a remedial class. The lack of relief teachers is another aspect of the teach er shortage. There are no replacements for teachers when they are ill, unless it is known that they will be off for more than a fortnight. As the class cannot be left without a teacher, the usual solution is to divide the chil dren among other classes; thus a teacher who already has a class of 40 may find that it suddenly becomes 55 or 60, and this may go on for days or even weeks. Neither teachers nor children can do their best under these condi tions. To overcome the shortage of teachers, it is essential that many more teachers should be trained, but in addition to training more teachers, it is also necessary to train them for a longer period. At present, primary teach ers are trained for two years; but this period of training is regarded as inadequate by most educational authorities as well as by teachers them selves. The Martin Committee; set up by the Commonwealth Government to investigate higher education in Australia, said in its comprehensive re port on teacher training that "a course of two years' dura tion affords inadequate op portunities of preparation for a calling which, in primary as well as in secondary schools, is making increasing demands upon the professional com petence of teachers". Funds The Martin Committee re commended that the Com monwealth . Government pro vide funds for the training of teachers in the same way as it does for the Universities; but the Commonwealth Gov ernment rejected this recom-. mendation, and although it ' will spend a total of almost $6,000 million in the 1966-1967 financial year (including an increase of $252 million for defence), it provides no as sistance whatever to the states for such a basic need as the training of teachers. In New South Wales, the Teachers' Federation is call ing for the establishment of eight more teachers' colleges to enable sufficient teachers to be trained and to ' permit the minimum training period to be lengthened to at least three years. To expand the teacher training programme in this way and to provide the addi tional school buildings so urgently needed by both primary and secondary schools, it is essential that the Commonwealth provide fin ancial assistance to the states for Education. This should take the form of an immediate and sub stantial emergency grant, and in addition a nation-wide en quiry should be held into the needs of public Education to determine the basis for the regular grants which are es sential to overcome the crisis now affecting all levels of the education system. Young student teachers in socialist Cuba — some of the thousands being trained for the .teaching profession in this country where once-rife illiteracy has been eradicated and where education is now an A-l priority. Next week Tribune editor Alec Robertson begins a series of articles based on his recent visit to the colourful Caribbean island. The first is entitled "Cuba: Building for the Future". 