 Sydney Delegates Conference: Wharfies say action needed on prices J YDNEY : Over 100 waterside worker job delegates at their annual conference last week in Sydney called for stopwork meet ings of waterfront unions to protest against the failure of the Askm Government to con trol and reduce prices. The NSW Labor Council's Water Transport Group of unions has been asked to organise these area stop- work meetings. A . deputation was elected from the conference to protest to the State Minister for Labor (Mr. Willis) about high prices, but he was "too busy" to see the deputation. The conference, which repre sents 6,0(9 members of the Waterside Workers' Federation in Sydney, said that the N.S.W. Government must accede to the Labor Council's demand to control spiralling prices of food and other essentials. The Federal Government was also called on to reintroduce national price control and to refrain from opposing the Australian Council of Trade Unions' basic wage and mar gins claims. Conference said that water side workers were facing mounting and critical problems. "Declining work opportunity and smaller pay packets are causing constant economic worry. "The foreign policy of the Holt Government, its active support for the unjust and un- winnable war in Vietnam and its despatch of conscripted youth to fight this war, places a heavy responsibility on all trade unionists to change this policy," conference said. Two young delegates were sent by the conference to meet with the U.S. vice-consul in Sydney. The Consul would not com ment on a statement of the U.S. State Department "that there should be a democratic Government in South Viet nam." Conference said it fully sup ported statements by Opposition Leader Calwell demanding the withdrawal of all Australian troops from overseas duties. It was proposed that all Branches of the Federation consider setting up anti-con scription youth committees. The ACTU was asked to con vene a special congress with particular emphasis on youth attending. It was also decided to send a delegation ot the Federal Treasurer (Mr. McMahon) prior to the tabling of the Federal Budget to: Outline the problems of the maritime unions. Make Budget provisions to improve living standards. PHOTO shows Mr. Jacob Abednego, a guest at the job dele gate conference from Moa Island, Torres Strait. Last year members of the Waterside Workers' Federation paid a 5/- levy to assist the Torres Strait . Islanders establish their own bakery. In Sydney, about $3,000 was collected. At last week's conference of Sydney waterfront job dele gates, Mr. Abednego who was taught baking at the Tranby College in Sydney, spoke as a guest. He said that the wharfies' assistance will help his people to prove they can stand on their own feet. "Wharfies have planted another flag at the top of Australia," he said. Earlier the Queensland Government, which controlled the Islanders' money, would not allow them to use their own money to form a a co-operative and build a bakery. The Sydney delegates are asking federal executive of the union to- call for a 5/- levy of all members for the advance ment of Aborigines' campaign. 