 China distorts Marxism REAL MEANING OF "CULTURAL REVOLUTION" By R. Dixon President of the Communist Party of Australia RECENT events in China have thrown more light on the mean ing of the so-called cultural revolution. Needless to say, these events have damaged the image of socialism among peoples ot the world and aroused the concern and criticism of Com munist Parties everywhere. The dogmatic stand of the Communist Party of China leaders and the left-adventur ist' line they have been follow ing h&ve been rejected and condemned by the world com munist movement. Their policies represent a turning away from Marxism, a danger ous distortion of. socialist theory and practice. The result of their policies can now be seen in abundance. Internally, China is facing economic and politicial dif ficulties. At the time of the revolution in 1949, China was a semi- feudal country with a back ward economy and it is dif ficult to build socialism on such a foundation. Bankruptcy But with the help of the o'iher socia'lis't countries it was possible to build an ad vanced socialist system and in s. relatively short time. i Advancing the , theory : of ''reliance on one's own strength", the Chinese leaders, however, proceeded to restrict trade and economic assistance from other socialist countries to neglible quantities. They launched , struggles against the socialist countries and took the path of splitting the socialist camp and world communist movement. Each of these steps complicated the. intern?..! and external position of China. In the third world1, the bankruptcy of Chinese policy is even more evident. A few years ago the influence and prestige of China in the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America was very high. Today it is at its lowest point ever. The disaster that over whelmed the Indonesian Communist Party can be traced directly to the policies of thii CPC leaders. The Communist Parties of North Korea and Japan have turned away from the CPC and as serted their independence. These are but some of the results flowing from the in correct policies of the CPC leaders. Obviously, all of these de velopments play into the hands of US imperialism. The United States is striving to isolate, and enforce an eco- nomic blockade against China. It has taken advantage of the division in the socialist camp, created by China, to escalate the war against Vietn?oi and to threaten China itself. Nevertheless, the CPC lead ers decided to renew and in tensify their attacks against the Soviet Union, to deepen the division in the socialist camp and the world com munist movement. Indeed, this Ys a major feature of the so-called cult ural revolution. How else are we to understand the demon strations directed against the Soviet Embassy in Peking and the physical violence used against the representatives of the German Democratic Republic? Rejected The recent plenum of the Chinese Party's Central Com mittee rejected the urgenit call of the socialist countries for solidarity with the heroic Vietnamese people fighting against US aggression. For many months now the Chinese leaders have' placed obstacles in the way and hin dered vital economic and mil- itary supplies from the Soviet Union to Vietnam. In face of the renewed Chinese attacks on the Soviet Union and their plenum state- ment that there can be no "unity" with the Soviet Union in the struggle against US imperialism, the possibility of further restrictions on Soviet aid to the beleaguered Viet namese people cannot be ex- . eluded. Although the leadership of the CPC. does not admit to mistakes, it is quite apparent that within the Party and among the Chinese people con cern and opposition are mounting. Teenagers The plenum of the Cent ral Committee of the CPC admitted this when it declared that "the resistance" to the cultural revolution "comes chiefly from those in authority who have wormed their Way into the Party and are taking the capitalist road. It also comes from the old force of habit in society". The cultural revolution is being used, therefore, as a means of struggle against foirces opposing the un- marxist policies of the CPC leaders. An interesting development has been the creation of the Red Guards, an organisation of school children and teen agers. They have been ac claimed as the "shock force fighting in the van of the great cultural revolution". How can immature children and teenagers become the vehicle of a great cultural transformation? The ab surdity of this,, claim was ' shown in some of their first actions when they destroyed historical monuments and cultural treasures of. China and publicly burned the works of some of tle great' cultural figures of mankind. Obviously the;mission of the Red Guards is not a cultural revolution, (but something 'else. Marshal Lin Piao, who is responsible for the Red Guards, made no bones about this when he spoke to them at a recent meeting in Peking. Their "main target, of at tack" he said, is against "those persons in authority who have wormed their way into the party and are taking the capit alist road". In short, children and teen agers were emotionally aroused and used against the opposit ion within the party. . j Latest reports from Peking suggest that the Red Guards have aroused such opposition within the Communist Party and among the people that their activities are to be cur tailed, while part of their leadership has been purged. If anything these measures must be regarded as a setback for the most extreme elements. Hothouse The great cultural trans formation that the socialist . revolution must bring about cannot be realised overnight nor by the hothouse methods the Chinese are now using. In order to change the out look and habits of the people and achieve a high socialist culture, a long and pro tracted ideological struggle and the re-education of the people is needed and this can pro ceed successfully only on the b?.sis of the full development of the Socialist economic system. The socialist attitude to the great cultural achievements of the capitalist and earlier _ social formations, has been clearly set forth by Lenin, who wrote: "Marxism won for itself its world historical significance s.s the ideology of the revol utionary proletariat by the fact that it did not cast .aside the valuable gains of the bour»- geois epoch, but on the con trary assimilated and re- . worked all that was valuable in the more than two thousand years in the de velopment of human thought and culture". t r w ii. -JJ I Vf ' Chance meeting .for CPA President R. Dixon (right) and Tribune Editor Alec Robertson, as they yarn with a North Vietnamese art-student whom they came across at work in the grounds of an old castle at Trakhai, ancient capital of Lithuania, during their recent visit to the Soviet Union. 