 Are there worse disasters lying ahead? TWENTY FOUR years ago next Saturday the first enemy bombs ever to fall on Australian soil fell on Dar- win, killing over ZUU Ausr tralians. This was the inevitable result of the fall Of Singapore to Japanese aggression a few days earlier, on February 14. ? Not many Australians had slept well since the night of December 8, 1941, when the bombs fell on Pearl Harbor and Japanese fascism began its southward sweep. Some 238 Australians were killed when the Japanese raided Darwin on February 19. And 1789 Australian troops were killed, missing or died in the effort to save Singapore. Much worse was the fate of the 4783 Australian prisoners of war (out of a total of 15,384) who were later bashed, shot, bayonetted, worked or starved to death by their Japanese fascist jailers. "They herded the wounded to gether with kicks, curses blows from rifle butts and jabs from bayonets" says the Official War History by Lionel Wigmore, quot ing an eye-witness who added: "Many Japanese seemed to de light in kicking where a wound lay open, and so great was their satisfaction a.t any visible signs of pain that often the dose was repeated. "No part of the prisoners' bodies was spared from the brutality of their captors". One of the Australian dead was placed upright on a table against a truck, where the body "seemed to create enormous amusement to the Japanese concerned". A year earlier, Sir W. Churchill, when still First Lord of the Ad miralty, had written a forecast of what would happen in the event of a Japanese attack:— "The prime defence of Singapore is the Fleet . . . the fact that the Japanese had made landings in Malaya and had even begun the siege of the fortress would not deprive a superior relieving fleet of its power. On the contrary, the plight of the besiegers, cut off from I home while installing themselves in the swamps and jungles, would be all the more forlorn." He had no doubt been cheered by the report of his air commander at Singapore, Sir Robert Brooke- Popham (on the preceding October 27): "I bring you good news — there is no need to worry about the | strength of the Air Force that will I oppose the Japanese should they I' send their army southwards . . . The Air Force is on the spot and is waiting for the enemy— clouds 6f bombers and fighters are hidden in the jungles and are ready to . . . roar into action at the first move iof the Japanese towards this part of the world". j This was roughly what Popham I had told the Australia war cabinet I the preceding February. !He had said that Hong Kong could hold out for four months (it lasted 17 days) and even if the Malayan mainland and even the Singapore naval base were captur ed, "this would not prevent Singa pore Island from holding out." When the attack finally and dis astrously came, Churchill conced- Ied that there would be "terrible forfeits in the East; but all this would be a passing phase." ? To United States and British im- j perialism today, as to Churchill i then, Australia and its military forces are expendables in strategic schemes based on the holding of "interests" in Asia. It follows from this status as expendables that Australian com manding officers not only are restricted to subordinate positions but are not even consulted about decisions affecting their troops (as in Vietnam today). Throughout the Malaya-Singapore campaign General Percival, the British commander who has just died, gave the Australians the most crucial sectors to defend. However General Bennett, AIP commander, doesn't seem to have been consulted. "It now seems to have been un fortunate that a substantial num ber of Australians was not absorb ed into Malaya command, where they might not only have had an invigorating effect but have clear ly enabled the point of view of their large contingent to be seen more clearly," writes Wigmore. However neither Napoleon, Caesar nor Alexander the Great rolled into one could have saved Singapore— without the support of the Malaya and Singapore people. Seldom in history have so many people some 5,000,000 Malayans in all — been conquered by so few (about four Japanese divisions- some 60,000 troops), in so short a time (70 days). If most of the 5,000,000 did not fight was partly because they were not permitted to. Only in the very last stages, when defeat was al ready inevitable, were the Chinese in Malaya allowed to form a Chin ese Mobilisation Council— a strictly civilian affair. Delegates included representa tives of the Malayan Kuomintang and the Malayan Communist Party. Later Time magazine's corres pondent was to write of "truck- loads of khaki-clad Communists riding to battle, singing and salut ing with clenched fists". So far from seeking help from the Malays, the British Governor in May 1941 used troops to crush one of their strikes. Some were killed— for the crime of seeking to raise their pay of 1/3 a day by 3d. (The' Australians had refused to take part in this.) What else could the Malayans do but watch . the rout of their im perialist overlords? "In the villages and towns along the route" wrote war correspond ent Ian Morrison, "Malays and Chinese and Indians stood in silent little groups. Neither pleasure nor malice nor sympathy were to be seen in their impassive counten- ances . . . They saw the white tuans (masters) who had always been in Malaya since they could first remember, heading south". In a moment of frankness the London Times on February 18, 1942 explained the fall of Singapore by saying "After 120 years of British rule tne vast majority oi Asiatics were not sufficiently interested in the continuance of this rule to take steps to ensure it." Work for 1/3 a day to provide the profits on the City of London's £400 millions invested in Malaya— who would want to ensure the con tinuance of that? Not the Malayans— and so Singa pore couldn't stand or even provide a story like Tobruk or the Brest- Li tovsk citadel. (Japanese General Suzuki wrote afterwards that he was just look-' ing at Singapore's fortifications and deciding it would take "a good week's work" to capture them when the British enyoy arrived with the white flag and union jack). After Singapore and the fall of the old "Dutch East Indies"/ why did the Japanese not move on to take Australia? One factor was given by the Times' military correspondent at the time: "The bulk of the Japan ese divisions are stationed in Manchukuo and Korea watching the Russians or in China. The former may amount to 30 divisions, the latter to 20". The London Evening Standard's military correspondent wrote that the officially "neutral" USSR, which was then battling for its life against immensely bigger Hit ler forces in the west, was tying down more Japanese fighters and bombers on its frontiers than had so far been engaged in all the Pacific battlefronts. However, what really decided our safety, according to the views of one conservative military writer, was that the Asian peoples organ- i n (-Vl ji 1 1 /stifM f/\ fls A iOCU l/upui UWU uppuoiuuii MJ U1U fascist occupation armies. While fully aware of the tremend- > ous military might of the USA and the role it would play, US military correspondent Hanson W. Baldwin wrote in April 1942 that: "the teem ing millions of the Far East can make or break us in this war". Those millions were influenced in their decisions by the Atlantic Charter-United Nations promises of independence and democracy when victory had been won. Today those promises have still not been honoured and millions of people— in Vietnam, Laos, Thai land, Malayasia — are still struggling for independence and democracy. This time they are fighting, not against the Japanese invaders, but against American, British and Australian invaders. It is a meas ure of the success of the Asian peoples' struggle that today the US-British-Australian planners are forced to think in terms of "reli able" bases strung across the In dian Ocean. But the fact remains that these schemes— including US and Brit ish bases in Australia— are design ed for attack on Asian nations. For that reason, the general dir ection of the Holt Government's military policy is towards disasters! for Australia far greater than that which trapped the heroic 8th Divi sion in Singapore in 1942. Japanese bombs scored direct hits on the Darwin Post Office, killing and, wounding scores. Photo Aust. War Mem., Canberra. Australian anti-tank gunners are shown destroying Japanese tanks caught in a tank trap. (Photo Australian War Memorial, Canberra.) 