 Shastri's last I interview. . . j I TASHKENT : In his last press conference only hours j j before his sudden death, Indian Prime Minister Lai Bahadur f I Shastri praised the "great and noble" role of Soviet Premier j | Kosygin in promoting the success of the peace talks here j | between India and Pakistan. j j Shastri also gave an in- | dication of his ideas. on steps j to implement the joint dec- laration he and Pakistani President Ayub Khan had 2 just signed. ni\ Shastri's last press conference | with Soviet press correspondents, i was reported as follows by a j TASS correspondent:— ? Q. What in your opinion are the J most important results of the just | concluded Tashkent meeting? A. First of all I wish to note that here, in Tashkent, we receiv- | ed with the President of Pakis- | tan a very important opportunity I to discuss frankly our disputed ! problems. j The Tashkent declaration shows j that we have achieved very tan- gible results. The most import- 1 ant of them is that a concrete | step has been taken towards the | restoration of genuinely peaceful | relations between India and ! Pakistan. | The second not less important | result of the Tashkent talks is j their outcome, undoubtedly, will ! promote the strengthening of the | cause of peace in Asia and j throughout the world, j I am convinced that the peoples ! of India and Pakistan, at one with 1 the other peoples of the world, j will meet with satisfaction the ! results of the Tashkent meeting. I Q. What specific steps is your (Government going to take to ful fil the Tashkent declaration? j A. I imagine that appropriate Ministers of India and Pakistan j will begin to work in the near j future to outline specific steps for ' the fulfilment of the declaration, j It seems to me that commis- j sions may be also set up at various levels which will look after the implementation of the declaration. Q. To what extent did the con ditions in Tashkent facilitate a success of your talks with the President of Pakistan? A. To a great extent! First of all I wish to note the great and noble role played in the holding of the talks by the Soviet Prime Minis ter, Mr. Alexei Kosygin, and we are very thankful to him for this. The second thing that also helped us, was that both the welcome on the day of our arrival and the at titude of the people of Tashkent to what we were doing here, were also an important element in our successful work. I think that this is a reflection of the good will of the Soviet people who are striving for peace. Q. What would you like to con- vey to the people of the Soviet Union? A. Our good relations with the t Soviet Union are commonly known. We wish to strengthen them, but I intend to express my feelings more fully tomorrow when we fly away from the won derful city of Tashkent. (The Declaration was signed on the afternoon of January 10. That night the Soviet Premier gave a banquet for the heads of the two delegations. Soon after the ban quet, Shastri collapsed and died.) 