 CP call for public action SYDNEY: A call for united action by the people to effect major changes in Federal Gov- CnillLClil piMlUJT woo made this week by Mr. R. Dixon, President of the Communist Party of Australia. Mr. Dixon said: "Australia to day is faced with crucial and challenging issues which call for new policies and new thinking. "There is nothing to indicate that the Holt Government, which is in the same groove as the Menzies Government, has the answer. PROFIT ERA "Under Menzies, the wealthy monopolies increased their profits and fostered their control over the State, whilst the people have had to wage an increasing struggle to maintain living standards and combat the eroding influence of. creeping inflation and ris ing prices. "Social services are at their lowest for 20 years. Democracy has languished and the bur eaucracy has tried to stifle the initiative and movements of the people. "On the pretext that Australia needs 'powerful friends' the Menzies Government commit ted us to support US policies in Asia and the Pacific and, today, Australia does not pur sue an independent foreign policy. VIETNAM "Australian soldiers are dying in the dirty war in Vietnam and we are in open conflict with the peoples of Asia, with whom we should be friends. "Mr. Holt is fully committed to all these policies. "During the last period of the Menzies Government we wit nessed the very important | growth of mass criticism of | the Government's policies. | MOVEMENT i "The strong movement for peace I in Vietnam and for under- | standing and friendship with | all Asian nations on the basis | of equality and their un- fettered right to independence I and democracy is most signi- I (i ficant. | with these trends % is the demand for action | against monopolies, for meas- I ures to overcome poverty, for I more democracy and for pro- | gressive economic, social and s ( cultural policies. ' mood for change is grow ing among the Australian peo- „ pIe- degree to which change is effected will be the result not of action by the Holt admini stration but by the mass movement, unity and struggles of the people for progressive policies at home and abroad," Mr. Dixon said. 