 WATERFRONTALK By our Industrial Roundsman gLATANT attempts by Broken Hill Pty. to torpedo the water front industry conferences have caused wide hostility among waterside workers. Telegrams sent from job meetings throughout the Syd- ney wateriront nave demanded that the Government tell the BHP to keep its nose out of the all-in conferences. After many months of neg otiations, the Waterside Wor kers' Federation, shipowners and stevedoring companies under the chairmanship of Melbourne QC, Mr. A. E. Wood ward, have tentatively agreed on the introduction of a perm anent scheme of employment on the, Australian waterfront. Opposition The BHP, which is not a party to the conferences, de clared its opposition to the scheme in a formal submis sion to the conference. The contents of this submission was leaked to The Australian last week. Although no final agreement has been reached by the con ference on wage rates, it is anticipated that the guaranteed minimum weekly wage for waterside workers will be be tween $47 and $50. This is a main factor behind the BHP opposition. They are worried that their steel workers (among the lowest paid workers in Aus tralia) might demand the same wages and conditions as wharfies. Tentative agreement has also been reached that wharfies be paid time and a half for a twilight shift and double time for a midnighter. The BHP pays very much less than this to steel workers for shift work. The conference had also agreed in principle to an in dustry pension scheme; a bene- fit for past service; and a death and disability payment. All these decisions would no doubt also cause Australia's wealthy steel monopoly a great deal of heartburn. The audacity of BHP's inter ference is further highlighted by the fact that it is only a very minor employer of water front labor. This is done through its wholly owned subsidiary, the Port Waratah Stevedoring Co. Even in Port Kembla, which is almost entirely a steel port, the BHP is not the main em ployer of waterside workers. Its submissions to the con ference actually admitted hav ing only a minor stevedoring role. Gate-crashing The company's stated justif ication for gate crashing the conference is that it is a sub- stantial proaucer oi cargo handled in the interstate and overseas trade. Has the BHP any more right to stick its bib in than would graziers or any other producer or goods handled on the water front? The BHP .is saying in fact that there is no need to change anything on the waterfront except to gi,ve it the right to employ wharfies as perman ent hands on metal trades conditions. Their submissions are con cerned with what is best for the BHP, not what is best for the industry or for the men who obtain their livelihood from that industry. No doubt the company's next move will be to pressurise the Government to go all the way with BHP. 