 Americans the losers as S. Vietnam riots spread From Rupert Lockwood in Moscow "The real losers in Da Nang (South Vietnam) are the Americans," says the French Communist paper "Humanite". Many American and Euro- 1 pean newspapers and com- mentators agree that the j "second civil war", as they sometimes miscall the South Vietnam mass upheavals, proves that there is no civil war but a rallying of prac tically all South Vietnamese outside the disintegrating puppetry for expulsion of foreign invaders. Hue remains unsubdued and demonstrations in Saigon grow in strength. According to "Humanite" correspondents, more and more towns are escaping from American and puppet control. The strengthening unity of Buddhists, national bourgeoi sie, peasants, workers and in- tellecutuals plus the desertions from puppet battalions makes these losses of control inevit able. Tass newsagency reports that South Vietnam rural areas are I rising against the puppet gov ernment and the American occupation. Increased crop areas and villages are being dusted with chemicals, thus starving and poisoning the people Anti-American demnstrations are sweeping Bentre, Sadek and Tanan provinces. : The student-controlled rebel radio in Hue claims that five South Vietnam provinces are now either fully or partially controlled by those who re cently rose in rebellion. The so-called "second civil war" has created chaos be hind American lines. Even in Saigon American military vehicles are being overturned and set afire. The Da Nang massacres and Pagoda wreckings by Ky para troops and marines, moved in by American transport planes and actively aided in military operations by the American command, have intensified anti-American feeling and pre pared the ground for further uprisings. Drew Pearson reveals in New York Post that Ambas sador Lodge advised Ky to suppress Da Nang, while New York Times admits that Ky's forces are committing out rages against the Da Nang population and against Bud dhist pagodas. ffli 1 The centre of the struggle has now shifted to Hue, where I anti-American forces have | flocked from other areas. I Ky and the Americans could not immediately move to repeat the Da Nang sup pression at Hue because this city has stronger forces under a single revolutionary com mittee's command. The Americans and Ky have cut all roads into Hue and hope to strangle the city by hunger and blockade. 