 Work value estimates point to lower wages SYDNEY: Inspections of work in the metal industry as part of the "work value" investigation of Concilia tion Commissioner Winter are due to commence next month. Frst inspections are to be made in Queensland. These will be followed by inspec tions in NSW, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania. Following these inspections and the hearing of any evid ence which the unions or em ployers desire to place before him Commissioner Winter will submit a report to the other members of the Full Bench of which he is a member— Judges Wright, Gallagher and Moore. This Full Bench will then de cide what margins should be prescribed. Clear Many aspects of the proced ures to be followed in the "work value" investigation and the assessment of margins are not yet clear. Comment on some of these aspects will he made in future . articles Meantime what is clear, is that the outcome of the pro ceedings in relation to margins now before Commissioner, Win ter will apply only to workers covered by the Federal Metal Trades Award. The decisions in this case will not be applied automatic ally to other awards or to other metal workers. Work-value investigations and assessments of rates to he paid as margins must and will he made separately for each award. This is necessarily a long process and its outcome ex tremely doubtful. This is one of the effects of the recent national wage deci sion of the Arbitration Com mission consisting of Judges Wright, Gallagher and Moore plus Commissioner Winter. Other effects of this deci sion are:— When final decisions are made in the current case on margins, wage rates in the Fed eral Metal Trades Award will be expressed as a total wage and not as a separate basic wage and margins. Wage review This total wage will be reviewed annually on general economic grounds. What con stitutes general economic grounds is likely to vary ac cording to the composition of the bench hearing the case. The H— Mil— —i iliiimimi iipum— mi i iiriiii iimw— iwmrrwn— unions will claim that this total wage should be varied in each review according to movements in prices and productivity. The employers will claim that price movements should be ignored and consideration given only to productivity and the over-all economic position. Despite some differences in emphasis all the Judges say that the over-all economic posi- I tion must he taken into con- S sideration in each review. 1 Differences between the posi- E tion of the unions, the employ- I ers and the members of the I Commission are not really ex- B tensive and these annual re- | views of the total wage will be S restricted to very narrow | grounds. 1 Any further increase in 1 award wages will be by way of B periodic assessments of indivi- E dual margins based upon 8 "work-value" estimates of in- 1 dividual classifications in each E award taken separately. E Scope limited This is the pattern which emerges from the 1966 national wage case. Its effects will be to limit the scope for wage increases through the arbitration system and restrict the basis for nat ional wage campaigns in sup port of common demands. This pattern is spelled out very clearly in the decisions and particularly in that of Judge Gallagher. As though dangling a bait he emphasises the worth-whileness of a work-value assessment of margins and puts forward at tractions all based on the ap parent assumption that such a case would bring only limited increases for a small number of persons. Concentration on wage in creases per medium of work- value estimates would inevit ably weaken the wage struggle and lead to lower wage levels. 