 Iji LbIaHL JLiSyLiiilaJLiLU! " Mislaid " $25 million AAR. Kevin Miller, secretary of the Plasterers Union (NSW) says that he can find no evidence that the directive of the Australian government to the banks to release $25 million for housing has been carried out. In fact, the situation after the directive became even worse; the building industry declined by 20% last February, as against the same period last year. The situation didn't pick up at all until the government gave hous ing grants of $71 million to the state governments. And as it then only picked up by 4% Mr. Miller wants to know what the Government is doing to check on the mystery of the dis appearing money. So do his unemployed members. Smoking out the company I AST Thursday night min- ' ers at Mt. Isa burned 200 copies of a new newspaper, the "North West Star". They cheered a i the papers blazed. Background to this unusual in cident is that, last November, the public relations consultant to Mt. Isa Mines, Mr. Asher Joel, an nounced that a competitive paper to the existing "Mt. Isa Mail" would be launched. But the miners see the new paper as the voice of Mt. Isa . Mines, whose efforts to smash un ionism, with the aid of the Nick- lin Government, have not been for gotten since early last year. , Last Saturday a former president of Mt. Isa ALP Branch said: "I , feel certain that the Mines are backing the Star, and so do the majority of the people here. This is a workers town . . . and THAT is a mines paper!" Death is so temporary -"HE Government's new pamphlet, "Vietnam Questions and Answers" (see page 4) is yet another clang er in its unwinnable battle of ideas over the unwinnable war. Here's a sample quote: "No one in Vietnam has suffered other than temporary inconvenience from the use of gas". On January 12 last an official communique announced the death of Corporal R. Bowtell, of the Aus tralian force in Vietnam, while us ing gas against alleged "Vietcong" in a tunnel near Saigon. He was wearing a gasmask, but this did not save him. Australia's security CECURITY officer at Syd- ney airport impounded a parcel of LP records bein longing to Mr. R. Dixon, Communist Party President, returning from the Soviet Union recently. Mr. Dixon: But these are musical classics. Officer: Foreign language stuff. We have to listen to . what's on them. (The records included sonatas, symphonies and concertos by Beethoven, Tchaikowsky, Rachman inoff and others. Estimated total listening time, six hours, Nice work, at the taxpayers' expense). Morning Star rises ANY new and old Aus tralians will join in welcoming the new London daily newspaper, Morning Star, which on April 25 took over " the great 36-year tradition of the Daily Worker under a name that links up with the Chartist struggles of the last century. Its first editorial made these sound points: — "We are a committed newspaper | — committed to the cause of sanity, of peace and of pro gress ... "We are for a new society, a Socialist society .... "Editorially, we express Com munist views. At the same time j we offer a platform to all genuine Left opinion ... And there was another point, fundamental to every publication engaged in the fight against capitalism: ? "No paper intending to be inde pendent of the monopolies can , survive without sacrifice on the part of staff and readers." \ Good luck, Morning Star! i 