 ON THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE FOUR MEN DEAD AT BULLI, BUT NO SENTENCE Mines stop in protest SYDNEY: Five men were buried alive at the Wyee State Mine on October 21 yet seven days later a magistrate refused to impose sentence on a mine manager found guilty of a breach of regulations prior to a fire in Old Bulli Mine last November which claimed the lives of four men. Three min-es on the NSW South Coast, including Old Bulli stopped work on Monday in protest against the magistrate's finding and the Souther? Board of Management of the) Miners' Federation has called for a deputation to protest to the NSW Minister for Mines, the Minister for Justice anrl Chief Mines Inspector. d the The magistrate, Mr. Lewer, aquitted the manager, Dennis Stone, of 20 other charges. He found an offence under the Coal Mines Regulations Act proved, but said no good purpose could be served by in flicting a penalty on Stone. Stone was one of five men charged by summons taken out by the Mines Department after the Bulli Mine fire. Mr. Lewer also found an of fence under the Act proved against the under manager of the mine, John Puddle, but did not impose a penalty. Toll The Wyee disaster Northern NSW is described by the Min ers' Federation as the worst in NSW since the Bellbird ex plosion in 1923 which killed 20 men. It brings this year's death toll in the mines, so far, to 23. Eighteen died in NSW mines, bringing the fatality rate to one of the highest on record. The other fatalities were four in Broken Hill and one in Queensland. The Wyee victims were Alan McCabe, 50, widower, Karl Saari, 37, married, Richard Stowart, 52, married, Percy Harris, 58, and Stephen Wood, 44, married. Mr. George Neilly, the Labor member for Cessnock, who was the General Secretary of the Miners' Federation before he became an MLA, said in the NSW Parliament last week said that there should be flex ibility in the Act so that the responsibile Minister could in troduce amendments in the in- terests oi saiety. "Briefly, the procedure is this", Mr. Neilly said. "The Minister makes a decision, which goes to the Department of Mines, is verified, and is finally sent to Canberra. Then, Canberra sends it back to the Jcint Coal Board and if it ap proves, we get an amendment to the Act. "This is the procedure, even though the lives, of men are at stake." Apprehensive Mr. Neilly sai,d he had dis cussed the tragedy with the womenfolk and their attitude was such that they had become apprehensive about their hus bands working in the industry. This apprehension had gone right through to the children he said. "Quite a few widows have come to see me recently. I re call that one widow, whose husband was killed in a fall of coal at Aberdare North about two years ago, last week re ceived from the miners' pens- ion fund a pension cheque for 50 cents. That was the value of her husband! It is a shock ing, damnable disgrace. Never theless, she gets a widow's pension and this supplements her income from the miners' pension fund," Mr. Neilly said. 