 The RHODESIA mob MENZIES KENT-HUGHES BARNES KILLEN BUTLER FOUR-SQUARE BEHIND RACISM By a Political Correspondent IINITED Nations econ omic sanctions on the racist Smith regime in Rhodesia — requested by Britain under strong pressure from African nations — now raise the vital question of the Holt Government's at titude. While there is no doubt where. democratic, forces, in Australia' Will' stand on the issue, there is good reason for the tentative tone of the Sydney Morning Herald's edi torial statement on December 5: "Britain should be able to count on the support of Aus tralia." The record shows that Ian Smith, leader of the white- racist police state of Rhode sia, has some of his staunch- est friends among those who have just been returned to the Government benches in Canberra. Just five days after Smith's Declaration of Unilateral In dependence from Britain oh November 11, 1965, Sir Robert Menzies, then Prime Minister of Australia, 'could not con ceal his own agonising dil emma. Illegal Admitting in Federal Par liament that this declaration made the Government1 of Rhodesia illegal, he went on in his speech to woo support for Smith:— "I had a natural under standing of the problems con fronting the European set tlers in Rhodesia, a country which has enjoyed its own ' substantially but technically incomplete form of govern ment for many years and to which the contribution of "the European settlers to the eco nomic vigour of the country has been most substantial." Condemning what he termed the first of "two extreme views" on Rhodesia (adult suffrage in a few months, resulting in an African ma jority in Parliament) Men zies said: "... as I said to my friend Mr. Smith, I could see . all the elements of bad, be cause of inexperienced gov ernment and possible econo mic disaster." (About 1 million potential voters out of a population of 3,970,000 Africans are denied the right to vote. The Salis bury Parliament has 65 seats, 50 of which are elected by the "A" electoral roll and 15 by the "B" roll. The "A" roll is overwhelmingly for whites.) The other extreme view, Menzies told his "friend Mr. Smith", was that achievement of an African majority should be indefinitely resisted- The demands being made at the United Nations for violent repression of the regime, Men_ zies said, required "critical examination". "We will not either physic ally or financially contribute to the use of force ... we reject the idea of punish ment, for it would be undis- c'rimihatiftg arid therefore un just." His next staternent has great significance toda-y: "My colleagues and I have had very great reservations about even economic sanc tions." Fascist Expressing a hope that Rho- desians would return to the negotiating table, he said he hoped that this would occur "before too much damage had been inflicted on people who have, as I pointed out, been the greatest contributors to the prosperity of Rhodesia." Self-confessed fascist, Sir Wilfred Kent-Hughes, MHR (Lib.) perhaps best summed up where Menzies really stood on the Rhodesian issue in the debate the next day, when he said: "He spoke clearly, deliber ately and solemnly, in in creased tones of sadness but with no bitterness whatso ever. . ." Kent-Hughes then went on to quote snatches of poetry about "clumsy feet squashing rose blossoms" and even lik ened anti-Smith policies to a demand that Americans should have handed back the country to the Indians. Next in the debate came Territories Minister Barnes, who began with an attack on Labor leader Calwell and de puty-leader Whitlam for their "bellicose attitude" to Rho desia- He then "wished the newly independent nation well" and was unstinting in his praise for the South African racist dictatorship which, he said, had the "highest Negro living standards in the world". Sympathy "Those of us who come from rural areas and who have rural associations particula-rly, I think, have a great deal of sympathy for the people of Rhodesia", Mr. Barnes said- To a question "which peo ple", he replied: "The Euro pean people, they are endeav- ouring to work out their future." Like his colleague Kent- Hughes, he warned against sanctions and what he de scribed as "clamouring for adult suffrage". Mr. J. Killen, extreme right- wing Liberal member for Moreton, surprised nobody when he said: , "I hope that no person will feel his feelings needlessly lacerated when I say to him that I find the utmost diffi culty in restraining myself on hearing people speak of treason of the Rhodesian peo ple". miiiaii urn iiiimnmr— - When Dr. J. F. Cairns (Labor) pointed out that in Rhodesia 200,000 Europe a n s govern and completely domi nate 4 million Africans, Mr. G. Shaw (Country Party) in terjected: "Why should they not?" Split Following this debate in which the Liberal Party speakers scarcely hid their support for Smith, Eric But ler, Director of the Austra lian League of Rights, tele phoned Rhodesia from Mel- bourne to assure the Gov ernment of "popular and poli tical support in Australia". Butler, a close associate of Mr. Killen (according to the Melbourne Age of November 20, 1965) told Dupont: "The Australian Cabinet was split 50-50 on the Rho desian issue. As many as half the Government back-bench ers were sympathetic to the Rhodesian cause. "There is. no doubt th2.t Sir Robert Menzies was engaging in diplomatic double talk in his announcements of sanc tions against Rhodesia." Last Wednesday the Aus tralian Financial Review said that Australia was unlikely to be 2ffected by the trade sanc- tions that the United Nations would impose against Rhode sia. It noted that major Rho desian exports had fallen away to nothing. On the other hand, Aus tralia had not restricted ex ports to Rhodesia — in the main wheat and whe'.ten flour. According to the "Re view" British sanctions were understood not to affect these. Total exports to Rhodesia in 1965 from Australia amounted to $4.2 million. Proposed British sanctions were said to be selective in their effect and as yet not a threat to Australian - Rhode sian trade. Menzies — "natural understanding" for settlers Rhodesian white racist leader Ian Smith 