 Seamen's stop-work meetings Melbourne We are unequivocally opposed to Australia's par ticipation in the war in viAtnAm. . In this connec- tion, we urge adoption by the Federal Government, of labor movement policy for the immediate with drawal of all Australian armed forces. Wfe commend the ini tiative by the Federal Ex ecutive in taking a stand over the Vietnamese war. Having been directed by the Secretary of the A.C.T.U., Comrade Harold Souter, and having been virtually ordered by His honour Mr. Justice Gal lagher of the Arbitration Commission the Union re commends its members man the Boonaroo under strong protest. Queensland THE Seamen's Union be lieves that seamen fol lowing their peacetime occupation of manning ships for trade could re fuse to be conscripted to become participants in the Vietnam war. The Union re-states we have not interfered with or prevented supplies going to Vietnam. During the last war this Union suffered casualties of one in 10.7 of its mem bership, a higher percent age than the Army, Navy and Air Force combined. We accept the position that in times of war, when we go to work we go to war. However, we claim the right to declare our oppo sition in times of peace. We oppose the unjust war in Vietnam. West Australia Fremantle seamen "rel uctantly and under pro test" will man the ships on 3 conditions: Any penalties inflicted on union members for having refused employ ment in the Boonaroo be lifted. The manning of the Boonaroo should be on a voluntary basis. No penalties should be inflicted on seamen who still refused to man the ship. South Australia "That this stopwork meeting of Seamen Port Adelaide recognise that just as the Holt Govern ment conscripted troops for Vietnam, we too must submit to the insidious act of conscription which as a trade union we find re pugnant in a so-called democratic society. "We go on record as de claring our determined op position to Australian in volvement in this unjust sud undeclared war. . Other resolutions of pro test were carried by sea men at the engagement TtT.\0n S A- tu&s and on the following ships: Lake Jon-ens, Minkara, Trou- hridge, Age, Accolede, Iron Duke and Macedon. Newcastle Agree to recommend we manning of the Boona- great reluctance and under protest. In making our decision we emphasise that our op- ?nOSii0Ii 1188 not changed n relation to the undeclar- 3® Vietnam. We are totally opposed to it. we join with people throughout Australia and caHW f f the world 111 ailing for a cessation of £LWarl withdrawal of all foreign troops, and for the 53S5&." the Geneva 