 The 4old hat' of Marxism still graces humanity's head W. A. WOOD writes a note on the ABC's TV series, "A Hundred Years of Marxism." J— |OW comes it that the ABC is to run a series of programs (by arrangement with the BBC) on 1 00 years of Marxism (Das Kapital appeared in 1866)? Haven't we heard— haven't we been hearing for years (100 to be precise)— that Marx was all wrong, or, at least, that today he's out of date and old hat? The fact is, of course, that despite all this the man has emerged with gigantic stature undiminished, as the ABC, in effect, acknowledges in its brochure. "It is arguable that Marx ism . . . has had a greater in fluence on our way of think ing about society and politics than any other social theory of the past 100 years" it says. "Arguable" understates it. The problem would.be to find anyone who would argue any thing else. Oblivion What other social theories of the past 100 years are in the race? In that period Marx's main opponents have been not only defeated but cast into oblivion. Reviewing in "Labor His tory" a book by Palme Dutt, Miriam Dixson says he doesn't appreciate Proudhon properly. "Before 1864 Marx was known more widely as a rival of Proudhon than as a social ist in his own right" she says. But who today has heard of Proudhon apart from a few historians like Miss Dixson whose main reason for bother ing about him is that Marx, in knocking over his , ideas, had to take some notice of him? And that goes by and large for Bakunin, Lassalle, Duhr- ing, Vogt and a string of others. Not one man in a mil lion today has heard of them. Not one in ten million would give twopence for them. And there were other big names of those days— Herbert Spencer, Comte, George, Mal- thus, for example. Today they are figures of history, their followers few if any. Marx is a figure of today as well as of history. For the best, basic explan ation of capitalism as it was 100 years ago and the solution to its problems, read Capital. For the best basic explana tion of capitalism as it is to day — and the only real way to deal with such a headache of the hour as automation and the "container" shipping prob lem — read Capital. This doesn't mean worship ping Marx as an infallible prophet who was never wrong. That would be dogmatism, the height of anti-Marxism. Success And much of Marx 'has to be brought up to date because of the Marxists' own suc cesses. "You have (two thirds of) a world to win" the famous Manifesto should now read. Such revisions apart, the basic program of the Mani festo (published 1848) is pre cisely the one that the work- - ers (and their allies) in a large part of the world have already carried out, while the rest are preparing themselves, by organisation and educa tion, to do the same. Despite their disagreements, on which the TV series will say plenty, there is one basic point on which the socialist countries are united— they want to stay with Marx and Socialism. They may differ on the pre cise sort of socialism they want. But they don't want any sort of capitalism. Nowhere from Berlin to Shanghai has anyone heard the call "Give us back our bosses! We want some land lords! Let's have a freeze- squeeze like the British!" Threats, mainly by the US, to implement such slogans find, and will find, 40 million or more Communists of all lands fighting as one man and speaking with one voice. There will be plenty of viewers, and there should be plenty of discussion, when the series starts at 10.10 tonight (Sydney and Melbourne) and next Wednesday (Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth). Taking part in three of the nine programs will be British Marxist Eric Hobsbawm. Others. include leading univer sity men and foreign affairs journalists. Titles include The New Dyn amic, the Theory of Revolu tion, the Socialist pilemma and treatments of Stalin, Khrushchov and Mao Tse- tung. Frederic Engels Karl Marx 