 Realist: No need to apologise key words in the current controversy about the role of "Realist Writer" are "a necessary magazine", and most critics don't deny this. The Editorial Board cf the magazine must walk a tight- rope in seeking a balance on the levels of literary stan dards, ' entertainment and as a journal offering an avenue for creative talents of members of the Realist Writers Groups, who incidentally administer and sell the magazine. As Merv. Lilley well knows, i.t is difficult for an "unknown" to break into print in literary magazines no matter what the level. There is no need to make apology for a bias towards humanist and social realist writing, again at whatever level. How else but on a peak is writing of fervor of thought and action, at a technical height, almost always achieved but on a school of writers, A basis must be established, at however low a level, and the "Realist" is a journal for such a school not only for writers, but for critics, for readers, for intellectuals (both in the field and in the marxist sense), and working people generally. Then again there is no need to make apology for the "Realist", it is NOT on a much lower level than the literary journals. It is far, far better than most amateur writing group journals, and it stands up well to compar- 1 ison with magazines established for many years, such as "Meanjin" and "Overland". The standard may be low i,n I some work printed. Much material and quite a few writers I for the magazine would grace any of the pages of any literary magazine, and I cite just two examples; the story of F.B. Vickers in the current issue, and the article by Ray Williams, "Our Australian Rabelais", on Norman Lindsay. It may be argued that Bert Vickers is not a member of the Realist Writers Group, but his first book was published by the Australasian Book Society, a body which again provides avenues for new writers in the teeth of similar criticisms about levels of literary technique. It takes extreme determination and perserverance to develop creativity and succeed in our country which is pretty well dominated by a foreign culture. Let us have the encouragement from the left which should be there. The work done in the Realist Writers Group, for the "Realist Writer" and the work done in similar organisations provides a fine service for writers — recognised by many people outside our circles, but it is often being "knocked" I by the people it serves. "Knocking" based on snobbish com- 1 plaints about technical levels, or at another tangent the lowering of standards suggestions in order to make it "popular" are of not much help, Are we going to leave the field of food for the mind and emotions to the level of culture (technical masterpieces of glossy paper, pictures and layout) as exemplified by that lowbrow bible of America, "The Readers' Digest"? Or are we going to have a go? Enid Harrison, (Sydney) 