 Trade Union Youth Week "SAFETY FIRST" CAN WIN CAR JYDNEY : A safe driver's contest, open to young drivers under 25 years, is being organised by the NSW Labor Council as part of the activities of this year's Trade Union Youth Week, Details of the competition, - urViinh carries as first nrize a 1966 Holden sedan car, were announced last week by Labor Council's acting secretary, Mr. r. Marsh. Those eligible for the prizes will be the 120 best entries to a road safety quiz judged by the Road Safety Council of NSW. These young people will then compete in a car rally and gymkhana to be held in Sydney on September 18. Other prizes include a block of land at Coffs Harbor and a new outfit of clothing. This is the third youth week sponsored by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and will be held throughout Aus tralia from September 12 to 18. Youth Week aims to publi cise the ACTU program for young workers and to join and actfvlse" " new" " yaangrriembers- into the trade unions. The ACTU youth program in cludes: higher wage rates for apprentices and greater ap prenticeship opportunities, the full adult wage rate at 18 for unapprenticed juniors, equal pay for girls and the right to skilled training. Forum Last year the youth forum organised in Sydney drew 400 participants. Many delegates at the forum criticised trade union; leaders for ' their failure to encourage young people to become active trade unionists. No doubt many of the young men and women at this year's planned forum will want to know why many of their pro posals made last year have not yet been acted upon. One such decision was a re quest that the ACTU issue a national petition seeking a gen eral increase for young wage and salary earners and increas ed allowances for student trainee teachers. This year's forum, to be held at the Sydney Trades Hall, will discuss wages and salaries, education and trade training, automation and job opportun ities, peace, conscription and nuclear testing. Other activities during the week will include a civic recep tion at the Sydney Town Hall and a talent quest at the Syd ney Technical College. CYDNEY: "The Sydney District Committee of the Communist Party of Australia has agreed to raise $40,000 by the end of December as our quota for the $100,000 appeal recently announced by the Party." District Secretary, Mr. Joe Palmada said last week. Sydney had the biggest share of the Communist Party's $100,000 appeal to raise, said Mr. Palmada, "because the largest number of members in Australia are in Sydney as well as the largest concentration of working people from whom finance can be raised." Asked about plans for raising the $40,000 he replied: "We are having a frank talk with every branch in Sydney. We asked our members to make a weekly pledge between July 1 and the end of December, and to get supporters to do the same." When asked how the appeal was going at the moment, Mr. Palmada said: "To be perfectly frank, money in general is fairly tight. Our members and supporters like everybody else are feeling the effects of spiralling prices. "We take the view, however, that in our fight for price control and higher wages to offset price rises, more people than ever before will be prepared to contribute to our appeal. "We also believe that it is a better measure of our support to get small donations from ten people than a large donation from one person. This does not mean however, that we will not gratefully accept all donations, large and small. 'Wc are confident that Sydney will raise its quota by the end of December." The Communist Party's appeal for $100,000 which opened Juy 1 will conclude at the end of December, 1966 and not 196; as wrongly stated in last week's Tribune. CPA SYDNEY SECRETARY JOE PALMADA 