 'OKpfe pri| ?: J1 i j \4/S?2 \V-KEqyofiTH 1 1 6akDS! 5 \-Aujfi5a>.C!l x%K>\ r.r>3" S ... -gjuo'Wi |f2; .,. f-m VVJ-lP sSb fA9ff®i»sil 'MsP-r ':=- r :MMP1J Nl J- % By a Special Correspondent, who attended the recent Annual Summer School of the Austral ian Institute of Political Science. "THE three major prob lems of our time are war, food and urbanisation." Thus the Australian Institute of Political Science Annual Summer School opened in Canberra recently — its title — "Australian Cities — Choas or Planned Growth". The weekend school drew pol itical scientists, economists, arch itects, town planners and polit icians from all parts of Aus tralia. It was obvious that most of these people recognised that a problem existed and it was not too late to avoid the "chaos" mentioned in the title of the school. A major proportion of the pop-: ulation of industrialised countries is living in cities, and this prop ortion is constantly increasing. Australia, a relatively young country, is in a position to learn the lessons of this rapid city population increase, and avoid the major ills of seme of the world's largest cities. The population Of this country will double in the next thirty years In that time the amount of present development must also be doubled. t This is an absolute minimum need, not allowing for replacing old houses, roads etc., nor for the fact that today's standards will certainly be inadequate for the future. This is an urgent problem, for cities wiU have to be expanded- The question is will present r haphazard city growth result in I disastrously inefficient and Ugly j cities, or will planning be given j an opportunity to intervene. j There is no shortage of tech- j meal skills in Australia — a | one speaker expressed it, T may j not know much about town j planning but ! know more than ! I'll ever use'. J The weakness in Australia, a- j in many free enterprise count- | ries, is in the political and ad- j minisitrative fields. j It is believed that any con- i trois or Restrictions would pre- g vent development of the country. J . ___= ! This argument neglects the difference that exists betwjeen good development and bad dev elopment. The main stumbling block to planned growth is the federal/' State/local government machrn- eiy Australia is unique in that each state has only one major city. In the present system the ratepayers of that city have to finance its public spending. But it is reasonable thai the state government should have a particular interest in its own metropolis, and also national development is very closely tied to these cities. The logical step would be for the Commonwealth to intervene and provide finance and research facilities that the states cannot possibly provide. Sydney and Melbourne must share many problems that are found only in large cities; how ever there are no moans of pool ing any revelant knowledge be cause of the states autonomy. Briefly, the Commonwealth, with its income from taxation, fias the money; the State has the legal power, the various public authorities have the tech nical skill, but there is no mach inery for bringing these three together. To illustrate the complexity of authorities engaged in public spending, it was pointed out that decisions oh location, timing and design of airports, post offices and universities are in the hands of the Federal Government; of schools, highways, public hous ing in the hands of the State Government; of local roads and recreation areas in the hands of the local Council. An example in Sydney of the lack of coordination between these bodies, is the installation of the railway through to Sutherland, and the one to East Hills. The decision to expand in this way was . made without due re gard to the basic needs of a . community, and without recog nising that this step would place an unreasonable strain on the authorities responsible for schools, water supply and other commun ity essentials. Recently the President of the NSW Teachers' Federation ire- ported that the Education De partment's building programme was not able to keep pace witn the population growth in a new area whose development had been initiated and stimulated by another government department. The State Planning Authority of New South Wales was set up to do this job for coordin ation, but is ineffective, largely because it has no legal or finan cial power, and is a 'creature of the Minister for Local Govern - nt' and is js subject to political contr.,,£rthe govern ment of the da The general|elipg of .the summer schools' rjhat public enterprise andyd enterprise were both stay, but whereas at pi feaprivate en terprise calls | itniie, and the public has tfct ;a;oifinance all the services ij;saiife required, it was felt tlu| iblic enterprise could take tilled;! and then influence theipfg of private development. It's not clear) vh public bodies will! ever atti (tips position, with present i jrceji It was inter; a sign Ox the urgert'/ j the problem, that very life imei was spent on the physic! tape of future cities, and a gspeaj of time was spent .qMlitical means of achieving 'Maneasures of control, as sofesrpossible. Wjhat was lipowas a com mitment to measures that might efftectirlfiitence the government tpYfin consider problems. It school run on academic t||!$jyhose main aim was an the prob - lem and dissespf of inform ation. | But the prtpl# our cities demands ure$fiifiC£ll action. It should beipjhbcfc election iFSUe m Despite thjftpif commit ment, and thKp|Iingness to describe the ifll8 proponed as socialist, t|p|00 did a worthwhile tiif|ppfonjMng a substantial the choice Mf|| 