 N.S.W. school cleaners threaten stoppage over contract cleaning JYDNEY : Threat of a State-wide 24-hour stoppage of public school cleaners and caretakers has forced the N.S.W. Public Service Board to drop part of its plan for contract cleaning of State schools. Large mass meetings of cleaners held last week in Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong decided to hold the strike against the Public Service Board let ting contracts for the cleaning of 15 new school. This week the Miscellaneous - Workers' Union (NSW Branch) was advised that the Board would not proceed with its plan i in the Newcastle and Wollon gong districts. Yesterday (Tuesday) the union complied with an In dustrial Commission order to call off today's strike, pend ing a hearing of the dispute. More than 2000 cleaners at last week's meeting in the Sydney Town Hall carried a resolution deploring the action of the PSB "as an attempt to lower the wages and working | conditions of employees". The Federal secretary of the union (Mi. R. Geitzelt) told the Sydney meeting that the Board's decision could affect the jobs of 4000 widows and other needy people. . "It appears this action was taken with the full know ledge of the Askin Liberal Government. "One big Sydney contractor has 1000 workers, of which about 90 per cent are part- ume ana many nave two jods, he said. The union says that con tract cleaning would worsen wages and conditions by: Reducing annual leave from four weeks to three weeks. Reducing sick leave from two weeks to one week. Abolishing increment ser vice allowances which vary from 4/- to 12/- a week. Extending working hours from 33 to 36 hours for fe males and could mean rein- troduction of Saturday morn ing work. © Abolishing preferences to women, including those in re ceipt of State aid, widows and others in needy circumstances. Under the present female school cleaning agreement, widows in receipt of State aid and other needy people have a preference to do this work. 400 March in Newcastle In Newcastle last Thursday 400 women cleaners marched in a body to the Federal Mem bers' rooms following their meeting at the Trades Hall. A deputation met MLA's Stewart, Hawkins and, Booth, who agreed to arrange for the deputation to meet the State Premier. The Newcastle meeting was considered .one of the largest meetings of women trade unionists ever held there. Women came from as far away as Gosford and Taree. and telegrams of support came from many areas of Northern NSW. At Wollongong, on the NSW South Coast, about 330 women packed the Trades Hall and many came from as far as Bowral, Moss Vale, Kiama Nowra and Helensburgh; 