 RELUCTANT PROFITEERS PETE THOMAS adds a postscript on the copper scandal "THE increase in the Aus tralian copper price was decreed after a period of ostensible reluctance by Mt. lsa Mines. Press reports at the same time said that Mt. Isa Mines and Cobar Mines (a Broken Hill subsidiary) would keep their Australian price at $870 a ton, even though a lesser producer (British controlled Mt. Lyell) was raising its price here to $1200-plus fig ure of the London Stock Exchange. ''Any Mt. Isa Mines' reluc tance to lift its Australian price was not out of selfless kindness, but from the appre hensions that an excessive price for copper might turn users to alternative metals and plastics. AlsOj as the Sydney Morn ing Herald's financial editor said, perhaps "it feared long- term industrial trouble if its profits rose spectacularly for ?, period": those trouble-mak ing workers might want some more share of the huge wealth that their labors produce. But only a couple a days later, the temptation to Mt. Isa proved irrestible. "Mt. Isa takes the jackpot," said a Sydney Morning Her ald headline on the news that Mt. Ish Mines and Cobar Mines were joining in the cop-the-lot grab. The Queensland Courier- Mail— so careful not to say anything nasty about Big Business— said that Mt. Isa Mines "has been forced to support a price increase." Poor .helpless Mt. Isa Mines! How embarrassing for it to have all that money forced into its unwilling hands! ? OME of the blame for the local copper situ ation has been put on the Holt Government! Though a ban was put on the export of scrap copper some months ago so as -to conserve supplies for Aust ralia, this ban has had a widely-inviting loophole. For example, scrap copper wire could not be exported as scrap. But it could be wound ' around a drum (at a trifling cost), then classified as a fabricated product, and exported to high-price mar kets. Consequently, exports of this type have zoomed up. Now, perhaps, the Holt Government thinks it has solved this — by allowing the Australian price to be hoistd to the same exorbitant level as the London Metal Exchange figure. So the combination of Big Business -bushrangers' greed and Government indulgence has landed an economic kidney-punch on Australians. As ' part the counter-punch ing Australians ought to dev elop, goes the- need to expose the real, ugly face of US and local monopoly control. In 1880, the wrathful. Estab lishment hounded and killed the Kellys because they stole a few thousand pounds and killed some men. How much more cause have Australians now to chase from power the mon opolists who plunder us for millions and whose greed prompts the policies that are spilling such dreadful torrents of blood. Pete Thomas 