 .I 1 The crimewave and the violence cult By a bpecial Correspondent QONE now, apparently, are the days when a murder was rare enough — and sensational enough — to warrant a special edition of the evening papers. Today, murders, bank hold- ups, robberies and „ other major crimes become so common-place that the reader tends almost to pass them over in the papers. What has caused the great increase in the number of serious criminal offences in Australia and other capital ist countries? in., ine nieume 01 many Australians, there have been two world wars of catas trophic proportions, as well as the wars in Korea ' and Vietnam. Public figures — ranging from the , leaders ,. of . popular move ments of change like Lumum- 'sr ba to' United Nations officials' like Dag Hammarskjold — have either been murdered or met their deaths in "mysterious" circumstances. Only last year in Indonesia, perhaps the worst bloodbath in human history occurred with hardly a ripple of con- cern expressed by those in control of communications media. So today life is no longer a sacred thing,- tip be cherished and fiercely guarded. In Korea, and now in Vietnam we have seen , a new type of war, conducted' not just be tween two opposing armed forces, but waged mercilessly against neipiess- innocent civ ilian populations. Women, children, the aged — all are killed . indiscriminately. Before TV, parents would take good care that their children did not see gangster or horror movies. Today, . withnf).Ty|(. in most people's homes,' young' and old alike are exposed to films virtually glorifying murder, crime and violence generally. Following the second World War, a number of countries took to the socialist path. The answer of the Western powers was to develop the Cold War. Through the means of mass communication, hatred or at best distrust of people living under . a different social system is instilled in the general public It is no wonder that in a society where a cult of violence seems to have be come supreme and human iue uab ueuume &u uiieap tat; incidence of anti-social acts has risen sharply. Only a change of society to a system dominated by a respect for life and a real sense of the dignity of man can end the. inhumanity : and; callousness , = prevalent under capitalism. , Faced with the senseless . spread of violence in Aus tralia today, the widest possible campaign needs to be lanched against the empha sis on crime, brutality and pornography in the press, TV and other popular media, 