 From Russia with science ! | I i MATHEMATICAL CONTROL MACHINES j V, Loskotov j A textbook for students which considers the application of ! the computer in process control and gives a sound coverage ! of the basic principles of operation and theory of control machines. Detailed description of application in railway i transport, metallurgy, metal working, chemical and petroleum, | power systems and food and light industries. $2.50 (2.69 1 posted). AUTOMATION SERVES MAN A, Merkulov A brief popular exposition on the rapid expansion of auto matic processes in the Soviet Union. Driverless trains, power plants, without operatives, canal locks automatically adjust ing as ships arrive, automated steel works and a host of electronic devices are vividly described. 32c (39c posted). CLOCK OF LIVING NATURE A. Emme Summarizes in popular form extensive experimental materials j dealing with biological rhythms. Demonstrates that all | organisms from unicellular to highly organised animals — ) all measure time. 65c (72c posted). CYBERNETICS WITHIN US Y. Saparina In our organism there are cybernetiq devices which work according to principles common to those of electronic devices. Bionics is the branch of cynbernetics that studies living systems. This is a popular exposition of Ihe work being done in this field. 95c ($1.05 posted), CODE OF LIFE A. Shvarts Relates in popular language the latest attainments of biology and medicine, and considers future prospects. The new molecular biology is given much attention. 65c (75c posted) WHAT IS THE THEORY OF RELATIVITY? L. Landau & Y. Rumer One of the most successful attempts at a popular explanation of Einstein's teaching on the inter-relation of time, space and matter. 20c (24c posted). MAN, SCIENCE AND SOCIETY A book about the world, about the people who live in it, their sociely and its laws of development. Summarizes the two major social systems of our day and looks into the future. What do we see as an ideal society? How do we envisage ultimate relationships between men and between nations? How can science transform man himself? $1.40 ($1.56 posted). New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607. 