 . ' ' " -'i l /UQ, " Kung-Fu — the gentle art of instant death By "The Challenger" ACCORDING to stories in the daily press during the past couple of weeks, Britain is beiny deluged with a new form of relaxation — a deadly self-defence method known as Kung- Fu — the Oriental "Art" of instant death this is applied with no bodily contact. Part of the Kung-Fu advertisements reads: "Our streets aren't safe today. Crime increases daily. You no longer have to be help less . . . with Kung-Fu you can master every sit uation . . . Kung-Fu is effective whether ' you're standing sitting or even lying down asleep and off guard." Pardon the cynicism, but | it looks to us as if the g prominence given to Kung- Fu is all part of an ad vance publicity drive to sell this so-called sport in r Australia. Already pamphlets adver tising Kung-Fu have been distributed in Sydney and other parts of the country. The emphasis on these pleasant pastimes is all part of the cult" "of vio lence too prevalent in our society. It seems that Kung-Fu is basically just another highly sensationalised form of self-defence— and about the only ones to gain from it .will be its I pushers. 8 Tennis in f a suitcase I jyARGARET Smith's de- j cision to quit tennis | will be a bitter blow to g her many fans. I The 24-year-old twice 8 Wimbledon champion and I seven times Australian E champion said that she was "fed up with pisying and travelling". "It was a corj;.rs.r." go, go, go. Travailing trcsa England to Pari:;, to j'T-a/y. Always living 'out oi a suitcase. Play a tourna ment in one country one week and in another the next week . . .1 was fed up with life and tired of tennis. It no longer had excitement and appeal." A MEETING of some 70 Com munists and others activ ely involved in the fields oi literature, art and the mass media in Sydney last weekend passed a resolution expressing sympathy with the victims of the Italian floods and express ing concern at the great loss occasioned by the floods to art treasures in Florence and Milan. I Responsibility for election corn- 1 paign material contained in this issue is accepted by H. Stein, 165 | Day St., Sydney. /j MARGARET SMITH j 