 A NATION'S GUILT .uTheatr QNE of the most impressive plays of recent years — at least in the breadth and depth of its ideas, if not in its actual playability — is Jean-Paul Sartre's "Altona", brought to Sydney audiences last week by the Perth National Theatre as part of the Interstate Theatre Season at the Old Tote, Kensington. By fa-r the main idea in this complex play is that of re sponsibility — of the individual and people generally — to man kind as a whole, particularly the responsibility of this, most terrible epoch to future gener ations. Franz, the elder son of a wealthy West German indus trialist, has lived locked in his room since the end of the war, his only contact with the rest of the family being through his sister Leni, who brings him his meals and with whom he has formed an incestuous relation ship. He has , convinced himself that outside his attic Germany « m rums, despoiled' and pu rged by the victorious West ern powers, and even bricks up 15 one window to help himself perpetuate the illusion. But Federal Germany has be come the most powerful nation m Western Europe. As Franz's father, who co-operated with the Nazis and actually sold Himmler land for a concentra tion camp, cynically says: "We nad to be defeated so that "we could become great again." f'anz himself has to believe that it has been crippled, as a rationale of his own guilt. As an officer on the Russian front he condoned and partici pated in atrocities. Above all, Franz realises that if Germany is flourishing the nation has paid no penalty for Its crimes against humanity under Hitler and that the Ger man people have avoided their share of the blame. Through the play Franz asks: how can we in the 20th Century, a century of incredible hate and anti-humanism, justify ourselves to posterity? And the answer is implied by Sartre: only by fighting against the threat of war today— which he sees as emanating from resurgent Ger man militarism. The Perth National Theatre does an admirable job in bring ing this exceedingly difficult and sometimes wordy play to life. Edgar Metcalfe's thorough direction is aided by an ex cellent double-level set by Ed ward Dembowski. James Beattie gives a mag nificent performance a-s Franz, on only rare occasions striking anything like a false note in a part which, because of its com plexities, would lead a poorer actor straight to catastrophe Excellent support comes from Peter Collingwood as the father who for years has ignored his guilt, but when confronted with it by Franz, realises that, like his son, he has no pther way out but death. Other performances do not measure up to the quality of these two. Eileen Colocott is somewhat melodramatic as Leni, producer Metcalfe conventional as Franz's weak-willed brother Werner, and Rosemary Barr beautiful but a little wooden as Werner's wife Johanna, who finally makes Franz face up to the truth. But on the whole this is a good production of a most im portant play which, it is to be hoped, some local theatre should present for the benefit of Sydney audiences. A SKETCH by Jennie Short for Mona Brand's "Barbara", | which has its world premiere at Sydney's New Theatre this .Saturday night. 