 WOMEN IN BATTLE FOR EQUAL RIGHTS From SALLY BOWEN in Wollongong The growth of steel and subsidiary industries on the South Coast increased the popula tion from 60,000 just after the last war, to 150,000 in Greater Wollongongtoday. This rapid development has created special prob lems in housing, transport and many other items such as employment (or women. A survey conducted by the Ulawarra Regional De velopment Committee showed approximately . 6000 unem ployed women in 1965. Large queues of waiting joh seekers have been seen whenever a big store re quired labor. The further planned develop ment of heavy industry will aggravate the situation unless the work of the trade unions and of such organisations as the Union of Australian. Wo men and the New Opportuni ties for Women Committee, which was formed for this purpose, bears fruit. Planned light industry and apprenticeships for girls with suitable opportunities in heavy industry is the only way to give women a chance to be a part of creative labor. Women have a good record as unionists, as evidenced by their work in the Miscellan eous Workers' Union's fight for wage justice and their acti vity to retain their right to school cleaning instead of con tract labor. j Other sections and ! other unions show that Jill is just as keen as Jack for better con ditions and wage justice. The Union of Australian Women, with the trade unions women's committees of the miners, wharfies, seamen and building workers, are all sup porting the Labor Council's call for signatures to the peti tion for price control. The newly formed building trades women's committee re cently collected over 300 sig natures in two hours at War- rawong shopping centre. The same day that the local press reported discussion by the Council of the City of Greater Wollon gong for charges on swimming pools, libraries and car parks, the Union of Australian Women had a petition on the streets asking' the aldermen to stay their hand in this direct at tack on the health, both body and mind, of the people. The real future for the South Coast lies in the .people's abil ity to limit the bad effects on the community of the growth of such huge enterprises as BHP, which made a profit of £18 million last year and re ceives special privileges from all three sections of eovern- ment — Federal, State and Local. dren to care for over 13 years ago. When the youngest reached the age of 16 she was deprived of the pension because she was un(der 45. As a result he found employment as a school cleaner and now she could be forced out of work if the Gov ernment achieved its aim of introducing contract cleaning into schools. These stories can be multi plied many times and help to explain the unity and deter mination of the women clean ers which was successful in preventing the introduction of cleaning into four of the 13 schools proposed by the Pub lic Service Board and result ing in a promise by the In dustrial Commission to hear the case as a matter of urgency. Women have always been ready, when events proved it was necessary, to take action in defence of their job conditions. In fact the inspiration for In ternational Women's Day first arose from a demonstration in the streets of New York by garment workers on March 8, 1908, against the sweated work shops in the clothing industry. The women members of the Miscellaneous Workers' Union are no exception. Three members of this union have now been elected as de legates to the Newcastle Trades Hall International Women's Day Committee and the 1966 secretary of this committee is Mr. Keith Wilson, the secre tary of their union. As a result of his exper iences in the union Mr. Wil son believes that the / Interna tional Women's Day' celebra tions help the unions in their campaigns because it high lights some of the special in justices that are imposed upon women in our society. — — TUESDAY, MARCH 8, is International Worn en's Day. Women in all main Australian centres, are pre paring, with their sisters in other countries, to celebrate the growing struggle of women for peace and ' the rights of women and children to full development and par ticipation in life. These two stories, from women correspondents on the north and south coasts of New South Wales, tell something of recent activities of work- 1 ing women. I Women demonstrating in Newcastle recently against a threat to their wage, jogs and living standards. See story at le(t. 