 j , 7 - i T.-. « — — t i n" 1 " " 1 T &lt; j.>Tr > t -r- Affiliation with the ACTU? AWU LEADERS' MOTIVES PUT IN QUESTION SYDNEY : The Council for Membership Control of the Aus tralian Workers Union has challenged the motives behind moves for AWU affiliation to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The "Voice", organ of the CMC, said it suspects that pressure has come from some top American union leaders to move the Australian trade union movement to the Right. At the recent AWU Convention a "big debate" centred on the question of affiliation but with no decision taken either way on the matter. Moves at earlier conventions to affiliate have been rejected as in 1964 when a resolution/re jecting affiliation was carried unanimously. Again in 1965 officials of the union deliberately chose as the key resolution a proposal to af filiate and allowed it to lapse for want of a mover. The CMC said that the im provement this year in the treat ment of the subject does not necessarily mean the union is going to affiliate with the ACTU. The CMC said a study of this debate as published leads to suspicion that AWU officials have been party to or are aware of a plan to move the ACTU to the Right— part of which suc ceeded at the 1965 ACTU Con gress. It also suspects that another part of this plan is affiliation of the AWU to the ACTU con ditional upon certain changes in ACTU policy and organisa tion. Mr. T. Dougherty (AWU gen eral secretary) made a call for working class unity during the debate and said: "We are dedicated to fight communism. Look at your ob jectives. "The whole of your funds can be used to destroy them and their insidious, danger ous activities. "We must destroy commun ism." The CMC made reply: "And so say Santamaria, Holt, Mc- Mahon and every spokesman for anti-working class forces in Australia. "We had thought that the whole of our funds must be devoted to fighting for improv ed wages and working condi tions and against the anti-work ing class forces." " The CMC suggests that per haps the key to the apparent "change of heart" and the in spiration for the moves to af filiate with the ACTU were re vealed by the NSW Branch sec retary, Mr. C. Oliver. "He told convention of un successful efforts made at meet ings he attended in Washington last year to seat the AWU on the management and administrative bodies of the International Con federation of Free Trade Uni ons. "He described the lack of suc cess for these efforts as being due to 'skull-duggery'." The CMC said such moves would certainly have been op posed by the ACTU which has always opposed separate recog nition of the AWU as a kind of second Australian national trade union centre. "Is this what Mr. Oliver calls skull-duggery?" Obstacles to unity Speaking of the people with whom he was associating and who made moves in Washing ton to seat the AWU on leading bodies of the ICFTU Mr. Oliver ;aid: "They are anxious that all ob- tacles to unity should be emoved." The CMC said Mr. Oliver was eferring to the top leaders of he AFL-GIO, the American rade union organisation who plit the world trade union or- anisation set up in 1945 and ormed the ICFTU as a break- way from the World Federa- ion of Trade Unions. "What would cause such peo ple to be so concerned about unity in the Australian trade union movement and what "could be the basis for their apparent interest in the AWU?" the CMC asks. "They have frequently criti cised the ACTU because some unions affiliated to it have Com munists among their officials." The CMC point out that it was immediately after a visit to this country, a few. years ago, by a prominent US trade union official, that Mr. Dough erty, got convention to suppori his proposal for a breakaway body in opposition to the ACTU. "Principles" The CMC also refer to state ments made by a Queensland delegate at the convention (Mr. Buckman) who said he was happy the ACTU was "getting back to what we recognise as our principles." Answering this the CMC said we don't know anything about the "principles" of some AWU officials but do know that the activities of these leaders are marked by: "Desertion of members when they Are on strike as occurred at Mt. Isa; failure to defend members against victimisation as occurred following the Isa strike; opposition to the ALP and withdrawal of financial sup port for that party; support for the Holt Government's involve ment of Australia in the war in Vietnam; improper use of rules to sack officials properly elected by the rank and file in a secret ballot as occurred in South Australia. "Are these the so-called 'principles' which the AWU officials aim to have the ACTU adopt?" "We are in favor of the AWU ; affiliating with the ACTU. But ; this must- be done genuinely, ! unqualified by bargaining terms - and on the same basis as all t other unions affiliate. 