 Lessons of strike Conzinc Riotinto 6f Aus tralia Ltd. (CRA) is part, of the worldwide Rio Tinto Zinc corporation with headquart ers in Great Britain. They have widespread in terests predominantly in min ing in and treatment of ol'es in the United Kingdom, Aus tralia, Canada, North Ameri ca, Africa and Spain. "The world" In a recent official publi cation "RTZ Explained" they openly state their aims as "the unifying theme of a modern mining and indus trial company like the Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation is the development of the world's; national resources". "Geographically the group's undertakings were spread all over the world." The CRA group own the Zinc corporation mine,, the biggest in Broken Hill, con trol and have a 32 per cent interest in the New Broken Hill Consolidated mine. These two mines recently in dispute produce 1,500,000 tons of ore a year — two- thirds of the total output of the Broken Hill field. They produce $60m worth of zinc, silver and lead a year. In conjunction with Kais ers (USA), CRA are using Broken Hill profits to ex- pliot the iron ore deposits in Hamersley (WA) which are measured in thousands of millions of tons. They own 50 per cent of the shares in Broken Hill As sociated Smelters (Port Pir- ie) the world's largest lead smelters. They dredge for rutile, zircon and monazite off the North Queensland coast, and one of their companies operates and "manages the uranium treatment plant for the Federal Government at Rum Jungle. 0n Monday of last week, after intense discussion at the mass meeting, the Miners' Union members themselves saw the issue clearly enough and went back to fight the issue out on the job. I left Broken Hill with the feeling that the trade un ions there would draw lessons from some divisions in their front that developed in the recent dispute; and that un- ( der the leadership of the Barrier Industrial Council they will be hammering out their demands for next April's new agreement. The issue of contract rates which led to the recent dis pute had no great attraction for the members of mining unions other than the Work- ers' Industrial Union of Aus tralia, the union that covers the contract miners. There was also evidence that the local community, while very suspicious of the CRA group, saw the contract price issue as only a small question which they didn't understand- or consider worth fighting for. Many miners I spoke to believe that the trade un ions at the Hill have to lift . their horizon and between now ' and the new agreement ' date demand' a shorter work ing week and a retiring age years earlier, with substan tial increases in pay, espe cially to tradesmen. Peg bonus? All of the main union lead ers, including the WIU of A president and secretary, strongly believe that the CRA group is moving to get the miners under arbitration so as to peg the lead bonus as it is in Mt. Isa today. What CRA do, the other mines will follow. It is an other prime illustration of the urgent need for public ownership of our mineral resources. The trade unions, already a major force in the Hill, could then play a dec isive role in running the mines. 