 WA Govt, under fire from j teachers Many lecturers at Perth Technical College and the University will sense a threat in Education Minister Lewis' statement that lower pass rates at the University than at Teachers' College are due to lack or attention to teaching standards by Univer sity staff. JN recent years the Education Department has sent many of its trainee specialist teachers to Perth Technical College (which it controls) rather, than the University. This policy has been combined with heavy pressure on technical college academic staff to reduce examin ing standards to "push more trainee teachers through". If they don't, the bureaucrats blame their teaching standards.. The higher teachers' college pass rate has no con nection with teaching standards — the same lecturer could achieve a 100 per cent pass rate at the teachers' college and a 50 per cent pass rate at the university. Teachers' college staff are simply told the Education Department has invested a lot of money on each student and expects them all. to pass. This is seen in the examinations. . Students and former students have high praise for many aspects of the teachers' college courses — especially for the training given during teaching practice. Strong criticism But there also is strong criticism, particularly of the following: Inadequate book allowances; Lack of planning of courses, especially for non- primary trainees; . An authoritarian system in which students, and to some extent even staff, are treated like children; Lack of facilities for country students to "live in"; Too short a period between leaving school and entering the teaching service (the cour,se is no longer recognised in England because it is too short) . There is a strong and growing body of opinion that autonomous training colleges are essential before these problems can begin to be solved. Commonwealth finance for teacher training as recommended by the Martin report on tertiary educa tion' (and rejected by the Menzies Government) would make this a possibility as it has for technical edacation. However, many of the deficiencies in the Education Department, as described by Dr, Wheeler at the Summer School, are due not to lack of funds but to a cumber some administrative structure in which bureaucratic privilege is jealously guarded. Increased public awareness of departmental practices will lead to demands for corrective measures. Section of Newcastle inarch by school cleaners last Thursday in protest against an official decision to employ contract cleaners (story Page 3) . 