 BIG UNION BRANDS R.S.L. LEADER AS "McCARTHYITE" YDNEY: The Commonwealth Council of the Amalgamated Engineering Union has accused the RSL State President, Sir W. Yeo, of having views "little removed, if removed at all» from the McCarthyist sentiments in the USA. The (Union said this in a letter to Sir William following his reply to cor respondence from the AEU Sydney District Women's Committee. Earlier the women's committee protested to the RSL about a statement accredited to Sir William which said ; "Money should not be wasted on bringing home the bodies of soldiers killed in Vietnam, when such money could be used to send more troops over." "Co/fous disregard" The women's committee told Sir William: "We think that this state ment shows a callous disre gard for the families of ser vicemen in Vietnam. "It is our opinion that none of the Australian taxpayers' money should be spent on an undeclared war against people who for scores of years have been fighting for their inde- pendence. We think our in volvement can only bring dis repute to the Australian Government." The women said they thought the RSL was an organisation devoted to the interests of the returned servicemen and their families. "However, this kind of pub licity only gives the impression that you are more concerned With promoting and maintain ing wars." And Sir William replies: Six William said in reply: "The views expressed by your Women's Committee are nothing extraordinary and are not surprising, as they follow the normal policies adopted by the Communist Party ever since the Australian Govern ment received the 100 per cent, support of the RSL in taking steps to prevent a further southern encroachment by Communists." He told the women that their organisation, or any other organisation having the same aims and objects in this mat ter, would be fought "to the last ditch" by the RSL. He said the RSL was urging for a White Paper on Com munists "so that we will know who we are to fight and how to defeat their dastardly and subversive actions." A press statement issued last week by the women's com mittee described Sir William's letter as "vicious intimidation by the RSL against anyone who opposes war." Mr. J. Garland (secretary of the union's Commonwealth Council) told Sir William that his statements had provoked many protests from members of the union. "Presumably when you refer to other organisations (of which there are many) being fought "to the last ditch" you include the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which repre sents the national trade union movement, and the Australian Labor Party, which represents a substantial number of people in the Commonwealth. "Both these widely represen tative organisations, which con tain substantial numbers of ex-servicemen, reflect a policy in sharp contrast to the Fed eral Government's and even more sharply to the statements as expressed in your corre spondence," he said. Sir W. Yeo. 