 W. Europe views on 2 writers From Rupert Lockwood jfA OSCOW: While all Soviet papers and many writers defended the , Sinyavsky Daniel trial and - sentence, public criticism ! seems general among Com- 5 munists in Western Europe and Britain. Criticisms have appeared in the French and Italian Com munist Party papers Unita and Humanite, the British Daily Worker, Scandinavian and other Communist organs. Louis Aragon, French writer highly respected in the USSR and a member of the French Party's Central Committee says in a signed article in Humanite that -Communists could not re gard the sentence with indiffer ence. Aragon was against cri minal prosecution for opinion and he feared that the affair could do more damage to social ism than the writings, of Sin yavsky and Daniel. .Aragon contended that it was the duty of Communists to proclaim that this kind of pro cedure was not in the nature of Communism, that it would not be so in France and that unity of different paths for peaceful transition to socialism would be possible only if the Communist Party proclaimed its loyalty to principles of political democracy — principles which were in the French tradition. Aragon expressed the hope that there would be the right of appeal and a review of the trial. John Gollan, general secret ary of the British Communist Party said "The handling of this affair has done a greater dis service to the Soviet Union than have the works of Sinyavsky and Daniel which in any case were not widely known in Brit ain until they were given pro minence by the Soviet press at tacks on them. Many who sincerely wish the Soviet Union well and salute its tremendous achievements and the extension of democracy for the people which socialism has brought will look at this episode and its consequences with deep concern." Mr. Gollan also criticised the Soviet press assumptions of guilt before the writers were tried and the manner of report ing the trial "which played into the hands of anti-Soviet ele ments in the west." He added "Justice should not only be done but should be seen to be done. Unfortunately this cannot be said in the case of this trial." 