 Afro-Asians rubbish Holt MO wonder Prime Minister Holt returned angry at what happened to him at the Common wealth Prime Ministers' conference in London. He threatens that if matters are not arranged more to his liking he may not go to the next one, a threat that will make the Afro-Asian-Caribbean members of the Commonwealth shake in their shoes. Actually they would perhaps be quite sorry not to have Mr. Holt with them as they seemed to welcome the chance the late conference offered to '/'say. what .they thought of him. v> h.4 . He only had to open his mouth to iind the con- ; «?d+' '.Terence majority virtually queueing up to make use - 1 of a long-awaited opportunity to express their views of Sir Percy Spender's World Court ruling in favor of the South African racists' grab of South West Africa. From then on Holt was continually on the de fensive. As his angry statement in effect admits, he could win no significant support, if any at all, to the viewpoint he claimed to be putting forward in Australia's name. His most significant failure, as, again, he seems . to be admitting, came when he tried to stampede the conference into supporting the US position in the Vietnam war and raised the bogey of Chinese "aggression". Even Asian members of the Commonwealth (notably, India, Pakistan and Singapore) who lie much closer to Vietnam and China than Australia does, refused to listen to his rubbish. His panic-stricken plea that Darwin was nearer to Saigon than Sierra Leone to' Rhodesia drew stinging replies from the Africans, headed by none other than Sir Albert Margai of Sierra Leone him self. Holt made his government's position clear on two points. ( 1 ) He is all the way with LB J in using force against the Vietnamese — a coloured people de fending themselves against white - imperialist . aggression. (2) He is all the way with Harold Wilson in re fusing to use force against the Rhodesian racists, a white-imperialist aggressive clique holding down the coloured majority of Rhodesia by violence and terror. And after this Holt wonders why the Afro- Asian-Caribbean Commonwealth members don't regard him as a brother. He moans that they don't admit him to their "Caucus" and even has the im pudence to accuse them of racialism! Actually Holt's view that only the Africans are interested in getting rid of the Smith terror-regime is one of the most dangerously mistaken that he holds. If that regime, along with its South African back ers is allowed to continue indefinitely the greater will be the prospect of a long, costly and bitter' struggle in which the rest of , the world, including Australia, could be involved. If as seems certain, Smith rejects the Common wealth proposals another conference will be held in the New Y ear. And at that conference Holt proposes once, more . to line Australia up with the white racist minority against the African majority. Rhodesian equality — African, nurse and white charge. 