 BUDDHIST LIFTS Election fire on Holt Govt. - ' CONSCRIPTION IS THE VOTING ISSUE yHEj crux of the Federal election is: For | or against conscription for a widening 1 Vietnam war. Australians now face the fact that return of the Holt Government means more Australian troops to Vietnam, a higher proportion of conscripts and a probable early extension of the age group being con scripted. This emerges from statements by party leaders last week. The Federal Opposition Leader, Mr. A. Calwell, ihrew the gauntlet down to the government as Parlia ment closed last Friday when he declared that the main issue on which Labor would fight the election would be conscription. \ Government members writhed in their seats as he hit them hard on their concealed plans to extend con scription for the dirty war in Vietnam. Prime Minister Holt had virtually admitted the truth £>n his return from the Manila conference last week, when he said: — ; If the fighting "intensifies," the Government would re view the Australian commitment — and it would not be down ward (President Johnson's statement in Vietnam that the US generals would "get all you want" was a tfromise to intensify the war). 9 The Australian public, knowing the Government's purposes, "must, if they re-elect us, expect that we will pursue these policies in the most effective way we can." "DEATH SENTENCE" Mr. W. J. Brown, Communist Party election cam. paign national organiser and candidate for East Sydney, told the party's central election rally on Friday: "Each and every vote for the1 Liberal-Country Party involves an almost certain sentence of death, for some unknown conscript." It had been mooted that if Holt was returned he would extend the conscription age, he said. "The clear issues in this election are: For or against sending more young Australian conscripts to fight and die in Vietnam; for or against widening this ugly con flict, with all it means in worsening relations with Asia and mounting danger of world nuclear disaster". Condemning as "pathetic" Holt's report on the Manila conference, he commented: "Not a word to honor the Geneva Agreement I Not a word about any real move to bring peace to Vietnam! Not a word about stopping the brutal bombing!" Mr. Brown called for a powerful, all-out campaign effort to ensure that the Australian people throw this government of big business and war from power. Mr. Calwell declared that Holt "wants a blank cheque to enable him to dispose of the life of every man of military age in Australia in any campaign in Continued on Page 12. Conscription vote Continued from Page 1. which Australia' is already engaged or in which it may become involved during the lifetime of the next parliament. "There are 600,000 mothers in Australia with sons aged between 15 and 20 years of age. Does the Prime Minister really expect those mothers to give him a mandate to send their boys to any war to kill or be killed, anywhere he chooses? "We believe that Australia, as an independent nation, should possess an independent policy, de signed to make Australia strong and secure, with its people enjoying the highest living standards. "We condemn the subservience in foreign affairs of the Holt Government. Commenting on soaring prices, Mr. Brown told the Communist Party meeting that the CPA went further than other political parties by demanding that real wage increases be financed out of super profits, with out a penny increase in prices. Pointing to the crises in education, local government, medical and hospital treatment, the need for anti- drought measures and the general national develop ment of Australia, he1 said that the Communist Party was showing where the money should come from. The finance could be obtained from stepping up tax on big business and the personal incomes of the wealthy, by cutting down on the 1,000 million dollar arms bill and through the nationalisation of monopoly firms. 