 Brecht back in triumph AT.. long last the great 1 Communist playwright I Bertolt Brecht has re- 1 turned to the stage of 1 Sydney's i\ew xneatre in g an absorbing production of | perhaps his mos,t out- | standing work, "Mother Courage and Her Child ren". One of the dominating figures of the 20th Cen- 1 tury theatre, Brecht J sought to create a type of 1 drama based on na.rra- 1 tive and the "alienation" 1 of the audience from the 1 action of the play. I The audience was sup- | posed not to become emo- | tionally involved in the play, but to judge it cri tically, as Brecht said, like a spectator at a box ing match. This critical and de tached attitude, Brecht hoped, would serve to . arouse the spectator's power of action and his determination, "to change | the world". "Mother Courage and ' Her Children" is an ex cellent example of this theory in practice. Mother Courage herself is a car pet-bagger who lives off I the Thirty Years' War, following the fighting in her waggon - canteen, changing sides in keeping with the fortunes of bat tle, caring nothing for the war or its horrors so long as she can profit from it. CHALLENGE Even her name is an irony. Her courage of sur vival at all costs all but destroys her, but even after losing her three children to the flames of war she has learnt noth ing. She harnesses her self to her waggon and I trundles off after the troops, proclaiming "back to business"! The challenge of this difficult but damning anti war play is immense; but New Theatre rises to meet it in a production closely modelled on that of Brecht's Berliner En semble, from which dir ector Edmund Allison has obtained much special in formation and aid, I Much of the credit must go to Patti Asange in the mammoth title role, a part which keeps her on stage for virtually the whole pla.y. Her Mother Courage contains the shrewdness, earthiness and tenacity of Brecht's original character. Strong supporting per formances in a well-bal- j anced cast come from Lio nel Haft, as courage's eld er son Eillf, John Mulligan 1 as the exceedingly world- | ly Chaplain, Norm Slater 1 as the cook and Marie 1 Armstrong as the prosti tute Yvette, while Carole Skinner is extremely im pressive as Courage's mute daughter Katrin, a part which demands max imum skill in mime and i concentration.- -R.M. | Printed and published at 21 Ross St., Forest Lodge, by D. B. Young Pty, Limited, of 168 Pay St., Sydney. 