 i ON THE INDUSTRIALliilliPi ' Automation without tears on S.U. docks — Crewless ship tested on Caspian yHE Soviet Union has tested an experimental 2,000-ton vessel without any crew in the Caspian Sea, Mr. G. Saenko, Secretary of the Soviet Sea and River Transport Workers' Union, told Tribune last week. IN AUSTRALIA,' roll-on roll-off ships and vessels carrying containerised v cargo are increasing in the coastal trade. Overseas shipowners are also rapidly changing over to containerised trade. It is anticipated that the number of waterside workers in Australia will shrink from 22,000 to 8,000 men in the next decade. Since last year large numbers of waterside workers have been unemployed daily in most Australian ports. The gross tonnage of Australian shipping rose from 441,000 tons in 1962 to 628, 000 tons in 1965- At least 25 ships have given new jobs to seamen. Despite this, there has been a decrease of 212 seamen in the five years since 1961. Australia's overseas trade could conceivably be carried out by 30 huge ships instead of the hundreds of smaller vessels at present engaged. Containerisation means the loading of cargo into huge containers which will then be machine-lifted into the holds of specially built— and much bigger— ships. "Technological changes in industry not only causes changes in the pattern of work, but also cause work to disappear and men to become unnecessary," Seamen's Union Federal secretary (Mr. E. V. Elliott) told the union's Committee of Management last week. Below, a visiting Soviet trade unionist speaks of the effects of mechanisation in his country. "Automation, mechanisation and other modern means do not adversely affect Soviet work ers. They reduce' the physical burden on workers and have meant an improvement in con ditions and wages," Mr. Saenko said. He explained that in 1965 the wages of seamen had risen by 34 per cent and dock workers by 22 per cent. "In Soviet ports the manual handling of cargo has now been eliminated. "Dock workers now operate small trucks, fork lifts and cranes," he said. At present both dockworkers and seamen work a 41-hour week. Over the past seven years the tonnage of Soviet shipping had more than doubled. "According to Lloyd's Regis ter, the Soviet merchant fleet in 1965 was the sixth biggest operator in the world in terms of maritime tonnage," he said. "Automation and distance- Operation controlling equipment and devices are widely used in Soviet ships." Mr. Saenko pointed out that the rapid increases in shipping also meant the wide expansion of shipbuilding and repair yards and the development of new modern ports. These new ports include Nak- ladka in the Far East, Ilyich- evsk in the Black Sea, and Liepaya in the Baltic. Mr. Saenko said that con tainerised cargo constituted about 65 per cent of all river cargo. He said that as yet no special ships have been constructed for this cargo and that the largest containers used were nine cubic metres. He explained that during the rapid expansion of the merch ant fleet and local and overseas trade, there has only been a 15 per cent increase in the work force of the industry. "The effect of further mod ernisation will be solved by reducing working hours and in creasing holidays," he said. SOVIET'S SAENKO Machines AND men 