 NSW RIGHT WING'S TIGHT RUN, BUT- ALP conferences agree on Vietnam JTATE Conferences of the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia endorsed the Federal ALP policy of opposition to Australia's participation in I the Vietnam war and particularly to conscription. I The Victorian conference cheered Dr. J. F. Cairns MHR when he called for intensification throughout Australia of demonstrations against the war. The conference endorsed a the N.S.W. conference on the ence was that the main enemy motion for talks between election of committees of the was not the Holt Government unions and party branches Federal Labor party. The State but the Federal executive of aimed at stepping up the cam- President of the party (Mr. C. the ALP. naien for Labor's Vietnam Oliver) laid the basis for this policy. The South Australian con vention showed confidence in the possibility of defeating the Holt Government (See page 12). The NSW conference carried a recommendation from the State executive foreign affairs committee which endorsed Federal Labor policy on Viet nam. I The recommendation was seriously weakened, however, by its references to "top pri ority" to defence, whether on the mainland or "removed from our shores", and also the con version of Singapore into a United Nations military base. Out of step The general tenor of the NSW conference was out of step with the national trends in the ALP. It was completely m dominated by the Rightwing, p| who allowed discussion only m on issues they wanted raised. f The conference was diverted I by divisive tactics on the so il called "state aid" question 4 which in no way tackles the 1 A real question of the crisis in ' 'i| education. The Federal office of the 1ALP, as directed by the Fed eral conference had sent the report of the national .advisory committee on education to the conference for its consideration. Document A strange occurrence, how ever, was that another docu ment on education matters, not sent out by : the Federal office, was ' also distributed without explanation by the State officers. This document expressed the views of the Deputy Federal Leader (Mr. E. G. Whitlam), which corresponded to his neg ative contribution to the con ference. An open attack was made at attack in his opening address. Commenting on the federal structure of the party, Mr. Oliver said that it was the most undemocratic party in the world. It was significant that one of the proposals made in this attack was that the main com position of the federal A.L.P. committees should be elected by the Federal conference and not by the Federal executive. Conference adopted this proposal despite the fact that it is not to apply to the NSW Branch, whose conference has no say in the election of its committees! The latter will continue to be completely set up by the State Executive. Negative In the elections to the new State executive, only those the officers smiled upon were elected. The most negative feature about the NSW conference was its deliberate preoccupation almost exclusively with inter nal policies and what was clearly an attempt to compel the rest of the ALP in Aus tralia accept its views. There were also moves made to intrude into the affairs of the Trade unions, by the pass ing of resolutions which could serve as a cover for new "in dustrial groups," which pre viously almost split the party. At the same time little was done to help unite the party and the labor movement — an essential to defeat the Holt government. In fact, the general impres sion of the "lead" given by the NSW officers to the confer- Mr. Calwell 