 Not "terrorism" but popular support upholds the NLF By a Special Conrespondent THE National Liberation Front (dr "Viet Cong") could not carry on their resistance for two minutes, against the huge American forces in Vietnam, unless they had the full suport of the people among whom, and for whom, they fight. This is the point completely ignored by Prime Minister Holt, External Affairs Minister Hasluck. Dr. F. Knopfelmacher and other apologists for the war of intervention, who keep talking about "Viet Cong terror" | against the Vietnamese people. The fact that the NLF army is a People's Army which depends on the people to support, feed and supply it, keep it informed and fill its ranks. On the spot The American generals being on the ?pot, acknow ledge the people's backing for the Vietcong and are. planning to deal with it in a typical brutal way. This is noted by Paul Johnson, editor of the Lon- I don New Statesman, when he writes on March 11, 1966: "A UPI dispatch from Sai gon quotes' one senior US commander describing his strategy as follows: 'If the people are to the guerillas as the ocean are to fish, like Mao Tse-tung says, when we are going to dry up that ocean'. In short, kill the people". In that benevolent aim the US dropped bcmbs equivalent to 10 times the destructive force of the Hiroshima bomb on Vietnam' last year, notes Johnson. Last year also, the US destroyed 20,000 acres of south Vietnam's rice and hopes this , year to increase it to 200,000. If the Viet Cong were themselves terrorising the people, killing them, poison ing their food, the US obviously would not need to' do it. The ocean would have dried up long ago — oh flowed in an overwhelming tide towards the US. Support The same point is made in an official American pub lication, Modem Guerilla War, quoted by Dr. J. F. Cairns in his book, Living with Asia: "A country has to be ripe for the formation of partisan bands in that the bulk of the people will support them . . . "... A guerilla force can neither survive nor function without community support. . . Where there are no econ omic and political foundat ions for the guerilla move ment there will be no guerilla movement ..." By quoting documentary evidence that neither Holt, nor Hasluck nor their sup porters have dared to chall enge, Dr. Cairns shows that, so far from itself operating a reign of terror, the National Liberation Front arose in 1960 to protect the people against the US-backed terror reign of dictator Ngo Dinh Diem. He quotes the "Manifesto of Eighteen" submitted to Ngo Dinh on April 26, 1960 by a group of leading pro fessionals and intellectuals asking1 for the establishment of civil liberties and assert ing: "Continuous arrests fill the jails to the rafters, pub lic opinion and pressure re duced to silence." They said nothing about any "terror" being conducted by "Comm unists". The 18 citizens, as Dr. Cairns notes, were not Com munists but within a few days the Diem regime man aged to find space in its overflowing jails for them also. They were only released with the overthrow of Diem. (They included four .former ministers, three 'awyers, a provincial governor an en gineer, a former parish priest and "one Laureate of the Triannual Mandarin Competition of 1903"). Who the real terrorists were in Vietnam at this time has been confirmed by no less a source than the South Vietnam Embassy in Canberra which, as noted by Dr. Cairns, said in its bulletin of November 1, 1963: "For nine years the Ngo Dinh Diem Government had pursued a dictatorial arid tyrannical policy. Power was concentrated in the t hands of the Ngo family t and those of a number of r close, incompetent and in- r terested collaborators . . . . ) The natural and necessary i overthrow of the Ngo re- i gime". Dr. Cairns quotes a French j observer Jean Lacoutre as a stating that until Diem passed emergency dictatorial > laws "the Communists were ? quiescent, but iwhen they felt hands closing round : their throats, they proceeded i to counter-attack". What do Holt and Hasluck think they, and other pat- j riots, ought to have done? S Sit still and be slaughtered) : — follow the "Eighteen" : into jail? Or do what they : did — form the National Liberation Front, represent ing all sections of the people, who wanted democracy and independence? ' &lt; to 1 v i A Vietnamese peasant at end of his shift on the rice plantation hands over the bull, plough and gun to another peasant. 