 Merci beaucoup, Monsieur Chagall ART AFFAIRS WITH NOEL COUNIHAN pRANCE, is still a land of the grand gesture. Russian bom Marc Chagall, to whom she has been kind, has presented the French state with 60 of his paintings. The town council of Nice has offered to provide the museum in which to house this valuable collection. ' OEADERS of overseas magazines like Studio International and The Arts Review over recent years will have noticed how London's West End Grosvenor Gallery has been successfully placing modern Soviet graphic art, particularly from the Leningrad school, on the London market. Soviet primitives like Oscar Rabin, and the drawings of sculp tor Neizvestny, have also attract ed serious attention when shown there. V VICTORIA'S National Gallery director Eric . Westbrook re- mains very happy with progress at the new Cultural Centre site in St. Kilda Rd. No matter what name may be decided on eventually for it, the building itself progresses to sched ule without any of the crises, fin-, ancial or structural which bedevil the growth of its unfortunate "sister", the Opera House at Syd ney's Benelong Point. " # # TN the early days of the Soviet state Lenin urged the working class to respect and to take over from past ages all that was best, ennobling and inspiring in Russian culture. He believed in tne working class adapting its rich cultural heritage to its own needs, capitalising on the historical achievements of man's intellectual and artistic genius. Current news rrom China of this caricature of a "cultural revolu- tion" rejecting all ties with her classical culture sounds disturbing ly like the very trend that Lenin so resolutely and wisely con demned. Unchecked, this trend will con tribute to the spiritual impoverish ment of the Chinese people. rpHE recent exhibition of works by Charles Conder (1868-1909) at the National Gallery, Melbourne, was small but important and timely. Culled from all Australian sources and so unable to include Conder's major English and Euro pean landscapes, what was shown did emphasise the significance in his development of the association with Roberts and Streeton and the extent of his sensitive and essenti ally painterly contribution to the birth of a national Australian school. 