 Critics in New Guinea K/R. Gaudi Mirau MHA, speaking in the New Guinea House of Assembly last week very sharply objected to the way in which the Aus tralian Government is militarising New Guinea. While, he said, he did not want Australia to remove its bases in the Territory, he believed that . the House of Assembly should be consulted about their use. Mr. Mirau said: — "Some Australians think Papuans and New Guineans are their tools and want to involve us in their Asian policies." The establishment of foreign military bases in a country, particularly a colony, has invariably meant . restrictions on the rights of the people. Last year, a new police department , was set up to' deal with what the Police Commissioner, Mr. Cole, called subversion; but in his speech. (South Pacific Post, 16/8/65) he made it very evident that it would be used against the labor movement and, indeed, against the formation of any New Guinean political parties.' The presence of the proposed garrison army of Australian soldiers and airmen can only further this repressive trend. Mr. Mirau' s protest and the establishment's action in dropping the outspoken Mr. John Guise as House Leader, suggest that the more responsible leaders of the New Guineans are realising the impossibility of advancing the people's interests hand in hand with the exploiting elements who still dominate the House of Assembly. ' The prospects seem to be that a group will take shape that will hammer out a program for real progress in New Guinea. ? Struggle in China /""HINESE publications have confirmed the essentials behind press reports — that a major struggle has broken out in the Communist Party of China, reaching into the leading levels. The nature of the official accusations being made against those who have already lost political, editorial, academic and other positions makes it clear that this is a clash of two different political lines. It is inevitable that communists and other sec tions of the Chinese people would resist the wrong, dogipatic and nationalistic policies and attitudes adopted in recent years by the dominant group in the Chinese leadership. ' While socialist China has achieved many success es, the numerous failures of policy, now culminating in evidence of deep-going ideological failure, leave s no doubt that the struggle to correct policies must gather pace, whatever the immediate result of the present events. Those failures and the wrong line that created them have already done extensive damage to the cause of socialism, both in China and internationally. They have also; created a situation in which the United States has been encouraged to expand its aggressive war in Vietnam and tempted to inter vene into Chinese affairs — a -step fraught with great danger but with no hope of success in turning the country off its basic socialist path. Into this category falls the decision of the Holt Government at this point to upgrade its diplomatic apparatus in Taiwan, evidently in response to US pressure to add some prestige to the aggressive, anti-democratic Chiang puppet regime there. The events in China suggest the development of forces there that recognise the urgent need to build the unity of the world communist movement, for which a basis should be laid in joint anti- imperial ist action in defence of nations under attack, for example in Vietnam and Cuba. , 