 [?] with JUDAH WATEN GENERALLY speaking, historians have tended to min imise the significance of the first world war anti -conscrip- tion struggle:: as indeed, they have minimised the role of the labor movement in Australian hid ory. Leslie C. Jauncey was a notable exception. His "The Story of Con scription in Australia" published in 1935 is now extremely difficult to find although the book is a classic of its kind and should al ways be in print. There are few such stirring and important episodes in Australian history as the anti-Conscription struggle. Jauncey's book is one of the few to do it justice. In the light of the new anti- conscription battle being fought out it assumes an immediacy and a special significance. I hope some enterprising pub lisher puts it into paper back. There is a considerable market awaiting its publication. Ian Turner's recent "In dustrial Labour and Politics" deals with the labour move ment in Eastern Australia from 1 900-2 1 and covers the anti-conscription struggles in considerable detail. This is a must for all those who wish to understand the issues at stake and what happened to the labour movement. There is a valu able account of the role of the left- wring, especially cf the I WW. I.m Turner, always deeply interested in the history of the IWW, is about to publish a book cn the trial of the 12, the great frame-up in 1916 of the 12 IWW leaders. Only the other day, he mentioned that he'd been corresponding with one of the few leading survivors of the IWW, Tom Barker, who was editor of "Direct Action" and had been sent to jail for issuing the famous gtoster calling on the ruling class to give the workers a 'lead in going to the trenches. After his sentence' Tom Barker was doported to England, I met him last year at an Anti-Vietnam ese war meeting in thfe St. Pancras Town Hall. ' He is -a Labour Party Councillor much to the left, although now an old man. There has recently been a spate Oi rugary biographies of pol'ticians written by academics and journalists and in the case of the former Prime Minister J. A. Lyons by his vridow Dame Enid. L. P. Fitzhardinge's "William Morris Hughes" though written , with some objectivity nevertheless attempts the impossible— the white washing of one of the biggest traitors to the Labour movement in Australian history. The real man never merges, neither the crafty politician nor the thoroughly unpleasant man. Nor does the real man emerge in Cecil Edwards' "Bruce". This is more like a public relations job than biography. One thing does emerge. Bruce was such a colossal snob that even the local Libs or whatever they were then called couldn't wear him, politics apart. Dame Enid's story of her hus band is more an act of piety. There is much that is hidden from us, including Lyons' dealings with Eric Campbell, the New Guard Leader and would-be Fuhrer of the 30's. Even when he was in the Labour party Lyons' sympathies were with the extreme right and when he sold out the Labour Government he dropped his mask altogether and emerged as a great supporter of appeasement. As Prime Minister he rebuked H. G. Wells for daring to criticise Hitler. 