 HOLT & CO AGAINST I MARGINS CLAIM By an Industrial Correspondent INTERVENTION by the Commonwealth Government has delay ed hearing by the Arbitration Commission of the unions' applica tion for an interim in crease in margins. Hearing of the claim will now commence on December 5. It was to have commenced on November 15. The increases being claimed range from 75c for a process worker to $2.30 for a metal tradesman. Representing the Holt Gov ernment Mr. A. E. Woodward Q.C. successfully urged the Commission, not' to proceed with the claim until after the Federal elections, when the gov ernment elected could decide its attitude to the claims. Oppose Unions anticipate that if re elected the Holt Government iU ; oppose . the interim in creases claimed. This will strengthen the al- ready announced opposition of the employers. Interim increases are being sought pending finalisation of full claims. These range from $3.60 for process workers up to $5.90 for tradesmen. Both the interim and full claims are based on the Metal Trades Award but the decisions on these claims will provide a basis for claims in a large number of other awards. The full claims were made at the latter end of 1965 and were part of the 1966 national wage case. Finalisation of these claims awaits a report by Com missioner Winter who is inves tigating "work values" in the metal industry. His report is not expected be fore i'ie middle of next year. The Federal Government per medium of officers of the Dep artment of Labor & National Service is participating in the inspections being conducted by Mr. Winter and on which he will base his report. Hindering Active intervention by this same Government Department is hindering finalisation of negotiations on wages and con dition of waterside workers. Interim increases being sought equal aproximately 20 per cent of existing margins and are based on the move ments of prices and produc tivity since April 1963. Restriction of the claim to this basis is the cause of the very meagre increases — 75c— claimed for process workers and many other lower paid classification. This basis also limits the amount, of interim increase which can be claimed for tradesmen. Even if the interim increases were granted in full margins in the Federal Metal Trades award would still be lower than in the State Metal Awards in Queensland and West Australia. 