 ill i iiiJI IiiiIMM J lii l J lilliitiilliuJLiii liluliJ in BHnll 1 From Holt, too wide, too soon IT was pleasant to have Prime Minister Holt':, assurances that things are so good in Vietnam; but it appears that, once again, he has opened his mouth too wide and too soon. Since he arrived back with his glowingly optimistic reports ten sion in south Vietnam has risen to new heights. Saigon has staged a big May Day march to the Ameri can Embassy, telling the USA to go home. American and Australian troops were warned to keep out of sight. A demonstration of Roman Cath olics demanded that US Ambas sador Lodge be "kicked out." Holt may congratulate himself that he got out quickly enough to avoid becoming a target, too. On the military front, the Ameri cans are warning about the com ing "Viet Cong" monsoon-season offensive. Holt's reported statement that he is now "assured" about Australia's and America's policy in Vietnam tends to confirm that he weiit there partly because of his Cab inet's uncertainty and misgivings about the crumbling political situ ation and US intentions. His mission, like Hasluck's to the USA. and London, was an ef fort to gain some prestige inter- ' nationally and to mend its sag ging fortunes at home, with a view to the coming elections. So far, there's little to show for all this travel, but some observers are wondering when the "rabbit out of the hat" will be pulled. Out of the woodwork pHE sudden recent appear ance of a gaggle of "ultra Right" shout-and-bash groups is no accident. Such groups thrive in the atmos phere of war jingoism being , deli berately cultivated by the Holt regime and its press supporters. Some examples: — The Hitler Nazis — who sought a brawl at Melbourne's May Day, and earlier staged a disgust ing demonstration against Aborigi nes in Sydney. Friends of Freedom (national secretary, Owen Warrington, an overseas airline employee at Sydney Airport and prominent heckler at anti-conscription demonstrations). Their confessed aims on ABC Four Corners, April 16), include: "Not ing the hard-core activists, photo graphing them, and turning them over to the correct authorities." Two kinds of justice? JAILING of a 19-year-old Melbourne flaw student at Exmouth (WA) by justices of 'the peace for a trivial offence has focussed attention on a system which over the years has brought about many travesties of justice. Ian George Crisp was sentenced to three months' gaol on February ySj '1 15 by two Js.P. in the Exmouth M Police Court, for driving a truck || without permission. fM In the Supreme Court, Mr. m Justice D'Arcy freed Crisp and If changed the sentence to $100 fine. If However, Crisp had already served ff 22 days, and after many public 1 protests, the fine was remitted. J The judge said that Crisp's ac- f tion was not of a degree of m heinousness which warranted such a a severe penalty. ||| Thirteen per cent of W.A. cases, 1 mainly in country districts, are II dealt with J's.P. ill There is no doubt that a suffi- M cient number of magistrates on circuit to try all cases would allay 1 the fears of many that there is a |f| different kind of justice in some ffj| country courts. 1 Landlords, | don't reply |J |_|ERE is a small puzzle stemming from Canberra, national capital of the Aus- .j| tralian welfare state, jewel ||| in the crown of the Free World. U A' public servant's waiting time for a government house is at present from 2 years 8 months to 'M 3 years 3 months, such is the pres- sure of demand. . ;f$ The National Capital Develop- ||j ment Commission states there are f| 350 vacant houses in Canberra. |j| An estate agent in Canberra tells |j| us there are 1000 homes vacant. Ill a. 