 Socialism and more food for thought From Rupert Lockwood in Moscow OSCOW : Prices are down for canned fruit, jams and fruit juices — in the Soviet Union but not (unfortunately for Australians) ' in Australia. These are the first tangible results of the promise of price cuts, made by communist leaders at the recent 23rd congress of the CPSU. These price cuts in terms of real wages were worth 100 million roubles, almost exactly equal to $100 million Australian dollars to Soviet workers. Champagne— already slightly cheaper than vodka and within reach of all — will bubble from 40 per cent more bottles than during the previous plan period. The Soviet has evolved a continuous process system for champagne production which cuts costs by 15 to 20 Per cent. Beer brewing will increase 51 per cent and it will be better beer. The new brewery equipment as keen ordered from Czecho- slovakia, home of some of the world's best beers. The Soviet makes better ice cream than the Czechs and is now selling Czechoslovakia large, quantities of it to help pay for new breweries. Processed foods and liquids for babies, already rising steeply, will be 150 to 200 per cent higher and in some lines 400 per cent higher. The Soviet is the world's greatest sugar producer with 1.1 million tons of the world total of 54 million. The Soviet now has an ex port surplus jand great potential for increased sugar output. But Deputy Food Minister, Feodor Kolomiyets at a press conference announced that be- cause sugar was the main item of Cuba's trade and vital" to some other countries, the Soviet would not seek to be come a sugar exporter. The Soviet food programme for the next five years has no equal in world history. Nearly 1,100 giant new food processing plants, not count ing those processing milk, meat and fish, will be built and some are nearing com pleting. In the previous five years 600 plants were built. The USSR population in 1926 was 147 million. It is now 233 million and more of them are hearty eaters — over three-quarters of them born since the 1917 revolution. 