 ARBITRATION- ! TRIED AND FOUND WANTING By a Special Correspondent SUBMITTING the Unions' claims for increased basic wage and margins, ACTU advocate R. J. Hawke said that "arbitration" was "on trial". If this was so the verdict must be: "Tried and found wanting." Some analysts point to the fact that the 1966 decisions set aside the "principles" on which the 1965 decision was based and re-assert the assessment of the basic wage in accordance with increases in prices and produc tivity. This, they say, is a vic tory for the unions. True, the 1965 "principle" which emphasised so-called "price stability" as the deter mining factor in wage assess ment have been set aside at least temporarily. Indeed if this had not been done the un ions' case would have comple tely failed and the "prices- productivity" formula on which the unions have come to rely in national wage cases would have been rendered useless. To this extent the decision is useful. But experience shows that the Arbitration Commis sion will not regard the "prices- productivity" formula as sacro sanct nor the "principles" adopted this year as permanent. Short-lived In fact this year's "prin ciples" differ from last year's and in turn last year's differed from those of the year before. Furthermore one of the authors of the 1965 principles had ho difficulty joining in a unanim ous decision this year to grant a $2.00 increase while re-affirm ing the "principles" of the 1965 decision which granted only 60c. So the victory in the form of adoption of "principles" favor ing the unions' "prices-produc tivity" formula may be very short-lived. In any case the employers are also claiming a victory be cause the Commission has virtually adopted the "prin ciple" of a total-wage. But conceding the full value of the "principles" upon which the Commission proceeded this year, the fact remains that workers need money to meet their living costs, and "prin ciples" of wage assessment can not serve as a substitute for money for this purpose. By this measure Arbitration is found sadly wanting. Despite the Commission's alleged adop tion of the prices-productivity formula — The $2.00 increase was less than half the amount claimed. © Addition of this sum left the basic wage rates below their 1964 purchasing power and price rises since the deci- sion have further reduced the real value of these rates. Only paltry increases were given in margins to a small number of workers and the majority are left to await the doubtful outcome of further Arbitration proceedings which could be very protracted. Perhaps the "found wanting" verdict, if this case put arbitra tion "on trial", is most clearly emphasised by this last aspect of the decision. Expressing concern for the lower paid metal workers, the Commission decided to provide a total wage equal to the basic wage plus a margin of $3.75 be low which no adult male work er could he paid. Immediately this eliminates all the lowest paid workers in the metal industry, i.e. females and junior males, from any margins increase. But even for adult males the. increase is of little benefit. It applies to only 41 of the 330 classifications in the Metal Trades Award with margins ranging from 90 cents to $3.60 per week. x , Commenting on these Judge Wright said: "Detailed examin ation of these 41 classifications in the light of my general knowledge of the industry con veys the impression that the largest 'proportion of the em ployees concerned would he on the $3.60 rate better than on lower rates." Effective So Judge Wright knowingly awarded only an effective 15c increase in margins "to relieve the position of the lowly paid workers." But even this ridiculously paltry increase is not to apply if by their own activities out side the arbitration system these "lowly paid workers" have won over-award payments in excess of 15c per week. There would be few adult male workers in the metal in dustry not in that position. So applying the measure of "money" and not "principles" the decision results in: Basic wage rates with a purchasing power lower than two years ago. No compensation for ivorlc ers for increased productivity. 15c worth of relief for the lowly paid workers. A "pig-in-a-poke" prospect for further margins increases. ACTU ADVOCATE HAWKE Butch Wharton manning his regular Tribune pitch In Newcastle. 