 Vietnam main election issue, saus CP leader SYDNEY: The United States aggression in Viet nam and the Holt Government's stepped-up inter vention would remain the most vital political issue in this election year," Mr. L. Aarons, general sec- retary or the Communist rarty or Australia, said in a report to the party's central committee last weekend. The committee adopted pro posals for the Federal election campaign and also for far- reaching preparations for the party's 21st national congress in 1967. Mr. Aarons said that the Australian nation was deeply and fundamentally divided over foreign policy. "The Ky Government is able to continue its rule in South Vietnam cities only by intimi dation and armed force. "The elections promised for September— even if held — will be a farce and will not end military rule. "The military position of the US and its "allies" has not im proved despite increased bomb- ings. of the Democratic Repub lic of Vietnam and stepped-up terror in the South. "The war is now clearly a war of a foreign invading power, with foreign allies, against the Vietnamese people. In the last few weeks, US casualties have exceeded those Of the Ky forces. "The Vietnam war is fought at a terrible cost in lives and wealth. The first and most deeply affected are the Viet namese. Deaths and serious in juries by bomb, napalm and bullet number hundreds of thousands, even millions, while many northern industries are damaged and tens of thousands of acres of crops are poisoned in the south. "Australia also has to bear a heavy cost for its participa tion in a war which runs dir ectly counter to the national interest. Australian soldiers, professionals and conscripts, have already laid down their lives, and danger' theatens many more, in this war which is opposed by world opinion, by a large and growing US opinion, and by half— or nearly half— the Australian people— a proportion which will grow. "The struggle against the Vietnam war is a fight to save the appalling waste of Austra lian lives in a war which threatens the national future instead of protecting the na tion. "As stated by Treasurer Mc Mahon last week, the Gov ernment's war spending will certainly escalate beyond the j over $800 million already esti mated for this year, even though the Government will stall until after the elections the taking of the really stark decisions this expenditure will call for. "The war drive will inevit ably call forth, whether this year or next, increased taxa tion accompanied by cuts in essential expenditure on edu cation, national development, as for example the Ord River, and improved social services. "The causal connection be tween the Vietnam war and such measures will become clearer; it must be driven home by appropriate explana tion and resisted by broad people's action. No-confidence "In this unusually important, election, if the Government is defeated, it will indeed be a vote of no-confidence in the whole foreign and domestic policy of the dominant group ing of Australian monopoly capital. "The main force working within the ALP against such a result is the rightwing NSW leadership. The ALP conference in Sydney saw this leadership come out openly in a direct challenge to ALP policy on most of the vital issues, pub licly attacking the ALp par-« liamentary leader and its Fed eral Executive and confer- ence." Mr. Aarons said the Federal Government "White Paper, op Communism" was likely to be issued to bolster its election chance. "In this lies the real and immediate menace to demo- cracy in Australia," he said. "The Comxpunist Party will conduct its own independent election campaign, putting for ward its positive- program. By doing so, we will be making a real contribution to the efforts to defeat Holt, by presenting the class indictment of its policies and advancing the' soc ialist alternative." NEXT WEEK: A section of the report made by Mr. Aarons, dealing with the United States war threat - against China and current events inside China, will be I published. 