 Color bar in wages QN Monday in a decision -which took just three minutes to read out, the Commonwealth Arbi tration Commission, sitting in Sydney, ruled .that full Aborigines employed on Northern Territory cattle stations should be paid the award wage — in j three years time, by December 1, 1968. But, even though the Court" acknowledged in prin ciple the right of Aborigines to the same wages as Europeans, there is still remaining in the Pastoral Award a "slow worker" clause which will undoubt- . edly allow the employers a large loophole for non- payment of adequate wages to all. . v Also domestic workers will not be affected, and there are thousands of them scattered about the cattle stations of the North. Many of them are paid only a few shillings a week, some nothing at all except "tucker". As a result, there is no doubt that economic dis crimination against Aborigines, will continue, with legal backing. A fact so far overlooked by , many commentators is that; the price of beef is high, rising constantly, and the beef cattle industry is in fact extremely prosperous. It could easily "bear the traffic" of immediate wage iiicreases — some drought problems notwith standing. Most' stations now in North Australia are no longer , owned by individuals, but by companies operating out of, southern cities or even from abroad. About, .. 20 per cent of all pastoral companies in the North- are no\v owned by large and wealthy foreign cor- - potations. ? The Court fell for the canard that Aborigines, because of their supposedly peculiar historical back ground, lack the capacity or willingness to work with sufficient skill and ardour. The facts are, of course, that for many years the stations throughout Australia have been well con tent to .employ Aboriginal labor, often in prefer ence to white labor. Much white labor in the outback in fact is ineffi cient and drifting. Contrary to assertions in some., quarters, the Aborigines do not go "walkabout" at the slightest excuse. They are in fact "laid off" in the wet season after mustering. It is the white boss who goes walkabout— to Sydney or Melbourne for a luxurious holiday. ..The Court's expressed reasons for its judgment consist almost of a reiteration of the employers' ..case. It must be said that the employers went to much more trouble than the union (the North Aus tralian Workers' Union) which did not even call . witnesses. ? At present about 200 Aborigines in the N.T., out of a total population of some 19,000, get the basic wage. They mostly work in urban areas, such . as Darwin. Two-thirds of the population are locked up on government settlements and mission stations, receiving "handout" pocket money of about $13 or $4 a week. . The Aboriginal people, whose spokesmen- have already reacted angrily to the decision, are cer tainly going to see that reliance on the Court is hot going to change this shameful situation. At present the Australian trade union movement is swinging into mass action to ensure substantial wage increases on the basis of the ACTU claims. The clear lesson for both Aboriginal and white workers is that only by uniting their efforts more closely, and relying still more on the strength of their own actions, can a measure of "wage justice" be won under the present system. Politically, too, both groups of Australian workers have a common interest in the struggle to free the national economy of the tightening grip of home and overseas monopolies and to end all racial dis crimination in a socialist form of society. 