 STEP UP FAIR PLANS TEMPO yHE tempo of arrangements for this year's Tribune Fair needed to be stepped up, Fair organiser Ron Marriott told Tribune this week. A great variety of goods has aireaay Deen donated ranging from . children's clothes, dolls and cushions to numbers of steel frames suitable for barbe cues and camping facilities, Mr. Marriott said. Thanks were due to Mrs. E. Wilson, Mrs. McCall and Mrs. Harper for the assistance to make the Fair successful. Mr. Howard had donated his ser vices as lightning sketch artist for the Fair. Mr. Marriott said that West Sydney had already commenced to prepare for the Fair with a fine display of Australian gem- stones as well as a number of rings, pearl necklaces and other quality jewellery. This wide range would suit the most fas tidious buyers. A selection of Fair goods is on display at the 1st floor of fice, 168 Day Street. The Fair opens on Friday night, 2nd December, at 5 p.m. so that all those people wish ing to indulge in some Friday night shopping will be able to do so. The Orana Cofee Lounge will provide light refreshments whilst the Fair is in progress. The Fair will continue on Sat urday 3rd December, com mencing at 9 a.m. Main emphasis will be on foodstuffs — cakes, jams etc. Green groceries will be on sale too for weekend fruit and vege tables and real money savers will be available at the greens stall. A number of second hand books and paperbacks have also been donated, and will be on sale at basement prices. Mr. Marriott appealed to anybody who could assist in any way in the making of goods, toys, hardware, chil dren's clothes, cakes, jams etc., to organise work parties to help the Fair and hence Trib une, which "struggles in the people's interests for peace and socialism." Those who were prepared to do some cooking for the Fair could have some ingredients supplied free of charge by ring ing 26 2161 and indicating their requirements, Mr. Marriott added. The next meeting of the Fair Committee will be held at 8 p.m., 168 Day Street on Tues day, 8th November, 1966. All welcome. 