 FACES OF THE NORTH The doctor made it... 'pHE overwhelming victory for Dr. R. Patterson, ALP candidate in the Dawson by-election — foreshadowed by Tribune on February 9 — was a heavy defeat for the Holt-McEwen coalition government. There was a swing of 12 per cent to the ALP in a seat which, since its inception in 1949, has always returned Country Party members, sometimes with majorities as high as 10,000. The leader ,o£ the Country Party, Mr. McEwen, and Country Party Cabinet members campaigned energetically for sugar farmer John Fordyce. Prime Minister Holt made a special trip to address a meeting at Mackay, where he asked the electors, for a vote of confidence. Dawson electors, including the workers in the towns, the sugar farmers and graziers, gave their answer in no uncertain manner. The Country Party candidate was even defeated in Marion, his home town. : Labor won above all because growing unemploy ment, falling sugar prices, problems in cotton and the sell-out of natural resources proved the bankrupt policy of the Federal Government. Spokesmen for the Government parties told elect ors they would rest on their record regarding north ern development,' and in the last part of the cam paign concentrated on the internal flare-up in the ALP which, however, hardly caused a ripple there. The ALP attacked the Government for selling out to foreign monopolies Queensland's most val- , uable land and mineral resources. They called for a sugar industry stabilisation scheme and put for ward a positive policy for northern development. This included a fund for the development of existing 'arid new industries, water resources and beef roads, and a minimum annual northern devel opment budget based on a percentage of consoli dated revenue. Dr. Patterson was an outstanding candidate be cause the policies for northern development which he had helped the ALP formulate, fitted in well with the needs of the people of Dawson. While ultimate solutions can be reached only through socialist planning, these plans are a useful start. ? Many prominent members of the ALP campaigned in the election campaign, including the ALP leader Mr. Calwell, Federal President (Senator J. Keeffe) as well as the Deputy Leader (Mr. E. G. Whitlam) . Efforts have been made by some daily newspapers to interpret the result as a personal triumph for Mr. Whitlam. The real conclusion to be drawn is that positive anti-monopoly policies will unite the labor move ment and win electoral victories now, DESPITE the inner-party disruption recently undertaken by Mr. Whitlam and others, in quest of control of the leadership. The interests backing Mr. Whitlam are seeking to turn ALP policy to the right. But the lesson of Dawson is that the people are more: interested in existing progressive policies as put forward at the ALP rally in Victoria last Sunday - — for the ending of the Vietnam war, the develop ment of Australia's natural resources, wage increases and price control, and greater Commonwealth assist ance for education. Display at Northern Development Seminar, Sydney. 