 How to make money and lose your friends JIMMY BROCKETT by Dal Stivens, the Australasian Book Society's latest pub lication, is the third edition of this work. It was first published in England in 195 1 and by Angus & Robertson in 1956. This is the first time ABS has re-published a work of fiction. jimmy Brockett came from a poor family in the Glebe, Syd ney. He determined that he would make money and he does so in the fields of sport, journalism, and finance, ruthlessly using politics and people to become wealthy. Only in Jack London's "The Game" has this reviewer read such an exposure of the rackets of the boxing ring — but Stivens shows not only these rackets, but also the way politicians can be bribed and journalists intimi dated by a greedy, ruthless character. Set in Sydney in the early 1900's Brockett's career is link- ed with the growth of the city. Part of his money-grubbing takes him into the transport . and hous ing business. Determined to leave his work ing class background, Brockett sets out to cultivate wealthy friends whom he exploits as brazenly as he does the people employed in his various ven tures. ) His approach to women is in the same vein. He marries a woman he thinks he loves, but the main pur pose for his marriage is to have a son. All the time he is wooing his future wife and even after mar riage he is having affairs with other women. An interesting aevicv of the author is. to interpolate extracts from various fictional journals and papers,! dealing with aspects of Brockett's ventures. The reader will follow Jimmy's . activities and life with interest, even though perhaps appalled at his brutality. Much of the narrative, perhaps even too much, is in Brockett's colorful language. He uses slang of the era and does not hesitate to swear to re lieve his feeling or to intimi date. Despite this the author has pro vided an account of a personality typical of those who deliberately set out to use all avenues to make money, irrespective of the people they may hurt in the pro cess. "JIMMY BROCKETT" by Dal Stivens is available at New World Booksellers, 425 Pitt St., Sydney, and all progressive book shops. Price 21/- ($2.10), postage 1/5. — J.M. 