 i Jails wort- break the peaf fighters ' I 1 ' By vSwOOD Prior to the first world war, 5, Op nt to jail rather than do their military training. More than 20,000 father prosecution at one period. i® ' 'HISTORY will tell of the "shirkers" a3 heroes, for so they are". So wrote Rev. Leyton Richards of the 5000 young Australian boys who, before the first world war, went to jail rather than do military training as demanded by the Gov ernment. They started a tradition which equally courageous young Austra lians of today are following, des pite threats of fines and imprison ment by the Holt Government. Mr. Calwell was right in saying recently that Labor had always been anti-conscription— as long as he meant the rank and file. Actually it was the Fisher Labor Government which started the prosecutions of the boys (and some of their fathers) for mass defiance of the Defence Act of 1910. Although it purported to be train ing for home defence only, the hatred of Australians, for militar ism was such that they forced an amendment of the act and might have forced its abolition but for the outbreak of the first world war. The brave stand of the teenage boys before the war powerfully influenced the whole Labor move ment towards anti-conscription during the war. Rev. Leyton Richards, who was minister of the Collins Street Mel bourne Independent (Congregation al) Church, told in a pamphlet how he heard 50 boys in two hours being sentenced to deten tion in a fortress for refusing to train. He saw the boys loaded into a military waggon as soon as sent cnced and sent off to Port Phillip fortress. -A "The culjtare all under 18 — 1 their c%„- Wealthy love of liberty" hete.i "To wathdlsullen, dogged resentmentjacH boy takes his place befoig magistrate is to realise ttysfcc&ia is making rebels by fore . . . "This gjniWeek by week and the liof some of the courts is lq|siy congested by the militysr. "Most ififrilys are decent, respectahsf if the working class; the pit rather than thought foigc objections to militarisn jteff'a: violation of inheritedliidjj and in their dumb, nrf>j|narfciculate way they are'ljjng. to keep Aus tralia . "Some day history will tell of this ' military persecution; it will tell how the men of 1910, with a coward's courage, bound the sol dier's knapsack on the shoulders of voteless boys. "It will tell how mere lads fled- from home and friends rather than surrender their British free dom; it will tell of the 'shirkers' and call them heroes. "For so they are. It needs no little courage for a youth in his teens to face the array of police men, soldiers, officers, lawyers, clerks and officials who throng the court and who, for the most part, seem to regard the prosecu tion of the boys as a comedy". One of the unsung young heroes was Thomas Roberts, of Brighton, Victoria, who, only 16, was sent enced by a military tribunal to seven days' solitary confinement for refusing to drill, but Still would not. John and William Size, aged 18 and 19 were sent to a South Aus tralian fortress but refused to drill, even after threats. They were put in solitary confinement for seven days on a bread and water diet— which has served to demor alise strong men. Although weak, they still refused drill. Released, they were rearrested and return ed for a second spell of the same treatment. John Size, on the sec ond occasion, served 10 days' soli tary confinement. Victor Yeo, of Broken Hill, a boy of only 14, also served two terms including long stretches on bread-and-water. For ten days of his second term he was locked up continuously for 10 days for 22 hours out of the 24. Mass resistance at Broken Hill made the law mostly a dead let ter. One lad, Alfred Giles, who was jailed, was awarded a medal by the Broken Hill miners. They thought he was just as much of a hero for refusing to fight as he would have been if he had fought. The law made fathers respon sible for registering their 14-year- old sons. Most of the fathers re fused. By January 31, 1912 only 17,000 of 40,000 boys had been registered and 20,000 fathers faced prosecu tion. A few actually were prosecuted —among them socialist leader Harry Holland. He later left Aus tralia to help found the New Zea land Labor Party. Retreating before the mass resist ance, the Government lifted the obligation of fathers to register sons and put the responsibility on the military Area Officers. They found the going hard and asked to be allowed to use the census figures to catch defaulters. Interior Minister King O'Malley, who frankly disliked the "gilt- spurred roosters", declined. He said nobody would fill in census forms if they thought they could be used that way. As the truth about the torment ing of the boy anti-conscriptionists became known, anger spread, particularly in the Labor move ment. A powerful Australian Free dom League sprang up in all states. R. S. Ross, father of Mr. Edgar Ross, was the leader of it who is best remembered today. It publicised the crimes of the military and demanded the end of compulsion. Senator Arthur Rae asked the Government to remove the "bar barous magistrates" who were in flicting savage punishments on the boys. In the Worker, Henry Boote, earlier a supporter of compulsory training, demanded exposure of "the arrogant brutality of the pop injays in command" of the Army. The outbreak of the first world war checked, but did not stem the tide, which flows stronger than ever today. If the Holt Government thinks it can be stopped by prosecutions, that' simply shows that it is a Government which does not know , the Australian character. 