 [?] People and Leaders Tribune Editor ALEC ROBERTSON concludes his series on his recent visit to Cuba. /UBA has men and women who like those of other revolutionary countries, are honored and even revered by the people because or their brave, steadfast and capable part in their success ful revolutionary struggle. Best known of these is Fidel Castro. But here is an interesting thing— not only he, but all the other well-known leading figures of the revolution are publicly known just by their Christian names. It's Fidel, Raul (his bro ther), Che (Guevara), Camilo (Cienfuegos) , Bias (Roca), Melba (Hernandez) and others. Fidel, just turned 40, is un doubtedly a genius as a mass leader. When he speaks to a great meeting, the bond between him and his audience is almost vis ible, it is a democratic and in timate thing. To meet him person ally is to get an impression of a friendly human being. Wherever he meets people, within minutes he will be deep in vigorous conver sation, with his arm around some one's shoulder.. But he is, too, a man of great strength of will and outspoken ness. All these things undoubtedly ' lay the basis for some kind of "cult" of Fidel Castro. That the Cuban leaders are aware of this is clear from the fact that for most of this year Fidel Castro has been quoted in Cuban newspapers much less than before, except on a few special official occasions. Other men and women, including some unheard of a outside Cuba, are doing much of the public speaking around Cuba. Most of them are young. Worship 3 The government's thinking on chis problem of leader- worship' t was well illustrated in some things t said by Fidel Castro himself in a n speech last March 13 at Havana University. He was commenting on Chinese- a inspired propaganda attacks that j had been recently made against the Cuban government. Referring to the Chinese leaders as "those !' whom we considered until a. short g time ago to be honest revolu- s tionaries", he went on to consider the problem of "revolutionaries who in spite of having done good s things in their lives, later commit r great blunders", r Referring to China, he said: "We have seen with sorrow the things that degenerated men are 1 capable of doing ... consequences 3 of having introduced the style of the absolute monarchy into contemporary socialist revolutions. e "We hope that the methods of the t absolute monarchy may never be im- t ' planted in our country", he said. Men like Marx, Engels and Len in, outstanding originators, of the Communist movement, had never permitted deification of themselves but were modest right to the L_ tomb, "allergic to cults, allergic to mythology ... to them, the writers of history were the working masses a and the peoples. J "What is the use of a Party where everything revolves around one man? What is the use of a Party if one j man is deified and deified to such a s degree that even the names of Marx, 1 Engels and Lenin are no longer men- tioned." He invited the leaders of China g ("if they are able") to pass a law like the one in Cuba, prohibiting e the naming of any street, town, 0 factory or farm after any living r leader, and prohibiting photo graphs of officials in government s offices. 1 Leaders were necessary as in- l" struments of the people but the a relation between the two must be a matter of consciousness, not g conditioned reflex: L "This revolution is fortunately a I- revolution of young men. And we e hope that it may always be a revo- lution of young men." And he expressed "the hope" a that: 1 "... When the men of this rsvo- lution, as a result of biological law, D begin to show inability to direct our country, we will know how to let ' other men, who have the capacity to d do it better, take over. "It would be preferable to organise e a council of elders where the aged, because of their experience, will be » heeded; where they will be heard but ' where by no mean they will be per ls mitted to carry out their whims when senility has taken hold of them." Veterans course, Cuba's revolu- tionary change was wrought not only by young men, though they carried the brunt of the guerrilla fight ing. But in towns and countryside I met many whose hard hands, lined faces and quiet stories about "the underground" gave glimpses of the basic popular strength that sus tained the rebel actions and stab ilised the new Cuba. There were a few of such among the 250 faces of the men and women, brown, white and black, I saw in a cigar factory in Santa Clara, a provincial city. Cigar workers were among the most advanced and militant sec tions of the Cuban working class. One of them recalled that in the old days there would be no work one week in four. "Now we work for ourselves and our people, not some profiteer." At least one tobacco worker, Paquito Rosales, became a town mayor and Member of Parliament. That, was at Manzanillo, mainly a fishing town not far from the Sierra Maestra country that be came a guerilla stronghold. Man zanillo was and is a centre of mili tant workers. Today they are building and sailing fine schnapper fishing ves sels of up to 60 tons, of local de sign. These former shack dwellers have a fine "city of fishermen" — an extensive modern housing set tlement. So' advanced were the political ideas of the Manzanillo people that over 20 years ago in World War II, they elected as mayor the legendary Paquito Rosales. Such a thing had become possible under the liberal-democratic constitution that was won in Cuba in 1940. "We all knew Paquito", said a middleaged shipyard worker; "he was a real communist, a real work ers' leader. He had no house or clothes of his own, refused bribes. "At ,a later election rightwing forces and police stole the ballot boxes, announced Paquito's defeat and threatened his life. He went to the mountains, but they caught and killed him there." Paquito's murder was in the late 'forties, when the newly won de mocratic rights began to be de stroyed. Finally in 1952 an army coup by Fulgencio Batista intro duced open terrorism against the democratic movements. I noticed a street, a tobacco fac tory and a state farm named after Paquito in the district. His widow is well cared for. His name is a. password to proud talk about the past struggles and the present in which "socialism has made new men of us", as one fisherman said, outside his new cottage. Batista pOLLOWING the Batista coup, the destruction of capitalist democracy in Cuba was accompanied by an estimated 20,000 murders between 1952 and 1959. It was precisely in that period that the armed rebel movement around Fidel Castro (the "July 26 Movement") was born, grew and — despite terrible setbacks — won power. Out of that movement and out of the "old" Communist Party came the, young revolutionaries who predominate in today's lead ership in Cuba. They are not dif ficult to meet. They talk readily and frankly. Here are two examples: Oscar Alcalde: As a young man In the 1940's he was non-party and "anti-politician". Joined the Mas ons for a time. When Batista seized power in 1952, he was deep ly disturbed, especially by the abo lition of the elected Congress. A fellow-worker in the laboratory where he worked knew Fidel Cas tro, then a young lawyer and politician, and introduced them. After proving his readiness to help in underground organisation, he was admitted to the plan for a demonstration in the form of an armed raid on the Moncado bar- racks, Santiago. He took part in the raid and was jailed for two years. Alcalde, the democrat, recalled having arguments with one ot thei leaders,, Abel Santamaripi about socialist ideas. Only after the revolution succeeded did he really study these ideas. Today, at 44, prematurely grey, Alcalde is Deputy-Minister for Communications. Vilma Espin: Energetic, cheer ful, attractive, an experienced guerilla fighter, today she" leads the organisation of women and is on the Communist Party central committee. Also she is the wife, of Defence . Minister and Communist Party second secretary Raul Cas tro, Fidel's young brother. Before joining Raul in the Sierra Cristal mountains in 1958, she had worked 18 months in the under ground in Santiago. She recalled a night when, in a police raid, she jumped from a window in nightdress and flowing hair. "It's the , Virgin Mary returned". ' screamed a woman in the court yard. She recalled, too, the co-opera tion between her July 26 group and young communist league members of the time; "official" co-operation came in 1958. Socialist ideas? She really didn't read or discuss them until after 1959. in the guerillas, all were engrossed on military and organi sational problems. Fidel, she said, had had some socialist ideas from his student days, but he always warned against policies too. ad vanced for the people. Democracy 0N one thing, these and many other July 26 veterans, agreed. It was the ruthless destruction by the Batista regime of the demo cratic rights that existed which more -than anything else moved thousands — both leaders and rank- and-file — into joining the armed revolutionary movement around Fidel Castro, In the final stages, the move ments of July 26, the communists and the students carried the revo lution to victory. Then began the struggle for a i ust regime, in the face of counter revolution directed from the Uni ted States. Ideas, policy, a social perspective were urgently neces sary for the, new government. A complex process fused the de mocratic ideas and deep Under standing of the Cuban people's aspirations, held by Fidel Castro and his colleagues, with the simi larly deep experience and grasp of communist ideas on the part of Bias Roca and other communist party leaders. Today's Commun ist Party of Cuba emerged, unit ing all the most consistent of the several streams of the revolution. When the story of that fusing process is told, it will hold lessons for communists, socialists, people of the labor and democratic move ments in every country. 