 Communist union leaders' long terms By Jim Stevens Completion this month of 25 years' re-election of Seamen's Union federal secretary £. V. Elliott is a reminder that he is one of three well-known federal union officials, unopposed in office for many years, who are leading communists — Elliott himself, Tom Wright (Sheet Metal Workers' Federal President and NSW Secretary) and Bill Parkinson (General President of the Miners' Federations). Over decades they have been attacked by employers, govern ments and the press and yet their names remain a by-word with the workers they represent. What is the record of these men who retain such solid support of the workers? TOM WRIGHT is well-known in trade union circles for flair for oratory that surprises some because he is a reserved and modest man. As an active representative on the NSW Labor Council since 1924 both as a delegate and executive member, his wise counsel and sincerity has been respected by friend and foe. In 1916, at the age of 14/ he commenced his apprentice ship in Sydney getting a few shillings a week. His workmate Paddy Drew, a leader of the then Australian Socialist Party, first introduced him to socialist literature. As a young man he joined the Communist Party in 1 923 and was elected to its central committee the following year — a position he still holds. From being an active union delegate in a dozen or more shops he was elected to the position of NSW Secretary in 1936 arid a couple of years later as Federal President. Since that time he has been opposed in a union ballot only twice. There is hardly on industrial v or political campaign in which Tom Wright hasn't been prominent. During the unemployment demonstrations in the 1930's he did time and was also attacked with police batons outside the Trades Hall. He believes that being a Communist has helped him see beyond the harrow issues that would relegate workers forever as "wage slaves." He is a leader of a union team where all schools of thought within the labor movement contend. But it is a strong team which works in harmony to pursue a militant policy for improved conditions. J7L10T V. ELLIOTT is a forthright map who knows seamen and the industry which nurtured him from the time he first went to sea as a lad during the first world war. At the age of 17 he was elected as a ship's delegate. He was assistant secretary of the Strike Committee during the bitter three months strike in 1935. This was the time when the then Menzies Government re cruited 7,000 scabs to try and force seamen to accept lower wages and conditions. The "dog collar" Act made it illegal for shipowners to give preference to Seamen's Union members. Eliot became a Communist after this strike — although before this he had been sacked from a ship in 1 924 as being a "Bolsh evik". Like hundreds of other seamen he was blacklisted following the strike, with only a 14/10 a week dole coupon to keep a family.. In 1936 he was elected as Queensland secretary . of the Union and Federal Secretary in 1941. He was first elected to the central committee CPA in 1942. During the early 40's Elliott, together with other Communist union officials including Jim Healy and Ernie Thornton played a. major role in rallying support for the war effort. Eliot believes that being a Communist has made him' a relatively competent trade union official. He leads a union of men who have a long history of militancy — who have always supported progressive campaigns. Peace was made the policy of the Union early after the war — a decision made by men who were active in the war. The Union also assisted the Indonesian, Chinese and Greek seamen to form unions in Australia during the war. Eliot makes no claim to be an orator — he does, however, speak the language of seamen. RILL PARKINSON is an experienced and skilful miners' leader who can hold an audience with oratory ew in Australia can match. At 14 years of age Bill first entered the pits England and came to Australia four years later in 1926, when . he worked in pits on the NSW South Coast. By the time he came of age he was the lodge secretary at Nattai-Bu ' joined the Communist Party in 1943 and has been a m of the central committee since 1955. In 1947 he led a big demonstration of 2,000 miners and their wives in -protest against dust. On the South Coa miners a year were being dusted out of the m u: "'T- , demonstration to Parliament House resulted i n all mine w affected by dust in the lungs being granted full compensa Following that campaign, he was elected by a large as Southern District President of the Federation. E&ch su 9 election he was elected by a large majority as Southern V President of the Federation. Each subsequent election h returned ' with bigger majorities — despite the fact that the Dr. H. V. . Evatt as ALP Leader, in 1952 sent personal letters to all miners not to vote for him. In 1954 he was elec general president and has been returned unopposed ever sin Bill has been a colourful figure in the trade union movement. He was jailed for six weeks during the 1 949 miners s / ied the big campaign from 1955 to 1958 when thousands or miners and their womenfolk successfully demanded gove ment finance to provide work for dismissed miners. , He believes that without his Communist Party training an education he would never have been capable enough to beco the Federation's general president. ..| Bill Parkinson retires next year at the age of 60 ana receive the same pension' as a miner. His job is n&t ng paid; 65 per cent of miners would get higher wages than tn general president. . Both he and general secretary Bill M-.:Mahon, a «ILed member of the Labor Party, . have been re-elected unopp for several years. „ , .. aC , Bill regards the united membership of the Federation as tribute to the Communist and Labor Party leaders of .the uni E. V. Elliott. Tom- Wright. Bill Parkinson. 