 [?] BOUT three weeks ago a mass meeting of railway workers at the electric car shops, Chullora (Sydney), re- £m m n A — . 1a1 a. A. 1. luscu1 iu ici carnages ue sent out for passenger. service because of their deplorable condition. To our knowledge, NSW Transport Minister Morris has not yet taken the trouble to have a look at these "rust buckets"— a strange fact con sidering his campaign against young folk and their so called rust bucket motor vehicles. If there is a shortage of good carriages, then why not let the railway workers do proper re pairs and also build new ones? Maybe the reason is the truth to a rumour that carriage con tracts are to be given to a Jap anese firm! ? HHALKING of private contrac tors, the 400 rolling stock workers at A.E. Goodwin's Aub urn works are still waiting for Commissioner Winter's decision on their wage claim to bring it into line with the pay in other privately owned rolling stock establishments. This company has about $4 million worth of railway con tracts while other firms such as Tullochs and Commonwealth Engineering have retrenched workers due to work shortage. We hear that if the wage deci sion is favourable to the work ers, then Goodwin will appeal, and if this is unsuccessful will then try to absorb any increase in over-award payments. ? rPHE 24-hour State-wide stop page of 4,000 Electricity Commission workers, set down for last Monday, was deferred for a fortnight pending a satis factory outcome to fresh neg otiations. The men are seeking a modest $2 a week wage increase and are determined to put the lights out if they don't get it. ? QTATE . Opposition Leader, Renshaw has branded the agreement, negotiated by the NSW Public Service Board and the Police Association as an attack on the 40-hour week. "The 40-hour week is a legis lative Act of the State Parlia ment which cannot be tamper ed with by any outside body," he said. Most trade unionists would agree that this is a dangerous precedent being set, which if not stamped out could have serious widespread repercus sions. 