 ..g hrtt-ifdown on "Chinese pilots" talk, but . . . Danger in threat to : China's air space By the Foreign Editor "THE US Defence Department on Thursday issued a flat denial that Chinese planes or pilots had taken part in the air war over North Vietnam. The denial was issued quickly after Senator Robert Kennedy's protest against a threat by US spokesmen that US planes would bomb China if Chinese planes defended Vietnam. The threat was made after an air battle over North Viet nam a week earlier in which US planes claimed to have shot down two opponents, but in which two US planes were also admittedly lost, allegedly to ground fire. This was a week in which the US admitted the loss of 20 planes, an unusually high rate. US spokesmen then let loose a highly provocative hulla baloo centred around allega tions that the North Viet namese planes could have come from China. They cited a so-called doc trine of "hot pursuit" which, they said, would give the US the "right" to "pursue" the planes into China and bomb the fields from which they had supposedly come. Pressed, the spokesmen admitted there was no evi dence that the planes, though of Soviet make, were not flown by Vietnamese defend ing their own homeland. The talk about "Chinese" involvement was thus revealed as an excuse created by the US militarists for undertaking warlike acts against China which could lead to a general war. It was in fact a highly dan- gerops .. .develpprpent . opening the way for a further escala tion and brinkmanship. This fact was rapidly point ed out by New York Times editor James Reston, who said, i,n effect, that the US could not do that sort of thing these days without expecting retaliation. The result of any attack on China might be bombs or rockets on Saigon, on Thai land, where US bombers were based, or on US aircraft carriers off the coast. The same warning was re peated a few days later by Senator Kennedy. Apparently these warnings helped the US Defence De partment to have some healthy second thoughts, for on Thursday it issued a denial (which could and should have been issued straight after the battle) that China was in volved in any way. "We have no evidence that Chinese aircraft or aircraft operating from Chinese bases have been involved in recent attacks. "The evidence we have in dicates that the aircraft in volved have been North Viet namese and are being flown- by North Vietnam pilots," the statement said. The Defence Department spokesmen went on to say that the North Vietnamese were making more aggressive use of their new capabilities. Reporting this, the Sydney Daily Mirror correspondent in Washington said that the North Vietnamese were now believed to nave iuu ui wk> latest Soviet MIGs. These would have been de- , livered before the promise of increased aid was made by CPSU secretary Brezhnev at the recent Congress. All such equipment is un derstood to be operated by Vietnamese, not Russians — or Chinese. The Vietnamese leaders have at all stages insisted that they must use the equipment them selves, even though this in volved delays necessary for them to receive training by Soviet instructors. North Vietnamese ack-ack gunners watch the death of a US raider. 