 "What makes Roselands really different?" JYDNEY : "What makes Roselands really different?" an attractive brochure from Grace Brothers (Sydney) asks. The answer to this question is not only to "go mushy" about this shopping centre with all its elegant features. Other newspapers have al ready done this — listing in colorful detail all the vast merchandising facilities, food bars and what have you. Some less publicised features of what makes this "city in the suburbs" really different start ed long beforie Saturday, Octo ber 23 last year, when Rose- lands' management success fully ignored Canterbury Coun cil and held a fireworks dis play without permission. The difference began with the preferential treatment giv en to one ratepayer over the "lesser lights" in the locality. A disgruntled small shop keeper from Belmore wrote in the local newspaper, "Camp- sie News", late last year: "It is presumed that rate- payers' money will be used to furnish concrete roads and lay out the -park leading to the entrance to this regional centre." He also suggested (with tongue in cheek) that "pro bably the council may see fit to reduce the rates of the small shopkeeper and balance the budget with the enormous rake-off in rates from the new Roselands Centre?" These questions raised by the local Belmore butcher, Mr. B. Barraclough, reflect the threat this huge centre has posed to local small business men. His assumption regarding roads, etc., was well founded. In fact Canterbury Council voted the sum of $94,600 for the reconstruction of Rose- land Avenue, and made this high priority work into the bargain. We are told that Grace Bro thers voluntarily undertook to contribute an amount up to $50,000 for this work. Other sums voted by coun cil for kerbing, road sealing and paths amounted to $2300. Increasing rates is a hot issue concerning local resi dents, not only in Canterbury but throughout the country. Last year residential land valuations in the Canterbury Municipality increased by 60 to 100 per cent, while most commercial properties in creased by about 15 per cent. Although the council reduced its scale of rating, an average home owner's rate increased by about $28. Most commercial propert ies had their rates reduced. Again this year, rates were further increased by 4 per cent, giving the council an ex tra $1(06,000 in revenue. Despite this increase urgent, long needed works are to be cut back this year to the tune of $400,000. The swimming pool that was. to be built, and eagerly await ed by youngsters in the Wiley Bark area, is included in this cut back. In 1964 Grace Brothers paid $21,637.92 rates on the land being developed for its centre. But according to council of ficials the rate levy for 1966 was in the vicinity of $20,000. This means tha,t when this elegant "really different" huge business enterprise was com pleted rates were lowered. Had the 34 acres of Roselands been used for home building sites it would have netted the council over $30,000 in rates. At least a further $10,000 could be added to this had home units been built. But in all fairness it should be stated that Grace Brothers are not exclusive when it comes to preferential treatment given to money-making enter prises over home owners. This is where Roselands ceases to be "really different." Inside the huge modern shopping centre at Roselands. i 