 Town Clerk in hot- water "Hill" Council will buck poll tax plan BROKEN HILL (NSW) : Broken Hill City Council will tell the New South Wales Royal Commission into Local Government finances, that it is strongly opposed to the introduction of any poll tax. The last meeting of the Council adopted unanimously a recommendation by Labor Al derman T. E. Stokie that the Council strongly opposes the' tax. The question of a poll tax, . which is a tax on non-rate payers to . supplement local government finance, is being investigated by the current Royal Commission. The Council also adopted a proposal by Communist Alder man W. M. Wiley that a spe cial council meeting be held to draw up new submissions to be presented to the Commission. . This arose following angry questions by aldermen directed to the Town Clerk (Mr. H. L. Keenan) about press . reports of his submissions to the Com mission. Press report Under the heading "Town Clerk's plan for levy on non- ratepayers", the Barrier Miner (May 17) said: "The Town Clerk in submissions to a Royal Commission into local government finances today suggested a levy on occupiers who are not ratepayers as one of the possible sources of sup plementing revenue". The report also said that he had suggested $20 a year as a t' fair levy, that he estimated that at the moment 1000 local people would be affected, but this would be considerably in creased if a Sydney proposal to levy the poll tax on all &lt; over 18 was adopted. , Mr. Keenan, in reply to al dermen's questions, said what he said to the Commission was in reply to questions by Chair man of the Commission (Mr. Justice Else Mitchell) and he couldn't remember the answers he gave. He would first have to see the printed report of his sub missions which was not yet available, he said. Alderman Wiley suggested that the Council and Barrier Industrial Council develop a joint policy and approach the Commission, this to include: Opposition to any poll tax. Opposition to rate reduc tions for the mining compan ies as proposed to the Com mission by the companies. ® btate and Commonwealth Governments to pay rates on their buildings. Council to receive a por-. Won of mining royalties now going only to the State Gov ernment. Won't have it In an interview with a Tri bune reporter, the Mayor of Broken Hill (Alderman G. L. Dial) said that a poll tax would never be introduced in that city. At the local government con ference being held in Broken Hill next October they would be pressing to get government buildings rated. He favored a policy of a per centage of .mining royalties for council finance, and would like to see a percentage of Federal jinance for local government. He was emphatically opposed to non-elected people being re presented on council. (The min ing companies had proposed to the Commission that they be allowed a number of reprsenta- tives on the council.) 