 UK seamen's strike brings big gains 1HE British seamen's strike was one of the longest in British history. It obtained concessions which, negotiations not backed by the strike could never have won. This is stated by Bert Ramelson, national industrial organiser of the British Com munist Party, writing in the London Morning Star. Mr. Ramelson was one of those named by British Pre mier Harold Wilson as al legedly conspiring to prolong the strike. Terms on which the sea men resumed were: 9 A reduction immediately of eight hours in the present working week of 56 hours, and a 40-hour week in a, year's time. An increase in annual leave from 39 days, as pro posed by the Pearson Inquiry, to 48 days in return for minor concessions by the union. National Union of Seamen's secretary William Hogarth said his members had shown a solidarity second to none in a strike of this length (seven weeks) . It had brought the 40-hour week 12 months forward com pared with what the ship owners had offered on April 6, their last offer before the strike, and the seamen had got 12 days' more annual leave than they had been offered. The setting up of the Pear son Inquiry by the Govern ment had been a great gain which might not otherwise have come about. The greatest victory is the inquiry which is going to be set up into the efficient run ning of the industry. In his Morning Star article Mr. Ramelson said that the concessions won were the basis for advance which the sea men, by their unity and mili tancy, could win in the -months ahead. Magnificent "The seamen fought a mag nificent ba.ttle against tre mendous odds. They were up against the alliance of the Government, the shipowners and the Trade Union Con gress rightwing", Mr. Ramel son wrote. "They were being led by a union which had been re generated by their own ef forts, under a more progres sive leadership. "The contrast between the union as it is today and the old reactionary NUS is start ling. Even the Prime Minister had to admit it." Mr. Ramelson wrote that the strike achieved significant advances. "The incomes policy, which would have prevented the sea men closing the gap between their conditions and those of the other workers, was breached. "Concessions were made twice after the shipowners had declared that they were prepared to give no more. "The 40-hour week was brought forward by a year. "By standing up to Wilson, the seamen's executive may deter him from barging into other industrial disputes, making their settlement infin itely more difficult." - Allegation Replying to Wilson's charge about a Communist take-over bid, Mr. Ramelson said: "The basis of this allegation, scof fed at by every member of the NUS executive, was that Communists, including myself, had actually spoken to mem bers of the NUS executive." The Communist Party, wrote Mr. Ramelson, certainly did its utmost to win support for the seamen's cause, but the basis of the strike was the seamen's revolt against flagrant injustice. The London New Statesman says that if Wilson's motive in making his charges was to keep the NUS non-Com munist his "sleuthing" may produce the reverse effect. 