 The splits are in the Govt. By Our Parliamentary Roundsman current election campaign has revealed splits in the Liberal ranks and strains in the Govern ment coalition far more serious electorally than the divisions in the Labor Party from which Prime Minister Holt has trie! to make canital. The most obvious arid serious of these is the emergence of the Liberal Reform movement against the Vietnam war policy. It is standing in 22 electorates and opposing 19 sitting Liberals. Its candidate against Federal Treasurer McMahon in Lowe, Mr. Francis James,, said at the group's opening rally in Syd ney last Thursday:— "The Australian people are suffering from a government which has reached the same point in the historical process of decay as the Nationalist Party, the United Australian Party, and other Liberal move ments before, them, shortly be fore their death." The University correspondent of the Canberra Times last week reported that two political scientists at the Australian Nat ional University believe that the emergence of the Liberal Re form Group could be a "straw m the wind" indicating future internal problems for the Lib- eral Party. , The head of the Department of Political Science in the School of General Study, Dr. L- P. Crisp, said he saw a pos- sible analogy between rank and file disillusionment with the Bruce-Page Government in 1929, which found a catalyst in the Federal arbitration issue and the ' present situation. The Bruce-Page Government was driven out of office over wide spread opposition to its plans to abolish; the Federal arbitra tion system. The strain inside the coali tion has been intensified by the unscrupulous campaign being waged by the Liberal Party to unseat Country Party members Continued on Page 12 Widening Govt, splits Continued from Page 1 in Canning and Moore (WA) and in Indi and Wimmera (Vic.). Mr. McEwen revealed that at the Cabinet discussion all of the Liberal and Country Party members had opposed the scheme. The Minister for Shipping, Mr. Freeth, added fuel to the fire when he spoke at Benalla (Vic.) at the opening rally of the Liberal campaign' for Indi where Mr. James Stuart (Lib.) is standing against Mr. M. Hol- ten, sitting Country Party mem ber. Mr. Freeth said he had no quarrel with Mr. Holten who he understood had entered Par liament with some claim to fame as a footballer and ath lete. When he (Holten) left Par liament he would still be re membered as a footballer and athlete. The Country Party fighting with its back against the wall for its very existence, is also under fire from a right wing Country Party group who in alliance with Liberal Party forces is working to defeat Country Party candidates in three-cornered contests. The group, calling itself the Basic Industry Group, is the brain child of Mr. Charles Rus sell former Country Party MHR and a big grazier and business man. His two Sydney agents, father and son Chapman, are the open front for the organisa tion. The1 elements working in the Basic Industry Group first came together in order to de feat the wool market auction scheme. Within the Liberal ranks there is also crystallising a hard core right-wing extremist group with powerful protectors within the Cabinet. There is also, especially in NSW Liberal dircles, a move ment to dump Holt as leader and replace him with Defence Minister Fairhall. 