 Colombia, Ecuador show us the way CLOTA MERCANTE r grancolombiana — the name of a Colombia- Ecuador merchant fleet, most modern in Latin America until it was over taken recently by Cuba's national line — has proved that all the arguments against the establishment of an Australian national over seas shipping line aren't worth a row of coffee beans. Full documentation on Grancolom- biana's victory over international shipowners and its aid to Colombia- Ecuador national economies was sup plied to me by Latin American jour nalists stationed in the USSR. Grancolombiana is a national but not a nationalised line, for it was founded by coffee exporters, con cerned at loss of markets and pro fits through overseas shipowners' freight-rigging. These economically weak, semi- dependent Latin American countries needed their own national' shipping for the same reason that Australia needs it — to safeguard and expand markets and to end the economic ravages of constant freight rises im posed by foreign monopolies. The origin Original capital required in 1946 to found Grancolombiana, sub scribed by Colombia, Ecuador -and Venezuela (Venezuela soon withdrew, to create its own merchant fleet and sold Grancolombiana shares to Col ombia) was only 35 million Colom bian pesos, worth at 1946 exchange rate about £A6 million. Second-hand ships were bought and new ships ordered. The main driving force behind this shipping challenge to overseas mono polies was the Colombian Federation of Coffee Growers. Ecuador coffee interests own 20 per cent and Colombian 80 per cent, of which over three-quarters are held by the Federation of Coffee Grow lers of Grandcolombiana shares. Grancolombiana ships carried Col umbia-Ecuador coffee at low freights, made it more competitive and im mediately increased return to the coffee exporters. More ships had to be ordered, and the coffee men knew that it was a buyers' market in the shipbuilding industry. They offered payment to European shipyards i,n coffee to save foreign currency. Of six ships ordered in Europe in 1961, 65 per cent of the price was in coffee deliveries. Expansion Grancolombiana pays very little profit out in dividends, but ploughs it nearly all oack into fleet expan sion. Today 32 ships carry the Gran colombiana flag on the high seas. Grancolombiana is so successful that it operates without government subsidy; it enjoys no protectionist provisions that Colombia-Ecuador exporters and importers must send part of their cargoes in its vessels. Naturally, the U.S. Government and shipowners have tried to smash Grancolombiana . The U.S. discriminates against Grancolombiana ships and the Grace Line has bought into the Colombian coffee processing and merchandising trade, in an effort to divert coffee cargoes to American ships. But because national shipping, even when privately owned, is sound national economics, Grancolombiana carries on profitably. A recent English edition of the magazine Panorama Economico Latinoamericano pointed out that Grancolombiana now carried 40 per cent of Colombia's foreign trade and 50 per cent of Ecuador's. Its ships sails on 12 international ocean routes and one coastwise route, and show the flag in 90 ports of 32 American and European coun tries. "At present," says the economic magazine, "the Grancolombiana is in an excellent financial condition, its equipment is being modernised or re placed and the enterprise undoubtedly constitutes a good example of inde- pendence from powerful U.S. and West European shipping firms. "The Federation (of Coffee Grow ers) is doing a thriving business; it has .qaa&aged to freeze freight rates, while at the same time other t coffee exporters are faced with the t problem of increased shipping &lt; charges (which recently rose by 50 per cent, and in the case of Brazil, by 175 per cent.) "For this reason alone, even if the fleet were not earning profits, ita main proprietors would still have a fair return on their investments." The lesson . for Australian ex porters of grain, dairy products, canned, dried and fresh fruits, eggs and honey, factory and mine output— and, in face of synthetic advances and price falls— for wool interests is obvious. Grancolombiana's record gives addi tional arguments for maritime unions, under shipowners' attacks that wor sen in viciousness, to take to the farmers. If weaker nations like Colombia and Ecuador can launch an over seas fleet, on small private capital, Australia, with a far greater foreign trade, can do infinitely bet ter on the much niore reliable basis of government finance and opera tion. And successful two-nation operation of Grancolombiana's fleet should strengthen the moves for another two-nation challenge to interna tional shipping cartels — by Australia and New Zealand, whose trade and economic welfare face similar threats from increased sea freights. For many years now the Federal Government has procrastinated on the issue of the establishment of an Australian national overseas shipping line. The official policy is that it "won't pay"; the unofficial is "hands off the over seas shipping monopolies — and their profits!" Of recent months several members of the Government, including Messrs. Holt and McEwen, have been heard to murmur their agreement with the idea of a national overseas shipping line. A LESSON FOR AUSTRALIA! In this story Australian journalist in Moscow, RUPERT LOCKWOOD, shows how the tiny South American countries of Colombia and Ecuador have proved that a national over seas shipping line CAN pay, and save Australians millions of pounds in valuable foreign exchange which are now being lost to the overseas shipping monopolies. Grancolombiana's regular shipping route stretches over 105,467 maritime miles. 