 The Havana Conference of solidarity MOSCOW: "For the first time," says Pravda in a recent editorial, "represent atives of the peoples of three continents have gathered together to discuss topical questions of the anti-Imperial ist movement for liberation. "The Havana Conference is an outstanding event in the history of struggle against imperialism, col onialism and neo-colonialism. "The peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America have the same aims, the same tasks, the same enemy- imperialism. This provides an objec tive foundation for their effective, militant unity. In the struggle against imperialism and reaction, the peoples have no stronger weapofi than unity and solidarity." Pravda points out that the forum marks a qualitatively higher stage in the solidarity movement. "The movement of solidarity of the peoples of Asia and Africa, which came into being ten years ago, and the movement of Latin American peoples are now merging together. "The Havana Conference marks the beginning of co-operation and soli darity of the peoples in the struggle against imperialism on a broad tri- continental basis." "Unbreakable unity" "The composition of this represen tative forum bespeaks of an inflexible striving for unbreakable unity of the three main revolutionary forces of our time — the National Liberation Movement, World Socialism and the International Working Class Move ment." The paper points out that the range of questions to be discussed by the Conference is determined by both the present international situation and the new tasks of the National Liberation Movement in Asia, Africa and Latin America. The Conference is meeting at a time when the international situation has become more acute. In their struggle against the move ment for liberation the imperialists, and above all U.S. imperialists, are extending the war of aggression against the Vietnamese people, con spire against Laos, Cambodia and other Asian countries, seek to strangle the National-Liberation Movement of the peoples, to arrest the objective process of the liquidation of the last remnants of the disgraceful colonial system and seek to strangle the i Liberation Movement in Latin Ame- r j.ca which has been greatly influenced by the victorious Cuban revolution. Colonialism is clinging feverishly to the African continent, using racism and open and veiled interference in the affairs of African States. "The progressive forces of the world are confident that the Havana Conference will demonstrate soli darity with all peoples fighting against imperialism, for national freedom, peace and security," said Pravda. Neo-colonialism An important place in the work of the Conference will belong to ques tions of struggle against neo colonialism. In the present conditions, the imperialists are resorting to new methods of enslaving peoples. They try to draw liberated coun tries into aggressive military pacts and blocs, they support reactionary pro-imperialist regimes and, in the guise of "aid." impose new forms of economic and political dependence. "It is natural therefore that ques tions of economic development of the liberated countries, the strengthening of their mutual co-operation and extension of economic relations with the socialist countries, should occupy an important place on the Conference agenda." Peaceful co-existence Pravda stressed that the Havana Conference will also discuss the struggle for the peaceful co-existence of States with different social sys tems, for the prohibition of nuclear weapons and means of their delivery, for the liquidation of military bases on foreign territories and for uni versal peace. "The liberatory, anti - imperialist struggle, which has spread to vast areas of Asia, Africa and Latin America, is being waged in various forms, both peaceful and not peace ful. "The choice of specific forms of struggle is a matter for the peoples themselves. The Conference delegates will exchange the experience of their struggle and discuss the specific ways and means of achieving national free dom and the best forms of providing assistance to the movements for liberation." In conclusion, Pravda said: "The peoples of the world have great hopes for the Havana Con ference. "They are convinced that the first Conference of solidarity of the peoples of three continents will provide a good foundation for the further rally ing of the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America. "The Soviet people wish the Con- ! ference participants success in their : noble work of strengthening the unity and solidarity of the peoples." 