 ITrC \ I d c;\ BM "U S TRALIA'S 75th May Day — next Sun day — finds the Austra lian working people fac ing very urgent problems . but also with much to celebrate" said Mr. . L. Aarons, general secretary, Communist Party of Aus tralia, this week. "The Communist Party, all Australian communists, greet their fellow workers through out Australia and in all other countries on this traditional day of working class solidarity. "The demonstrations and meetings that will mark ( May Day in most main Australian cities will cert ainly reflect the strength of the people's growing oppos ition to the Holt Govern ment's conscription for Vietnam and to the unjust and brutal United States aggression in Vietnam. "March on May Day! Attend the meetings! Swell the demonstrations for an end to the Vietnam war, for a better life, for dem ocracy and socialism". Young people "This year's May Day celebrations should attract many young people," said Mavis Robertson, national secretary, Eureka Youth League. "In recent months, the threat of conscription for the Vietnam war, the nat ure of the war itself, the economic needs of young industrial and white collar ,t -! workers and the special problems of students, the crisis in education, the cam paign for Aboriginal advan cement and other big issues have seen young people turning more to demon strative public activity. "The Eureka Youth Lea gue of Australia looks for ward to meeting young people of many viewpoints at the May Day gatherings and extends May Day greet ings to the young people of every country." Biggest ever Mr. J. Tarlington, sec- . retary, Sydney May Day Committee, said: "We want this to be the biggest May Day ever, as a mass demonstration to Holt and Askin governments that they are completely out of touch with the people's aspirations for peace in Vietnam, their de mands for higher living standards and generally im proved. conditions at home. "We call On workers, their families and all who want Australia to be a land that L pursues peace and prosper ity, to play their part." 