 — II I — I IIBI«I iinWHn>BMHBMHHBIHIiVHHnMMH0HMVMVBHWHHMWBB :cir 'rS$v' ' >. vSi:-V%v" » „ Via \nvvvVlV lVV?>|- :\ While 54% ih: USA say Pull out nojy!'lP3l; B00NAR00 These are THE FACTS AUSTRALIAN seamen at stopwork meetings in ports throughout Australia last Friday supported with one voice their executive's earlier stand of dem onstrating the strongest opposition to the unjust American war in Vietnam. The Seamen's Union leadership had refused to comply I with a Government attempt to involve civilians in the | war without protest, by putting the coastal ship Boon- i aroo on the Vietnam war supply run. As seamen held their meetings on Friday, crew mem- I bers of the ill-fated dredge W.D. Atlas were sailing, eight I of them to their death a few hours later on the south- 1 east coast, showing once again that courage, hardship | and death are the companions of these workers, even I far from war zones. -DIRECTIVE- The union's leaders had acted on the basis that meek acceptance of the Government's carefully planned action I would have struck a blow against the labor movement's | united opposition to Australian involvement in the ,! Vietnam war, especially of conscripts. H The secretary of the Australian Council of Trade | Unions (Mr. Souter) issued an ACTU directive for the t Seamen's Union to man the Boonaroo during a com- I pulsory conference before Mr. Justice Gallagher last Thursday in Sydney. This fact was unanimously deplored by 200 seamen at their meeting in Sydney the following day. The Sydney men decided to man the ship under protest and that the 17 required crew members would be taken from the order of the roster. The Port Kembla seamen said at their meeting:—- "We completely reject the slanderous statements issued in the press to the effect that it is only the leader ship of this union that has been opposed to the manning of the Boonaroo.1 "We believe that there has been an attempt to delib erately isolate the Seamen's Union because it dares to carry out union policy. "With the line up of the court, the Government, ACTU and leadership of other maritime unions, we find lj; ourselves in the position of having to man the Boon- | aroo. I But we do so under great duress", said the Port I Kembla seamen. (Other meetings, Page 3.) -WITHDRAW- 1 , stand taken by the union's executive, and now | backed by the membership, conforms with the stated | pohcy of the Australian Labor Party, ACTU and wide I sections, of the Australian public as to the character i o the Vietnam war to which the Holt Government i has committed Australian soldiers' lives. I The seamen say that it is also in line with the ALP H and ACTU policy that they are ready to man every H possible ship to withdraw Australians from what has been correctly called "this undeclared, unwinnable war". This is the best way to ensure our boys are not left If or dead in Vietnam," the seamen say. i Tvht Governinent> backed by press, radio and 1 V, has tried to make out the Boonaroo is some sort 8 ? anaeftities ship carrying beer and cigarettes for Aus- | trahan troops in Vietnam. ft tmtS rea .carS consists of barbed wire, sandbags, | naiCits' traers» cement, scaffolding, steel sheeting, cased || " etlsed stores, supply stores, ordnance stores. | Continued, Page 12. BOONAMO Continued from Page 1. The Seamen's Union in a press statement last week clearly stated that it has not prevented supplies going to Vietnam. It is understood that the Government spokesman told union representatives at the outset that the ship would go whether or not manned by union members. What the Seamen's Union demanded consistently was that the membership be given the democratic right to decide such a vital issue affecting their own lives. This right was finally conceded by Mr. Justice Gallagher last Thursday with permission for special stopwork meetings. A meeting of the waterside workers who were loading the Boonaroo last Thursday commended the seamen for their stand to have Australian troops withdrawn from Vietnam. On numerous occasions members of the Waterside Workers' Federation, who have been loading supplies to Vietnam, have registered protests at shipside meetings against the Government's involvement in this war. The Federal secretary of the WWF (Mr. Fitzgibbon) said last week. "We are opposed to what we regard as a dirty and unnecessary war of intervention. "We condemn the Australian Government for lend ing support to foolish American policies and the bol stering of non-elected puppet military regimes." And chalked along the wall of the wharf where the Boonaroo was being loaded was a big sign: "Y Di 4 Ky — ship our boys home!" Stopwork decision, Page 3. 