 Intrigue leads to I split in Kenya I By ROGER MILLISS, who worked in Kenya last year. -- — — THE resignation last month of Kenyan Vice- President Jaramogi Og- inga Odinga is the cul- mination of a long and determined campaign by reactionary elements to eliminate this out standing progressive leader from the Kenyan political scene. The campaign was actually backed by Western Intelli gence agencies. Mr. Odinga decided to quit his post in the Govern ment and go into opposition as Leader of the newly formed Kenya People's Union after a blatantly rigged conference of the ruling Kenya African Nation al Union had abolished his position, of Party Vice-Pre sident. ? Behind the anti-Odinga campaign is a fantastic story of intrigue, political assassination, anti-Com- Imunist hysteria and bribery, with Mr. Odinga's opponents making use of lavish funds supplied by the Western powers especially for the purpose. His enemies — both in Kenya and abroad — have constantly alleged that he is a Communist. He is, however, certainly . not. But he is a genuine and dedicated nationalist who feels deeply for his people and has tremendous mass support amongst them. And he believes that the only answer to their poverty and suffering lies in the eventual establishment of a socialist society. His constant theme has been the necessity of Kenya's achieving economic inde pendence, without which, as he has said, it will never be really free. In 1958, as leader of the African Elected Members in the British settler-domina ted Legislative Council, he categorically demanded the immediate release from de- Itention of Mr. Jomo Keny- atta, without which, he main tained, there could be no peace in Kenya and no inde pendent Government. He made this call at a time when many of his col leagues were openly reject ing Mr. Kenyatta's leader ship and fighting amongst themselves for positions of power. The origin of the anti-Od inga campaign can be traced back to the callous assassination in February of last year of Pio Gama Pinto, ah Asian M.P. who was the brains and inspiration of the progressive wing of KANU. Two men were tried for the Pinto murder, but it was common knowledge that neither of them was actually guilty. It was equally widely be lieved, that the men behind the assassination comprised leading right-wing Kenyan politicians, including several Cabinet Ministers, acting at American and British insti gation. The success of the Pinto killing in eliminating a leading Odinga supporter was followed by several conspiracies designed to dis credit the Vice-President, in which there was direct col lusion by British Intelligence and the CIA. In May, a convoy of Uganda Army trucks carrying Chi nese arms from Tanzania to Christophe Gbenye's Congo lese Nationalists, was delib erately diverted from its scheduled route to go through Mr. Odinga's home region of Nyanza in Western Kenya, where it was inter cepted by previously alerted detachments of the Kenyan General Service Unit. ? The arms were finally handed over to the Uganda Government, but the inci dent, which occurred in the midst of sensational and un founded rumors of "Com munist arms smuggling," was played up by the press to give the impression that they were actually intended for Mr. Odinga. Two months later, wild rumors circulated concern ing a mysterious Soviet ship reported to be approaching the port of Mombasa. When the ship finally materialised, it turned out to be carrying a gift of arms to Kenya from the Soviet Government, negotiated by Mr. Odinga and Foreign Minister Mu- rumbi, with President Ken yatta's full approval, during theix visit to Moscow a year earlier. Right-wing elements imme- I diately precipitated a full- | scale Governmental crisis. 1 It was said in Nairobi that 8 the British and American 1 Ambassadors had told Presi dent Kenyatta bluntly that acceptance of the gift would mean an end to all further aid from their respective countries. ? The Government then de cided to reject the arms, on the grounds that they were "obsolete and second-hand" — when in actual fact they | consisted of the most mod- g ern and up-to-date weapons, g which would have made the Kenyan Army ,, one of the best-equipped in independent Southern Africa. Again, the press handled the fiasco in such a way as to suggest that the arms were destined illicitly for Mr. Odinga. Further grist was added to the mill in February by the Government's panic - stricken banning of the London-based magazine "Africa and the World," and the proscrip tion of its editor, Mr. Doug- g las Rogers, who had been the first editor of the KANU English - language journal, "Pan Africa," as a prohibited immigrant. &lt; Mr. Rogers had bitterly attacked in a signed editorial a statement made in Lagos by Kenyan Finance Minister James Gichuru, at the time of the Commonwealth Con ference on Rhodesia, that g Rhodesia's Africans were not g ready for majority rule and g "not so well organised as 8 here in West Africa or . . . in Kenya." The reckless banning of the magazine precipitated" a bitter Parliamentary debate in which the increasingly conservative and pro-Western g policies of the Government came under fire. The Government subse quently tried to forestall criticism by moving a motion of confidence in itself, in the debate on which Mr. Achieng Oneko, Minister for Information, an 8 Odinga supporter and a long-time target of the right- wing, called for fresh na tional. elections to elect "honest and genuine" leaders. NEXT WEEK: The cards are down. 