 CALL FOR SPECIAL WAGES CONGRESS By an Industrial Correspondent JYDNEY : A special Trade Union Congress, early in December to consider the full implications of the 1966 national wage decision has been called for by a conference of Federal Union Officials. The meeting making this call. held in Sydney on Tuesday last week, was convened by the .Australian Council of Trade Unions. The meeting called also for an interim increase on the margins claims, now being in vestigated by Conciliation Com missioner Winter. The proposal for the special Congress will be considered by the ACTU executive. Those supporting convening the Congress disagreed with an official report to the meeting which claimed that the 1966 wage decision was a victory for the unions. Insufficient They pointed out that: The $2 increase in the basic wage was less that half the amount claimed and insuf ficient to compensate for price increases since the basic wage was last assessed in June 1964. At $2, the increase failed to give any return to the work ers for increased productivity. Since the 1966 decision was made, the $2 increase and more has been swallowed by in creased taxation and charges in Government Budgets and by higher prices for everyday ne cessities. Basic wage rates for "most workers today are lower in pur chasing power than in 1950. Failure of the Arbitration Commission to restore quarter ly wage . adjustments to meet price rises meant continued worsening of this position. The virtual abolition of national margins increases and assessment of the margins rates for each industry separately and in accordance with the so- called "work- value", formula weakened the position of the unions in the struggle for wage increases. This would be further ag gravated by' adoption of the employers' "total wage" pro posal. , The call for a special ACTU Congress to consider this de terioration of workers' wages is given added force by a Gallup poll result published since the unions met. This showed that the average minimum cost of maintaining a family of four had increased by ten per cent in the last twelve months. Background to the unions' discussion included two, Arbi tration decisions made since the 1966 national decision and particularly adverse to work ers. These decisions directly affected postal workers and employees of General Motors Holden. In one strongly worded criti cism the ACTU executive said: "We state that we are not prepared to willingly tolerate the present unsatisfactory state of affairs and will be forced to consider alternative methods and procedures to have our claims satisfied on a just and equitable basis." 