 The rape of the North Hospitals, schools, bridges destroyed, thousands killed, as US planes effect By W. E. GOLLAN, who visited the Democratic Republic of Vietnam last year. » lANOI is a pleasant city of over a million inhabi tants, lying on the Red River; a city ot parks and wardens from which one emerges into a vividly green countryside of paddy fields and meadowlands. In the villages around the city people live in simple huts with dirt floors and a few sticks Of furniture. Like all the peasant populations of South East Asia their material goods are few. They cultivate rice and veget ables; the water buffalo pro- vides their traction and trans- : port. The village pool supplies - fish and is a swimming pond £ for children and after work J has ended for the day, for adults. h In the villages are little work shops where a primitive div- i ision of labour is developing, tailoring, boot repairing, black- f smithing and other simple skills. The legacy of colonialism, of ' general poverty and backward ness is gradually being over come. Each village has its dis pensary where basic medicines arc available; its school where the ignorance and illiteracy of the colonial days are being dis persed. In some of the larger villages and towns hospitals have been bu ft— some as gifts of the other socialist countries. In the plant in which I flew into Hanoi from Peking in 1962 was a Czech doctor, superintendent of a hos- &lt; pita! in Haiphong, which had been constructed and equipped by the Czech people. |N 1 965 when I visited Vietnam for a second time some of these hospitals had been destroyed by US air force bombing, although their roofs were clearly marked with The Red Cross. Schools had also been destroyed — little children of seven years of age were to be seen in the surviving hospitals with legs or arms blown off by Ameri- can bomber raids that had destroyed the schools in which they were being taught. I met wounded villagers who had been machine gunned from the air whilst swimming in the village pool at the end of the day's work. These were some of the "mil itary objectives" attacked by the champions of western civilisat ion, demonstrating to the simple village folk the moral superiority of the western way of life. From Hanoi, last year we travelled south in camouflaged vehicles to near the 17th parallel. Wc were a delegation from the World Peace Council charged with the task of discussing, with President Ho Chi Minh and the government, the problem of restoring peace to this ravaged land. The Vietnamese wished us to see the people's reaction to the terror bombings. Every bridge or> the journey south had been damaged or destroyed; but im mediately, volunteer teams of peasants had gone into action and built temporary pontoon bridges across the streams. By next morning after an air raid, in almost every case the bridge war; restored, and traffic was able to resume. At the journey's end, in the most heavily devastated area we held a meeting with the local community. Here we met the heroes— old people whose child ren had been killed by US bom bers, who had taken up the work their sons or daughters had been carrying out; young, teen age children whose parents had been destroyed, who are carry ing on to the best of their ability with the tasks their parents had performed, bringing up ammun ition under fire to the A.A. gunners; digging air-raid shelters; acting as stretcher bearers, and the myriad other tasks forced on to this backward people by the advanced technology of des truction of the civilised wes tern powers. \ QN our return to Hanoi after discussions with President Ho Chi Minh and other leaders, we interview ed US air-crew members who had been shot down and captured. The spokesman, Lieut. Com mander Sheumacher in reply to questions by the delegation stated that they had all been treated well, that their person alities were respected, that they were confined to the cottages where they lived under super vision, had adequate food, rec reation and reading materials, and that apart from being kept under restraint their personal lives were not interfered with. He expressed the hope that Vietnamese prisoners in the South were as well treated as they were. Needless to say, the thoughts of the delegation travelled to the south where captured prisoners were dragged behind tanks, sub jected to incredible tortures and treated with less humanity than noxious vermin in Hanoi. One of the prisoners, on being captured, had attempted to swallow the poison pellets which all US pilots are required to carry, but was prevented from doing so by his captors — a fur ther sidelight on civilised war- fore, and on the moral stan dards of civilised America and primitive Vietnam. As we left Vietnam to re turn to Europe our thoughts were of the pitiful little cripples in the hos pitals, the simple peasant folk, who warJi only to be left alone to cultivate their fields and live normal fives, but who are victims of the hysterical campaign of the .technologically most ad- fl vanced country in the world. fl Wo thought of the 2i millions g of Vietnamese who have already fl died in the struggle for their fl country's freedom and of the fl thousands, perhaps millions, gg still to die or be mutilated by fl foreign invaders. fl As an Australian, I was pro- | foundly ashamed that my coun- fl try was sharing in this crime fl against humanity. We have still fl to answer the question asked 8 me by so many Vietnamese: fl "Why is Australia joining in the fl war against us? We have no fl quarrel with your country." 8 These are the people whom H Mr. Holt and his collegqes 8 present to us as would-be con- 8 querors of our country — a fl simple peasant people without fl r. modern technology, without fl a navy or air force, suffering fl from the deep wounds of a 20 fl years struggle for independence, fl desiring only to be left in peace to develop their national land. ' Against these people is being waged one of the most unprin cipled and wicked wars in history. The bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong is an extension of earlier outrages, the latest, most cynical and brutal manifestation of American militarism, a step towards genocide, to which the Australian Prime Minister gives grovelling acquiescence and support. They are doing these things in our name. Eternal vigilance: North Vietnamese mount a machine-gun position on guard against marauding US death-planes. 