 Holt hammered in debate on Vietnam By the Federal Parliamentary Roundsman QANBERRA: The attempt by the Prime Minister, Mr. Holt, to defend the Government's policy on Vietnam and conscription in- Parliament last Thursday night met with continuous uproar and interjections. Mr. Holt, who had opened the debate with a "statement to the nation" for an hour and a half, took the unusual step of re-entering the debate to try to retrieve the Gov- ernlment from a very difficult position. While the Government in both Houses of Parliament had the numbers to defeat the motions of censure moved by the Labor Opposi tion, it has been a long time since the Opposition has flayed the Government as they did on this occasion. When Mr. Holt attempted to tell the House that the so- called "threat to Vietnam" was in the long run a threat to Australia, Mr. Clyde Cameron (Labor, SA) shouted "Rubbish!" Mr. Holt's attempt to defend conscription met with a loud interjection from Mr. Calwell— "The lottery of death." Mr. Uren (Labor, NSW) in the debate said: "I was In South Vietnam last October. It is a particularly sick society. The people whom I met— the Viet namese and the Australian and American servicemen— told me that the struggle was an inde pendent Vietnamese struggle." He said that the Government had no mandate to send young Australians to the hell of Vietnam. More Nashos A Liberal Senator in the debate called for the conscrip tion for Vietnam of young Australians between the age of 20 and 25. Taking part in the debate in the Senate on Prime Minister Holt's Statement to the Nation, Senator Wright (Liberal, Tas mania) said: "To my way of thinking the basis of the compulsory obliga tion should be broadened to include not only the 20-year-old group, but also the groups of the most virile manhood ranging from 20 to 35 years of age." He also admitted to the hos tility of the people against the conscripting of young Austra lians for the war in Vietnam by demanding that the Parlia ment pass a law to prevent the term conscript being used. Senator Wright's views were supported by another Govern ment backbencher, Senator Sim. When Senator Turnbull asked "Why are we sending conscripts? Why have we not called for . volunteers?" Senator Sim interjected, "That is out dated." Senator Turnbull: "Volunteers are out of date, are they?" Senator Sim: "In modern war, yes." Senator Turnbull also ac cused the Government of "horse trading with the Ameri cans." "It is also prepared to send boys to Vietnam so that the American Government will pur chase a few more Australian goods," he said. Deputy Leader of the Opposi tion, Mr. Whitlam, said that "If we concede that Vietnam is a. divided country, quite clearly any war between the north and the south is a civil war. Dr. Cairns (Labor, Victoria) said that Mr. McEwen, the Leader of the Country Party, had said if it were not for American assistance in South Vietnam, then the South Viet namese would be defeated easily and quickly. "I Wonder why he is so sure that if it were not for 220,000 American troops, the enormous American- Air Force and the American 7th Fleet, the people of South Vietnam whom he is supporting would be defeated so easily and quickly, Dr. Cairns said. "Is it not that for 25 years the people he is supporting in South Vietnam have not been able to hold their own with their own people? Is it that since .1963 there have been nine governments, none of which could claim any support B from their own people? 6 "Four hundred million dollars | a day is being spent for mili- E tary security around the world, | yet we have never, felt less secure. "A single fighter plane costs half a million bushels of wheat, and one-third of the world is hungry all of the time. We have in the world today the knowledge and the power to transform the life of every person on this earth. Slums can be cleared. Water can be brought to deserts. Hospitals and schools and playgrounds can be built on a scale un dreamed of i,n previous genera tions. "The world in which we live can become either an incon ceivable hell or a paradise. This is the alternative that faces the world," he said. 