 SP0fjTS_ A ticket to Jamaica By the Challenger 1 yHE Hungry Mile" athletic carnival held last week on the Sydney water front, proved overwhelmingly that the waterside workers are no | slouchers as finance raisers or as athletes. 1 The "Hungry Mile" carnival | was organised by the Sydney branch of the Waterside Work- ers' Federation to assist in the raising of finance to help send the Australian athletic team to the Commonwealth Games in Jamaica in August. Not only was the target of 750 dollars overfulfilled (latest reports put the final amount at over 800 dollars) but the events proved that the sport ing heritage of the waterside workers is a rich one indeed. The Veterans' Walking event was won by W. Ellis and the 100 metres dash by J. Healy. I Hungry Mile and a bit The main event "The Hungry Mile" (actually 1.7 miles) was won by Eugene O'Sullivan, with second and third prizes going to Dave Clark and Peter Collins. 33-year-old Eugene O'Sulli van is certainly no new comer to athletics. In 1952 he ran against the famous Emil Zatopek in the Helsinki Games; in 1957 in the World -. Youth Festival in Moscow he ran third to the great Soviet runner Vladimir Kuts in a 5,000 metre race, and on his way to the Youth Festival, won a 3,000 metre race in Peking. Eugene hails from County Cork in Ireland, has been in Australia 15 years and a water side worker for 13 years. A man who keeps himself in fairly good condition, Eugene said jokingly that one of his main conditioning exer cises for the "Hungry Mile" was on the job in number three hatch of "The City of Melbourne" — "going up and down the 60 foot hatch lad der". Second place getter, Dave Clark also has an experienced athletic- background. At 25- years-of-age, he is a member of a Melbourne athletic club and trains all-year-round. Dave comes from near Lon don, England and has been in Australia for five years. At 16 years of age, he ran 3rd in the All England Schools 880 yards (age group) race. On his first arrival in Australia, he spent eleven weeks at Fercy Cerutty's training camp- at Portsea. Such sporting ability needs opportunity to develope, and so when young Clark express ed his wish to compete in the Sydney race, his Melbourne wharfies work-mates saw to it. The Irish it .11 ring-in An interesting side-light to the "Hungry Mile" race was the Irish "ring-in", who ran "for the experience" — and ran mighty well, an unoffi cial 3rd. Young Irishman Pat Loner- gan was crossing the harbour to Circular Quay on the ferry boat, when he noticed the be: flagged starting post for the big race. Pat had only been in Aus tralia a fortnight and was keen to join an athletic club to resume his athletic career. His career in athletics takes in such experience as recently running in a 10 mile race at Epsom in England, and com peting in a 44 mile marathon- ' plus. Taking the opportunity to . .... make enquiries about athle tics, Pat was not only provid ed with some information, but a pair of togs in which to run in the "Hungry Mile". At the reception afterwards, "Dutchy" Young, President of the Sydney branch of the Waterside Workers' Federation congratulated Pat on his fine effort and must have summed up the feelings of most pre- " sent, ' when he commented, "This should prove that we're truly international". Maybe so, but with Irish man Eugene O'Sullivan taking out first place, in the main, event, the Irish "ring-in" do ing so well, and the band beat ing out a jazzed up version of "Danny Boy" it more than seemed that fortune had more than favoured some to make it — a great day for the Irish. And everybody present thought it terrific! Aussie Rules "Impressive" By RON MACKERRAS. yUHILE working in Hobart recently, I decided to watch a game of Aussie Rules to form a compari son between it and other football codes, Rugby Lea gue in particuar. No one advised me on the rules, or attempted to sell me on it; thus I was able to form my own conclusions and comparisons. By the second quarter, I was caught up in the tempo of the game, and was soon cheering the unsuccessful ef forts of the under-dogs, Sandy Bay to overtake Gle- norchy — last season's pre miers. I was greatly impressed with the game as a spec tacle and have no hesitation in recommending it to all Sydney football fans. I include all codes, and recommend that they see the annual Melbourne Aussie rules competition match to be played in Sydney later this year. Aussie Rules is played in quarters and this helps eli minate any advantage to be gained from wind assistance- it allows the players a breather and maintains a fast pace to the final whistle. The tedious and mono tonous scrums of Rugby are eliminated by a throw-in similar to Union. In-field, the referee bounces 8 the ball. Within a few seconds, the ball can be at either end of the field. The weight of one's for wards or the superiority of a specialist cannot dominate the game as in Rugbv League. The match in which Gle- norchy narrowly defeated Sandy Bay has some interest ing background side-lights. Sandy Bay, coached by Rex Geard, a Hobart ship ping clerk (time-keeper) are battling against difficulties. Five of their first grade players are up for National Service Training, and, worse still, a local wharfie who , claims to have Gypsy, blood in ' his veins, has put a curse on g the team. Furthermore, he is con sidering transferring the curse froim -the Sandy Bay coach to the Prime Minister in time for the Federal elec tions. As he says, there are "No Holts barred." He is prepared to lift the curse on the team's coach, ii Prime Minister Holt releases Sandy Bay's five first grad ers ialong with the thous ands of other young Aus- I tralian sportsmen. The local wharfie claims his curse is much more jus tified than the curse placed on thousands of young Aus tralian conscripts by the . Federal government and the first move must come from Canberra. The "curse" arose from a job incident in which the local militant was not mark ed as present, lost a days pay, was involved with the authority chairman and it could have cost him a fur ther $60 odd. Over a few drinks, the militant wharfie said he hoped his time-keeper's team (Sandy Bay) would not win another game. They have been beaten in I the last four games. I L Wharfie workmates congratulate Eugene O'Sullivan on I his win. I 