 CLOSE DEBATE ON VIETNAM SYDNEY : A near-record attendance at last week's Sydney University Union debate on Vietnam be tween Mr, A. Robertson (Tribune Editorial) and J5r. i F. s Knopf elmacher i ( Melbourne University ) divided almost evenly in the final vote. gETWEEN 400 and 500 peo ple, mostly students includ ing many freshers, turned up for the evening debate which was one of the activities of Orientation Week. x Under debate (in the usual parliamentary form) was the motion, moved by Dr. Knopfel- i macher, "that the Allied inter- i Ventiori in Vietnam is justir fied." j Both speakers were given an j attentive hearing and prolonged applause. Dr. Knopfelmacher said that it was a moral duty to fight communism in Vietnam because communism was evil; Australia ; must participate to avoid being isolated in a "totalitarian sea". Mr. Robertson said that the so-called "Allies" in Vietnam were merely an isolated group of governments— the United States, Australia, South Korea and New Zealand. Such powers as France, Brit ain, West Germany, Japan, Can ada and India had, in one way or another, refused to be in volved. No 'aggression' The USA, in the recent Hono lulu Declaration, had stated its reason for being in Vietnam was to "prevent aggression." However, no communist troops had invaded Vietnam, nor had any of the Vietnamese liber ation forces attacked any other country. In fact, US intervention had begun in 1950, when no one had heard of the "Vietcong" or of "communist aggression in Viet nam." Mr Robertson quoted US sources to show that the USA backed the French war against the independent Vietnamese State with $2,600 million in arms and other add, in 1950-54. The USA had refused to sign the Geneva Agreement of 1954 but had pledged not to disturb its provisions, including free elections, withdrawal of foreign troops and no armed align ments. On March 12, 1955, the New Times was able to say: . - It is no secret that we are intervening at almost every level on behalf of the existing (Diem) government in the South . . . the elections will never be held." No 'thrust' The Australian Government sought to justify its interven tion on the ground of a "south ward thrust of Chinese com munism"— a phrase not used in the American declaration, he said. The emptiness of this phrase was revealed by the recent British White Paper on Defence, which gave Indonesian "con frontation" as the sole reason for maintaining big forces in South East Asia, and made no reference to a "Chinese thrust". In fact, the main reason for Australian intervention in Viet nam was that the USA had in sisted on it. There was no justification for the war of intervention, which was in reality an attempt to deny by force the right of the Vietnamese people to develop their own independent society as they were already doing in 1946, he said. The accompanying risk of a wider war also could not be justified. It was not surprising that the latest Louis Harris poll in the USA showed one-third of Amer icans AGAINST, and one-half dissatisfied with, the policy on Vietnam. New policy Mr. Robertson said the real question involved in the Viet nam war was not one's attitude to communism but one's atti tude to the principle of the right of nations to self-determination. On this principle, and in the interests of Australia's inde pendence and genuine security, a radical revision of our foreign policy was urgently needed, to replace the use of force with international relations based on peaceful, friendly and fruit ful relation with neighboring Asian nations. When the vote was taken, it' was declared that the motion had' been carried by a small majority. - 