 46 2 on th e ' razor's edge A FEW miles cast of Havana, on Cuba's north coast 90 miles from Florida, USA, 20-year-old Raul Her nandez, former architecture student, talked quietly about his current studies to become an officer on a deep-sea fishing vessel. Raul is captain of a class going through the Higher Institute of Fishing (there are three levels of training for this expanding industry). Why give up architecture? "I liked the sea, it's a healthier life. The Government wanted young fishermen." And he talked quietly on about their studies of. navigation, communications, engines, marine life. It was only when prodded that he mentioned that some of the school's trainees had been among Cuban fish ing crews recently captured and grilled aboard US Navy vessels in the Gulf of Mexico. More prodding, and he admitted that two months before my visit, only a few miles from the school, Cuban tor pedo boats had intercepted a boat carrying Central Intelligence Agency infiltrators sneaking in. Two were killed and one captured. "That's why we have to train with a textbook in one hand and a rifle in the other,"- Hernandez said, to close the subject. TN the Havana flat of Australian artist Harry Reade, a 25-year-old neighbour dropped in for a yarn. He had fought with Raul Castro's guerrilla detachment in the Cristal Mountain eastern Cuba, in 1958, when at first they numbered only 25. Now he was a high school! science teacher. He talked, but not too late — next morning he had to be out early for his regular rifle marksmanship test .... t ND on a mountain road east of Santiago de Cuba, near those very Cristal Mountains, I talked to a 57-year-old army lieutenant (third highest rank in the Cuban army). He is Isidoro Rubio, a communist since the 1930's, scarred on the head from a rifle butt blow in jail in 1953. I was a juga rorker. We workers made the sugar ". J the tobacco, not lu oni Cuban owner. In u l s We t understand that the guerillas >rfhe hills and the underground in t fowns could unite to overthrow the tyranny. My wife, daughter and tw sons were all in the rebel army t grew Upt | went into the mounloir. faith Raul Castro." And now, ago'i ||i for the past five years , Rublo asAteit back; In those mountains, of a sector, not so many the US naval air base at GuarncM; a hostile foreign enclave on W'ffll of south-eastern Cuba. p ''The Yonkees| looking for an excuse to move HEus", he said. ''So, at 57, I'm here,ffianywhere else the Revolution sends I And my two sons —one's in the ofljand the other in the air force." j The naval. base\&uantanamo — provocal | Yankee tongue , /? '« US Marine I row the border Second in Tribune Editor ALEC ROBERTSON'S series on his recent visit to Cuba 