 A REAL NICE FELLER IS OUR MR. WARRINGTON By Charles McCorry "If the people in these countries don't like the way things are run, then the answer's easy. GET OUT". The countries? Vietnam, Por tugal and Spain. The speaker? Owen Warring ton. National President of Friends of Freedom. At twenty eight he is e. little crew cutted bundle of nervous energy. Much affected by the American way. This is reflected in his clothes, his chunky bits and pieces of jawelry, his drink, which is bourbon, and in his speech which is interspersed with "Goddams, Sonoffabitches" and others quite unprintable but peculiar to "The Oxford Dic tionary of American Slang". When speaking with him one gets the impression that he has o&d too liberal an education of TV westerns and gangster movies. Although he goes to great lengths to assure you "I'm as Aussie as Anzac, mate". The trouble with Australia, is of course, the "Commos", practically a pathological hatred here. The newspapers, who con tinually print atrocity photos reflecting unfavourably oh our American friends and allies. And those people who insist on their rights of protest by public dem onstration. Mi'. Warrington's political phil osophy seems to be "Every one has a right to his opinion as long as it doesn't conflict with mine". In fact, he takes this to such lengths that whenever there is a demonstration which is critical of government or American policy he and his friends arc out there with their little box Brownies taking photo graphs of all the participants. They then present these to the security police. So far no one has crowned him with his box Brownie. When asked if the actions of his group could be termed in- timidatory, "Not at all," he replies with a wave of his hand. "If these demonstrators are in nocent they have nothing to fear." Innocent of what one never quite finds out. But the impression given is that there is an underground move ment of intellectuals, atheists, communists and other ambiguous undesirables, waiting to breach the floodgates and allow a hordo of little yellow men to pour in from the north. Although superficially he seems to fit into the rough and tumble of political demonstrat ions his naivety is to be won dered. at. He expresses great in dignation at the reaction when ho and his rabble try to dis rupt ?, peaceful meeting. And is shocked at some of the language of "Beer sodden wharfies" as he calls them. After our interview Mr. War rington. who denies that his little band of friends have any igscist tendencies, left on an air trip which will take him to Asia, Europe and America. He insists that it is a personal trip. Although he will have meetings with kindred groups in these countries. We will be denied the pleasure of his com pany until sometime in August. BOX-BROWNIE WARRINGTON I How Aussie can't you get? 