 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman "T"HE retired Queensland 1 Judge, Mr. B. H. Matthews, (appointed by the N.S.W. Government tn inauire into M.L.A.'s salaries) wants to know if the public think they are worthy of a rise? Why waste time with written sub missions? He could take a few bus rides or , ask NSW public servants who re cently got 6/- a week increase. If this isn't enough housewives at any shopping centre trying to bal ance the budget on £15-odd a week, would surely think Premier Askin is worth about £200 a week— BUT NOT TO THE PEOPLE OP NSW! ? TT would be interesting to know what fee, plus expenses, Mr. Mat thews got when he handed out fancy salary increases to public service tall poppies and judges following his in quiry late in 1964. 'We do know, however, that in his early days in Queensland he was known to march with Ipswich coal- miners carrying the red flag. Later he sentenced the late Max Julius (a Communist barrister) and . others to jail during the big Queens land rail strike in 1948. A AMALGAMATED Engineering Union organisers say their first job in the New Year was to straighten out cases . where some employers were trying to dock workers for the Christ mas and New Year holidays. ' Now that the festive "spirit" is past, these employers say the work ers should not be paid as they fin ished work early on the eves of Christmas and New Year. The award states that to be paid a worker must work the "day" be fore and the "day" after the holi day! pARKING police in NSW are con sidering strike action in protest against cancellation of a long-stand ing privilege of receiving double time off in lieu of work performed on weekends. No penalty rate is received for this weekend work. A mass meeting last week con demned the "shabby penny-pinching decision". The men contrast the "warm words of comfort extended by all civic leaders to disabled ex-servicemen when the Parking Police was estab lished in 1946 to the present miserly gross wage of £20/16/- per week after three years service". 