 . .. ( Tashkent and Havana conferences 'Third World' moves left MOSCOW: The Tashkent meeting and the Tri-continental anti-imperialist conference in Havana were among events which refute claims that the "Third World" is moving to the Right. Soviet New Times writer Lev Stepanov says his in an article stressing chat, on the contrary, the newly-liberated nations are experiencing a steady growth of the progressive forces. Discussing the Rightwing coups in Indonesia and Sudan, Mr. Stepanov says that in more and more countries the na tional liberation revolution is entering a stage of fundamental social changes. "It has reached a point where it is beginning to im pinge on the immediate in terests of exploiting classes," and this has engendered a "counter-offensive of national and international reaction." However, this doesn't mean that the Rightists in Indonesia and elsewhere will now be making future history; their actions indicate a sense of doom as "the profound revolu tionary process in the Third World develops." Rightists, says Mr. Stepanov 1 made ' much' ;of the India-Paki- | stan flare-up and' the postpone ment of the Afro-Asian "sum mit" which was to have been held in Algiers in 1965. Counteracting these setbacks, however, were the India-Paki stan meeting at Tashkent and the Havana conference of anti- imperalist forces. The national liberation move ment in Arabia reached new heights last year. In October even the southern Arabian tribes on which Britain had always depended revolted for the first time. this means that there is now "little chance" that the plan to suppress militant Aden, with their help, by means of its incorporation in a Malaysia- type- Federation will material ise, says Stepanov. In Latin America, the US failed to win support from its subordinates in the Organisa tion of American states for the intervention in Dominica.; Important also was the passing of a little - noticed Mexican law forbidding foreign capital to participate in Mexico's banking and financial institutions. "Just as prosaic-seeming is the' distribution of landed estates among the Syrian peasantry. Yet events like these decisively affected the Third World's life in 1965." Among other countries, the United Arab Republic, Mali, Burma, Ghana and Guinea made important advances along the road of non-capitalist de velopment. (In the brief time it took , for Stepanov 's article to be printed and distributed, events in! Nigeria ' Africa's biggest nation, have removed the pro- British' clique of rulers domin ating it since independence.) 