 JOHNSON'S GREAT LEAP NORTH? PENTAGON PLANS TO ESCALATE — Hawks ready to pounce By the Foreign Editor pLANS to escalate the war with savage attacks on the Vietnamese on land and by air, with a land invasion of North Viet nam through the de-militarised zone a possibility, are being openly discussed by the US press and top-ranking militarists. Defence secretary McNamara has been in south Vietnam to taut aoout tms i privately; wnue Johnson goes to Australia and Manila to talk mainly about "peace". However, this will probably last only as long as the US congressional election cam paign. With the electors, as he hopes, safely gulled by the peace pose, Johnson plans to give the war-mad militarists full scope. Or, as the Sydney Morning Herald's Washington corres pondent put it, in more diplo matic language, last Thurs day: "Political observers say that, after the allied 'summit' in Manila and the November 8 congressional elections, the President will have a free hand to accept any recom mendations of the military chiefs he feels will help the war effort." While Goldberg, Rusk and Johnson were talking peace and deploring "Hanoi's" al leged "failure to respond", the Fourth Infantry Division was disembarking at a South Vietnam port, bringing the US total strength there to 325,000. , TASS' New York comment ator Igor Orlov notes that financial appropriations for a the war are growing all the time. "The . military correspond ents of American papers pre dict that an additional $15,000 million dollars will be appro priated for the Vietnam war. ( McNamara "The number of American troops in South Vietnam is to be raised to 400,000-425,000 by the spring. "It was to prepare for the implementation of these plans to extend the war that Mc Namara went to Saigon. "Almost on the eve of his departure, McNamara spoke to a closed meeting of the House Armed Services Com mittee where he called for ad ditional funds, basing his plea on US plans to continue the aggression at least till mid- 1968. "It is significant that Washington was not ashamed to make this fact public. "Each of McNamara's pre vious visits to Saigon has been followed by intensified aggression." Orlov thinks McNamara will use information gained in his Saigon visit to twist the arms of the US allies and puppets at the Manila con ference to get them to pro mise more troops. Rusk's latest plea to "Ha noi" to "respond" to his al leged peace offer was actu ally accompanied by a men acing movement of US forces towards the frontiers of the Democratic Republic of (North) Vietnam. US military commanders in Vietnam announced a "ma jor redeployment" of troops towards the north Vietnamese frontier to "enhance the com bat posture" of the army. The commanders said that the headquarters of two US marine divisions were moved north and a paratroop bat- / talion stationed at the north ern city of Da Nang. Exploding some of the US ' communiques, New York Times military correspondent reported last week that in one month recently a US air squadron based on Thailand lost 15 out of 18 of its planes and nine pilots. 'The article said that the rate of losses over north Viet nam has been higher than in the Korean war and stressed that "the north Vietnamese air defence system, particular ly its complex of radar-con- trolled guns and large num bers of light automatic weap ons, has been tremendously strengthened and improved in efficiency." Response to this of the hawks is for more war in all' directions. Thus ex-Air Force chief Curtis LeMay, who help ed plan the Hiroshima mas sacre, has been demanding "heavier bombing" in Viet nam, as a "calculated risk", and, if that is not effective, then "we must be prepared to fight Red China". 