 Perth Priest criticises conscription YOUNG TEACHER'S ANTI-WAR STAND WINS WIDE SUPPORT Respect for life I l'\ 4' v. ' 1 » ' ' I gYDNEY: The stand of Mr. Bill White, 21-year- old teacher, who came into the headlines last week after his refusal to accept a call-up for Na tional Service training is backed by the growing support of people, trade unions and other organi sations from all over Australia. "1 applaud and admire your courage", wired a dis abled veteran of the 1914-18 war. "I am proud for my son's sake that he has you as a teacher", wrote the mother of one of his pupils. Mr. White lives with his parents at Gladesville. When a Tribune reporter called on him last week he was working on a statement explaining his stand. Piled in front of him were telegrams and letters from all over Australia supporting his stand. Parents of pupils attending Denistone East public school, where he was a teacher, are campaigning in his support and are planning a public meeting. Pupils at the school have taken up a petition. The Save Our Sons organisation in Sydney is giving him "every moral and practical support in his stand", says its Newsletter. A leading Roman Catholic priest, Father Roger Pryke, told the press last Wednesday that it would be "inhumane and anti-Christian" to force Mr. White into the war machine. The Adelaide University branch of Amnesty Interna tional had wired they had asked their London head quarters to mobilise international support. "Respect courage" GROUP of staff members associated with the Mel bourne University wired "Respect for your courage and stand on conscription stop. We are telegraphing Prime Minister." Mr. White said that "the telegrams and letters showed wide support for the ideas I want to get across. "I . believe that all morality begins with respect for life. "The sanctity of life is not something the Government has the right to take from a person. "War is obsolete as a means of bargaining,- .'for weap ons are today so destructive they could wipe out the world. "The Vietnam war like all wars, is morally wrong. "Conscription is an infringement of human rights which in a democracy must be safeguarded. "The ordinary people must recognise the horror of war and fight against any social acceptance of war. "I'm in no organisation or any political party, but I hope that more people will take a stand against the politics of war and the acceptance of war", he said. His mother, Mrs. Isobel White, said that neighbors and friends were stopping her on the street to say how inuch they admired her son's courage. Mr. White's grandmother said that Bill's 78-year-old grandfather was very proud of' him. Excluded from his teaching, job, Mr. Douglas Mc- Pherson, of Hornsby, will employ Bill as a tutor for his son. His union, the NSW Teachers' Federation, believe that teachers should be exempt from national service because of the important job they do in the community, and because of the' chronic teacher shortage. Continued, Page 12 Bill White and his .mother read telegrams and mes sages of support that came from all over Australia. "No" to conscription Continued from Page 1 M WHITE has been served with a summons to appear at a Federal Court of Petty Sessions on August 3. He faces a possible two years detention in a military prison. Bill, who is 21, has been teaching at Denistone East Public School for 18 months. Considered by his headmaster, Mr. Morrow, to be an outstand ing young teacher, he has fought for 12 months through the Courts to be recognised as a conscientious objector. Told finally to serve in non-comba tant duties, he refused. His appointment as a teacher for the NSW Educa tion Department will be an nulled today (Wednesday) . Mr. J. Frape, secretary of the Public Service Board, said last Monday, "that they had been informed by the Depart ment of Labor and National Service that Mr. White had failed to report for National Service and that they were taking action against him". "The National Service Act sitpulates that he has to be dismissed within seven days. "The Board has submitted a report to the Executive Coun cil meeting today to annul his appointment," he said. This is the first time that anyone has been dismissed by the Board for refusing to en ter National Service training. 