 &lt;: > t.: ,4 ; 5 > - r, '?- " T ' " .; IS & 'V rfl '#; ;; ' :1" :: >' .; .V» T..-;' 'V : \ .: \ m m &sm @ m nw sss m lif .jai® at #? it ®sff «r n ipss? , |! &iZ ' ffi«? feff liftS/ 0$Si S-P Sip®!' plspap. i&' 0 PP WiKpF « Mi > SM $ fsS? pi't JS®? ,4?:S?? "|"HE Invisible Govern ment" by Americans David Wise and Thomas Ross is packed full with facts which will challenge the credulity of those accustomed' to the out-pourings of our press and politicians on the freedom and democracy which are proclaimed as the essence of the "free world". This work shatters the fiction that the modern imperialist U.S.A. is a democracy. Not only are the people in ignorance of what is go ing on but their elected representa tives are without knowledge of major questions involving peace and war. A power outside the parliamen tary institutions, the U.S. intelli gence and espionage apparatus, with the C.I.A. at its centre with its firm connections with big mon opoly enterprises is the govern ment. "Congreaa hea sit but voted its right away. It knows relatively little about what goes on In fha $4,000,000,000 e yaar Intelligence complex, lor which it appropriates tha money." Murder, assassination, armed aggression, bribery, crime and in terference in the affairs of the world's countries are revealed. The C.I.A. is closely linked with 60 odd foreign intelligence organisa tions, supplying them with tech nical equipment such as code machines which the U.S. can in tercept "on the basic of its know ledge of the construction and wir ing of the machines." All its activities are secret. So much so that recognition of ser vices is withheld from public view. ". . . Richard M. Bieeell re ceived a eecrel intelligence medal honoring htm for hto year at deputy-director for plant. "There wae no public announce ment of tha award and Bletell wat not allowed to talk about hit medal, to ehow it to anyone or to wear it. At far as the CIA wat concerned, officially the medal did not axitt. Tha Invitible Govern ment had awarded him an invit ible medal." The authors review many ex amples of lying and hypocrisy in cluding the well known violation of Soviet air space by the U2 plane that wrecked the Paris Summit meeting, in 1960. Lincoln White, State Department spokesman: "There is absolutely no — NO — no deliberate attempt to violate Soviet air space. There never has been. In fact "The U2 epy nfene wet developed by Richard Biiteil Trevor Gardner of the Air Force end Clarence l. (Kelly) Johnson of Lockhaed. . The Defence Department finally did approve the ultra secret espionage pro|eet on December 8 of that yaar (1994) . . . During the four years starting in 1996 that the spy plana flew over Russia it brought beck invaluable data on Russia." And again Secretary of State Dean Rusk on the Invasion of the 1961 Bay of Pigs in Cuba: "The American people are en titled to know whether we era intervening in Cube or intend to do so in the future. The answer to that question is NO." Again in fact, the whole inva sion was conceived and carried out by the C.I .A. with approval of the President and U.S. armed forces chiefs. A main base for training inva sion troops was selected by the C.I.A. at "Helvetia, the Alejos (Roberto Alejos, wealthy business man) coffee ranch in the Boca Costa, the Pacific slope region of Southwestern Guatemala." The arrangements with Guate malan rulers followed an order given by President Eisenhower on March 17, 1960. Full and absorbing details are related concerning the planning and actual invasion as well as the aftermath. The C.I.A. organised an air cover and the fleet, the Swan Island "Black" Radio to relay instructions during the course of the aggres sion. U.S. taxpayers money was utilised and channelled through a number of companies and persons who are all examined in the book. pERHAPS one of the out standing illustrations of double talk and contempt for the electoral processes was the interference of the CIA in the Presidential elections and the manoeuvres of the candidates. The elec tion occurred on the eve of the US invasion of Cuba. Custom has developed during postwar Presidential Sections for the President to have, the C.I.A. brief the opposing candidates on secret data for "personal know ledge". "Kennedy and Johnson ac- R. HUGHES reviews " THE INVISIBLE GOVERNMENT", by David Wise and Thomas Ross ( Jonathon Cape, London) . $3. , i 'C9 ?5 )V t " , " 'V m ' ;\V. .%: -;&lt;- ;>s.' -.si -5. > -j vvt; | :, ' ' ';;4 '" :' " cepted E5senho»n, . nffer" in the I960 elections, jts about the Projected Bay:0i pigs invasion Plan became w1 Sit not of wre P"""6 Wh were to vote ta t election. (£nKresiden ichard Nixon IS ? ower'sW r-beid the hope rlS S16 land%- quid come be fore the election pit was regard ed as a powers ection winner. Kennedy for simit r reasons hoped it would not. Boil sides (secretly) supported theiiin ion-the only differences wera t its timing. . 011 October 20:8 nnedy included in a speech a calb ;supPort forces to overthrow:, Caj o '.land claimed the "freedomi fight 's''; had no sup- Port from the j ; .Government. This enraged- Ni m who in his book "Six Crises' fa year and a half later) wfat fcthat Kennedy was advocatingt;fii iat was already the policy olnthf American Gov ernment— covertly nd. Kennedy had been so -tinf ntied . Ken nedy was endang ting the secur ity of the wholeji aeration . . " Nixon decided dfi .'attack Kenne dy and in hisispfe htof October 22 he said: "He (Kenned .-colled (or— and get thii |$;: Government to tupport a; Hor- in Cuba and I »«r thokithli) ihtho: moBt ehoek- Ingfy raekltwiei (opojel over made in our Mstort E)-"3' Presidential ndldote.edurini initempelfln— and I'll tell you. v| w.ti . he ecraoe ud. ei to pab out, with the fantastic -taken msdetion that the US Govern sunt nbeil directly aid the entMuM eKse both in and out of Cube. , ,s , "You knot Mint- this . would mean? We.iHrol loviefato right oft the bet iffco iMft'tiee with the American : Sf# >,'; including the Treaty of 0o&lt; aiV'sf 1948. We would elso-vloi peeur. .solemn com mitments (-o ffti lilted Nations. . ." Wise and Rosa Comment: "The TnUltanjKho watched Miaou end arttia . the Cuban lsiue on ittfayjLsAaf, no way of knovlnf/fejjKr taeta were being distorUd -aMprassad." "What McJo this theory (voters' drrUmbsiehts to choose) when the electoral processes become so enmeshed in the tentacles of In visible Government that a candidate teHs the votars he stands for one course of action, when he really believes iust the opposite?" Thus the book goes on, covering the Cuban missile crisis with in side facts. 0N the interference and promotion of counter revolution in Guatemala directly by the USA through its CIA organisation, Sec retary of State John Foster Dulles denies the truth: "The situation is being cured by the Guatemalans themselves." The authors deal with the out rageous political and armed inter vention in Indonesia, the U.S. sec ret actions in Vietnam, in Burma, the planting of a false letter "to stir up embarrassing trouble with in the Communist Party in Costa Rica" and interference in Iran. In 1953 the C.I.A. toppled the Government of Premier Mossadegh in Iran with a coup that put an end to the nationalised oil indus try. The leading C.IA. agent was a seventh cousin of President Franklin D. Roosevelt— Kermil Roosevelt. In the reasserting of monopoly ownership, the British lost their monopoly of Iran's oil, a group of U.S. companies headed by Gulf Oil got 40% of it. "Kermil" later "left the C.I.A. and joined Gulf Oil Corporation as "Government Relations' director in its Washington office. Gulf named him a vice-president in 1960." Kennedy appointed John McCone as Director of C.I.A. McCone was a multi-millionaire and an expon ent of nuclear war. He condemned scientists for being "taken in" by Soviet propaganda end for at tempting to "create fear in the minds of the uniformed that radio- active fallout from H-bomb tests endangers life." "Ralph E. Casey, of the General Accounting Office, o watchdog arm of Congress, testified in 1946 that McCone and his associates in the California Shipbuilding Co. made $44,000,000 on an investment of $100,000." This related to war time government work. McCone was connected with oil, including the Middle East, Indonesia and Lat in America. "Every well informed American knows", commented Senator Joseph Clork, the Pennsylvania Demo crat, "that the American oil com- ' ponies are deep in the politics of the Middle East . . . (and) the CIA is deep in the politics of the Mid dle East. . ." Whilst the C.I.A. is supposed to be concerned with international espionage, Messrs. Wise and Ross show the extensive internal appar atus which spies on the people, , the labor movement and business interests. In short, the rottenness, corrup tion and double talking of the U.S. political leaders, their complete lack of respect for the American people and for democracy; their contempt for other peoples and denial of their sovereignty are highlighted by Wise and Ross in their book. The modern use of electronics and air space in destroying the sovereignty of nations also re ceives treatment. The book is written in a forth right and exciting way and the wealth of facts hammers home the authenticity of what is written. This is a book that makes a chal lenge to the way of life of the "free" world. It gives rise to a thousand queries concerning the Australian Security Service, the work of the C.I.A. in Australia and its agents. The authors express opinions which may not be .shared by all— they are pro-American and certain ly not Marxists, but they have been responsible for an objective, ex plosive and thought provoking book. 