 "Further stage in aggressive war" CPA call for strong action against bombings Statement by Central Committee, Communist Party of Australia. rpHE US bombing of Hanoi is a crime against humanity. It marks a further stage in the aggressive war waged by US imperialism, against the. Vietnamese people. Holt has identified Australia with this war crime by his complete endorsement of everything Johnson has done, is doing and will do in the future. His declaration that "Australia is all the way with LBJ" points up complete subordma- n tion of the Australian Government to Washington's orders. We are thus willingly _ following US into international isolation and condemnation. The US wai'hawks are now firmly ih the saddle; they will commit still worse crimes as their barbarity fails to batter the Vietnamese people into submission. US mass bombing, even though using still more terrible, weapons, can no more cow the Vietnamese people than mass raids by Hitler's Luftwaffe could force the British people to surrender. Bombing of Hanoi came just as US generals were bragging that they were winning. Truth is the National Liberation Front forces are winning their new victories against US forces, since South Vietnam Government troops have almost pulled out of the war. The bombings were an act of vengeance. When the bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong fails, what new crimes will US military experts commit? ? When the US began its mass bombings of the North, the pretext was to "cut off = infiltration from . the North". After 17 months of air raids, the US official case for bombing Hanoi is that "infiltration" has more than doubled. Patriots ! This is just a --miserable excuse to hide the obvious truth that the main fighting forces of the NLF a.re South Vietnamese patriots, mainly armed with captured American weapons and with overwhelming support from the Vietnamese people in North and South, in Saigon as well as in the liberated areas. . Asian opinion has already noted the increasing savagery of the US aggression in Vietnam. It, has noted how Australia, is becoming more and more a willing partner in US -crimes. It will note American arrogant assumption of superiority parroted in the Sydney Daily Telegraph's editorial comment: "If a single Australian or American life cail be saved by dropping an A-bomb on Hanoi or Haiphong, most Australians will favour dropping it." It will not escape Asians that this was Truman's excuse for dropping the atom bombs on two other Asian cities. The Communist Party calls upon all its members and supporters to do everything1 possible to work for united militant and determined opposition to the Government's support of US aggression in Vietnam. It calls for action to condemri the latest US bombings, to achieve peace in Vietnam by. observing the Geneva agreements, to bring Australian troops home and allow the Vietnamese to decide their own futur. 