 An element of doubt " element of doubt in high places" about the Vietnam war has been reported — and welcomed — in Washington by one of America's most respected commentators, Tames Res ton, of the New York Times. He castigated the idea, which still governs the actions of the Administration, that 'world order somehow depends on an American victory in Viet nam". But, whatever the real situation in Washington, clearly there is no sign of doubt in "high places" in Australia.Last week, speaking through the London Times, Sir Robert Menzies spelt out in clearer terms than his less assured protege Holt the real nature of the Government's foreign policy. What Hasluck tentatively called, in 1964, a policy of "no alternative to force", Menzies now bluntly calls "large and growing defence commitments" in connection with becoming "more and more involved" in Asia "in the next 20 years". Already engaging in acts of war from bases in South Vietnam, Thailand and North Borneo, with troops also in Malaya and New Guinea and naval vessels under foreign command off Vietnam and Malaya, Australia certainly has made an ominous start in its coming 20 years of military "growth". Those who look to the future for the solution of critical needs in .education, housing, drought relief and national development must be doing some hard thinking. In Britain, too There is an "element of doubt", too, showing up in the governing Labor Party in Britain concerning the burdensome task of maintaining strategic mili tary forces in south-east Asia. But on ths issue, too, there is no sign of doubt in the Menzies-Holt "brigade. For them it goes without saying that British and American forces should forever continue to threaten the independence movements of south-east Asia, and bases are avail able in Australia to help them do it. In Australia there is, indeed, doubt— not in "high places" but certainly in many places: not only in jobs, unions, homes, churches, universities, schools and offices, but also among the rank and file of Liberal, Country and Democratic Labor Parties. One recent public opinion poll has disclosed one-' third of DLP supporters and over 25 per cent of Liberal voters AGAINST any kind of conscription; it. indicated that less than two-fifths of the population support conscription for Vietnam. But there .is little sign of doubt in a government which blandly begins the death count of conscript casualties in Vietnam while thousands join in mourning the unjustifiable and useless death of Private Errol Noack last week. Doubt not enough Insensitive as ever to the basic winds of change, Menzies boasted last week that "the broad principles : of national policy may be expected to survive". In fact, his own government spent recent years ? turning the past principles of foreign policy on their | head, a situation not conducive to good health. On all these grounds, the skids should be under : . the Holt Government; and there, are other grounds, . for its chosen policy will surely bring heavier taxes, f; further inflation of prices with its erosion of the | people's living standard, and a growing toll in young ; life and the effects of gnawing insecurity and fear. Yet doubt among the people — no matter what the t percentages — is not enough. United action, agita tion, energetic explanation, a wider variety of modes i; of expression and activity suitable to every section — these are essentials if the Holt Government and its war policies are to. be swept away. 