 APARTHEID AND THE LILY-WHITE KNIGHl! By ROGER MILLISS D AISING its not very pretty head in the current political scene is a species far removed from the Aus- tralian democratic tradition — the Racialist Right. Headed by Sir Raphael Cilento— a former Mussolini blackshirt and longstanding espouser of un popular and reactionary causes — it is at present concentrating its resources on an ardent defence of the racist regime of Ian Smith in Rhodesia and of apartheid in South Africa. Sir Raphael, it will be recalled, recently exposed himself to a certain degree of ridicule when he was obliged to "unreservedly withdraw" a characteristically wild allegation that the South African Defence and Aid Fund was "dangerously close to a com munist front". He also retracted any suggestion that the Fund's Chairman in Aus tralia—Mr. Edward St. John, Q.C.,— "would be a party to serving the interests of commun ism or communists". A lesser man might have been sufficiently chastened by this self-inflicted humiliation to retire into obscurity and hold his peace. But not so Sir Raphael. Nothing daunted, he returned to the fray last week with a sim ilarly extravagant defence of apartheid, occupying a full page of the Sydney Daily Telegraph. In this pompous attempt _ to literally whitewash South Africa's fascist state— regime as totalitar ian for the mass of its people as nazi Germany, minus only the gas ovens — Sir Raphael fulminates fiercely against the "increasingly effective attack" being mounted against apartheid. Those who criticise apartheid, claims Sir Raphael, do not really understand it. It really means nothing more than the "separate development" of the1 various races in South Africa. Its main purpose, apparently, is to prevent the horrifying pros pect of miscegenation, or racial mixture, and to give each race the opportunity of developing along its own lines, as it prefers and according to its own supossed particular abilities. This, says, Sir Raphael, is the real idea behind the notorious "Bantustans", which, he claims in all seriousness, will "ultim ately become separate and inde pendent states". And, even more astoundingly, he assures, us that apartheid is not being imposed by force on the non-white people. To the contrary, says Sir Raphael, "the native groups spurn the idea (of inte gration) — they demand apartheid!" While Sir Raphael continues to delude himself— and others— with these amazing exercises in fan tasy, it might be valuable, to re state a 'few basic truths about apartheid. riRSTLY, .it i i more con cerned Hie1 "devel opment" — kse itely or any other- way— -the non- whites of !i ith Africa than was Nazisi ith the well- being of the Jw 1 The basic ptor KDf , apartheid is that the-"''! ii" and any body tainted'"# ured blood- is an inferior t fit only to be a "hewer11,1 wood and a drawer of water ni'the. late Dr. Verwoerd's ieeld -d phrase — for the white s > -m The non-whte ireiv/seen as basically providi wast reserve of labour, una® 'live or work where they chdtE ithout official permission, ' $ d as only "temporary '&? in the white areas, o to saio political rights as regard a.-, white gov ernment which ltrols them, and receiving# efficient edu cation to eqiR em for the economic rolei® |l to' them. CECONDLft r f 'Bantust- ans" f£ed "black homelands# p no more chance of ¥ Fg "separ- . ate and in Fnt states" than has 8 Pnd of be coming Aus Nenth state. The Bantto e areas into which the con entire twelve million Africa frding to the master blue# \ 'are to be herded, wheW f like it or nnased on"® lSent African Reserves-the'1? peas where the Africans' actual legal rights of PeIJ|0ccuPancy, constituting'0#31' cent of the country's I against the 87 per cent IP the three million whites — they offer Afri cans a limited and illusory degree of local self-government in re turn for the surrender of all rights within the white areas. And, it should be noted, the Africans will have no opportunity of stating whether they wish to accept these vast internment camps — to be run by committees of "Kapos", as internees of the Nazis used to call those prisoners who collaborated with the guards. In its fantasy, the master blue print sets out plans for the massive transference of all in dustry to the very borders of the Bantustans, so that the African labour force can enter the plants and factories from one side, and the white technicians, foremen, supervisors and managers from the other. Obviously this is too absurd and too expensive to work. What will happen in practice will be an intensification and refinement of the present system, with Africans being granted work permits for specific periods in the white areas, to fill the demands of white industry and agriculture, and, not least of all, the white house hold. In short, the Bantustans will be nothing but enormous and overcrowded reservoirs of cheap labour for South African capital ism, occupying, incidentally, the country's worst agricultural land. "y.HIRDLY, the non-white people of South Africa no more "demand" apartheid than did the people of Europe "demand" German invasion and occupation 25 years ago. If Sir Raphael has any doubts of that, let him return to his adopted Boer homeland and ask the ordinary non- whites how they feel about it. If they feel they can trust the person they are speaking to and know he will not "dob them in" —rather a hard assurance to give in Sir Raphael's case, I should imagine — they will speak their minds, and, in my experience, that means only one thing: their hatred of apartheid and their determination to be rid of it. Or if that is asking too much of the lily-white knight, let him study the country's history, or even just the newspapers, j Both sources should convince hi.m that the attitude of the non- whites has always been and is today one of steadfast resistance tc all white policies of discrim ination and oppression. Protests, demonstrations, strikes and rebellion are the continuous response of the non-white people to segregation and apartheid. In the Transkei itself — a rural slum and. the first of the Bant ustans — the Pondos, a nation of simple peasants, rose in virtual revolt in 1957-60 and a state of emergency still exists today. Thn real meaning of apartheid can be seen in the Pass Laws, the Group Areas Act, the Suppres sion of Communism Act, the absurb but tragic Detention Laws, and, finally, in that terrible day at Sharpeville in 1960, when 60 Africans were shot dead when demonstrating in front of a police station against the Pass Laws. Sooner or later there will be an eruption in South Africa whose repercussions will reverberate throughout the African continent and. the world. We will be judged by our response to it. Apartheid in action : SA police deal with a ctowd of demonstrating African women. The meaning of apartheid : bodies of some of the 60 -odd shot dead at Sharpeville in 1960 