 It was C for Catch-Day j J"HE decimal currency change over last week was marked by a wave of crude and blatant profit- eering through price in creases that have robbed the average pay packet of from 15/- to £1 a week. Conversion upwards to the nearest cent of a wide range of commodities was seen months ago as a wage cut. But in the event prices have just been jacked up, regardless. A widespread method of trickery is shown in this ex ample reported to Tribune. A small packet of frozen peas, formerly 2/9 a packet, was con verted to a price of 28 cents (a, slight rise). But for a double-sized packet, formerly selling at 5/6, some retailers have converted by doubling the decimal price, giv ing 56 cents — one cent more than the old price. Following on the pre-conver- sion bus fare increases by the NSW State Government, ap proval was given to private bus operators to make increases. Some private bus fares which were six pence and three pence for adults and children respec tively are now six cents and three cents. In another example in the Como, Oyster Bay, Jannali area in Sydney a private bus pro prietor worked out fares as fol lows:— A three section fare was lOd. before conversion. This should be 8 cents. He makes it 9 cents. A worker on this bus making two trips a day loses 10 cents a week — a wage cut of a shilling a week on fares alone. School children on the same service who paid a three section fare of four pence, should now pay three cents, but they are each charged four cents— again a "touch" of 10 cents or 1/- a week. Matches, which were 2d a box under the old currency are now selling in some tobacconists at three boxes for six cents, in stead of three for five cents. The "Australian" had this to say following the change over. "It has been forecast that the changeover to decimal currency could lead to a 50 per cent in crease in retail prices included in the consumer price index." Many shops and manufactur ers increased prices before "C" day to make a profit on con version. The two year change-over period is considered too long by many people, because it adds to the confusion, behind which the price rackets flour ish. A serious admission was made by the Melbourne Retail Traders' Association: "We went out of our way to avoid any suspicion of profiteering. Our j advice to members was to put j prices up early in 1965, if neces- ! sary, rather than now." I The problem for the customer j is that business has adopted the , policy of taking the extra frac- I tions before AND after conver- j sion. : 