 Holt lines up with Indo riffhtwing PRIME MINISTER Holt' s announced intention to viftit Indonesia represents approval of a right-wing army regime re ported this week to be responsible for the murder of about 200,000 men, women and children. The new report came from Robert S. Elegant, of the Los Angeles Times, who pins the blame for the bloodbath firmly on the Indonesian Army leader ship. The Federal Government's new-found friendship for In donesia thus amounts to con doning a massacre worse even than anything done by Hitler or Mussolini in their own countries. In Parliament last week Prime Minister Holt said he hoped to go to Indonesia when an opportunity occurred. All such opportunities were spurned by Menzies and Holt while Indonesia was following a policy of non-alignment and collaboration with all coun tries, Including the Socialist countries. The unconcealed gloating by rightwing supporters of the Government over the suffer ings of Indonesian democrats is also illustrated , by such statements as: "The important questions are whether the Communist Party really drowned in blood or whether there is still a basic Red organisation for Soekarno and Subandrio to build on." (News-Weekly, 2 March 1966). In tune with the new out look was the open bid of the ' Sultan of Jokjakarta, deputy premier in the Government, for American capital. Declaring that Indonesia "faced economic collapse" without foreign capital, the Sultan reversed previous pol icies by inviting new foreign investment and calling for the strengthening of the "private sector". Robert Elegant's report, published in last Friday's "Australian", is the first fac tual account of what he estim ates to be the massacre of 200,000 communists or "pres umed communists". Cabling irom Java, Elegant says that "my estimate, by no means ' authoritative, is that between 175,000 and 225,000 men, women and children have been killed in Indonesia since the coup of October 1. Those figures are based on discussions and cross-checking with sources in Jakarta and outlying centres. "As far as I can ascertain, 60,000 to 70,000 people were killed in east Java and an ad ditional 20,000 were murdered on the island of Mundura". Showing that the massacre included people not connect- ed with politics, Elegant notes that "in Bali, political pas sions, resentment of the out sider and the resurgence of primitive feuds claimed 40,000 to 50,000 — or 2.5 per cent of a population of 2,000,000." About 20,000 were killed in central Java, 50,000 in Sum atra and 20,000 in other areas. Elegant fears that "at least 50,000 orphans, widows and widowers and sisters of the slain will some day seek to destroy a society they con sider based on murder." The Army was able to ter rorise many people outside its ranks into taking part in the massacre, according to Ele gant. In Solo, students killed 2000, mainly by bullets in the neck before the massacre was call ed off. In one district the army loaded prisoners onto trucks and distributed 20 to each of five villages demand ing that they be killed. One village had a pile of 200 corpses which if could not bury for fear of being thought "Communist". As Dr. J. F. Cairns MHR has pointed out, not ,a word oC protest about any of this has come from governments and newspapers claiming to be outraged over defensive agt - a ions by the "Viol. ' Corig"n - south Vietnam. On the contrary, satisfaction is the keynote of most , com ments from such sources, just as it was when Hitler and Himmler were on the ramp-, age. But the majority of people will see this as one of the worst of the many criminal orgies for which anti-Com munism has been responsible. 