 HAW national Conference Women march on Federal Members SYDNEY: Two hundred women, from all States of Australia held a protest walk through the city last Monday to the Federal Members Rooms in Sydney. Thev were delegates to the Ath National Conference of the Union of Australian Women which ended its four day ses sion yesterday. Both the Prime Minister (Mr. Holt) and Federal Treas urer (Mr. McMahon) had earlier refused to meet a depu tation from the conference. The women were protesting against the denial of their de mocratic rights to put their views to the Government lead ers, to express: e Opposition to the Gov ernment's policy in Vietnam. Opposition to conscrip tion for overseas service. Opposition to the French Pacific nuclear tests. e The need for a program for young married people, in cluding housing allowances, increased maternity allowances, and increased child endow ment. A deputation later handed a letter to a Government offi cial setting out the women's views to the Prime Minister. Campaign A program for young mar ried people was adopted which included increasing the mater nity allowance to $94 for the first child, $1C0 for the second, and $110 for the third. It also called for the raising of child endowment to $2.50 per week for each child. It was stated that maternity allowances have not been in creased since 1943 and that the present figure of $30 had no relation to the current cost of living. On the controversial ques tion of birth control, confer ence decided that all contra ceptives should be on the free list, including "the pill". Conference demanded that an investigation be made into the profits from the produc tion and sale of contraceptives, particularly the pill, and that effective controls be instituted to enable prices to be reduced. On high prices, conference called for the establishment of a prices bureau in all States and at Federal level, with con sumer representation. Federal and State Govern ments are called on to initiate a meeting to institute a na tional system of price and pro fit control, particularly to cover basic necessities as meat, bread, milk, groceries, medical items and rent. At last Friday's opening ses sion, messages of greetings in cluded greetings from Esther Newill, of the Women Strike for Peace New York branch, Leader of the State Labor Op- position the Hon. J. B. Ren- shaw, M.L.A., Mr. H. Jensen, M.L.A. and former Lord Mayor of Sydney, Katharine Susannah Prichard and. the Women's International Democratic Fed eration. Valentine Titova, from the Soviet Women's Committee, ar rived the following day, due to a hold-up of her visa by the Australian Government. 