 . Oil tile industrial scene : PLANNING FROM BOTTOM" CALL: STRUCTURAL REFORM NEEDED — TU's must lead , says economist CANBERRA: Trade unions cannot rely only on campaigns for wage rises and for their long-term aim of nationalisation. They must insist NOW on more imaginative, exciting and just economic policies, Mr. Bruce McFarlane told the recent Federal Conference of the Building Workers' Industrial Union. Mr. McFarlane, a Research Fellow in Economics at the Australian National University, Canberra, was addressing the conference on "Planning, De mocracy and Australia's Econ omic Future." "The question is, can plan ning be associated with demo cratic initiative and become 'Planning from the Bottom Up'?" Mr. McFarlane asked. The answer was "yes" he said, "if organised labor pursues a vigorous policy of structural economic reform and trade union representation in all 'planning bodies' — whether they be town planning institutions or national advisory committees." Another example open to trade union and job initiative, he said, would be the demand for "opening of the books" by employers so that all can really judge their "capacity to pay." Structural The time was now ripe to ex tend and coordinate the im mediate demands of the labor movement and proposals for structural economic reforms. This should be combined in a general plan of economic development as an alternative to capitalist "Programming," Mr. McFarlane said. This would not be socialist planning, the conditions for such planning do not exist yet. Society has no say in the utilisation of the wealth creat ed by the people. It is control led by big business and the State bureaucracy, he said. Democracy has not yet reach ed the point of production and plays ro part in financial policy and associated spheres. Crucial But the counterposing of de- mccratisation of planning to capitalist programming, is a crucial part of the struggle for a socially just society, ho said. This really means that capital ist programming, which is al ways accompanied by anti democratic and authoritarian trends must be countered by the adoption of a democratic method — also in the direction of 1J-LC. In this process the organised labor movement must actively participate at all levels, to con front existing "bureaucratic regulation" with democratisa- tion of the planning process it self, Mr. McFarlane said. Part of this structural reform movement and struggle should be carried out at the local level, on the jobs and in the work shops. "Unions in many industries— and now the building industry — are beginning to amalgamate. This is not only to save re sources. It is to defend the workers against the worst ef fects of new technology, it is to strengthen their bargaining power. "From that viewpoint it can hardly be criticised," Mr. Mc Farlane said. "Bigness" But he warned that "bigness" in itself achieved nothing. It is How amalgamation is used that will be crucial. "If it helps the struggle for democracy, for structural econ omic reforms, for democratisa- tion of planning, for better con ditions, it will be justified," he added. It was important, Mr. McFar lane said, that amalgamation should not lead to weakening the position of shop commit tees and job stewards. A two pronged strategy was lequired: strength, larger size and unity at the top through amalgamation and greater activ ity and participation at the local level. "What we have in Australia is not planning, but social regul- ation by bureaucracy, and a sys tem of economic policy through Government preferment be tween competing vested inter est groups representing sectors of capitalism. "The bureaucratic system of regulation is not planning. Not only is it piecemeal, it is un just and undemocratic," Mr. McFarlane said. "It is questionable to say the least," he said, "that housing and town planning should al ways be planned 'from the top' iather than grow out of the needs of the people and the creative work of architects; that education should always be planned by Government Dep artments, rather than by teach ers, that research should be promoted by the bureaucratic layers in Government and private industry, rather than by academics and scientists." Reactionary The Government's attitude to housing and town planning was "not only reactionary, but was positively nineteenth century, as though the Liberal Party was the victim of an illusion sys tem," Mr. McFarlane said. When the employers in the building industry recently asked for more planning, to ensure there would be no violent swing in building activity in the inter ests of a stop-go economic pol icy, Prime Minister Holt replied that the Government could not undertake overall planning. With a certain amount of money made available, the only way the number of houses built can be increased is by econ omising through developing new construction techniques — or lowering standards. The decision is usually for lower standards. Mr. McFarlane said that the authorities will not, unless prodded by the people's organ isations, attempt to discover the behavioural needs of the people for whom housing is intended. The Housing Commissions are "laws unto themselves" and can over-rule all objections of ur ban planners and local citizens' organisations. Such "planners" must be checked and the whole plan ning process democratised and geared to public participation, he said. "More attention must be paid to getting the right policies ap plied and advocated by political labor. "For instance, I can right here and now design a new tax struc ture which will put more in the workers' pocket than the last three basic wage increases," Mr. McFarlane said. Mr. B. /. McFarlane 