 . . . Gibson replies I -CERTAINLY did not intend to slight either Jack or Audrew Blake in my book — — nor do I think that I did so. Audrey points to two his torical errors for which I apologise. Regarding her part in the formation of the League of Young Democrats, I had been wrongly under the im pression that it was formed in 1938 before Audrey's return from . overseas. That was the only reason I used the word "later". Regarding the time of Jack's promotion to the' Central Committee Secretar iat, I thought — mistakenly— that this occurred early in 1949, when E. F. Hill was elected Victorian State Secret ary. Evidently it occurred some months later, and to tha,t extent the text is in error on a matter of some political importance. Regarding the struggle against the Essential Services Act in November 1948, it is 1 true that Jack Blake was .still | secretary of the Party in Vic- 1 toria, but he happened | (through no fault of his own) I to be out. of Victoria during 1 the week of the struggle. I I certainly did not intend I to belittle Comrade Blake's I services to the Party which I were very important in the I past and can be important in I the future. I refer in the book I to his "long and very capable I services" and "very fine I theoretical capacity" (see page I 204). I I mention Jack Blake among four who, with others, "galvanised the Party for the many difficult struggles of the . nineteen thirties" (p. 25). As a. personal opinion I do not think it too much to say of the late Len Donald that he was "the real organising and driving force" of that leader ship. This is not intended to push others into the back ground but to pay realistic tribute to a fine comrade of the past whose services might be forgotten. I do also believe that Jack Blake did in a. special degree manifest the left trend in the 'Party in the 'nineteen forties, though, as I point out, the trend was "not his alone and was in many respects shared by the whole Party i (p. 150). I On my reference to his be- I ing "elected in my Place,. I State Secretary" in 194'3 after g his return from the Sy® | Union,. I am sorry if tnis j sounded too general. He was | elected— quite rightly— on tD I basis of his political ability. I which I think I fully ackiiow I ledged in the book. I Ralph Gibson. I ' Audrey Bloke ®'S(! "'guard- letter to the Victoria bs0„( I ion. It was showntoMr. I and he has made the «u \ I reply tor publication In our I and Tribune. | 