 EUROPE as the year closes j| | Franco-Soviet accord grows West Germany 1 swings to right I By the Foreign Editor | RIG changes occurring in Europe at present are by no means remote from the interests of Australia which has buried two generations of soldiers there. The two biggest current developments are: Growth of Soviet-French accord during Soviet Premier Kosygin's visit to France this month. Strengthening of rightwing forces in West Germany. | One result of these developments appears to be a further I weakening of the post-war political influence of the United i States in European affairs. Soviet Premier Kosygin indicated at a Paris diplomatic press x conference after his first talks with President De Gaulle that he was satisfied with the talks, that there were clear prospects for the development of political, economic and cultural co-operation) and that friendship between the two nations would be "perm- | anent." ; He declared for a conference of European nations on European il security and said that participation of the USA would depend p on the European nations. |J In this light, last week's statement by the new West German 1 Chancellor ex-Nazi Kiesinger that a major aim would be closer relations with France appears to confirm earlier reports that the defeat of Chancellor Erhard spelt a weakening of American influence in what Has been the main European military and ./ politic'al'naase: I Independent However, the real test of Bonn's attitude to the growing movement for a peaceful Europe independent of the USA is yet to come — as was indicated in Kosygin's reply to a corres pondent's question :— j "The policy of West Germany has a direct bearing on the | situation in Europe and consequently on the problem of European I security .... "To make a major contribution to the solution of the European I security problem, West Germany should absolutely clearly under- | stand the situation in Europe where two German states exist | and that no forces from outside can change this situation. All | other opinions on this matter are unreal "Secondly, the frontiers in Europe that took shape after World War II are unbreakable. "Thirdly, West Germany should once and for all abandon all claims to nuclear weapons." These plain statements are a clear challenge to the rightist forces in West Germany, including those in the Government itself, the militarists, and the growing forces associated with the "National Democratic Party". New Govt. Comments from East Germany and the Soviet Union on the composition of the new Bonn coalition indicate that the Social- Democratic Party leadership took a conscious and deliberate step into alliance with, the main party of German monopoly capitalism, abandoning actual negotiations with the Free Democrats who have broken away from the former government coalition. It is a coalition that is basically committed to a reactionary internal line of policy based on the Continuing ban on the Com munist Party and persecution of activei organisers for a peaceful policy. , . ..... : The, turn, to the right by the SDP leaders in entering the government was marked, among other things, by open oppos ition from 50 Social-Democrat Members of Parliament. The US magazine Newsweek commented that the apparent "marriage of opposites" was possible, in part, "because the Social Democrats have long since ceased to be red", adding "the Social Democrats and Christian Democrats have as much in common as the Democrats and Republicans have in the US." The London "Morning Star" (communist) flatly brands the SDP leaders' action as the sort of "betrayal by Social Democratic leaders before the war which helped Hitler to gain power. "It means that the Social Democrats are coming to the rescue of the Christian Democrats in the crisis they - have been facing, and it can only strenghten reaction and encourage the neo-nazis." A Pravda dispatch from Bonn last week pointed out that in the recent West German political crisis, the Social Democrats were the only party that had freedom of choice and action. This was confirmed by a strong statement by the East German |fl Premier Walter Ulbricht in an interview. 9 He revealed that the East German Socialist Unity Party had 9 recently proposed to the SDP in the west joint measures against 9 the neo-nazi movement developing in . Bavaria and elsewhere. a The letter indicated the SUP's interest in negotiations setting 9 up a coalition conducted between the Social Democrats and the 9 Free Democrats which, according to SDP leaders, had already 9 achieved "far reaching agreements". 9 "Imperialist" I Such a coalition would, said Ulbricht, have made it possible 9 to replace the Christian Democrat Federal Government and the 9 State Government of the main industrial province, North Rhine- 9 Westphalia. 9 "The possibility of taking to a democratic -way" would have 9 existed, based on the safeguarding of the peaceful coexistence 9 of the two German states. 9 Ulbricht said that the SDP leader Willy Brandt" rejected the 9 approach from the party in the east and had "decided in favor 9 of an imperialist Germany . . . the imperialist and anti-demo- 9 cratic course of the Christian Democratic Union." 9 This was a telling blow to the Social Democratic Party itself, 9 he said. 9 Ulbricht made these points: — 9 Instead , of an understanding with the German Democratic 9 Republic, the policy of increased attacks against the GDR is . j9 envisaged by Bonn. 9 Support of the dirty war in Vietnam is to be increased. 9 The policy of neo-colonialism pursued by. the Erhard 9 Government is to be stepped up. 9 He called for unity of communists, social democrats and other 9 democrats to defend democracy, work for European security 9 and against the revanchism, nationalism and reaction that would 9 characterise the policies of the new coalition. 9 He predicted the new Bonn regime would liquidate democratic 9 provisions in the West German constitution, already violated in 9 practice by the banning of the Communist Party . . . "most 9 consistent defender of the basic democratic constitutional rights," 9 Ulbricht said. 9 f, 1 Kosygin De Gaulle Kiesinger Brandt 9 