 gBCBtanaHic shooting US hots it up on Cuba's doorstep From Rupert Lockwood New American military provocations against Cuba have been serious enough to result in mobil isation of additional Cuban defence forces and a serious Soviet warning to the USA. US actions haye included the shooting of a frontier guard by US marines at Guantanamo and; the killing of two more Cuban soldiers in an attempt by the Central Intelligence Agency to land emigres to assassinate Fidel Castro. In' Havana the grey blue uniforms of " the people's militia have joined the olive drab of regular army uni forms, trenches have been dug on Havana beaches, guns are stripped of their slipovers and machine gun posts fully manned. Guards at industrial and administrative buildings have been reinforced. Pledges The official Tass statement says: "Soviet ruling circles closely follow developments in that area and consider it necessary to issue a reminder of earlier pledges of support for her oic" Cuba which is fighting for its freedom and indepen dence. "Those who harbor aggres sive designs against the Re public of Cuba should not forget that Cuba has true and dependable friends." Cuban frontier guard Luis Ramirez Lopez was shot dead by US marines when he was at his post 160 yards fiorr. Guantanamo base boundaries. The US Defence Department alleged that he had been wounded while penetrating the base and had escaped and died later, while State Sec retary Dean Rusk in a threat ening statement alleged there had been a further penetrat ion by Cuban soldiers on May 23. Correspondents Thirty foreign correspon dents from 16 countries were taken to the scene of the Cuban . soldier's death. They noted that if the American version were true, a soldier with a fatal Amer ican bullet right through his neck and his jugular vein severed would have to have trodden over American mines, climbed or leaped over a wire mesh fence and three rows of barbed wire from six feet to eight feet high and closely entangled, then fought his way through prickly undergrowth. He would also have run across a 45 yards wide gully, clambered another 45 metres up hill, jumped into a trench leading to a concrete emplace ment and only then dropped dead — all this without a single scratch on his body, a single tear in his uniform and without losing his helmet, tommy gun, ammunition or other equipment. The correspondent of the American magazine "Now", Paul Brook said: "The thing was done in the same way as negroes- are killed by rac ists in the United States." So far this year Americans have fired 79 times on Cuban guards at Guantanamo. Emigres A fast American launch left Florida so6n after the Guantanamo shooting carry ing six emigres who were Central . Intelligence Agency saboteurs. They carried large quantities of explosives, gren ades, pistols, rifles with sil encers and tommy guns and printed propaganda. They landed but were spotted and fled pursued by a Cuban navy torpedo boat which blew up the launch. Two survivors were picked up from the water and two Cubans died in the clash. The two Central Intelligence Agency men rescued from the water admitted to Cubans that the purpose of their mission was an attempt on Castro's life and preparation for aiiother invasion of Cuba. 