 As Soviet Communihhemm.rKWmtf.nni \v (XT / - Let's set this straight! 48 years ot Triumph over 1 many difficulties ?j| v By a Tribune staff writer JjjF -A ' I do not want to have my fit country run by men who imitate |X the teachings of a country that Jp£ % has taken 50 years of left wing jaBlffi swfc: to get to the stage where the people can have a few luxuries. aglsfr'''" . , , . .. iiii'iiiilllffflfffi' : «v";/ & '' ":"' 1 JYDNEY : The above extract from a letter published in the Aus- 1 tralian (15/3/66) may have been written in ignorance but can- I not be allowed to pass. It reflects the extremely superficial and S gravely distorted view of the Soviet Union that is spread by many I . agencies m the TV, press and general publishing fields of the west- | // ern countries. r ; As communist delegates from every part of the USSR gather this week at W their party's 23rd congress, are Australians interested (| only in whether the social - | ist revolution nearly 50 m years ago produced "a few III luxuries"? m The fact is that the story of if those years, the unprecedented If struggle of millions of people II to overcome enormous odds to f follow a completely new path 1 to change their society, has |J never been clearly told to Aus- ff tralians, especially the new generation. Not that "luxuries" are un- s ''> important. || In last week's Tribune, Mr. m Rupert Lockwood, from Mos- |1 cow, told us something about ||| those "few luxuries". They in- iM &5» elude tropical fruits and fresh- cut flowers available in a tem perature of 33 below zero; an increasing flow of cars, TV sets and other electrical goods; furs that average working women elsewhere can't afford. Such "few luxuries" as these, added to . free health and medical services, free education, near-free accom modation and pensions that diminish the need to save have given Soviet people a . standard that is the envy of many other countries' work, ing people — or would be were they permitted to know about it. From the moment of taking power 48 years ago the Soviet Government and people have been working to win the stand ards of living so far achieved and scheduled under the com ing five-year plan. But. there were interruptions and handicaps not experienced by any other country in mod ern times. At the beginning their coun try had already been reduced to a state of chaos and near- paralysis in the three years of the first world war which had already passed in 1917, with the loss by Russia of vast numbers of soldiers and huge areas of territory under German occu pation. This was followed by three more years of war against the invading armies of 14 capitalist countries. Before they were chased out the invaders and their Russian whiteguard puppet armies de vastated Russia and what was to be the USSR from end . to end. They wrecked rail transport, flooded the mines, put the oil- fields out of action and de stroyed countless factories. They put Russia back to the economic level that character ised Tsarism in the second half of the nineteenth century. Shortages of fuel and raw materials almost paralysed in dustry. Bread was short and many city workers were starv ing. Large numbers fled to the countryside seeking food, leav ing industry short-staffed. The horrors of famine fol lowed those of war. The droughts of 1920 and 1921 meant crop failures and many deaths in districts with a popu lation of 30 million. The Communist Party led the people in a bitter struggle to lift themselves out of this ap palling situation. They worked miracles. But even so, it took 10 years — till 1928 — to get the economy back to the level of 1913. There followed, the. first five- year; plan, which marked .a spectacular advance and laid the basis for the subsequent conversion of the USSR from a primarily agricultural to the primarily industrial nation. Had the USSR been allowed to continue that line of devel opment unchecked the luxur ies mentioned by Mr. Lock- wood would have been avail able 20 years or more ago. But of course the strategists of imperialism were deter mined that it would not be allowed to continue. Rejecting the USSR's proposal for total disarmament put before \ the Disarmament Conference in 1927, they continued full tilt with preparations for another attack on the land of social ism. World War IB From 1933 onwards, when Hitler seized power in Ger many with the backing of in ternational finance capital, the threat to the USSR was always acute. Increasingly great amounts of Soviet resources had to be diverted to military needs. When, despite all Soviet peace efforts, the. second world war came, the USSR was the worst sufferer. . , The nazis and their allies seized and devastated territory in which 88 million people had lived. They destroyed, wholly or partly, 15 large cities, 1710 towns and 70,000 villages. They destroyed 6, 000, OOP buildings and made 25 million people homeless. Over this vast area factories were razed, bridges, roads and highways,- telegraph communi cations and .'power stations were laid in ruins. In the countryside the Ger mans killed or took awa.y 7 million horses, 17 million cat tle, 20 million hogs, 27 million sheep and goats and 110 mil lion head of poultry. Quoting these official Soviet figures, Professor D. F. Fletn- ing, author of "The History of the Cold War", says that no US war correspondent would question these facts. In his book Russia, at War, Alexander Werth, veteran war correspondent, and expert on the USSR, puts Soviet popu lation losses , at 20. million or one-tehtii. pt the population, "an appalling proportion equalled, only by Poland - and Yugoslavia. There were also millions of war invalids." "Famine" Werth adds: "The civilian population of the USSR '.had not only been underfed but also grossly overworked during the war years and. many had died under the strain." "In 1945 I knew many fami lies, with clerical. wbrl ration cards, who1 without, ac ally starving, were having worse than thin time, and. u whom, a whole lump of sugar in their tea was almost a lux ury. "For a time the great drought of 1948 was to make food conditions m very large parts of the USSR, even mon- difficult." Werth says that; the sudden stopping of lend -lease .supplies by the USA a few weeks after the end of the war further cut food supplies. The Cold War Yet it only took three years for the Soviet People, led by the Communist party, to re store the economy to the pre_ war level. Worse than the stopping of lend-lease was the decision of the US and. Britain to launch the . cold, war-- announced by Churchill in his Fulton speech of February, 1948, This means that once again the USSR, while fighting for peace, had to divert much of its resources to defence instead of in meeting civilian needs. Had the sums the USSR, has had to spend meeting the US atomic war threat been , avail able for consumer goods pro duction, ..those ' vdinter piner apples would have arrived many years earlier. . Still, they have arrived t now, ' , in spite of everything. And the achievements of Soviet science and tlie poten tial created there by what is admitted to be the world's best education system, suggest that much more will be "arriving", if world peace can be pre7 served. The new and the beautiful LEFT: The magnificent modern hall of congresses, standing among ancient buildings in the Kremlin grounds, Moscow, in which the 23rd Congress of the CPSU is meeting this week. BELOW: Two outstanding pro ducts of socialist life in the USSR: — Professor Alia Masevich (at right), leading physicist, mathematician and vice presi dent of the Astronomical. Coun cil of the Academy of Sciences, who is a top expert on space tracking; and (centre) the world's only woman cosmonaut, . Valentina Tereshkova. Tfiey are talking to Madame Isahelle Blume, president coordinator of the World Council of Peace, who is from Belgium. 