 Sweep them out in '66 Sorry record of neglect at the 'Gong By R. J. WILDING, Communist Party Can didate for Cunningham NSW South Coast) . The Federal and NSW Liberal Governments, jointly implem enting a financial policy of priority for war and assistance to big industry, bear the main responsibility for neglect of the people's interests in the fast developing South Coast district. Health, hospitalisation, edu cation and public amenities— especially in the Wollongong area— are particular subjects for concern and action. The' city of Wollongong's growth rate has been pheno menal—from a population of 63,000 in 1946 to 165,000 today. This population growth has been matched by the increase . in production — acording to of ficial figures from $563 mil lion dollars in 1964 to nearly $654 million in 1965. This increase of 15 per cent compares with 12 per cent for Sydney and 9 per cent for Newcastle, which Wollon gong has replaced as the State's second biggest indus trial centre. Benefit Dominating this centre is the steel industry, owned by BHP, producing 3i million tons of ingot steel in 1965, whose growth has been dir ectly assisted by past Govern ments, Liberal and Labour, especially in the building of the new harbour— costing the State Government $13 million —and tax rebates, amounting to an estimated $8 million in one year alone. It may be maintained that assistance to such a vital in dustry as steel is justified, but the main question is whe ther the community has bene fited from it. The answer is categorically "No". Firstly, the 17,500 em ployees of BHP— correctly termed "a low wage industry —receive an average of $10 below the level of other: in dustries, the basis of the un ions' demand for a $10 in crease at BHP. Perhaps, it may be argued," other sections of the economy —such as agriculture, with its reliance on farm machinery, and the automobile industry —benefited from the expan sion of BHP? Again, the answer is in the negative. BHP arbitrarily in creased the price of steel, which had considerable re percussion right throughout the economy— and the Federal Government's silence could only be taken as acquiescence. It seems that the Federal Government is prepared to go "all the way", but in one way only— to Vietnam and higher steel prices. The Communist Party re cognises that Australia must have a modern and efficient steel industry, . but we de mand that this industry must serve the interests of the nation— not just a few share holders. As a first step, we would ensure that steel workers are paid an adequate wage and that before any increase in the price of steel consulta tions with the Government should take place and some of the excessive profits being made be channelled back into the nation's coffers. Nationalise But more importantly, we believe that if the steel in dustry is to really serve the nation's interests, it must be nationalised. On the broader scene, the Liberal-Country Party Gov ernment's continued neglect of social services and educa tion, can be graphically seen in the Wollongong area. The annual report of the Smith Family, for instance, shows that cases of distress and hardship aided by the Family had increased from 1,292 in 1962 to 10,605 in the year ending June 30 last. The City Council is also in dire straits because of lack of finance, with the Mayor requesting Premier Askin to receive a deputation to ex plain the situation. It is becoming increasingly obvious that only action by popular organisations will adequately correct such an omalies—as in the case of the Teachers' Federation and Parents' and Citizens' Associa tion over education. A survey by the Teachers' Federation last April showed that in the Illawarra region over 50 public schools were grossly overcrowded and that the situation would steadily worsen. Following a well-attended public meeting to discuss the needs of local education, the teachers bought a two-page advertisement in the local press, comprising letters from various schools signed by teachers. Action Another example of what popular action can do came from the students and staff of Wollongong University Col lege, who virtually saved the College from a crippling blow about to be delivered by the Federal Government. When it became known that a 70 per cent cut was to be made in expansion programme finance, they sent some 700 telegrams of protest, and fin ally mounted a demonstration on the steps of Parliament. The result of this campaign — in which the students and staff received district-wide support— was a climb-down by the Government and the College will get the required finance. Yet another instance of what can be done by the peo ple themselves is provided by the move to establish a whole- sale fruit , and vegetable mar ket in Wollongong to cater properly for the needs of the 231,000 in the Illawarra dis trict — expected to increase to 360,000 by 1975— and to assist local growers, many of whom have been ruined by their dependence on the Sydney market. South Coast Unions set up a Marketing Committee, under the secretaryship of Mr. Mike Clunne, a series of meetings attended by Producers' Asso ciations gave full support to the idea, and the Wollongong University College is now con ducting research into the feas ibility of a local market, under the sponsorship of the Labour Council and the Illaw arra Regional Development Committee. The obsession of the Fed eral Government with its de termination to pursue, with America, its war of aggres sion against the Vietnamese people is proving very costly — not just in terms of young Australian lives but also in terms of the neglect of fin ance for the needs of the Australian people. This is especially felt in a rapidly developing area like Wollongong, and will prove a central factor in effecting the defeat of the Holt Govern ment. We are confident that the strong attack launched on the Liberal Party's policy on Viet nam, as well as domestic af fairs, will win wide support | in the Wollongong area. | REG WILDING 