 Search for Govt, revenue in S.A. ' DELAIDE: The Labor Government is facing a serious problem with the drying up of State finances. The Liberal-dominated Up- per House has prevented revenue raising measures from becoming law. In view of this, the "concern" about State finances expressed by anti-Labor forces stands ex posed as a political campaign to discredit the Government. Apart from driving home this exposure, the labor movement and the Government itself needs to examine a new approach to the raising of State revenue. The essence of this approach should be bold action to make available for State use a por tion of the money now being grabbed by monopoly concerns who place their own sectional interests before those of the SA people. At the same time, there is every justification in demand ing a greater share of taxation now going to the Holt Govern ment a great proportion of which is squandered on the un popular war in Vietnam. There is justification, too, in demanding that the Common wealth provide more money for State use by heavier company taxation, including a capital gains tax. The present State finance sur plus of $4.5m is expected to be wiped in the final quarter, of. this financial year. The Minister of Works (Mr. C. Hutchens) has announced that some of the States capital works on which a start was planned next financial year would have to be deferred and that works now in progress might also have to be held up for a time. The overall reason for insuf ficient money coming from these sources is the existence of concessions to wealthy com panies. Examples of rail concessions are those applying to BHAS in Port Pirie and the existence of BHP private railways to Iron Knob and Coffin Bay which should be part of the State sys tem. A major concession is enjoy ed by BHP which pays only 15c a ton royalty on iron ore. $9m would immediately be made available to the State treasury by increasing the royalty to $2 per ton. An example of what iron ore can bring on the world market is the sale of WA ore to the Steel Company of Wales which will net the Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited $11.43 per ton. 