 HANOI RAIDS: "DESPERATE" TT.S. ESCALATION — Civilian areas callously bombed By the Foreign Editor JHE United States bombing of populated suburbs of Hanoi, capital of North Vietnam — now belatedly admitted by Washington spokesmen — is part of a new, desperate escalation of the war that is directly traceable to the rece it record of US defeats in South Vietnam. Into this picture fits the reported Cabinet discussions last week of a 50 per cent increase of Australian troops in Vietnam, to bring the total to 6,000 or more. The American raids on Hanoi stand in brutal contrast to Washington's attempts to gain credit with belated talk of extending the 48-hour Christmas and New Year cease-fires initiated by the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam. An official North Vietnamese protest to the International Control Commission described the Hanoi raids as "brutal and insane" Daily press reports last week showed that US spokesmen in Saigon g.t first deliberately tried to cover up the crime by stating that the raids had been on targets five miles from Hanoi. Washington spokesmen sub sequently admitted that the tar gets were to be measured from the CENTRE of Hanoi. Killed In Hanoi, 100 civilians were reported killed in the first raid. Another report spoke of the 113 air raid casualties, includ ing 26 dead in a town in Vinh Phuc province (North 1 Viet nam) . Meanwhile, a US artillery shell landed in a South Viet nam village near Bien/ Hoa, close to Saigon, and a US bomber dumped six 2501b bombs on a US infantry com pany. The increasing difficulty of the US military position was spelled out in three ways: — 1. Strengthening of actions on the Vietnamese side. In the South, liberation forces carried out "one of the most costly raids of the war", destroying a quarter-million gallons of fuel in a huge US military base at Tarn Ky. In the North, it was revealed that the Soviet Union had doubled the jet fighter force of North Vietnam with a recent delivery of 100 modern Mig fighters, now in operation. 2. An enlarged meeting of the central committee presid ium of the National Libera tion Front of South Vietnam was held on December 4 and 5. The meeting unanimously noted the heavy defeat suffered by the United States in the ful filment of its strategic plans of coun.ter-offensive in the dry season of 1965-66 and its re treat during the recently ended rainy season. Initiative The population and the Lib- err.tion armed forces of South Vietnam, it is said in a state ment adopted by the meeting, have firmly held the initiative and steadily developed success in the people's war and pene trated deep into the enemy's rear- ' The guerilla war has expand ed both as regards scope and intensity. Already in the be ginning of the dry season of 1966-67 the Liberation armed forces have scored new victor ies over the enemy. The liberated areas controlled by the Front, were not only firmly held but were further expanded. As to the patriotic movement of the population in big and small towns controlled by the enemy, it has steadily developed. 3. Soviet military analyst A. Leontiev, in a. "New Times" article, examines the biggest recent US ground operation to show that, despite huge concentration of forces, the US command failed to achieve their aim of surround ing and destroying the Lib eration Army's main bases and forces. Quoting extensively from Western sources, he. shows that '! Operation Attleboro" in Oc tober, launched by the US near the Cambodian border, quickly came to a halt under "torrents oi steel a.nd fire" from the lib eration' forces. A series of counter-attacks against US camps and headquarters in flicted heavy losses. Failed The US command had to rush in reinforcements by heli copter on November 5. Although by then they had nearly 30,000 troops in the area, they failed to surround or defeat the lib eration forces. A small ga.in of ground was made but an entire US battal ion and other units were am bushed and suffered badly. The calling in of B52 heavy bombers achieved little. The US 1st Infantry Division de puty 'commander just escaped with his life in one battle. Many helicopters were downed. Despite the US claim that the operation was one of the war's "greatest operations", the wash-up revealed the US com mand had poor intelligence and under-estimated the Liberation Army, which continued to choose its own battlefields. "The survey of the latest op erations shows once again that the US dirty war is hopeless", says Leontiev. The professed intention of the US forces to seek penetration of the guerillas' stronghold, the Mekong Delta region in the south, can be expected to lead to greatly increased casualties on the American side. 