 MIBINOS DN I TIEN SHIN'S SLOPES "Death on Wings" guards new Soviet fine-wool flocks I jNSTEAD of a Kelpie sheep dog, "Death on Wings" — - the golden eagle of the Tien ' Shan Mountains — — guarded fine-wool merino flocks on the shores of Lake Issik-Kiil, in the Soviet Re public of Kirghizia. The hunting eagle rested on the arm of a venerable, bearded Kir ghiz shepherd "who stood by the farm gate, in Mongolian longcogt and tall cap trimmed with red- brown marten fur. Like other famous eagle-men of the Tien Shan, . this 72-year-old shepherd, at the sign of a wolf or fox, will take the hood from over the eyes of "Death on Wings". We saw a typical se quel in a Kirghiz film shown in the ReDublic's capital, Frunze — the golden eagle spreads its wings, soars high in the sky, then drops like a stone on the wolf or fox before it can reach the merino, fold, and tears the prowler's throat open. Of more material interest to an Australian correspondent — in the first team of foreign cor respondents to visit distant pas tures of Kirghizia near the China border — were the, 50,000 merino sheep on the collective farm at Lake Issik-Kul, rather than the romantic eagle-man who kept them safe from marauding wolves. The merinos graze in the Issik- Kul Hollow, 5,000 feet above sea level, between the Kungei Alatau and Terskei Alatau ranges of the Tien Shan system. Issik-Kul means "hot lake" in Kirghiz— it would freeze solid except that its 2,200-feet-deep waters absorb the fierce spring, summer and aut umn sun like, a giant solar-power mirror, and remain so warm that swans winter there. This Lake Issik-Kul collective farm shears an average of just over 81b of wool per sheep. The Australian average, according to ; my 1962 edition of the Common wealth Year Book, is nearly 101b per sheep. On a nearby collective farm, some of the merinos yielded 12 and 131b, but generally the Kirghiz merinos seemed behind >the Australian in average quality : and fleece weights. In prices, it's a very different story. Kirghiz merino wool is not sold at auction, like Australian wool, but to the State, and is not subject to market fluctuations. For average quality wools, the Soviet State purchasing authority pays these Kirghiz farmers 6 roubles 50 kopeks a kilogram (2.2 lbs). One rouble equals one new Australian dollar, so the average quality price works out at round $3 a lb. For- top quality merino Wool, the State pays 7 roubles 50 ko peks a kilogram. The Kirghiz collective farm with the 50,000 merinos also had 2,000 cattle and over 1,000 horses — the horses bred as riding hacks, perhaps for use on the farm or for sale in England arid Western Europe, where Russian horses are now pppular, or fo£ racing. For 1965, profit on the farm reached 2.2 million roubles (or dollars). The farm supported 3,510 people, of whom 938 were workers. Old methods of shearing sheep, sitting them on tables, have been scrapped in favor of the faster Australian system — on the floor. But shearing speeds are still slower than in Australia. That is understandable because Australian shearers are the fastest and the Australian wool industry the most highly -developed in the world. On piecework, a fast Kirghiz shearer can earn 27 roubles (or . 27 dollars) a day, but only for a limited season. The Kirghiz shearers are part of a stable farm community, and do not move from .shed to shed. . The Kirghiz sheep farmers treated visiting correspondents to bowls of mutton broth and piled- up plates of boiled mutton— hunks of mutton on' the bone, like an Australian shearer's meal of the nineties somewhere back of Bourke. The Kirghiz farmers like a brew tha.t would be hard to popularise in Australian outback pubs — fermented mare's milk. The struggle of the Kirghiz to build up their flocks of millions of merino sheep has more than passing interest to Australia, be cause' these Central Asian fine- wool sheep had to be bred with out the best merino rams— export prohibited — from the Australian stations. The Tien Shan nomads for cen turies pastured on the semi-arid, landslide-prone slopes a rough fat- rumped sheep — the fat store kept the sheep alive in droughts. The nomad shepherd often worked for the right to milk three or four of the feudal master's ewes, and get occasional meat, without wages. The wool was coarse and poor. In 1922, after the Revolution, Professor P. N. Kuleshov, sheep- breeding expert, wrote : "Calcu- lated per head of population we have wool enough to mend one torn mitten. As for putting a patch on our trousers, that is out of the question." : And so from a behind-scratch start, men like Professor Kule shov had to 'build up merino flocks. They brought merinos to the Tien Shan, of Spanish, Sax on, Wurtemberg and French Ram- bouillet strains, which were crossed with hardy Kirghiz moun tain sheep. The Kirghiz flocks have greater endurance than Aus- lMi-4 tralian merinos, even if they have - uipm not caught up in quality. The fiocks grow larger, the wool becomes more pliant, deli cate and soft, and worsted suits made from it are in keen de mand. But Tien Shan merinos are no threat to the Australian industry. Rising Soviet standards of living will for many years to come com pel heavy purchases, of fine wool abroad — more and more of it from those wool-producing countries prepared to buy Soviet oil, tim ber, metals and machines. From RUPERT LOCKW'OOD, | iv ho recently visited Kirghizia in Soviet Central Asia. (Above) A Kirghiz shepherd, complete with hunting bird, sits sedately on his camel watching merino flocks, and (left) merino sheep , graze peacefully below the snow-capped Tien Shan ' " ' ' ' in Kirghizia. /Mf 