 AUST'S tnvnmnnfl ASSETS UP FOR SALE /ANBERRA: The Holt Gov- ernment's record of in ducing American, British, Japanese, German and other foreign investors to take over mines, factories and farms in Australia at bargain prices was recently attacked in Fed- earl Parliament. In a recent analysis of foreign investment, Mr. T. Uren (Lab., Reid, NSW) quoted in Federal Parliament official Common wealth figures showing the total inflow of private overseas in vestment to Australia from July 1, 1950 to June 30, 1965, as $4,163 million. The Government has been following the policy of selling Australian assets and resources to balance the overseas defi cit payments, which in the same 15 years amounted to some $4,400 million— mainly based on trade deficits with the United States and Britain. The "total investment inflow" figure quoted included $1,316 million in profits made in Aus tralia by foreign-owned compa nies on the basis of Australian labor and ploughed back in to extend the owners' assets. Thus "net capital inflow" was $2,847 million. Dividends paid overseas to parent companies amounted to $1,494 million. Thus balance of inflow over outflow was $1,353 million. Mr. Uren then showed that the overseas companies— mainly based in North America and Britain— had saved in the same period some $431 million which would have been due to the Australian Government if it had not abolished (in 1951) the tax on undistributed profits and in- trodaced the. . double taxation agreement. Allowance for this loss of taxation revenue meant that the real net inflow of foreign capital in 15 years was only about $900 million. Foreign Despite this relatively small rate of investment, foreign- owned assets in Australia have grown to great proportions. The Financial Review (14-3-66) said: that 872 companies in Australian manufacturing in dustry, with total assets 6f more than $6,086 million, are partially or wholly owned over seas. Firms 100 per cent over seas owned have assets totalling $3,355 million. "Those figures show how the growth of wealth has enabled foreign investment to take con_ trol of Australian industry," Mr. Uren said, and proposed: — Abolition of double taxa tion agreements. Establishment of a nation al economic planning commit tee to determine investment policy. Demands were also made on the Government to increase ex ports and eliminate unneces sary imports (of -which there were millions of dollars worth each year) and to establish an overseas shipping line. 