 NSW trade unions in protest at West German jailing of democrat SYDNEY: Several NSW trade ur ns have protested to the West German Government over the persecution of an anti-fascist, Emil Bechtle, who is dying in prison. News of the imprisonment was made known in a press statement by two members of the East German Commit tee for the Protection of Human Rights who visited the jail where Emil Bechtle is confined. Both committeemen, ' who themselves served long periods in Hitler's concentration camps, said: "We were deeply shocked to hear that this man who had fought against the Nazi, regime, was detained in Hohenasperg prison and that his wife, who had been persecuted as a "non- Aryan" under Hitler, had died while he was in prison." They say that in contrast, Richardts, a Nazi criminal who had been given a life sentence, was released at the instance of the Mannheim Provincial Court; a few months ago. Robert Mulka, the Auschwitz SS mur derer, was set free by the Frankfurt-Main Provincial Court on the grounds of alleged ill health. More than 15 years ago, when Adenauer's government of West v Germany began its policy of rearmament people of various political parties and views joined together to form the Main Committee for a Referen dum on Remilitarisation. Amongst these was Emil Bechtle, a Communist. More than nine million West Germans supported the aims of this Committee at that time. Four years later, when West. Germany was preparing to enter NATO, and. thus driving towards a division of Germany, Emil Bechtle was sentenced by the Federal Supreme Court in Karlsruhe to eight months' prison because of his activities in this Committee. The sen tence was carried out 11 years later, at a time when the West German authorities were call ing for atom weapons and emergency laws. TPrV»ll T3aAV\flr>'f VMIVfAM JAJllAAJ, O XijKJXX OClll/CAAL/p terminated on the very day of his . wife's funeral. But the- police took him back to his cell that same day like a dan gerous criminal. The Courts claim that he has committed punishable offences in violation of the ban on the Communist Party. During his eight months' imprisonment they began to hunt for new "evidence" in order to frame new charges against him. They hope for a "confession," but there is nothing to confess. Among the unions to send protests are the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen, Milk and Ice Carters; Building Workers' Industrial, Liquor Trades,. Sydney Boilermakers and Blacksmiths, Wool and Basil Workers and the NSW Branch of the Metal Trades Federation of unions. 