 [?] Wharfies tell owners Don't make us the meat in your sandwich JYDNEY: "The Waterside Workers' Federation is - not going to be the meat in the sandwich in any power struggle between overseas shipowners and other employers," said a statement by the union's Federal leadership last week. The union was commenting on a Financial Review report that 13 Australian stevedoring companies and several Euro pean shipping lines had ex pressed "grave concern" over trends in the current conference between the Waterside Workers' Federation and the -waterfront employers. "We will continue to cam paign for a national overseas shipping line, for nationalised stevedoring, as the only effect ive trade union answer to the industry's problems. "In the meantime we will continue to struggle to the ut most for decent wages, condi tions and job security for mem bers, even tp the point of changes in the employment structure, if those changes as sist that purpose. "All these aims are fully consistent with the best inter ests of the Australian people." The statement said that the Financial Review had suggested there were divisions within the ranks of shipowners and steve doring employers over the re organisation of 'the industry being discussed at the Steve doring Industry conference. The statement continued: "There has been no approach to the Federation on these mat- ters by any employer or group of employers apart from the official representatives of the Association of Employers of Waterside Labor. "The greatest single problem facing Australia in relation to carriage of its overseas trade is that the shipping and steve doring industry are dominated by various powerful overseas shipowners whose only interest in our trade is to make profit from it. "Among these overseas inter ests there is apparently devel oping a more open struggle for power and positions. There can be little doubt that the British group has been attempting to 'get under the neck' of the European and other shipowners in preparation for containerisa- tion in Australia. Reacting "Some of the Europeans are apparently reacting to this pub_ licly and for the time being at any rate are finding com mon cause with some local stevedores who normally ser vice their ships. "It >.iS'.idle,-for them, however, to condemn the British group as 'certain vested interests seeking to change the pattern nf t.hs ctowrfnrino inrfnetrw in Australia for their own ends. "The European and other foreign shipowners and even the local stevedores are no less 'vested interests' who seek to pursue their own ends. "It cannot be assumed that the interests of any of them are allied to the real interests of the Australian nation. "Left to their own resources the process of monopolisation would grow and the foreign shipowners would continue to dominate our overseas trade. "These are the factors re sponsible for the freight rate rises which plague the Austra lian economy and, as the Tait Inquiry found, for forcing freight rates as high 'as. the traffic will bear'. "This group's failure to real ise the disruptive effect which recent policies of the Austra lian Stevedoring Industry Authority have had on indus trial relations in the industry also invalidates their position. "The trade union and labor movements have for years pointed to the urgent need for Australian nationally owned overseas shipping line to break the grip of. all these overseas shipowners. "They have also called for the nationalisation of the steve- Hnrincr inHnst.vir ThA finmmnn. wealth Government has to date substantially failed to face these questions, and has ex cluded nationalisation of the industry from the terms of re ference of the stevedoring In dustry Conference." I 