 DEAF MUTE AND BLIND GODDESS A leading Sydney lawyer reviews M Peter Brett's pamphlet, "The Bi ill Case" (Melbourne University Pit iH |N "The Beamish Case" Peter Brett, Professor of Jurisprudence in the Univer sity of Melbourne, discusses the case of Darryl Beamish, a -deaf mute who is serving a life sentence in West Aus tralia for murder. He suggests that he should be released on the grounds that there are sound reasons for believing that a miscarriage of justice may have occurred. In the early hours of December 20, 1959, Jillian Brewer was brutal ly murdered, by "repeated blows inflicted with a tomahawk and - a ' pair of scissors," in her flat in Perth. In spite of very careful investiga tions, the police found no finger prints and no indications of how the murderer had got into the flat. On April 7, 1961, 15 months after the murder, Beamish was charged before a court in Perth on four charges of assault on little girls and was subsequently sentenced to seven months' imprisonment. There was no suggestion of rape, brutality or sadism. That afternoon and on the fol lowing day Beamish was question ed by police with the assistance of a welfare worker for the deaf. As a result, two confessions were obtained from Beamish, the truth of which is seriously challenged by Professor Brett. JT is sufficient here to point out that Beamish was un able to hear anything other than a few noises. He could pronounce very few words and although he could write with the vocabulary of a six-year- old child, he could not distinguish between the two words "ask" and "tell". Notwithstanding these two con fessions and a third— alleged to have been made under very pecu liar circumstances — the police did ' not charge Beamish with wilful murder until June 16, 69 days after the above confessions. He was sub sequently found guilty, The main evidence for the Crown was the confessions and the main evidence for the accused was that the confessions were un true, were made under police threats and the answers contained in them had been suggested to him. Beamish subsequently appealed to the West Australian Court of Criminal Appeal and to the High Court, but both appeals were dis missed. This probably would have been the end of the matter, but for a series of murders committed in Perth in 1962, for which Eric Cooke was arrested and charged. Following intensive questioning, Cooke confessed not only to the 1963 murders but also to the stab bing murder of Patricia Berkman in 1959. Cooke was then charged with wilful murder in each case. Later Cooke confessed also to the murder of Jillian Brewer in 1959 and of Rosemary Anderson in 1963, but subsequently withdrew these two confessions when the police pointed out that his stories were in some respects inconsistent with the known, facts. In 1963 Cooke was tried for one of the 1963 murders, found guilty and sentenced to death. Prior to his tflial, however, Cooke repeated his statement that he had killed Miss Brewer and after his trial signed an affidavit to that effect. It is true that some of the facts set out in Cooke's confession, are inconsistent with the known facts of Miss Brewer's murder, but it is also tru? that spme of the facts set out in & to confession are inconsistent fchwthe known facts of thisna vi\ As a r esultoi 'ooke's confes sion, the Gouit i'lfiriminal Ap peal heard iandi# lissed a second appeal by Bean Professor ioBrf strongly criti cises both the :f itutioh of this second Appeal f » and the man ner in which it It. with the ap peal. nROFESSOl Irett claims ' that h the Chief Justice and' I Jusice Virue conducted th cond appeal with the P ceived idea that Beami- ' guilty and that this le® & to error. Further, asf out, the Court refused bmit Cooke's confession g n grounds which he c# clearly unten able and it admitted that his argument convincing. But professor t does not let his arguument re Re cites two very fjj 'ces f inde pendent e# support : of the view /\a? 111 Miss Brewer's fl 01 of the m£d£e>#' taow»facts, ! this widen® >«.many ; iurymen thn . near the , flat not loL J® murder and, with. dements he &lt; made wouf:J 1® th®m that ft"—. ; 'hThifis M&lt; ' of the 1 case pres«J f&lt;sor Brett, but it is $ whole 1 pamphlet b® read : 