 Vietnam on map in Adelaide A DEL AIDE: Opposition to the Vietnam war and conscription was expressed last week in a series of demonstrations ar d meetings rarely witnessed be fore in this citv. A wide cross-section of people took part — women, students, trade unionists, pensioners, people of vary ing political and religious views involved as individuals or through their organfea-t tions. About 1,000 people — one of the biggest single demonstra tions for peace ever held — para-ded through Adelaide's main thoroughfare, King Wil liam Street, on Saturday morning. They carried such banners as "Why die for Ky", "Holt this dirty war" and "Too late to ask why if your son dies" while leaflets condemning the U.S.-Holt policy in Vietnam were distributed. The demonstration was or ganised by the Vietnam Con scription protest Committee which represented a. whole number of organisations with a common view on both ques tions. Later a meeting was held in Elder Park addressed by S.A. Senator Mr. J. Cavanagh and trade union leader, Mr. Ei Crimes. CALWELL On Sunday night one of the biggest political meetings held for years heard the leader of the Opposition (Mr. A. Calwell) end Deputy Leader (Mr. G. Whitlam). A thousand people packed the Australia Hall while an other thousand stood outside where speeches were relayed. Mr. Calwell said the meet ing reminded him of the con scription days in the first world war. He said that conscription for Vietnam was "immoral, unjust and a denial of human liberties". He called for a referendum' on conscription, as the Gov ernment had no mandate. The A.L.P. did. not want Australia to be involved in Vietnam which was a dirty i".n- winnable war. The Holt Government had given no lead at the Inter-Par liamentary Union Conference to solve the Vietnam con- flict. While young men were being sent to Vietnam business in terests had sought a bigger share in munitions produc tion. Mr. Calwell called for the defeat of the Holt Government at the next Federal elections. Senator Bishop (S.A.) said it was notorious that Saigon governments were dictator ships and corrupt. Mr. Whitlam said men were not volunteering for the Viet nam war because they did not believe in it. If Australians felt that their security was threatened they would rally. Organised disrupters who sported a U.S. flag were soundly defeated at the meet ing. Earlier in the week about 80 seamen and some waterside workers demonstrated through Port Adelaide streets against the Vietnam war and conscrip tion. Printed and published by D. B. Young, 168 Day St., Sydney, at 21 Ross St., Forest Lodge. 