 r'. " "'' /-> ':". -' ";;7"": : -".V'---.—- -? ... ;... ; . . ... .,...; .. v __ 4BRttfe JHNA flPBePBSflBb ,mMm iffBPMI A "Demon" dies and the people are sad Everybody with even the slightest sentiment for the horse racing "game", will feel the loss of Darby Munro, one of Aus tralia's greatest jockeys. The "Demon," as Munro was affectionately called, died last Sunday following an operation last Friday night for a brain haemorrhage. He was 53. Darby's whole life centred around racing. His father was a horse trainer and Darby was introduced to the saddle at a very early age. Darby's record is a star stud ded one. He rode the winners of three Melbourne Cups, three Sydney Cups, two Doncaster Handicaps and countless other races. His Melbourne Cup wins were on Peter Pan (1934). Sirius (1944) and Russia (1946). In a game that covers all human traits from chivalry to chicanery, Darby experienced the warmth and the wrath of the crowd. One such occasion when Darby felt the sting of the race crowds was when he was beaten on the hot favorite Shan non, in the 1946 Epsom Handi cap at Randwick, Left at the barrier, Darby whipped Shannon to the finish ing post, but lost by half a head. Twice in his career the "Demon" was penalised by rac ing officialdom. In 1948, he was suspended for two years by the Victorian Racing Club for his perform ance on Vagabond in the Bur- wood Handicap at Caulfield He served his sentence. In 1953 he got a clearance from the Australian Jockey Club to ride in England but was then refused a licence. Shortly afterwards he took out a trainer's licence and con tinued with this, being modera tely successful until his death. The "Demon" was so much in harmony with all aspects of the racing game, that it was often said of him by casual race followers, that "he cer tainly looks the part" — what ever this is supposed to infer. One thing is certain, Austra lian racing will always remem ber the "Demon". A spate of record breaking A SPATE of record break- ing (world, European, and national) by Soviet sportsmen and women towards the end of last month augurs stiff oppo sition for Australian and other national sportsmen and women at the coming Mexico Olym pics. . At the Leningrad winter sports stadium, Soviet track and field athletes broke nine indoor records. Vera Mukhanova from Mos cow, set a new world record in the 800 metres race with a time of 2 mins. 8.5 sees. Galina Mitrokhina equalled her world record for the 100 metres with a time of 11.6 sees., Boris Savchuk, Leningrad, im proved his own world record for the 300 metres with a time of 33.9 seconds, and Igor Ter- Ovanesyan chalked up 8 metres 19 centimetres in the long jump to better his previous world record by 1 centimetre. U.S.S.R. records were broken i.n the 1,500 metres steeple chase, the 15 kilometre walk, 250 metres hurdles, women's 300 metres race and the wo men's 4 x 250 metres relay. Also, at the Latvian capital, Riga, 26-year-old Moscow athlete, Vasily Isakov, set a new world weight-lifting record in the middleweight division. Isakov pressed 161 kilograms to break by .5 kilogram the world record set the previous day by the Hungarian G. Veres in Budapest. At the same international tournament at Riga, Soviet lightweight, 28-year-oid Yevgeny Katsura, achieved one of the best results in the history of the sport. He set up a new world record for the clean and press of 145 kilograms. In doing so, Katsura defeated two former world champions> M. Zelenski anri W "RalanOWSki 