 y — ; — : ' LLULJJJJILL The poet's lament CTATE president of the U ' RSL, Sir William Yeo, burst into a poem of lament, written in the 16th century at the recent RSL Annual Con gress, because the Budget did not go anywhere near RSL submissions on pensions. He recited only one verse. Maybe, ABC manager, Mr. Tal bot Duckmanton, could give him a few minutes on the air so we could hear the rest of it. After all, he was quick to res pond to a recent RSL request that v the words "Conscripts" and "con scription" "be dropped from all ... ' ABC programmes. They will be replaced with v "National Serviceman" and "Nat ional Service. The RSL top brass has written to daily and other newspapers (we're still waiting for ours) mak ing the same request. The letter from the RSL said that the word conscript and con scription had been given a dero gatory meaning. The executive head of the Fed eration of Australian Broadcast ing Stations, Mr. Sommerlad, in a letter to all members, said he had received a letter along the above lines from the national executive of the RSL. Mr. Sornmerlad in his letter made no comment on the request of the RSL. Be interesting to see who lines Up with "Duck." How to a Ford it pOLITICAL circles in Can berra have been intrigued with the manoeuvres centred around the proposal to estab lish a Strategic Studies Centre at the Australian National University at Canberra. News about the 'centre broke publicly for the first time when Maxmillian Walsh in the Austra lian Financial Review on August 3, wrote that the proposal had run into unexpected academic op- position. Sir John Crawford the former permanent secretary of the Trade Department, and now head of the School of Pacific Studies was pin pointed as the chief proponent for the centre. The main objection to the centre was on the high content of classi fied information likely to be in volved in the research work. This would mean getting people and work cleared with the Secur ity service and the Defence Dep artment. Although denied by Sir John Crawford the story around Can- berra is that the Ford Founda tion had offered to finance the proposed centre, and there are some grounds to believe that the idea of the centre was one of their brain children. The Ford Foundation had previ ously contributed $75,000 for a strategic studio on the application of Mathematics to South . East Asia. Two representatives of the Ford . Foundation turned up to hand out more money, at the Canberra Uni versity about the same time as the idea for the centre had come under criticism at the Board of aSSSt f 80,1001 01 a The Financial Review of An,, 19 made clear that reports £ material will not be ciassift has not led to the end of the on position to the centre as they £ that classification could be inS? duced at a later stage. tro" Thank you again, Sir NOTHER shining light on the committee raising $300,000 for a CouXy Party headquarters in Can berra, Mr. G. G. McGrath! has been shoved up a rung. Mr. McEwen as Minister f0r Trade and Industry, announced last week that Mr. McGrath had been appointed Chairman of the Export Development Council. Mr. McGrath who is Chairman of ' Directors of Repco Ltd., has been a member of the Council since 1961 and Deputy Chairman since 1965. Mr. McGrath's firm Repco Ltd has also been one of the biggest . beneficiaries of the protection ex tended by the Tariff Board to spare part manufacturers. The appeal for the $300,000 as Plain Australian has . already re vealed is being carried out under the slogan "Thank You Mr. Mc Ewen". Or as Mr. McGrath would un- I doubtedly say. "Thank you again j Mr. McEwen." J 