 "Privileged" visitor WE are following here with tense interest the resist ance that is being put up in Australia to its participation as a satellite of the United States in the dirty war in Vietnam. I am taking the opportunity of writing as I was in the USA for an international anthrop ological symposium on "Man the Hunter" over Easter and few foreign! communists are given the "privilege" of enter ing the USA. It is still a bit of a mystery how I got a visa although the United States Academy of Sciences exerted some pressure on my behalf. The shortness of my stay— an extension of my original 4- day visa was flatly refused- precluded me from . making contacts outside academics but it was heartening to exper ience the lively opposition to the Vietnam war that is being put up by this section of the American community. I was invited to attend a protest meeting at the Oriental Instit ute of the Chicago University at which Professor Marshall Shlins spoke. He was a del egate to the symposium and comes from Michigan Univer sity. He is an authority on Polynesia and it was he who originated the University "teach-ins" on Vietnam. Protests are taking various forms in the USA: for instance a group of 30 theological stu dents staged a 28 hour "Vigil for Peace and Justice" over Easter in Chicago. On May 15 there was a mammoth march on Washington demanding from Congressional candidates that they support a cease-fire, recognition of the Vietcong (NLF), self-determination for Vietnam etc. I was deeply shocked by the way the Negroes are being treated even in the north, for I was not in the deep-south. In Union Square in New York a memorial is erected to the Declaration of American Inde pendence on 4th July, 1776. Around the memorial there is ?, famous saying of Thomas Jefferson which reads, "How little do my countrymen know what precious blessings they are in possession of - and which no other 'people on earth en joy," The irony in this year of grace 1966 was too much for someone who added in red paint at the end of the quotat ion "Mainly Segregation!" Professor Frederick Rose, Humboldt University, Berlin. German Democratic Republic. 