 Easy to get with whether Mass?... [?] fpHE commonly accepted picture of the jazz fan is a foot-tapping enthusiast expressing a scornful rejection of the music of squares or highbrows, and on the other side the classical music lover with his haughty intolerance of all that is popular, may have to be changed if events such as the recent overflow concert presented by a top chamber music group in association with an equally distinguished jazz group are to be repeated. What is classical? What is - jazz? Can you define in so many words— cool, smooth, hot, trad or swing? If you can't neither can I, but classical or jazz, if it's music, if it's good, interesting or significant music and when it is performed with imagination by accomplished musicians then the audience will be with it, for it, and shout for more. At least that is the impression created by the bold concert venture of the Cultural Committee of the Kings Cross Labor and Social Club in bringing together the New Sydney Woodwind Quintet and Don Burrows Jazz Quartet to share the concert platform at the Cell Block theatre. If we assume that the audience was equally composed of jazz fans and chamber music scholars then the attention paid by each section to the performance of numbers from the other half of the musical world and the wild enthusiasm in which the. audience as a whole joined at the concert's end, show that barriers need not exist in the world of music. 'pHE concert was a rare feast of instrumental music as performers in both groups are virtuosi of the finest attain ment. The music selected by the Quintet is of course composed and written to be played accurately and as near to the composers intentions as the musicians can get. The jazz players have no written music and their work is largely improvisation on a chosen theme or rhythmic pattern. The program was a masterpiece of arrangement, the Quintet including music more of a modern impressionistic character than classical in the soholarly sense, Yet to shift from the technical demands of the Rossini Quartet to those of a work differing so widely as the Hindemith shows the wide range of these players' resources. An interesting experiment was. the final item when both groups took the platform together. Here in a work by Darius Milhaud comprising a number of short pieces, the Quintet paused bietween each to allow the Jazz group to make improvised comments. It says much for the artistic restraint of the jazz group that they did not come in with a blare and a crash but were able in their own way to retain the atmosphere created by the symphony players. I don't know what Neville Amadio, subtle master of the flute, thought as Don Burrows, who amongst a flock of instruments also plays the flute, gave a cheeky display of technical flute playing or what Donald Westlake thought as Burrows gave him the same treatment on the clarinet, but all ended in fine good humour and there should be more of it — H. McC, 