 More letters on the case of the 2 Soviet writers The Tribune report which appears alongside the statement of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Australia, and the statements in Soviet publications dealing with the trial and punishment of the two Soviet writers have reported that the trials were open . Why then did Noel Coun- ihan's column "Art Affairs" (Tribune 2/3/66) state that the trials were closed? Is this an example of the "Artistic and Literary Free dom" which Noel seeks? Freedom to justify the facts and present reality as being false? If the trials were "closed" then I would not feel con- , fident that the decisions ar-' rived at were correct. I am satisfied that the trials were "open". The Central Committee ad mits that its statement was made "without full know ledge of the facts". Surely it would have been fairer and more correct to have waited until all the relevant in formation was available be fore making such a critical statement— especially to the press which so often proves its capacity to falsify the truth in the interests of its owners— monopoly capital— and against the best interests of the Australian people. It is further said that the statement was a "balanced one"— but are we so un sophisticated and removed from life that we expected this monopoly press to deal with this statement in a fair and balanced way? They knew well how to use it to sow doubts and misgivings and to poison the minds of honest inquirers, and they did it with no little effect. The facts are that two double-dealing treacherous writers were punished in ac cordance with Soviet law after an open and fair trial. Why should they be given different treatment from any other law-breaker? Soviet statements say that these men were "put on trial— not for their political convictions and certainly not for the literary demerits of their books. Nor were they sentenced for publishing their books abroad . . . they were tried and found guilty of smuggling out manu scripts full of deliberate falsehoods for the enemies of the Soviet Union." It was further pointed out that "books could be used as weapons as well as guns . . . the clandestine writings of Sinyavsky and Daniels aimed at strengthening the ill will of the enemies of the Soviet Union, like the books and pamphlets of Hitler's propaganda machine churn ed out to try and prove the Soviet people "inferior"— such writing can rouse the hatred of the ignorant and breed doubt among friends." The Central Committee statement refers to these two writers as "two obscure men". The facts are that some of their works were nuhlished bv bourgeois and emigre publishing houses in 24 languages. From obscurity to notor iety is one of the bribes monopoly capitalism dangles before anti-Soviet activists. An article in the Moscow News (29/1/66) talking of these hooks says: "Their whole content is directed at fanning hatred among peoples and states, at aggravating the war danger." And further. . . not tolerated in our country they found appreci ative publishers and an audi ence among foreign reaction aries who are still harbour ing illusions of engineering a Soviet literary under ground movement." In court Daniel admitted that he had "unwittingly giv en our enemies an opportun ity to attack our country" by making use of his works, and he expressed regret that "our actions have led to a situation in which our works have been used against our country and have harmed it." Poor chap; He didn't know the gun was loaded , They have been expelled from the Writers' Union by their fellow writers who declared: ". . . the vile actions of Sinyavsky and Daniel have aroused our anger and con demnation whereas the sent ence of the court according as it does with the spirit and letter of our laws has met . with > our approval". I regret the Cehtral. Com mittee statement, and believe . it to ; be undue interference with the affairs of another state. I also believe that objec tively it does nothing to as sist the struggle for social ism, either in Australia or on a world scale— to the contrary, in fact. .Nor does it assist the struggle for peace. I can see no reason why these traitors should be set free to continue their double- faced treachery. I believe the statement to be right opportunist and that the way to prove our Party to he a truly independ ent Australian Party is to continue to struggle in the true and best interests of our great Australian people. Ted Jones (NSW). PARTY STATEMENT ENDORSED AS a Communist and an active trade unionist I would like to add my view point to the controversy con- cerning the trial and sent ences of the two Soviet writ- ters Sinyavsky and Daniel. Without hesitation but with great pride I endorse the press statement given by the Central Committee of our Party. The opening paragraph stated "Our approach there fore dealt with the principle involved and without full knowledge of the facts". And then— "we do not consider these two men are writers of high principle or worthy of support for their actions which, on what we know, are indefensible." No debate has occurred on these two paragraphs, but the purists take exception , . when the central committee says: "However we consider' the arrest and sentences on these men to be unnecessary and wrong." At this point I ask all sin cere people to further study the full press statement and then ask themselves, have they, by thought, word or deed, always supported the accepted principles of social ism? If not, were they treated unfairly, subjected to criti cism without the right of reply and perhaps never learning who their accusers were, or were they assisted ' by friendly but firm criti cism and left feeling cor rected but! not crushed? As a waterside worker at Port Kembla in 1942 I made : many bad statements about Communists individually and Communism generally. .. Looking back I have to ad mit I was very prejudiced— 1 was certainly not Ignorant —I was well aware of the . Soviet Union's role as a part ner of Great Britain and the United States and ourselves in .the war against fascism. EVery day on the job I witnessed and heard state ments by Communists, rank and file and officials Calling for a 100 per cent war ef fort. I did. not know then, but I wds experiencing my first lessons in working class as similation. My workmates , - Were, very tolerant, debated tny worst statements with out heat -and always left me with food for thought in' the future. These lessons continued ' when I transferred to Syd ney and I shall always be grateful for their patience and understanding. . Years later I joined the Communist Party and today at least am giving to the &lt;lyided and confused work- ,ers I come into contact with the benefit of the lessons I learned In Kembla and Syd ney every day, since 1942. Several times since I have been put on trial by work mates for less important issues and their judgment has always been in line with . the consequences of my er ror. I think Soviet citizens and writers in particular are capable of analysing all aspects of these two writers' double-dealing and accord ingly impose their type of penalty. Trade union journals and Soviet newspapers could have published the facts and in this way encouraged pub lic discussion and allowed Soviet citizens to act as judges. In this manner the two writers would have been more suitably punished and yet provided with the right conditions for rehabilitation from serious wrongdoing to the status of worthwhile and patriotic citizens. . rj-. This seems, a more ; demo- ; ' " cratic method than " the. course taken. Not only would it deny the anti-Soviet critics the use of slanders and innuendos but it would have won world-wide ap proval of every freethinking person, comparable with the praise for the Soviet initia j tive which brought the war- i ring nations of India and j Pakistan to the conference table to sign the Tashkent Declaration. Ron Mackerras (delegate, Sydney waterfront). I 