 Diary of a pilot who tells — Part 2 Diem terror touched it off Former CIA flier Charles Bartos continues his sen sational series on his ex periences in Vietnam talking to Tribune reporter Harry Stein. This week Mr. Bartos makes it dear that the Viet namese patriots started their rising against the US-backed regime of Ngo Dinh Diem with home-made weapons — not weapons supplied from outside "communist" countries. STEIN: What Is your general impression of the war, and the reasons behind it? You know it's supposed to be a defence against Communism and the communists occupying all of the Pacific. BARTOS: "Prom my own experi ence on Vietnam— when I came there I was friendly with the Turkish pilots and they had acquired some of the home-made weapons that the Vietcong people started with . . . "These were pipes that were used as muskets, and they also used hows and arrows and these pungy bamboo traps and all that stuff, so that I know that in the beginning the Viet cong people started out with no weapons except home-made weap ons. "There was also a display of Viet cong home made weapons by the South Vietnamese Government in Saigon which I viewed. "If this is aggression from the north, why the heck would they have to manufacture their own weap ons? "That's pretty damn ridiculous; I certainly wouldn't want to tackle a well armed force armed with Ameri can modern weapons . . . with home made weapons. I think I'd be out of my head. "These people did, and the revolt started south of Saigon in the Camau peninsula where it is very difficult for any infiltration or any help to come in from the north. "So generally it is known in south Vietnam by even the most rabid American that the revolt or the civil war against Diem repression started south of Saigon and could not have been in any way helped by the north Vietnamese people. "I was stationed in Da Nang, which is very close to the 17th parallel, to North Vietnam, and there were no reports. "I spent most of my time there— fourteen months— and flying over the area and there was no Vietcong activity, or very little. "The revolt really started in the south and of course this was a reaction to the repression of the Diem Government. "They went on quite a murder and torture spree — this is document ed by Life Magazine. "With the fall of Diem all the newspapers carried pictures and ac counts of political prisoners that were released from the jails — Diem prisoners — and they were most of them maimed and had been tortured. "This Government was completely supported by the Americans and they most certainly knew of the murders and tortures and did nothing to stop this. They have to share the blame for that." STEIN: When did you first go to Vietnam? BARTOS: "In May of 1963." STEIN: Altogether how long were you there? BARTOS: "Twenty months, count- m nig the two months with Air Amer- 9 ica." I STEIN: In the period that you fj were there, what did the war mean i to the ordinary people? What did Bj you see of the life of the people. B BARTOS: "Many times when I was flying over various areas I would see jet aircraft and propeller-driven fighter planes diving on villages, rocket-firing, dropping napalm bombs — the whole works. "So I would circle the area and 1 would watch this, and I have seen a number of operations where they would ferry in the south Vietnamese troops in helicopters to supposedly a Vietcong-infected village. "First of all they worked the vil lage over with rockets and napalm and bombs and then they would land the south Vietnamese troops from the helicopters and they would go in and capture the survisors, if there were any. "Sometimes the south Vietnamese troops got very enthusiastic and they have been noted bayonetting women and children. They just got in a sav age mood and they went right ahead > and killed the people that were left. "These operations usually ended in failure because they only got a few people. The rest of the Vietcong or village people seemed to have prior information and they would just simply melt into the jungle. After the south Vietnamese and the Americans left they would come back to their village and start life again. This would happen time and again." Next week: The Vietcong and the People. Home-made weapons: barbed booby trap made from bamboo spikes has proved a more than effective weapon for Vietnamese patriotic forces against heavily- armed puppet and US troops. 