 Rail workers impatient over delay of wages, margins claims JYDNEY : About 300 NSW Government railway and road transport delegates last week in Sydney called on the Commissioners for Government transport to implement the unions' basic wage and margins claims. It was decided that the NSW Labor Council be asked to immediately take this matter up with the Commis sioners and that the com bined transport unions &lt;s$t up a sub-committee to in tensify the campaign for in creased wages and service in crements. Last week's delegate con ference was convened by the NSW Lsbor Council following wide demands by rail and bus workers that' something be done about low wages and other long standing claims. Conference said it reaffirms the justice of the claims for three service increments of $1.65 per week for all Govern ment transport workers. The Labor Council is caUtfd on to convene a meeting of | the unions to develop a fur ther campaign to win the full amounts of the original claims. The combined unions have also been asked to develop a campaign to win improved sick leave benefits, and that failing a satisfactory reply within two months to these demands that a stoppage of work be called and a demon stration be held to Parliament House. The unions are seeking the removal of many anomalies in the Railway and Road Trans port Sick Pay Regulations, which include: That present 5 days per year full pay. sick leave be extended to 16 days and to be cumulative. That payment be made for sick leave irrespective of whether overtime is worked during the period such leave is taken. That the present system of sick leave investigators be discontinued. That the present notifica tion of sickness by 10 am as now required not to be a con dition of payment. That the qualifying per iod applying for bus workers be reduced from six to one month. The workers are also de manding improvements in long service leave, the conditions for passes and free travel and amenities. Conference said there are places and grades where ame nities in the industry are un- healthy, backward, and dan gerous. The Government is asked to direct the Commissioner to establish committees on ameni ties., to consist of equal num bers of union and department al representatives. It was also demanded that amenities in the Government transport departments be pol iced by the Department of Labor and Industry. Other decisions included a call upon the ACTU and un ions to intensify the demand for a 35-hour week for all workers and that provision be made for the weekly payment of employees' wages in cash. It was also recommended that a further follow up con ference be held in six months r time. 