 ON " THE INDUSTRI AL SCENE ' Government j cleaners, caretakers stop work SYDNEY: A 24-hour State-wide stoppage of cleaners and caretakers employed by the New South Wales Government Stores Department is being held today (Wednes day) in protest against contract cleaning of schools. The stoppage has been called by the Miscellaneous , Workers' Union and will in volve male and female cleaners and caretakers in departmental buildings and cffices, schools, technical and teachers' colleges, court houses, police stations and other State Government es tablishments. It is anticipated that thous ands will attend a strike meet ing in the Sydney Town Hall, called by the union to deter mine further action to success fully conclude the dispute. Cleaners are protesting against the Public Service Board's refusal to withdraw contracts to clean 15 public schools in the Sydney metro politan area. Over the past fortnight women cleaners have been picketing most of these schools. Under the present female school cleaning agreement, widows and other needy people have preference to do this work. Mr. D. Howitt, NSW secre tary, MWU, said the contracts have been given to General Contract Cleaning Australasia Pty. Ltd. I He said the union has pre- | sented evidence to the Board I that this company is breaching the award, including wages; i breaching the contract by sub- 1 contracting, and breaching the | Arbitration Act by failing to | keep proper time and wages | sheets. 1 The union has now been in- | formed that the PSB intends 1 to call tenders for the cleaning of the new State Office Block in Sydney. Mr. Howitt said: "This con. firms the union's earlier state ments that the school cleaning contracts was only thq thin edge of the wedge." The Public Service Associa tion of NSW has instructed about 40 of its members em- ' ployed as cleaner attendants 1 not to do the work of those I on strike. This decision of the 1 PSA will also affect Govern 8 ment House, in Sydney. | DELEGATES at a session of the Public Service 8 Association's Conference in Sydney. 