 Australia Day challenge to Holt Govt. TARGET FOR 1966 : WAGES - PRICES Need radical new policies AUSTRALIAN trade union leaders this week demanded a radically new ap proach by the reshuffled Federal Govern ment to meet the skyrocketing cost of living. They called for scrapping of the policy of war in Asia which was admitted by the Sydney "Herald" (Jan. 22) and other dailies to be the main cause of excessive price rises in the last 1965 .quarter. The "Herald" Finance Editor predicted similar rises in the next six months, flowing from the decimal . cur rency switch. The Holt Government is expected to further increase the war budget under British-US pres sure. The ACTU, which this week increased the terms of its application for basic wage and margin increases (see Page 10) had earlier called for a major campaign of workers' support. . . : Mr. J. Beitz (general president,' Waterside Workers' Federation) told Tribune . 'that, with the retirement of Prime Minister Menzies, it was essential that his succes sor, Mr. Holt, and his Cabinet be more real in their approach to the everyday needs of the people. "What is urgently needed is to make more money available for homes at low interest rates, give the people a bigger share in the wealth of the country by reducing income tax on lower incomes, give aged pensioners the basic wage, grant full citizenship to the Aborigines, establish Australia's own national overseas shipping line and withdraw our troops from Vietnam," Mr. Beitz said. PRICE, PROFIT CONTROL Mr. A. Horsburgh (chairman of the Commonwealth Council, Amalgamated Engineering Union) said his union did not see any signs that the Holt Government would implement policiei to benefit the workers, but radically new policies were essential for Australia. He said: "The union's Gbmmonwealth Council draws the new Government's attention to the following mat ters of urgency — "The rapidly declining living standards of the Aus tralian workers stresses the need , to reintroduce price control and to restrict blatant profiteering. "Government support, or a neutral stand, for the unions' wage application this year before the Common wealth Industrial Commission. Such a stand would be a reversal to the Government's opposition to wage in creases for the workers during the 1965 case. "Immediate review of the penal provisions in industrial legislation, particularly when workers are barred from achieving wage increases and improved living standards by collective bargaining with employers. "The Government must recognise that its present foreign policy can only result in chaos and misery with grave dangers for the Australian people. It must be immediately replaced by a realistic one of fostering goodwill with people of other countries, together with the settlement of differences by methods of peaceful negotiation instead of military aggression." "NOT JUST A NEW PM" Mr. P. Clancy (NSW secretary, Building Workers' Industrial Union) said what is required is not just a new Prime Minister but a new policy. "The Menzies Government's policy, basing itself on war, has meant continuous decline in the people's living standards. Workers' wages have been reduced while profits have increased tremendously. "The labor movement will be obliged to fight for a policy based on peaceful international relations, normal ising defence spending, increasing the real wages of the workers and imposing price and profit control", he said. 