 They showed how to fight rate rises SYDNEY: An angry meeting of over 2,000 Kuring-gai rate payers last Thursday night forced the Mayor, Alderman J. Rickard, who was booed and heckled at the meeting, to con cede that he will have the Council review its intention to in crease rates by 29 per cent. yLMOST the whole of Sydney metropolitan area and some country districts are faced with a heavy rate increases and the mass protest example of the Kuring-gai people and what it can achieve, will not be lost on thousahds of rate payers faced with similar heavy increases. The meeting, called by the Kuring-gai Rate Payers' De fence League, was to protest at the proposed 29 per cent rate increase. Police were called to the meeting to control about 1000 people who could not get into St. John's Hall, on the Pacific Highway, where the meeting was held. Police guard Police guarded the platform during the meeting which lasted over two hours. The ratepayers' cars caused chaos on the Pacific Highway on the way to the meeting. The Mayor, with two other aldermen, were heckled and drowned out with shouts and boos when they tried to ex plain why they had voted for the increase. Hundreds of people who could not get into the meet ing crowded around the door way and open windows to listen to the proceedings. Sack Council The aldermen who called the meeting are Alderman R. S. Turner, who was the chair man, Alderman Dr. T. F. Acheson, Alderman Mrs. K. M. Trevelyan, Alderman J. G. McLean and Alderman P. 1. White. The meeting unanimously carried motions condemning the increase and declaring that if the rate was not reduced an administrator should take over the affairs of the Council under the Local Government Act until a new Council was elected. Declaring that he believed in democracy, Alderman Ric- ard, raising his voice above the uproar, said that he was prepared to have the matter discussed at the next meeting of the Council. The decision to increase the rates by 29 per cent had been reached before the aldermen had time to consider the esti mates properly, Alderman Dr. Acheson told the meeting. He alleged maladministra tion, claiming that some items in the estimates had not been accurately estimated. Alderman McLean said "everyone knew that that point had been reached where the socking of property own ers for . the revenue of local government had reached sat uration point. The aldermen who voted for the increase were booed when they addressed the meeting; 