 junior t r i b u n e LJI THERE! JUNIOR READERS; I was expecting a bundle of protest letters from you telling me of the two mis takes I made in the column of March 9. xne answer to me unoenev- able Triangle was incorrect. I said 24 — and was my face red when readers told me they counted up to 72 and then gave up! . Then there was a mistake in the maze. "YOU JUST CAN'T REACH THE MUSEUM!" said Jamie Stevens. Did YOU find the mistakes? Many thanks to Carole B., of Greenacre, NSW, for the long list of towns named after aboriginal words and their meanings. Here are just a few. Is your town mentioned? Ballarat — resting place; Bega —big camping place; Boggabri —Emu with young; Canberra — meeting place; Coogee — rotten kelp; Coolangatta— fine view; Dandenong— high; Jenolan-r-the foot; Junee— speak to me. Don't they have a lovely sound, and aren't they well named? Keep those letters rolling in, and . if you would like to have a pen-friend I do have a num ber of names and addresses. Also, if your older brothers or sisters would like a pen-friend we may be able to help them. I hope you have fun with our. jig-saw puzzle this week, so till next week, Dinewan. JIG SAW PUZZLE YI7TTH the cooler months coming on we all look around for something to do when we have to play inside, so here is a jig-saw puzzle to fill in a few of those moments. Firstly, paint the picture in nice, bright circus colours; then, when your painting is dry, paste it carefully on a piece of cardboard. Carefully cut around the dotted black lines (otherwise your pieces will not fit), mix them up,' and your puzzle is ready to put together. PRIZE WINNERS Our prizes for the space drawing went to Julian Salmon of Queensland (Senior), and Rick Wallace, of NSW (Junior). READ THIS BOOK May I also recommend to you a book "Skies of Arnhem Land" by Ann E. Wells. This book is beatifully illustrated by Margaret Pia&e, and is about the life in north-west Arnhem Land today. Mindui, a little girl and her cousin Barai are the main characters and it tells of various adventures they have whilst collecting food, etc. The wise old man Jawolma tells llie children the legends from the Dream time. There is the legend of the Lily Star. Ngalindi the Moon, Milngua the Milky Way, Larrpan the Shooting Star and Walu the Sun, just to mention a fe'v- These books may be in your local library or perhaps & school, I am sure that you will get (many happy hours reading from them. DinewaP' # PENFRIEND From Czechoslovakia Ivo Fusek, Kyjevska 12, PRAGUE 6. CZECHOSI VAKIA. . _ Ivo is 11 years old and is ap ious to have a penfriend so tna it will help him in using Tftnglis'h 