 ! nir f\-r n'iliiinfl |.|ELLO, Tribune Juniors, We continue on with our story of Patchie the Spaniel. Patchie has arrived at the village to spend her time with Tanya, no one is really impressed with the floppy-eared puppy. PATCHIE THE SPANIEL — 2 rpHE boys and girls from all over the village came run ning, and they burst into peals of laughter when they saw Tanya's new dog. "It's got a patch Over one eye! Patch-eye! Yah! Patch-eye!" they called. . And Kolya and Tolya,. the neighbour's little boys, even made up teaser about Tanya and her dog and sang it at the lop of their voices: Tanya. Tanya, a stick and a nail. She's got a dog without a tail, With ears like spades, as none deny. And with a patch over one eye! Tanya was terribly hurt on her little dog's account. Early next morning Tanya jumped up from bed with a start— she had to rush if she didn't want to be late for school. But, as bad luck would have it, one of her shoes was missing. She couldn't remem ber where she had placed it last night. "Patchie! Patchie!" Tanya cried. "Fetch my tie-up. Under stand? Fetch it!" Patchie lifted one ear and dropped the other, and, as though suddenly catching on, nosed under the bench! "She knew what I said, she knew!" Tanya cries, delighted. "Look, Mummy, she's going to bring my tie-up!" And, true enough, there was Patchie wriggling out from under the bench with ... an old legging between her / teeth! "Oh, you silly!" Tanya said to her, pouting. "My tie-up is what I want, my tie-up, and not this old legging! Understand? Fetch it and be quick!" With a flash of her stumpy tail Patchie rushed out of the door! She was back in a min ute dragging a dead baby-rat in from the yard and offering it to Tanya. "Oh, how loathsome!" Tanya burst out, nearly in tears now. "Does she think I am going to wear a dead rat instead of a shoe?" "You mustn't blame Patchie, dear", Tanya's mother said. "How is she to know what 'tie-up' means? She might never have heard the word at all. Show her your other shoe, let her sniff it over well — then she'll know. Dogs have a way of finding out things with their noses. Tanya did as mother had said, and Patchie caught on at once, she dived under the bed and brought out Tanya's shoe. "The clever darling!" Tanya sang out in glee. She laced her' shoe quickly and ran off to school. ' (To be continued) 