 Meeting on art, writing, mass media QNE of the most important developments on the cultural scene today was the way in which many promin- ent artists and writers had spoken out against the Viet nam war. This point was made by well- known writer Judah Waten and prominent painter Noel Counihan i,n separate papers to a weekend meeting of some 70 people, held in Sydney on the weekend of November 19-20 under the auspices of the Communist Party, to dis cuss various aspects of culture. In addition to Messrs. Counihan's and Waten's papers on art and 1 literature respectively, the meet- y ing also heard a third paper on I the mass media — incorporating I cinema and television — by Mr. I Edmund Allison, manager of I Quality Films. m Illustrating his address with a e number of slides drawn from all schools of contemporary Aus- lt tralian art, Mr. Counihan stated that although sheer abstractionism was no longer as prevalent in modern art as it had been in the 1950's, it still, together with figurative art, exercised a strong influence among present-day artists. The old definition of realism was no longer relevant, Mr. Counihan said. Modern taste de manded "the imaginative depiction of the human form." The left, he said, was "looked at askance" for its previous do.c- trinairism, he said. The mechan ical repetition of the phrase "art is a weapon" had lost the left- wing movement many friends in the art world, he claimed. The main aim of Communist artists, Mr. Couihan stated, should be to present a communist point of view, paint well and, in par ticular, produce an "art of in tegrity". He also noted a growing tend ency among artists to take a stand on social issues, as instanced by the recent "Viewpoint" exhibition in Melbourne of protest paintings and sculptures on the Vietnam war, which had created consid erable public interest. Mr. Waten made a comprehen sive survey of literary develop ments over the last ten years, during which time, he said, there had been a significant change in the literary climate, with strong challenge being made to the basic Australian tradition by a school of writers who had shifted the emphasis in Australian writing from the "social to the psychol ogical". Mr. Waten warned against the danger of adopting a one-sided and purely negative attitude to this new trend, which, despite defin ite tendencies towards elitism and anti-humanism, still "had its humanist side". He also criticised a tendency among progressive writers to hark back nostalgically to the past and to preserve an "old-fashioned treatment" in their work. Recalling the fact that Australia had made some of the earliest moving pjctures and as late as the 1930's had produced up to ten or fifteen feature films a year, Mr. Allison emphasised the need for a native Australian film in dustry today. This, he said, could be faciliated by the establishment of a Governmental Film Corpor ation, along the lines of that exist ing in Britain. He also called for the implemen tation of the recommendations of the Vincent Report on a minimum percentage of Australian prog rammes on television. In addition to endorsing Mr. Allison's proposals on TV and films, the meeting also suggested the holding of a comprehensive art exhibition, the establishment of a group to foster the develop ment of Marxist art criticism, and institution by the trade union movement of a series of scholar ships in art, literature and drama. The meeting was the latest in . s a continuing series of discussions 3 on culture arranged by the Com- a munist Party. S Tribune hopes to be able to 9 present further material on the a subject in the near future. fl 