 1 1 People resist CSR's doom of Wittenoom H f, MURDER OF A TOWN-FOR 1 DOLLARS By Tribune's WA Correspondent pERTH: The people of Wittenoom Gorge are fight ing the decision of the Colonial Sugar Refinery Co. to add their town, with its population of 1 ,000, to the long list of towns murdered by monopoly. A public meeting was called for Tuesday night, December 6, to seek an inquiry into the- sudden — closure of the mine which for 19 years has been the source of Australia's only blue asbestos. The West Australian Government has a big stake in Wittenoom. lit has poured about $250,000 of the taxpayers' money directly into the hands of CSR for its Wittenoom drilling programme, $382,270 in freight concessions since 1960 and more than a million dollars in housing, hospital and police station. It has spent $52,000 on State Housing Commission hqmes since May. The Communist Party State Committee said oil Fri day that if the State Government did not know of the closure, it has failed in its duty to both the people of Wittenoom Gorge and the taxpayers in not finding out the company's intentions. If it agreed to the closure, it should have announced measures comparable to those won by t;he Collie mines when Amalgamated Collieries closed down. The workers should have a guarantee of other jobs being found for them, with payment of transportation costs for their families and possessions. They should be paid pro rata long service leave. Some part of the cost of re-establishing the workers and providing the required guarantees should be made by Australian Blue Asbestos, the State Committee said. Pilbara MLA Bickerton (lLab.) has condemned the government's attitude as "scandalous" if it knew of the coming closure and allowed the company to give the people of Wittenoom only one month's notice. He said he did not believe that the government did not know CSR's intentions. MANOEUVRE Colonial Sugar Refining Co., parent company of Australian Blue Asbestos, waited until after the Fed eral election before announcing the closure, which would have cost the Holt Government many votes. The 300 workers were told at 4 p.m. on Thursday of a decision which must have been made long pre viously. The closure was made with callous but typical dis regard for the fate of the workers who over the years have produced asbestos worth 31 million dollars in blistering North WesJ heat far from most amenities. Western Australian mining areas have many ghost towns where mines were closed with equal ruthlessness - — Big Bell, Gwalia, Bullfinch and Protheroe, where cne afternoon shift turned up for work and were told to go home as the mine had closed. Local branch of James Hardie Co., asbestos materials manufacturer, for the past, ten years has used about 50 per cent of ABA output. It will now import all its supplies from overseas. One of ABA's reasons for the closure is that the economic content of the asbestos ore mined has fallen and an exploratory programme has failed to find bet- ' ter-grade deposits. Some residents of Wittenoom claim that there is plenty of high-grade asbestos in the mine and that last I week the mill produced a record 330 tons. Opposition Leader Tonkin accused the State Gov- ernment of deliberately withholding the information Continued on Page 12. MURDER OF A TOWN Continued from Page 1. until the parliamentary session ended to prevent a full discussion of the subject in Parliament. Denying fihis, North West Minister Court defended the company with the amazing statement that it "had timed the announcement to serve the best interests of its employees at Wittenoom". It is hard to see what employees got out of a bare month's notice except a black Christmas for their families! The Wittenoom tragedy conforms to the pattern of private enterprise exploitation of mineral deposits, particularly in colonial countries, when high profits decline. The enriched monopolies then pull out, leav ing only a hole in the ground. A government that refuses io develop the State's mineral resources itself should impose high royalties and taxes to offset some of this private exploitation and provide for future rehabilitation needs of the workers. 