 Diary of a pilot who tells — Part 3 THE 'VIETCONG' AND THE PEOPLE gYDNEY TV station ATN 7, which was to have telecast an interview with former American GIA pilot Chuck Bartos, announced two days before the scheduled date that it was "nostnnnincr" the screening in order to get a comment from the Cen tral Intelligence Agency itself, whose activities in Vietnam Mr. Bartos has exposed. The programme is now due to be screened tonight. Here Mr. Bartos continues his Tribune series, talking to staff -man HARRY STEIN, by explaining the reasons Americans in Vietnam, meeting mass resistance wherever they go, are forced to com plain that "you can't tell the Vietcong from the ordinary people". STEIN: "I saw a document ary film made by an American firm recently. There were Americans and South Vietna mese going out on operations and while they talked of fighting the Vietcong, all you saw was that they captured a prisoner who must have been about 12 years old. You had no evidence that there was anybody from the Vietcong or with arms fighting against them. "All you saw was them setting fire to villages, fright, ening women, and there was no evidence that they were actually 'cong' villages or whatever that would be. Could you comment on that?" BARTOS: "The American military's complaint . . . was that you couldn't tell the Vietcong from the people. "This was their great cry and what they didn't realise, of course, is that the Vietcong are the people — you can't sep-' arate the two. They look alike, they are alike. "There are part-time guer illas and full-time guerillas, and there are regular soldiers and part-time soldiers. "They don't seem to real ise they can't separate the people from the Vietcong. "The "Vietcong intelligence is very excellent. They have planted agents in the South Vietnamese army and in headquarters. "It was told me by col onels in the American forces in the higher offices that it seems that any time they plan an operation, two hours from the time they finalise the plan the Vietcong know it in all its details. And when they carried out the operation they got nowhere. "That is why very recently you will find that Americans carry out operations without the South Vietnamese. They don't even tell them about any operations. Because they told me, and they believe, that if you tell a South Vietnamese about the operation, it is the same as telling the Vietcong. "They prefer to fight their own type of war without any interference or any contact with the South Vietnamese army. "The South Vietnamese military have got themselves a terrible reputation with the Americans. The Americans distrust them and don't like them. They will spend hours telling you what great cow- ards they are, what gutless, spineless-type people." STEIN: "Could it be that, apar,t from some bad efien ments among the South. Viet namese, a lot of them have simply" no heart in the war because they are only fight ing their own friends or re latives or certainly Vietna mese people?" BARTOS: "Well, this is at the heart of it, of course, be cause anybody with any in telligence must realise that you are killing your own kind and nobody likes that. "In the American civil war in 1865 families were shred- ded and broken with father s.gainst son, brother against brother and things like that. That is a very tragic thing. "But in this case in Viet nam you have the interfer ence of a third party, a for eigner and who it seems, every time the fighting is slowing down or it appears that there might be some kind of a set tlement, goes ahead and stokes it up to a fury. "Naturally, the South Viet namese neople don't care for this. "It is certain that if the Americars pulled out the Vietnamese would settle their problems in very short order." STEIN: "What would you say was the attitude of the ordinary people (to the dif ferent governments — the so- called South Vietnam Govern ments?" BARTOS: "The ordinary peasant doesn't pay any at tention to the South Vietna mese Government or even attempt to keep up with who ever is in power. "The South Vietnamese Government means to him the landowner and the land lord and taxes and the rest of that stuff, and South Viet namese troops standing around over his land and tearing up his rice crop and abusing his women and himself. "And so to him it is a dead loss and he would prefer not to see them at all." STEIN: "What was the morale of the American troops?" BARTOS: "The American forces' morale was quite good. The special forces — they con sidered themselves as elite troops; they are trained as paratroopers and in this so- called counter - insurgency warfare they kind of feel like superior type soldiers. "But then after they have been out in the jungle and they have fought the Viet cong a few times they don't feel they are as superior as they thought because they have been trapped quite a few times and have been defeated —so they're up against a very \ resourceful enemy and it isn't the pushover that they thought they were going to have. In many cases then the morale goes down. "The fact that they are working with the South Viet namese rangers and people like that who at the first sign of battle usually desert them, and they find themselves fighting alone. This is most discouraging and it is not very good for morale. "So after they've been there a while they spend most of their time cursing the South Vietnamese , and wondering when their time is coming up, because the Vietcong a.ve usually giving them a bad time." Next week: The CIA at work. 