 Policy gives basis for ALP unity QANBERRA: The rising confidence in Labor Party circles of the possibility of defeating the Holt Government over the issue of the Vietnam war and conscription, was very evident at the special ALP Federal conference held in Canberra last Friday and Saturday mornings. A.L.P. Federal conference chairman, Senator J. B. Keeffe, told delegates in his opening address that major ity decisions must be accepted in good grace. "Then we must go forward as a united and strong pol itical body capable of assuming the reins of office before the end of 1966", he said. s The Conference- upheld the authority of the Federal Ex ecutive of the party, and its right to interpret policy be tween conferences. The conference reprimanded its Deputy Parliamentry Leader, Mr. G. Whitlam, for breaching, party rules. The Special Conference rose after Mr. Whitlam had deliberately used Federal ex ecutive interpretations of policy on state aid and appointments to party sub committees in an attempt to seize party leadership and take party policy to the Right. Aided and abetted by A.L.P. Right wing forces and the daily press proprietors, Mr. Whitlam had spoken of the "twelve witless men" cf the Federal Executive and called for a revolt of the Federal Pa,rliamentry Caucus against the Federal Executive. It was a much chastened Mr. Whitlam who said in a letter to conference "I have given an unreserved apology to the Federal A.L.P. Executive for the personal references I have made. "I now undertake to work within the framework of the party and to accept the dec isions of its properly constit uted authorities". The conference also found tbjat four Federal MPs and one State M.LA. had also breached party rules. They were Messrs. A. D. Fraser, J. R. Fraser, G. W. A. Duthie, Senator Kennelly. and Mr. H. C. Mallam. During the ensuing debate many delegates made a clear 'distinction between Mr. Mal- lams' press statement which defended the elected Federal party leadership from attack ana the four others. The Conference decided that the party's sub-committee " on education should make a re port on the issue of state aid, that it be then sent to the Federal Executive, and also to the coming State A.L.P. conferences, and th.en consid ered by a special Federal Con ference in Queensland next July. The conference rejected a proposal from South Australia to change the method of elect ion of the party sub -commit tee:. and referred the proposal to a special Federal Confer ence. 