 "LBJ's BIGGEST-EVER REBUFF" gYDNEY : The biggest anti-war demonstra tions ever encountered by United States President Johnson, last weekend in Aus tralia seriously shook Johnson, Prime Minister Holt and the whole political management of this pre-election propa ganda tour. The demonstrations, in lour State capitals and the Federal capital, were the culmination of a week of many- sided protests against Australia's Vietnam war policies, re flected in the daily press, on TV, and in the streets. This, the highest level of activity against the Vietnam war yet seen in Australia, has put an imprint on the election campaign that is the reverse of what was intended by the Holt Government. This hostility against US policy in Vietnam, . trans mitted by revealing TV and press reportage, made a big impact on US public opinion. According to "The Aus tralian" Manila correspondent Jack Foisie "(25 / 10/(5.0) the Manila conference on Vietnam opened amid signs of "concern of some of the principals over the anti-war protests" in Australia. This did -not -Jiowever,; prevent iHolt. and US military leaders from leading the demand for aii intensified war against the Vietnamese independence forces. "HOSTILITY" During his visits to Canberra, Melbourne arid Sydney, ' Johnson me:, determined mass demonstrations involving what, the correspondent of America's National Broad casting Corporation called the "most concentrated hos tility of his career". In Canberra, Johnson dodged 1000 hostile demonstrat ors for hours arid then ignominiouSly sneaked in the kitchen door of the hotel. . A In Melbourne, the official procession dodged a planned demonstration by 2000 students and then ran the gauntlet of a 3000-strong crowd opposing the Vietnam war policy. In Adelaide, too, eight young hunger strikers were arrested at Parliament House; and 300 demonstrators against the Vietnam policies and the Johnson visit marched from Parliament through the city on Saturday. In Sydney, four separate major demonstrations of from 1000 to 10,000 people took place in four hours at points separated over a distance of five miles, throwing the official party into near panic. 