 Peace offer or ultimatum gOVIET Foreign Minister Gromyko isn't the only one who will question whether the US "peace" plan for Vietnam was really meant to be taken ser iously to the UN membership to whom it was addressed. It was . not a peace plan but an ultimatum which in effect meant that America wJould continue to wage and extend the war unless the , Vietnamese accepted propositions they have never accepted in the past and will not accept now. The first is that it is basically a war between the USA and North Vietnam for the control of South Vietnam. i Both are to be regarded as "foreign" powers having troops in South Vietnam and must agree to a mutual, "phased" withdrawal, failing whjch the American bombardment ,of the north will be continued and intensified. ' (This version of the war marks a change in the story with which the Americans' began the attack on . the north 18 months ago when they admitted that their main opponents were the South Viet namese National Liberation Front.) To accept this American "peace" condition would mean accepting the American contention, which has been refuted by nearly every eyewitness, American and . non-American, who has ever been in Vietnam — . that .the NLF are just "agents of the north" and not genuine patriots fighting against foreign invaders . ,,, , who operate throughia Lrutal puppet dictatorship. Even if there were Noftli Vietnamese in South Vietnam, that would not make them "foreigners" — any more than northern Australians become foreign ers if they journey south, ,or vice-versa. Northerners and southerners alike are battling against what President de Gaulle noted was an attempt to make them submit to laws laid down for them from across the Pacific. They will never be bombed of napalmed int.o such submission, and Mr. . Goldberg is wasting his breath in telling them they should. To" accept the American propositions the Vietnam ese would also have to acknowledge the "fight" of the Americans to appoint themselves as the gendarmes of the Vietnamese — to arbitrate as between North and South Vietnamese and bomb those it considers are doing wrong. This the Vietnamese will never do. American aggression against Vietnam is a crime made hot a whit less criminal by an offer to stop it if the victim yields to his attacker's will. Mr. Goldberg's offer was probably made to impress the US electorate before the congressional elections. Mr. Rusk's attempt to make capital out of Vietnam's rejection of it points that way. At the same time it is related to the diffi culties the US faces in Vietnam. Whatever the motive, the ultimatum contains no pledge that the US will, at some specific time, get out of Vietnam. And this, as President de Gaulle recently said, is the essential starting point for any genuine nego tiations for peace. China, 17 years gEVENTEEN years ago (on October 1, 1949) the historic Chinese Revolution stirred the world. The foundations of socialism were laid in the world's biggest, most populated country. This is not altered by the unfortunate fact that the Chinese People's Republic's leaders at present are endangering the fruits of this revolution by wrong policies. For Australians, the most deplorable aspect of the situation is that the Government has for 17 years refused to recognise the . CPR, although Australian trade with it has become more and more important. This must be changed! Whether China is recognised after 17 or 170 years by an Australian Government will make little difi ference to its progress. But it could make a great deal of) difference to the welfare, prosperity and security of Australia. 