 C-Day and prices rising THE retail price of but- C ter in Sydney will rise by 1. 2d a pound on C Day, February 14, and the IN.b. W. rnce v,om- missioner, - Mr. J. A. New- bigging is preparing a range of decimal prices for petrol and bread — also, expected to rise. The little that remains of price control in NSW is being continually whittled away. Since the election of the Askin Government the Prices Commissioner has allowed two increases in the price of bread and lifted control of petrol prices in Broken Hill. This has allowed the gar age proprietors to reintroduce a 2d a gallon increase that the Prices Commissioner had ear lier disallowed. The Barrier Industrial Council has placed a black ban on all garages who put their prices up by 2d a gal- lnn C-dcay swindle? Despite assurances from Government and other spokes men that the change to dol lars would be made without any noticeable increase in the cost of living, it now appears that the change-over (Feb. 14) tLs to be used for a colossal .prices swindle. This follows the announce ment of the highest quarterly cost of living rise in five years. The NSW Government set the pace for private business to follow with its fare increase of 3d. A press statement of Janu ary 24, attributed to the dir ector cf Queensland Employers' Federation (Mr. J. R. Jones) said that prices would move further upward and with great er intensity in the coming period. ; Mr. M. O'Brien, Federal sec retary of the Australian Rail ways Union, has called on the Australian Council of Trade Unions for a special meeting on price increases and decimal currency. Qld. wage move On behalf of more than 300,000 workers the Queensland Trades and Labor Council has asked the Industrial Commis sion to increase the basic wage by £2/3/- a week for men and £1/12/3 for . women, with pro portionate increases for young workers. This claim follows closely that of the Australian Council of .Trade Unions which has an nounced that it will seek a Federal basic wage increase of £2/3/- a week, as well as an increase in margins. 'v The NSW Labor Council has widely circularised a petition calling on the Government to control and reduce prices. On the weekend of February 12 and 13 a drive will be made for thousands of signatures throughout Sydney. 