 L L J Jl JJ ii ii J iiiiiJL U J Scandal on Vietnam training NEW scandal has blown up over conscription for Vietnam — this time in West Australia. A daily press interview with parents of conscripts revealed not onlv a number who opposed the Government's policy, but a claim of serious lack of training of conscripts. As a result Sapper Daryl Mc llroy, of Alfred Cove, interviewed on Channel 7, said that he has been posted to Vietnam without proper training. Mcllroy's case was taken up by Labor MHR Beazley and Labor's Deputy State Leader Tonkin. They told Army Minister Fraser there was a breach of Government . promise to give 12 months' train ing to national servicemen before overseas posting. Mcllroy was inducted nine months ago and has had no jungle or battle training at all. Fraser refused to take any action. Mcllroy said on TV he had no idea what the war is about. His father, an ex-serviceman, said he could not say either. Mrs. Mcllroy, who has since collapsed and is under medical treatment, said her son should not have to go. Discussion of State Aid pHE usually well-informed editor of "Incentive", Maxwell Newton, went off- beam when he wrote in a recent issue that the Com munist Party of Australia had adopted a State aid policy identical with that of the DLP. The decision, he said, appeared in the theoretical organ, "Commun ist. Review." In fact, he must have been wrongly informed about an article in the Review, signed "Teacher" which queried whether Marxists should continue to oppose state aid to private schools. The article gave as its purpose the "opening up of objective dis cussion of a matter which many have regarded as closed." Maxwell Newton will have to get used to this. The "Left Review" magazine which will shortly take the place of the "Communist Re view," will aim to publish more expressions of opinion, not only from communists, in dealing with major Australian and world issues from the marxist standpoint. Someone lifted lid |T is reported that the NSW Government may make an open investigation into how leakages from the electoral boundaries commission's re port have occurred. This makes it pretty clear that .the Labor Opposition, in accusing the Government last week of planning a gerrymander, was not just relying on inspired guesswork. In demanding a Royal Commis sion the Opposition deputy leader, Mr. P. Hills, told Parliament that the Opposition had been made aware that under the proposed distribution the Liberal Party would be guaranteed at least six additional seats at Labor's expense. It looks as though the report that the Labor Members had actually got hold of maps of the proposed new electorates may be true. Should stick to poetry THE sudden appearance on TV and at some public meetings of a professor of poetry posing as an expert on the military and political situation in South Vietnam needs some explaining. The case concerns Prof. Mc- Auley, of Hobart University, who has just returned from Saigon. It appears that after the Federal Government's very few open supporters among academics had been thrashed at various teach-ins on Vietnam last year the hunt was on for some rein forcements. McAuley, a well-known extreme right-winger, was chosen. He hasn't done so well, however, and had a hot time at a public meeting of 150, mainly academics, in Sydney. McAuley also described Air Vice- Marshal Ky (SMH 19/3/66) as "the gallant airman whose courage is acknowledged; he still slips off to fly missions with his air force." What sort of gallantry is re quired to fly missions in South Vietnam? The US and South Vietnamese have complete air superiority for massed air strikes, napalm bomb ings and "defoliation" of crops. If one looks for gallantry it would be better to look to those South Vietnamese who stand up to massed bombing with small arms, machine guns and light anti-aircraft weapons. A different kind of poet PEAKING of poetry, we ' have to pay tribute to the great success of Soviet poet Evgeni Yevtushenko, and . his fellow delegates , Sofronov and Krugerskaya, J at the Adelaide Festival. ' Since then, Yevtushenko has delighted further Australian audi ences with recitals of his poems, including 6,000 at Melbourne and / 2,000 at Sydney. Press comment and interviews b have been consistently favorable. | Not only the artistry but also | the moral force of this Socialist | poet, in the interests of peace and | humanity, will not be forgotten m here. _ I There is no doubt that this dele- gation has further enhanced the y prestige already enjoyed by Soviet | culture in this country. I| "Like my predecessor . . . 'I'm needed more at home'" | 