 Brasilia university staff resigns over freedoms WABNIHC fOB AUSTBAUA In October last year prac tically all the academic staff of the University of Brasilia in Brazil resigned in a collective protest against at tacks upon their academic freedom. Leading the list of people that resigned were such well - known names as the world-famous archi tect, Professor Oscar Niemeyer, con structor of the city of Brasilia and the University itself, and Head (Co- ordenador) of the Institute of Architecture; the Brazilian composer Professor Claudio Santoro, of the Department of Music; Professors Jayme Tiomo, Roberto Aureliano Salmeron and Elisa Frota Pessoa, of ,the Central Institute of Physics; Professor Otto Richard Gotlieb, Head of the Central Institute of Chemistry; and more than 160 others. What are the facts that brought about this dramatic response of such highly qualified and responsible people? The general tradition of Brazilian Universities is derived from times when the "know-how" for Brazilian industry and for life in general was imported from Europe and the need for independent research to solve the specific problems of a country like Brazil was felt by very few pioneers who did not have power mough to convert that understanding into practical measures, nor to con vince the Brazilian ruling strata of that need. Research in Brazil, both funda mental and applied, is not generally conducted in the Universities. There are very few departments or labora tories in Brazilian Universities where research is done systematically and. according to normal international standards. With the rapid Industrialisation of part of the country, particularly after World War II, the need for higher standards and for independent funda mental research was more and more acutely felt. As a result a group ox scientists were encouraged to plan a new modern University that would com bine teaching with research, give studentships and scholarships, invite people from other parts of the country and foreign specialists to lecture and to lead research groups, send periodically and systematically the members of its academic staff to the more advanced centres for re-qualification, etc. Thus the University of Brasilia was created, against the opposition of the more conservative circles. Many scientists left their work In other Universities to go to a new place, knowing that they would lose one, two or more years in organisa tion, begin with empty rooms, no instruments, having to train new personnel, buying little by little all that was needed to get a modern research centre working. The Uni versity began to work. Then on April 1, 1964, the elected President, Joao Goulart, was deposed. Many of the professors of the Uni versity of Brasilia were arrested as "Communists" and then released. The Rector, Professor Darcy Ribeiro, as a member of Goulart's govern ment, had to emigrate to escape arrest. A new Rector was appointed as a representative of the Government, but he was eventually forced to resigned. Another Rector, Professor Laerte Ramos de Carvalho, was appointed as a better man to do what the representatives of the army demanded. One of the first acts of Professor Carvalho was to dismiss 15 profes sors, associates and assistants with out any explanation. It was in solidarity with them and because "the conditions in the Uni versity worsened during recent months to a point where there is no longer tranquility for teaching, doing research or any other intel lectual work" that almost the entire staff resigned. The Government accepted the resignations and closed the University. This act started a wave of pro tests from many scientific and edu cational associations in Brazil and in other countries, including the United States, London and several other Universities in Great Britain and Geneva. At the moment of writing the only department that is formally opened (but is not working because the students, as a protest against this direct threat from the Government to their right to study, refuse to attend the classes) is the Department of Law. The Government has not been able to find people to replace the resign ing personnel in any of the other departments. The facts speak for themselves, and their gravity cannot be over estimated. Simultaneously with the closing of the University of Brasilia, the Govern ment intervened in several other Universities, such as the Universities of Espirito Santo and Santa Catarina. These events should be interpreted as a fundamental part of the policy of the forces that took power in Brazil in 1964, the same ultra-con servative forces that always opposed progress and were opposed to the new University from the very first day. A manifesto issued by the profes sors, assistants and instructors who resigned from their positions said: "The situation has reached an untenable position with the dismissal of our colleagues, without any justi fication, without any trial and there fore without any possibility of defence. "We cannot stand by and watch, without protest, such arbitrary and unjust action and have reached the conclusion that the only protest compatible with our integrity as University teachers is to resign from the University of Brasilia." xpROM Brazil comes a warning for Australian University staffs. Certain forces in Australia — Santamaria, the DLP, Knofelmacher and others | have been advocating taking control of the universities out of the hands | of the academic staffs. What happened in the University of Brasilia, the modern capital of Brazil, is told in this abridged story by Dr. SALOMAO TABAK, an eminent Brazilian organic chemist and a Corresponding Member of the World Federation of Scientific Workers. He is at present working in the Chemistry Department at Imperial College, London. 