 Another oil sell-out planned DELAIDE: A strong criticism of the sell.out of Australian oil to big overseas oil interests en visaged in new Commonwealth and State legislation, is made in- the annual report of the Woodside (Lakes Entrance) Oil Co. "Your directors find it diffi cult to reconcile the publicity stated concern at the reducing Australian equity in our petrol- ruin resources, with the new proposals of relinquishment of producing areas as proposed in this Off-shore legislation" says the report. v It goes on to, say that this provides that four ninths of r, producing area shall be for feited to the State in which (lie discovery is made and the State shall then auction the four ninths area. "The discoverer then has the option of matching the highest hid and so have the doubtful satisfaction of having to pur chase back at probably a very considerable cost, some of the oil or gas which may have cost millions of dollars to lind. "It is inconceivable that any Australian Company involved in the discovery of a large producing area could outbid overseas interests at such an auction of its confiscated four ninths area nor would it stand much chance of even matching the highest bid" says Woodside. There is a clear case for re tention of oil assets not just for the discoverers but for the Australian people as a whole. This is admitted by the Com pany which says "After all, the Australian company efforts have been financed directly by n certain section of the Aus tralian public and further by the Australian taxpayer, if sub sidies are considered." Govern ment subsidies tp this Com- pany in the past two years amounted to $241,239. In ad dition overseas interests in the form of Burmah Oil Co. already have a substantial share in Woodside and provide one of the six directors. A five ninth share for an Australian Company discover ing oil and a four ninth share for the people as a whole would be a much more reasonable proposition than the sell-out to overseas monopolies that is planned. 