 1 j||| fcJ£cLj£ " \ I" r>i& > | Ww im | s&r3)t A r/; p :v ---' ; r ' , lm J /isp'' -1 , 44' r&lt; 1 Even Brabham would have been battling BY THE CHALLENGER JAFE driving pays off! It certainly did last Sunday in the Sydney suburb of Bankstown, where the Trade Union Youth Week Safety Driver's Competition Final Gymkhana was held. Prizes were enough to make anyone give way on the right. They consisted of a new Holden, a block of land at Coff 's Harbour on the NSW North Coast and a winter outfit of clothes from a well-known Sydney tailor. The winners are to be announced as Tribune eoes to nress. The competition attract ed 119 drivers, in almost all of the popular makes from sports cars to sta tion sedans. Even a Jack Brabham or a Bob Stillwell would have found the events ex- ' acting. The whole pro gramme placed the em phasis on keen judgement and car handling combin ed with the safe driving speed necessary for ordin ary driving. Although the names of the events and the requir ed times to complete them may seem strange to the average driver, they were simply methods of discov ering the safest driver under average road con ditions. Off-beat The events were given off-beat titles like May pole, Sword and Ring, Garaging, Parking, Wiggle Wiggle, Gauging and the Maze. Competitors lost points for errors in routines , which tested the drivers' I ability to turn, circle, stop 8 within a certain distance 8 and on a certain mark, go 1 forward and reverse. | Many people will feel 1 that Transport Minister 1 Morris and the daily press 8 and Television missed a 8 golden opportunity of help- 8 ing to promote safe driv- / ing by giving the competi- 1 j tion as much publicity as 1 J possible. 1 ft But Mr. Morris and the 1 press and T.V. barons no 1 doubt weighed the matter 1 up and decided that it was far better to leave driving the way it is rather than give any fav-. ourable publicity to trade unionism. Bally-hoo and big business . I Rugby League | with Ron Mackerras | | WATCHED last Satur- 1 day's Grand Final with 1 mixed feelings and came | away a little disappointed. B Not because Saints won; I they were the worthy B winners. Not because Bal- | main were so easily de feated; they did their best under the circumstances. Probably I had become a victim of all the bally-hoo and publicity that has been handed out partic ularly during the last three weeks. The views of people who have never played Rugby League were blown up into head-lines. Those with experience and some on an inter national level allowed their knowledge to oe prostituted, for a bally hoo that is expected and accepted, with side-shows and. circuses. The seating capacity and general facilities of the Sydney Cricket Ground are disgraceful and must add to the grumblings of those who each week help to make Rugby League the big business concern it is. On the credit side, my congratulations to Saints and. Souths Third grade teams for the splendid game they provided. Souths and Balmain Re serves played good foot ball to a lesser degree and Souths deserved their premiership Young driver Graham Kemp competing in the "Sword and Ring" event. 