 MONEY CAN BE FOUND WITHOUT EXTRA BURDEN Prune war vote , tax big business SYDNEY: Policies for the peaceful and secure development of Australia can certainly be financed without increased bur dens on the people, said Mr. W. J. Brown, Communist Party national election spokesman, this week. Last week, Government and daily press spokesmen, ev idently fearing the. effect of ALP Leader Calwell's policy speech, resorted to a campaign of claims that the social ser vices and other proposals "can not be paid for." Mr. Brown said: "While our. Communist Party proposals go further than those- of the ALP, we certainly support the undertakings given by Mr. ,Cal- well to , end conscription and bring back the troops from Vietnam. Independent "We go further and propose an end to the military inter vention in all parts of south east Asia, including Malaysia and Thailand, atnd the de- velopment of an independant foreign policy for peace, friend ship and fruitful exchanges with the nations there. "It is precisely these steps that will facilitate the financing of real Australian development with fundamental improvement /n- living standards, for which Mr. Calwell's proposals should be seen only as a minimum basis. "It is nonsense to say, as Federal Treasurer McMahon and others are saying, that 'the money can't be found. "At his Brisbane meeting last week, Prime Minister Holt ad mitted that the present $1,000 million war budget would be increased 'as occasion requires'. Secret "With American plans clear ly defined to escalate the war, it can be assumed that Holt has already secretly allowed for a substantially increased war budget next year if he is re turned. "A 25% increase — well-below this year's 34% boost— would mean an additional allocation of $250 million in the first year alone, Mr. Calwell's program is estimated to cost only $300 million over THREE years." "An end to Vietnam inter vention and the whole aggres sive military policy would cert ainly permit the re-allocation of Holt's projected new war expenditure to our national needs. "But that is not all. We say —and Mr. Calwell implied it — that the present foreign and de fence policy is unjustified and wasteful, a truly defensive policy and an end to buying expensive US weapons for ag gressive purposes could permit the immediate reduction of the present $1,000 million annual war allocation. "Over three years, this would yield many hundreds of millions of dollars. "Then taxation must be in creased on big business, in which profits are enormous. a tax on capital gains and the taxing of personal incomes of the wealthy are required- "Further, enormous sums are being taken out by overseas big business— oil companies, mining monopolies, industrial ists in the motor, chemica-l and other key sectors — as well as the huge freight payments to the overseas shipping compan ies. "Our long-standing proposal for an overseas national ship ping line (also supported by the ALP), the nationalisation of stevedoring, and the systematic introduction of nationalised op eration in the main fuel, min eral and other key fields, can save millions for the nation and channel them into public hands. "Thus it is nonsense to say the money can't be found. It must be found and clearly can be found and directed to social services, hospitals, education, housing and the upgrading of wage levels. "As things stand, there was nothing in Holt's policy speech for the working people and, in fact, his false claims that a higher living standard cannot be financed are a cover for his opposition to any concessions to the workers. "Our proposals for a min imum pension of half the basic wage, free hospitalisation, ab olition of the means test and a crash program to cover all aspects of education needs can easily be financed in the above ways.' "Support for communist candidates and unity of the labor movement for defeat of the Government can open the way to achieving such a policy." 