 Police bar protest at Anzac House SYDNEY : Police took command at Sydney's Anzac House last Thursday and refused to allow a Communist Party deputation past the outside doors to this headquarters of the Returned Servicemen's League. A police superintendent brusquely rejected a proposal by the RSL Public Relations Officer that the deputation be allowed into the foyer of the building. About 10 police — uniformed and political-squad— were there at the call of RSL State Presi dent Sir William Yeo. Following the discovery that political provocators had daub ed phoney "anti-conscription" oiugaus oil me Anzac war iviem- orial in Hyde Park, Yeo had rushed into the press a state ment that it must have been done by "communists or their supporters." On Thursday morning a spokesman of the Communist Party telephoned Yeo request ing an interview to lodge a protest at the statement. Yeo's secretary said he would not re ceive a deputation, but was told that the deputation would | come, anyway. Eight ex-service communists who could be reached at short t notice went to Anzac House an hour later. The cordon of police barred the door. Mr. J. PalmaHn f Rvrtnow Hie. trict secretary, CPA) said to the RSL official: "We are here to protest vigorously against the | totally unfounded attempt by I kir William Yeo to connect the Communist Party with the des ecration of the Anzac Memorial by vandals— an action which, we, as ex-servicemen, condemn on behalf of the whole of our party." Mr. W. J. Brown, NSW sec retary, protested against Yeo's refusal to receive the deputation and the police refusal to per mit even entry into the foyer. A letter to Yeo, signed by 10 communist ex-servicemen and women, was handed over. It said that tha naintine of slogans on the Anzac Memorial was "a deliberate and most clumsy frame up to try and discredit the mounting protest movement against the unjust Vietnam war in general and against the Holt Government's policy of sending conscripts to Vietnam. "We note with regret, Sir William, that you repeatedly rush into print with irrespon sible and baseless attacks on the Communist Party of Aus tralia, yet you repeatedly refuse our permanently open offer to debate with you publicly on T.V., radio or in any public hall on the subject that 'The policy of the Communist Party of Australia at all times and in all respects is in the best in terests of our nation and its people.' "We again repeat our request for guch a debate in this letter of protest against your latest unfounded public attack." 