 N. G. BOSSES CA UGHT BY SURPRISE By Jim Cooper The wages struggle in New Guinea reached its highest point in 1965 with hardly a week passing without some action spearheading the demand for better wages and conditions. That this took the Territory's emDlovers hv surnrise can hs seen from a statement by Mr. B. c. Goodsell, President of the Employers' Federation of New Guinea and Port Moresby man ager of Burns Philp Ltd. (SMH, Oct. 14, 1965): "We do not know where this influence is coming from, but these strikes are not in keep ing with the normal attitudes t the natives." Trade union leaders, how ever, claimed there were some genuine grievances underlying the workers' dissatisfaction. The spark that set the strike Wave ip motion was the Fed- eral Government's decision to cut the salary scales of the New Guinea public servants, but the strength and breadth of \he struggle arose from general dissatisfaction with deplorable working conditions and poverty- scale wages. . Goodsell was later quoted m the Sydney Morning Herald ..22ber 28' 1965' as sayine: n s is going to be a poor timemy country for some There is little doubt that if waees and nnnditinns remain as Mr. Goodsell and his organi sation want them, prospect of advance is remote. Workers receiving $7 per week cannot create the demand which would stimulate the eco nomy. The upsurge of militancy has now subsided, resulting from a series of inquiries into wages and conditions. Industrial Councils and Boards of Inquiry are new to New Guinea and probably the workers are assessing their worth. It is evident that some of these inquiries are dragging. The Rural Wage Inquiry op ened in February 1965 and to date there is no indication of finalisation. The Public Service Inquiry began early in March 1965, and it is forecast that the addresses of counsel will be given in Oct ober. The Public Service Arbi trator, Mr. Matthews, will give his findings at a date yet to be determined. A number of other cases are being processed. The unions lodged claims on behalf of the waterside workers, stevedores and seamen in January, Feb ruary and March this year re spectively. Such long-winded inquiries will do little to recommend the arbitration system to New Gui nea workers— rather they will cause suspicions that proceed ings are deliberately strung out to delay improvements in wages and conditions. 