 I SPLIT WIDENS AT I SEATO MEETING :M By Our Parliamentary Roundsman 1 ANBERRA, Tuesday: The battle lines were drawn early in m current SEATO Council meeting here. Of the eight original 1 members of SEATO formed in 1954, this is the situation. II o France (for the second suc- il| cessive Council meeting) sent il only an observer, who made no ;M contribution at either this 4 morning's public session or the f , afternoon's closed session and gave no notice to speak on Wednesday. ® Pakistan has a delegation y/i present but sent only an ob- server to last week's military advisers' meeting. Speaking to- 4 day, the Pakistan leader Dr. A. | M. Malik (High Commissioner rJ to Australia) struck a contrast- ; . ing note to most other speeches. 4 "I do not think it is possible » j for me to overstate the grave ; „ concern that Pakistan feels over ' the continuing war in Asia and ihe immediate threat it holds pi 0 wrld peace," he said. m Great Britain's Foreign m Secretary again emphasised: "My Government's policy is, and will remain, not to send troops to Vietnam." The United States Secre tary of State Dean Rusk put out the word for more troops, with an eye on Britain, by em phasising all the countries pre sent had sent troops to Viet nam. -Australia, New Zealand, Philippines and Thailand fol lowed meekly in the US track. "A failure" The key to the meeting was put frankly by the Sydney "Herald" on Tuesday when it said that the week would see heavier US pressure on its SEATO allies, with Britain as its likely principal object. This was confirmed on Tues day when Rusk had a long talk with Stewart at the U.S. Em bassy and then spoke for 45 minutes on the Vietnam war at the closed Council session, ac cording to US sources, stressing that the war would continue. Thailand has made no secret of the fact that she considers SEATO a. failure but said that even if only a "facade", it would be worthwhile. Labor leader Arthur Calwell told a press conference here on Tuesday that, despite the gun attack on him last week, he would speak at: Sydney Town Hall next Sunday night, Wol- longong on July 7 and Brisbane on July 8. To a questioner he said he believed that public demonstra tions against the war and con scription should continue. See also Page 3. 