 USA shares in debacle o>f Ky regime Last February, President Johnson de clared at the Honolulu conference: "As I looked across the table at these brave and determined vouncr men. I thought also of the young Vietnamese soldiers and province chiefs and teachers and ; .udent leaders who were part of this new generation. "They know, and we know, that this revolutionary trans formation cannot wait until the guns grow silent and ter rorism stops." Less than two months later, the leader of the "brave and determined young men" — and South Vietnam dictator Air Mar shal Ky was using guns, waddies and tear gas, to gether with plane loads of troops to try and batter down Buddhist, Roman Cath olic and other opposition to his militarist regime. Once again the hyprocrisy of United States policy in Viet nam has been exposed by the Vietnamese people's refusal to accept American puppet re gimes. , At Honolulu .the U.S. Gov ernment . went . further than ever before to boost the South Vietnam government as a "reforming", even a "re volutionary", government. Long war This was an attempt to lay the political foundation for a long war and the demand for new recruits that was imme diately made . upon Australia and other countries. Joining willingly in the I farce, the Ky gang declared they were a "government" — indeed, a generation — of re volutionary transformation. Our people are caught up in a moral struggle . . Ky and Johnson then jointly committed their governments "to social revolution; free self- government; the attack on hunger, ignorance and dis ease and to the unending quest for peace." The declaration was fol lowed quickly by a warning from Ky that "the unending quest for peace" did not in clude talks with the national liberation front — ' the only way peace could have been achieved. To show their desire to assure the Vietnamese people a "future with dignity" and respect" the two Governments then rained on them, both in north and south, increasing quantities of bombs, napalm and noxious gases. Last week, when the' South Vietnam people's demand for the "free self-government" promised at Honolulu rose to a climax, the "brave and deter mined young man" announc ed that the Mayor of . Da Nang would be shot and the city smashed by the army. When Ky's repressive mea sure were brought to a halt at Da Nang by the size of the opposition, the same night' the "revolutionary" premier's troops and police went to work with clubs on the heads of the democratic demonstra tors in Saigon. > Promises The Sydney Daily Mirror on Wednesday noted that, despite Ky's promises, his solitary effort at a "crack-down on corruption" had been the "sinister public execution of a Chinese profiteer." It asked Whether Johnson and Holt should' "attempt to shore up his crumbling regime when his own people have so obviously lost confi dence in him as a leader?" Johnson had to decide whe ther to stick with Ky would cost the U.S. more prestige than to dump him. If dumped, Ky would join the long line of dictators who have been boosted by the U.S. as saviors and sacked as soon as they too-obviously . could not fill that role. Ngo Dinh Diem was the first dictator given unqualified U.S. support. But when he was ousted in' December, 1963, President Johnson warmly congratulated his successor Minh, pledging him support. A few months later John son was' warmly congratulat ing General Khanh on having ousted Minh, and promising Khanh his unqualified sup port. The same, cynical process was. repeated with Huong, Quat and the .others who were successively pushed for ward- when the people's pres sure made a change necessary. If now the process can be repeated with Ky the same assurance will undoubtedly be given , to the next "brave and determined young man" if any more can be found to front for the U.S. invaders. However in persuading the American and Australian . peoples that these govern ments really represent the people in their repeated pleas for more foreign troops to be sent, both Johnson and Holt face an extremely difficult task. j| Members for the 8 | 1 Campaign for g Nuclear Disarmament if march through Lon- | don's West End in a I torchlight procession ijt a ff!W days before | the British general if elections. The march ;| was to support if American demon- | strations against the i:i |i Vietnam war. 