 HUMPHREY VISIT CRUCIAL FOR AUSTRALIA Holt bows to pressure for more troops By the Federal Parliamentary Roundsman The United States Vice President Hubert Humphrey left Australia last Sunday with firm assurances that an additional Aus tralian battalion would soon he on its way to Vietnam. RESPITE Mr. Humph rey's denial, the Aus tralian Government has succumbed to American f pressure for a heavier | military commitment. | At a joint press conference 1 in Canberra with Mr. Humphrey I last Saturday, Prime Minister Holt said: "I hope we shall soon 1 be in a position to announce I what Australia feels able to do 1 to supplement our present scale 1 of forces in Vietnam." | Mr. Holt made it clear that the matter had been under con- I sideration for some time., Role of Hammcm Despite denials at the time, Mg it is now certain that Mr. A. M Harriman, senior US Ambas- sador at large, put pressure on '1 the Australian Government for ,i' more troops when he visited /' Australia in the middle of Jan- . uary. Iff American press reports at the weekend confirmed this by re- " porting that US Defence Secre tary Mr. McNamara had told ( the Senate Armed Services , v| Committee at a secret hearing on January 20, that the Amer- J ican Government had asked for I more Australian troops. Mr. Humphrey also revealed at the press conference that, despite talk of the need for in ternal reform in Vietnam, the essence of President Johnson's policy is stepping up the effort for a long, hard war. Asked how long did he think the present military phase would continue, Mr. Humphrey replied, "it is not possible to indicate any time limit, but whatever time was needed the Government and people of USA are prepared to give." Humphrey's present tour of the Far East and Australia is closely connected with the growing strong opposition by influential US Senators to the Administration's Vietnam pol icy. Defence' Secretary McNamara and Secretary of State Rusk have been grilled by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. It is expected that Mr. Humphrey will also be put on the hot seat by the Committee soon after he returns home. President Johnson is hoping that Humphrey can produce sufficient additional forces for Vietnam to refute the point of Senator Fulbright, chairman of the Foreign Relations Commit tee, that America's allies, espe cially Australia, are lukewarm about the war. j New war alliance Humphrey also had the task /| of sounding out the prospects "'is of a wider military alliance to 5 replace the ineffective SEATO v , ' pact. Humphrey took care to stress '||| that Australia is to have a spe |f cial role to play in any new military alliance. 7;, He said: "We look to you for &lt;i continued leadership in this I area. Others look to you for t i Acauux uuuuuig a ucir, 1 work of viable, freedom loving vl societies in this area of the j| world." j He also said: "Many people 1 have spoken, about the Atlantic partnership ' between North \ America and Western Europe. I | sense that the same sort of part- : / ; nership is being established I here— across the Pacific and In- ' I- dian oceans. In many ways it ' is a more difficult task to ac- ' complish because it involves | widely disparate cultures and countries at various levels of development." Wrestling Sup troops Light was thrown on the meaning of Humphrey's state ment by the Australian Finan cial Review of Feb 16, which said that US correspondents travelling with Humphrey "are convinced that he has been charged with 'wrestling up an other 20,000 to 25,000 troops from America's allies for Viet nam'." This was to include 20,000 si! m S0111 Korea, 2,000 from g| the Philippines, a second bat- If taon from Australia, and a y ?mall contingent from New Zea- || land. ll ese correspondents believe | that "the logical corollary that the central effort of Washing ton's diplomacy today is to do in the Pacific what the US did in the Atlantic," the Review said. "That is to shape up a new tougher, broader alliance than SEATO and in State Department jargon, build an intra-structure that will sustain it. "And this according to the 'in' correspondents of the White House group is Vice President Hubert Humphrey's number one objective in his current post Honolulu tour." Robert J. Donovan of the Los Angeles Times last weekend cabled back to his paper from Canberra the following: "To those at home who op pose American policy in Viet nam the trip is likely to seem unfortunate. For the whole thrust has been towards a deep er American involvement in Asia, and it is difficult to avoid the impression that the United States is up to its eyeballs in Asian affairs and that American military forces are going to be active in South East Asia for perhaps a quarter of a century." It now seems clear that ad ditional Australian troops, in cluding conscripts, will soon be fighting and dying to ensure an "American presence" in Asian affairs. ABOVE: Canberra demonstrators shout as Vice-president Humphrey drives away from the Cabinet meeting, BELOW : Y oung demonstrators confront one of the "army" of police. (Story, right.) 