 f — — I juiULijJi iflij J The soldiers' friend |__|UNDREDS of Australian soldiers in No. 1 milit ary Corrective establishment at Holsworthy (NSW) are on bread and water. Senator McClelland (Lab. NSW) released this in the Senate last week and further dented the Government's celf-imposed reputation as the "soldiers' friend'. Senator McClelland said, "that from 1961 to April 30, this year 2 06G servicemen served sentences at Holsworthy. Of that number £48, or nearly 25 per cent had been placed on bread and water. The callous attitude of the Government to a school cadet injured at a training camp at Singleton NSW, was also revealed in Federal Parliament last week by Mr. L. Devine, (Labor East Sydney). He referred to the case of a St. Joeseph's school cadet named Fazio who suffered a serious spine injury in a bomb explos ion at Singleton in August 1959, who has now been wiped by the Government for any compensation for his injuries. Mr. Devine said that as a result of these injuries Fazio now permanantly had to wear a brace on his back. "Since 1959 through his solici tors he has been trying to obtain from the army compensation for his disability. "But he was getting no where . so this year he asked me to make representations on his behalf. Mr. Devine said that seven years after the accident the army reached a decision. "I have been informed that the provisions of the Commonwealth Employees Compensation act was extended to Mr. Fazio on an ex ?.gratia basis .and that, there is , no entitlement under thai act for r. lump sum. payment in respect of Mr. Fazio's injuries. It was open to Fazio to initiate action at common law, but on the present advice of the Com monwealth's legal advisers, any such action would be defended by the Commonwealth, Mr. Devine said. Marriage without love Liberal and Country Party coalition govern ments these days are mar riages of convenience, and like all such nuptial arrange- ments they are devoid of love. Sections of the Liberals long for the day when they can govern i on their own. Powerful sections of the Queens land Liberals want to run against sitting Country Party members. The Victorian Liberals seriously considered not endorsing a Coun try Party nominee for one of the two Senate vacancies to the held with the elections for the House of Representatives next Novem ber. The Country Party is not idle in the infighting. It's an open secret that the party's leader, Mr. Mc- Ewen, put his head together with Taismanian MLA Lyons to defect from the Liberals and become the leader of the new Centre Party which consists of the Tasmanian Country Party plus Lyons. This party, now officially blessed by McEwen, will sooner or later stand candidates not only against the Labor Party, but also against Liberals. Now Federal Country Party members in Canberra are letting it be known that the Liberals are planning to reduce CP seats in Cabinet and make Treasurer McMahon the deputy leader of the Coalition . (instead of Mc Ewen) . The Liberals are boasting that they are going to win two seats from the Country Party in West Australia and two in Victoria "Con Morris" |" HERE is one thing that cn be said for NSW Transport Minister Morris he's consistent — at being inconsistent. Since the slugging the people received in the Bud get, the Government will come at anything for a diversion from rising wrath — even to crawling into tunnels. And of course the biggest tunnel of them all is that one full of bats and cobwebs known to citizens for a generation or two as the Eastern Suburbs Railwav Tunnel. Out of the Budget came half c million dollars so that the show could go on. Of course they played down the fact that they hadn't spent a penny - of the half million dollars allocated for the Eastern Suburbs Railway from the previous budget. The latest gimmick was to send three Ministers accompanied by the press and TV on the invitat ion o i Mr. Morris. When a reporter asked him whose idea the exploration trip was, he answered that the press had. asked for it. In Parliament he said it had been arranged after a request by the Premier. If you hear a reference to "Con Morris" up around Macquarie Street, we'll give you one guess. 