 Parliamentary Union rebuff to U.S.A. By Our Parliamentary Correspondent £ANBERRA: The Inter-Parliamentary Union Council, rep resenting 51 countries, last week carried a resolution calling for peaceful solution of the Vietnam conflict on the; basis of the Geneva Agreement, and cessation of all acts standing in the way of the possibility of negotiations. This was a clear reference to the United States bombing cf North Vietnam. The resolution also specified that "all parties" should be involved in the solution — which includes the South Vietnam National Liberation Front. The U.S.A. came under heavy fire at the political committee for its aggression against Viet nam. The committee were dis cussing international security and disarmament. The leader of the Soviet dele gation Mr. J. Paletskis, said that the U.S.A. was guilty of aggres sion against Vietnam and the Dominican republic and was endangering the security of Europe with the N.A.T.O. mili tary alliance. Most speakers were critical . of the American position, and only New Zealand, the Philip- pines, and a Liberal MP from Australia (Senator K. G. Mor ris) gave them any support. Australian Labor M.P., Mr. T. Uren, told the committee that for the past 100 years the Asian nations, apart from Japan and Thailand, had been plundered, and exploited by the more af fluent nations of the world. He said that there must be a cessation of bombing of North Vietnam. At the full council meeting on Friday an intense debate on Vietnam went on for. three hours. The resolution brought down by the drafting Committee (USA, Czechoslovakia and, Un ited Arab Republic) was based on a draft submitted by the U.A.R. It stressed that international conflicts must be resolved through negotiations in accord ance with the terms and spirit cf the United Nations Charter; and requested an immediate halt to all acts liable to hinder the creation of an atmosphere conducive to a successful out come. It urgently renewed its ap peal to all ' parties to the con flict to undertake immediate discussions under the aegis of the Geneva powers, or through other appropriate body, on the basis and in the spirit of the Geneva Agreement. Georgy Zhukov (USSR) said his delegation had submitted to the drafting committee points such as an urgent request to the US to stop its bombing, and to remove its troops from South Vietnam. Because this was not included in the text of the draft ing committee they would ab stain from voting. 