 A worker on $50 a week. . , Would take 6400 years to earn Mt. Isa Mine's net profit for a year By Pefe Thomas » That house-warming binge for Mt. Isa Mine's new K57 shaft this month must have set the host back quite a few dollars. There were almost 800 guests, about 200 of them flown to Mt. Isa (1000 miles from Brisbane) at the com pany's expense and accom modated there on the house. At one sitting alone, they put away a feed that included 400 crayfish (and you don't get those in the Leichhardt River), 680 lb. of ham, 480 lb. of turkey, 700 lb. of beef, 20 pigs, two vealers, a 450 lb. cake, 12 18- gallon kegs of beer, dozens of bottles of whisky, gin and rum (and an unspecified quantity of pineapple juice for Premier Nicklin), and other odds and ends. . You wouldn't get the cost of that out, of the petty cash tin. So what? — it will be a tax deduction anyway, and, . what's more, Mt, Isa Mines chiefs knew what they, had up their sleeve to announce the next week: a 1965-66 net profit of over $16.8 million! It's a profit figure, exceeded by no other company except BHP and GMH. Some people maybe can visualise what . a figure like 16.8 million is. But those Of us whose computer system is in our fingers and toes need to bring it down to earth a bit. Dollars end to end Say all the one-dollar bills in the $16.8 million were put down end to end. Then they'd stretch for over 1300 miles, or about from Mt. Isa to Mel bourne's Collins House. Or if the 16.8 million were all days, then they'd amount to 46,000 years — or. more than 23 times all the years from the birth of Christendom to now. Or if a worker was getting $50 -a week, it would take him 6400 years to get what Mt. Isa Mines got as net profit in a year. . And the $16.8 million was net profit— that is, sheer cop, after all expenses (including wages, taxes, and the rest) have been met. It brings Mt. Isa Mines' total net profits in the past eight years to over $80 million. Of the $16.8 million, the glee ful shareholders are to. get $7.6 million in cash pay-off, as dividends for the year. Out of that $7.6 million, over $4 million is to go out of Aus tralia to one single Big Brother shareholder: American Smelt ing and Refining, which has almost 54% of Mt. Isa Mines' shares. Mt. Isa Mines has over 95 million shares at 50 cents each. That works out at over $47= million. The cash payout for the year to shareholders was 16% on that $47 i million: At that rate, the entire $47i million would be repaid in just over six years (not counting all the past pay outs, including over $30 mil lion in the previous seven years). But the dividend rate is likely to be increased (probably to 20%) as profits get higher still. So it won't take even six years to get the $47-11 million back. Something else, too: that $47& million isn't all real cash paid into the company for its shares; most of it is "water". That is,, most of the shares were never bought at all but were handed out free as "bonus issues." 95 MILLION SHARES There've been four Mt. Isa Mines bonus issues from 1957 on. Fay-outs Say you'd been in on the deal nine years ago, with the equivalent of 240 of the 50c shares. In those nine, years on top of all the cash pay-outs, your shares would have spread from 240 to 990; that is, an extra 750 shares buckshee. Last Friday the Mt. Isa Mines shares were over $4.40 on the market. So the 750 free shares alone would he worth well over $3000— and that's a capital gain, so it's tax free. If the modest 240-shares man has scored a cop like that, you can work it out for yourself (don't ask me to; I'm getting a headache) how much American Smelting & Refining, with its millions of shares (now over 50 million) has copped. The. K57 shaft and the gear that goes with it will mean in creasing daily ore production from 11,000 to about 16,000 tons — and you can guess what a 45% increase in production will do to profits. Immense As well as that, prospecting and exploration are turning up immense new deposits under Mt. isa Mines' control. So each year millions of &lt;tons of ore are dragged out, but so much new stuff is found that the known reserves at the end of the year are bigger than at the start. For example, the 1961 report showed copper ore reserves as 241 million tons. But the 1.965 report — after four more years of intensive mining— showed copper ore reserves at 331 mil lion tons: lip by nine million tons in four years! The wealth is made for Mt. Isa Mines by a work-force of over 4000. Mt. Isa Mines is well aware of the reaction among trade unionists to the announcement of the colossal new profit, after the company has so stub- bornly and bitterly resisted any moves for wage rises. (Rather than pay extra, the company has had two complete shutdowns of the Mt. Isa mine in .the last five years, and got Government collaboration each time, including "state of emer gency" orders). The company is worried also about the constant turnover of labor, as disillusioned workers go elsewhere; in 1964-65 (the year of the big dispute), out of an average number of 3077 em ployees, no fewer than 2952 (96%) went through. Santa Claus So now the company has put on white whiskers and a red coat and pretends that it's Santa Claus; it has invited un ions to confer with it "if the unions have any claims." The unions most certainly do have claims. Union representatives have already met once in Brisbane since the new profit, was- an- nounced, and they'll he meet ing again this week. It will be November before the company lets loose its de tailed accounts. But why should workers have to wait until then? The fact of the $16.8 million net profit is, in itself, far more than enough justification for the demand that higher wages be paid now, without delay, pending the full claims after the accounts in November. When the cards go down about when and by how much the company is willing to hike- up wages, then we'll see what the. company's new-found and most uncharacteristic concilia tory attitude is really worth. And what about the 40-odd workers whom Mt. Isa Mines refused to take back after the big dispute? Is the company now prepared to give them their former jobs? Or is there a blacklist tucked inside the Santa Claus robe? 