 BILLYS BRILLIANCE BRINGS A TITTER FROM THE MOB Letters BMMBWMMMBHMMBBPtlHWHIIfMB Willi llflll lil il , to the Editor . wmmmmummmammmmssa CUNDAY, 1 7th July, 1 966 marked the be ginning of 5 "Captive Nations Week" at Syd ney's Trocadero. The guest speakers were the Right Hon. W. McMahon, M.P. Federal Treasurer, the Hon. J. Maddison, M.L.A., NSW Minister for Justice, the Hon. J. Malcolm Fraser, Minister for the Army, Mr. Olechnik, Member of the Committee and Federal Secretary of the Byelo russian Association in Australia and Mr. A. W. A. Laing, Member of the Executive of the Returned Servicemen's League. \\ Upon walking into the Troc- 'adero on this occasion, one Icould not help but be im- jpressed with the solemnity of the occasion. The Australian and U.S. Flags were hung side by side in a prominent pos ition above the stage, j In the foyer were tables jaden with anti-communist hooks and pamphlets which by and large, sought to tell the readers everything about Communism except what they most wanted to know — the proposals of the various Communist Parties all over the world— the proposals of ihe various Communist Parties all over the world for the quickest and most honourable way to peace with security, freedom and democracy. | The meeting began a few ininutes after 3 p.m. with the singing of the National Anthem for which we stood. Following this, we were to remain standing while a clergyman said a prayer for the various nations under "captivity". ! The first speaker was Fed- jeral Treasurer McMahon, jwho, before settling down to the serious business of den- jouncing communists, had to jhave his little joke. He stated jthat on various occasions in ithe past, he had been pre sented with dolls dressed in jthe national costumes of various European countries, land that although they all jlooked very nice, he could not jifind any practical use for them. However, he went on, he had. since found another doll for which he found plenty of use, and since then he was a very proud hus band and avery happy man. This remark brought a titter from the audience and a look of embarrassment from his wife, who was sitting in the front row. From the speeches which followed, it seemed that even the struggle of the Vietnamese patriots against foreign occu pation of their country, and for independence was part of a gigantic communist plot to enslave the world, or at best part of the proverbial "south ward thrust" by China. In short, I have never heard such arrant nonsense in all my life. In the ensuing week, there will be another public meet ing and a film night spon- MiiinminaiiJi imnn.iinj sored by the Christian Anti- Communism Crusade, but I am sure that most of us will find something better to do than to go along to these functions. — N. N., Fairfield (N.S.W.) 