 Intrigue in high places THE Sm FLOOR , by Clifford Irving (Heinemann, London) . $8.15. Reviewed by JUNE MILLS jNTRIGUE in international politics has been dealt with in a number of books but comparatively seldom in fiction. Clifford Irving' s "The 38th Floor" is an exception. I This is a story of the United Nations. The 38th Floor is the Secretary-General's suite. Gunriar Lindstrom, Secretary- General, has a nervous collapse and his right-hand man, John Burden, an American Negro, is I appointed Acting Secretary-Gen- I eral. I Burden, a man with high ideals, j has as his first task to preside at a disarmament conference called j by Lindstrom before his illness. j The conference takes place after I the Chinese have exploded their E first atomic bomb. To the surprise | of all, a Chinese delegation attends | the conference, led by Huang Yu- b Chung. I To John Burden's amazement, a woman named Yen Li-peng is a member of the delegation. They had been lovers during the time Burden had been a consular of ficial in wartime Chungking. The Soviet delegation is headed by Andrei Kovlenko, Premier of the Soviet Union, an experienced diplomat. When Burden is appointed to the position of Acting Secretary- General, he has been told by John I Garvey US Secretary of State that E the USA is opposed to his idea of B having the disarmament confer- 1 ence reach a compromise agree- 8 ment with China. I Despite this warning, Burden I works unceasingly to win support | from China, the Soviet Union and i African countries. I The US representative on the 1 United Nations is John Burden's closest friend— a man who has helped him through college and the university, Andy Collingwood. But Andy also has political aspira tions and sees his chances of elec tion being ruined if he supports Burden's aim of including China in the UN. Happily married to a woman who gives him encouragement to achieve his ideals, with a son who sees his father's position as assist ance for equality between white and Negro Americans, Burden toys with the idea of taking his former lover Yen Li-peng for an evening out. Finally he succumbs and it is here that the opportunity is given to the US Secretary of State to ruin Burden's aim of achieving a compromise agreement on disarm ament. Clifford Irving vividly portrays the role of the US in the United Nations, the lengths to which the ruthless Secretary of State is pre pared to go to maintain his coun try's dominating position in the organisation. The book is a powerful exposure of America's role in international politics. But by the same token, Mr. Irving also shows a lack of understanding of communism and of Soviet policy. There is more than a touch of melodrama in the plot to kill Kov lenko and in the portrayal of the "inscrutable" Chinese leader. Despite this weakness Mr. Irving has writen a novel that holds the interest and wins sympathy for an American Negro whose intense sincerity and outstanding ability i no match for the ruthless politi cians, even those he considered his friends. 