 States cut up a very modest cake By Our Parliamentary Roundsman CANBERRA: The emblems of the six Australian States are always on display in the cocktail lounge at The Hotel Canberra — last week, as an additional trophy, the hotel had the Premiers of the States to grace its august halls as well. The State premiers always make the Hotel Canberra their headquarters during the annual battle with the Commonwealth for an allocation of Loan Coun cil money and a share i,n tax ation allocations. Last Wednesday, the day be fore Holt and McMahon were to meet the Premiers, Cabinet met to plan tactics. Cabinet had before it the modest demands of the Pre miers for a ten per cent in crease in loan fund allocations, and for some increase in the proportions of income tax re imbursements, they receive. The States also have to use their revenue to repay loans from the Commonwealth at in terest rates which have increas ed since last year. ' Cabinet decided on the recom mendation of Treasurer McMa hon on a hard line to refuse any increase in the proportions of income tax reimbursements to the states and to grant loan allocations which, after the ex pected' basic wage rise and price increases would amount to no more than about a 3% increase over the previous year. When the Premiers left for home last Friday they knew that , between them they had won an additional $40 million above last year's allocation to spend on works and housing. Yet when the States meet a basic wage rise, and face rising prices the increase will in real ity shrink to half. The Commonwealth also stole a march on the states by releas ing figures during the loan council meeting of what the states would receive from in come tax reimbursements, ac cording to the five year agree ment signed last year. Then right at the beginning of the Premiers' Conference the chairman, Treasurer McMahon, told the Premiers that the rate of income tax reimbursement was not up for discussion. New South Wales was grant ed a special three million dol lar loan for the construction of grain elevators. This was only . a minor con cession, because the proportion of loan money per head allocat ed to NSW has always been about ten dollars a head -less than Victoria. This goes back to the fact that there was a labor govern ment in NSW for 24 years and Liberal governments always tend to look after their own. In fact, instead of getting the $36m. needed to remove the dis parity, NSW got $24m. A story in wide circulation in Canberra, is that McMahon took a fairly hard line with the Premiers, so he could take a soft line with his pre-election budget. 1 On the other hand replying to the demand of the state Premiers for special Common wealth assistance for education 'Mr. Holt said he realised that states had their difficulties but so had the Commonwealth. Mr. Holt said that the prob lem could only be resolved by raising the level of taxation and he reminded Premiers that taxes had had to be raised in the last two budgets. Treasurer McMahon told the Premiers that defence spending had been going up steeply, that it was placing an increasingly heavy burden on our budget, and that this would continue. He made it clear it is impos sible to wage a war in Vietnam, and also build sufficient homes, schools, hospitals, and all the other facilities demanded by the people. Teachers put the heat on ANBERRA: The vigorous activity of New South Wales teachers' dele gates at the Premiers' conference here last week was an object lesson in democratic campaigning for vital public needs. The Teachers' Federation has waged a consistent campaign for massive Federal finance to cope with the serious education crisis. Last week, the Premiers were greeted on arrival in Canberra with big advertise ments in every newspaper cir culating in the capital. The advertisements said that all states had an urgent need for more trained teachers, schools, training colleges and adequate school equipment. All of these demands could be met, stated the advertise ment only if the Commonwealth Government provided sufficient funds at the loan council and Premiers' Conference. A delegation representing the NSW Teachers' Federation and the Australian Teachers' Federation met the Premiers as they walked up the steps at Parliament House, wished them well at the conference, specially in the demand for special Commonwealth aid for educa tion. The demand for Common wealth aid for education had reached such a level that three hours were set aside for a special discussion on education at the Premiers' Conference. While all Premiers pressed for Commonwealth aid, Pre mier Reece of Tasmania showed himself out of step by proposing a special education tax. Prime Minister Holt told the Premiers that their submissions on education would be studied by Cabinet. A meeting of the NSW Teachers' Federation Council last weekend in a resolution condemned any special edu cation tax and said that only a small fraction of incomfe taxation is being returned to the States by way of taxation reimbursement. 