 THE BRITISH DON'T STARVE: WHY ARE ASIANS HUNGRY? — Aarons nails colonialism JYDNEY : Colonialism was nailed as one of the main causes of hunger in the world by Communist Party General Secre tary Laurie Aarons when he spoke in a seminar on Freedom from Hunger in the Sydney Town Hall last week. "There are certain objective facts which have to be faced if really scientific and moral answers are sought to the questions of hunger and overpopula tion", Mr. Aarons said. "The United Kingdom's population density is 567 | to the square mile compared with India's 382; Holland has 909 compared to Indonesia's 170 and Belgium 783 compared to the Congo's 16. "Why do you hear about the 'teeming millions' of Asia,, out never the 'teeming millions' of Britain and Belgium?" "Which countries are overcrowded? To whom should we issue the warning— depopulate or perish? Empire "-pHESE three European countries were each the metropolitan nation of an empire — the others were their most important colonial possession, won by aggressive war, rich in natural resources." Mi'. Aarons used as another example the relation between the USA, which had 52 people to the square mile, and Venezuela with 22. ,7 Venezuela, he said, was' the largest area for US investment in Latin America. In the seven years up to 1962 US oil com panies made $6000 million profit from Venezuela, of whose 8,000,000 people 700,000 were unemployed, 200,000 children were homeless and 3000 peasant families landless and starving. "This is the meaning of the phrase "the economics of neo-colonialism", Mrs. Aarons said. Science CIENCE and technology, he added, could solve all the problems of food production, transport and distribution given only a share of the world's huge and socially-useless arms expenditure. "Hunger has Its origin in social, economic and political causes. The solution lies in social revolution, the re-making of social systems and a change in the relationships between rich and poor nations. , "This social revolution is on the move, sweeping the whole world and embracing all continents." In many Asian countries, including Indonesia, India, Pakistan and south Vietnam, most peasants were tenants who considered themselves lucky if they paid only 50 per cent of their crops, to the landlord. Killing RECENTLY the US congress cut total economic aid to all countries to $2,000 million this year — one tenth of what the US will spend on the Vietnam war. They spend ten dollars in killing off the 'surplus' pop ulation for every dollar spent in feeding the hungry." While this might produce immediate results in reducing the population it only worsened the bitterness of the under-priv- ilieged towards those who proclaim themselves humanity's ssviours, he said. Mr. Aarons pointed out that if yields of food crops could be raised to the levels of the most advanced nations, the world could adequately feed 9,000 million people — three times more than the present populations. Birth-control MR- Aarons said he did not think mass birth control, apparently intended for Indians, Chinese and others in so-called overcrowded nations, was the way to end hunger. "I favor birth-control and the search for better methods because it can help the individual in the search for a better, sexually happier and more socially useful life. "Voluntary birth control is a good and progressive social measure and should be part of the global approach to ending hunger. "But it is not the main solution. . I agree, with Pope Paul's statement that the task is to put more bread on humanity's table. ' The Freedom from Hunger campaign, said. Mr. Aarons, was worthy of everyone's support. Rev. T. D. Noffs of the Wayside Chapel, Potts Point, called on the Government to help realise the creative energies of young people in aid. 'to the Freedom from Hunger campaign. Frustrations of the young were shown in their hostility towards the Vietnam war and in other ways. A ;darge number of academic Mid political speakers were among those participating in the seminar.. 