 # Ashbolt book launched: Author warns of 'Austerican' culture JYDNEY : "Australia is continually bombarded with American propaganda, so that our culture is becoming what has been called 'Austerican' " Mr. A. Ashholt, well-known TV and radio journalist, said last Friday night to a packed audience in Sydney. Mr. Ashbolt's controversial book "An American Experience" has jtlst been published by the Australasian Book Society. He was speaking as a member of a symposium ar ranged by the ABS to launch the book at St. James Hall. Speakers at the symposium were Mr. Justice R. Else-Mit chell (who launched the book), Professor D. M. McCallum, Professor Russel Ward and Mr. Allan Ashbolt. Mr. Leslie Haylen presided over the meeting, attended by over 300 people, a. capacity crowd for the hall. Assessing the facts Mr. Ashbolt said that he had spent 20 years working in the mass media of television, drama and radio, and had more opportunity than most people to assess the effect and extent of American propaganda. "To me the person who sits Hnnm in front. nf his television and watches a. succession of shows— Bonanza, Beverley Hill billies, Dick Van Dyke — is be ing subjected to American pro paganda. "To me, also, the person who reads the daily news coming through the cables only of AAP is being subjected to Ame rican propaganda," Mr. Ashbolt said. In writing the book he had hoped to clear awa.y some of the myths and illusions, mis conceptions and prejudices con cerning America, and to give some understanding of the tensions and conflicts of Ame rican life. Mr. Ashbolt said that crime and the Negro question were part of everyone's life in the USA and touched the main springs of American life. Mr. Ashbolt said that he saw special significance in the fact that the USA connived at the murder of Congolese Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba. "To me, Lumumba's assas sination had a special mean ing. I saw it as giving poli tical sanction to political vio lence and since then events have justified these feelings." Since Lumumba-'s murder, Hammarskjold died in a plane crash, president Kennedy had been assassinated, the Presi dent of Nigeria had been as sassinated, Ben Bella had dis appeared and Ben Barka had been murdered in Prance, Mr. Ashbolt said. Professor McCallum said there was much he disagreed with in the book. He claimed it was anti-American. "I found myself constantly in disagreement not so much with matters of fact, but on matters of opinion and in terpretation throughout the book and I think it is a de plorable book," he said. Replying to this criticism, Mr. Ashbolt said that the Pro fessor was a "classic academic hireling of Australian obscur antism". "I think that what irritates him is that I have written a. certain kind of book which he finds difficult to deal with. He should remember that this book is a book about America and not about Cuba or the Congo", Mr. Ashbolt said. Professor Russel Ward said he was surprised at Professor McCallum's suggestion that it was a sin of some sort to be anti-American. "It seems to me that we are not free to be anti-American if we think we should be, if we think American policy is wrong." MR. A. ASHBOLT 