 Tribune "essential to working-people' Further improvements forecast gYDNEY: Recent changes and improvement in form, content and production quality of Tribune, which had been widely welcomed, could be followed by more, Mr. Alec Robertson, of Tribune Editorial, said last week. He was addressing a meeting of Communists from all parts of NSW, especially convened to discuss the campaign to build Tribune sales. There was a vigorous, positive and sometimes critical discussion around the. report, which stressed the fact that more sys tematic and varied meth ods of selling would yield a significant circulation increase over a period. "Are all readers con vinced that this newspaper is essential to the struggle for peace and socialism in Australia?" Mr. Robertson asked. Exposures "To find the answer one has only to consider for a moment what would have been the position without Tribune's exclus- ive exposures, just in re cent weeks, of the Griffith Aborigine case, the truth about the ship Boonaroo and Vietnam, the case of the sinking dredge W.D. Atlas, the fatal mine acci dent at Bulli, gross cases of foreign companies' ex ploitation of Australia, and other stories. "Tribune is essential to the interests of the Aus tralian working people — but so is mastery of sell ing Tribune, which cannot rely on expensive distri bution systems", he said. Mr. Robertson called for: Wider use of the pos tal subscription, to lighten the physical burden of numerous deliveries by volunteer sellers, freeing them for new sales efforts. A new leaflet has been issued to assist the sub- scription drive and is available from Tribune management. A new, thoughtful and large-scale attention to selective canvassing for new readers in jobs and localities. Quoting from successful experiences, he showed that by concen trating on canvassing peo ple whose names had been suggested by existing read ers and new readers, a high proportion of con solidated sales is achieved and more readers become enthusiastic about can vassing. Topical A Newcastle speaker urged the intensive use of the Popular Seller Compe tition to win subscriptions, using the slogan "From each subscriber, a new sub scriber". A Lithgow seller said great effort should be made to help new Com munist Party members to find the method of selling that best suited them. Several speakers put forward proposals for improvement in the Tri bune's content, several of them considering that there was need for still more variety, including some material not obvious ly political. More discus sion of topical issues was urged. Mr. Robertson said that the many valuable pro posals would be studied by the Editorial Committee and would be implemented where practical. Tribune readers and sellers are always invited to send their views on any mat ter relating to the paper to Tribune Editorial. 