 i | Big issues I are at stake | I ! IN the present heat of publicity about the moves j ! of Mr. E. G. "VVhitlam and certain other leading j 1 figures in the Australian Labor Party, it should be 1 I remembered that for a loner time there has been a I | powerful campaign to push the ALP leadership to j j the right. I I ' I Particularly in the past year, strenuous efforts i | have been made to drive the ALP into active j j support for the war of intervention into Vietnam, I ! unconditional support for American policies and j | increased war expenditure. | 1 The struggle being waged both openly and in j ! secret manoeuvres around who should be leader of g I the parliamentary party is really only an expression j I of the struggle over policy. ! i , - \ J It is also a matter of considerable importance to I I the basic working class organisations — the trade J unions — whose affiliated status in the ALP was J | attacked -last year by Mr. Whitlam at Newcastle. j i | Regular carriers of the push-to-the-right campaign | 1 have been the same daily press organs which have j | now thrown themselves into an attempt to destroy the j t elected leadership of ther ALP, whose policies of | ! : opposition to dispatch of ' troops to Vietnam, and to | S . conscription for overseas, have inspired such widen- j iing unity in the labor movement in the past year. J The campaign has also been, to a degree, master- | f minded by B. A. San tamaria, leader of the organs j | of rightwing extremism the National Civic Council i ! and the Democratic Labor Party, who played a | | major part in splitting the ALP in the 'fifties. j I " | j He openly demands an alliance of the ALP right- g ! wing forces with his own DLP, in the interests of = j embracing a policy of war against Asian countries j I and the immediate militarisation of Australia to the I | tune of spending £1000 million a year. j I j | Undoubtedly there are some persons in the ALP j g who either work with Santamaria or follow the same . j I policy. Some others, however, are unwillingly find- : ! ing themselves driven by personal loyalties to right- , I wing leaders in a direction which, as they know from ! j the 1950's, leads to splitting their party. \ j ' ; ; The struggle in the ALP, at present sharp, j reflects the existence of different class interests | within that party. An aspect of this has been for 1 "very many years, the efforts, of rightwing forces to ! separate off to an independent position the "parlia- J mentar.y party" from control by the constitutional I leading bodies of the party. | Again and again, this manoeuvre has been defeated | — sometimes only after losses, but always by the j consolidation of unity among the mass membership 3 and the affiliated unions, around the most positive j of the policies espoused by the elected leaders. I The real issues of the ALP struggle now are, as always, policy issues — for or against an independent Australian foreign policy, for or against the Vietnam war and the strategy of hostility to Asian liberation, ! for or against monopoly domination and increasing foreign control of the Australian economy, for or against militant unionism and action to meet workers' demands, for or against an independent role' by a united working class. J The question of "State Aid", important though I it is, cannot be allowed to divert attention from ! these issues, so basic to the interests of the labor movement and the whole Australian people. I _ O-O- 