 Australian link with slain Indonesian YDNEY : The murder hy the Indonesian army last week of Mr. M; H. Lukman, first vice-chairman oi the Indonesian Communist Party, has destroyed an able man who personified the bonds linking Australian and Indonesian workers. The murder was sharp ly condemned this week by the Communist Party of Australia. Mr. Lukman, who had been a Minister without portfolio and Deputy Speak er of the Indonesian Parlia ment, was arrested by troops in Djakarta, according to the official announcement, and was "shot while try ing to escape" — a standard formula used when jailers murder their prisoners. Mr. Lukman's personal connection with Australia began through his parents. His father was arrested in 1926 for his part in an anti-Dutch rising and was sent to exile in West Irian. Mohammed Lukman, who was then only nine, was with his parents and in 1938 he went back to Java, where he worked underground for the freedom of Indo nesia. His parents, who were still left in exile, were brought to Australia early in the war with other internees of the Dutch, and Mrs. Luk man died and was buried at Cowra in 1943. Lukman's father returned to Indonesia and died there in 1960. In 1963 Lukman, visiting Australia, paid tribute to Australian workers in a message - through Tribune, wishing them success in their struggles for a- better life. "Not only the workers but all patriotic people of Indo nesia are well aware of the solidarity actions taken by Australian workers in sup port of our national inde pendence struggle", he said. "Those deeds will always be remembered and they provide a very good basis for future co-operation be tween the workers of our two countries." Mr. L. Aarons, general secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, said in Sydney this week : "Many Australians will grieve per sonally over the murder of Mohammed Lukman, the latest victim of the cold blooded mass killing of In donesian democrats . and militants being carried by the Djakarta military re gime. "We communists protest most strongly at the contin uing slaughter of many of the finest sons and daught ers of Indonesia's young republic. "We call on Australian working people to emulate their inspiring solidarity with the Indonesian revolu tionaries in the early post war years and to send their own protests to the Indo nesian Ambassador at every new brutality. 