 CPA documents launch pre-Congress discussion . PUBLICATION this week of an import ant new statement of Communist Party ideas on Australia's future is the first stage of a far- reaching democratic dis cussion that will range over more than six months. Based on an exhaustive dis cussion throughout the mem bership of the party itself, the process is expected to range widely among peopie of socialist and radical trends of thought. A new feature will be public hearings of the views of in terested people of any view- . point, conducted by a party commission in each State; The publication is an attrac tive 30-page booklet contain ing the three main draft docu ments adopted by the party's central committee in prepar ation for the 21st national congress in June, 1967. Extensive and deep discus sion — within and outside ; the Communist Party — is the. aim behind the publication of the . documents so far in advance of the congress. "The central committee appeals to members for ex pression of all views and opinions in a wide, critical and far ranging discussion of the ideas in the draft documents- and -of- the... party's whole policy and work," says a letter to readers signed by the party's president (Mr. R. Dixon) and secretary (Mr. L. Aarons) and published in the booklet. "There are to be no limit ations upon the discussion and we invite party members and organisations to begin this discussion immediately." The letter also says the central committee . hopes for frank and controversial dis cussions also from other soc ialist, militant and radical trends. "This latter would help communists to consider and learn from other views and experiences and perhaps help to stimulate the much-needed wider discussion of socialist theory and practice." The three documents con tained in the booklet are: 1. "Towards a coalition of the Left"— a statement of the party's general con cepts ;of the way forward for the working class and democratic movement in the struggle for basic re- . forms and social dhange in Australia. 2. "Communists and the Battle of Ideas"— a Com munist analysis of the tasks of marxist thought. 3. -"Rules and Constit ution of the Communist Party of Australia." „ Therq is an appendix to the first '.document ""containing""' factual and statistical refer ence material. "A special journal will be published at' , least twice be fore the congress. All articles . intended as serious contrib utions to discussion will be published, subject only to space considerations which will be set at a generous limit." the letter says. The discussion will he completed by the congress itself, which will take decis ions based on the results of the discussion and the final redrafts of documents. All party organisations and individual members have the right to submit amendments, additions or alternative state- ments in writing for submis sion to the congress. Deadline for materials to be included in the first issue of the congress discussion journal is January 31, 1967. Subse quent deadlines will then be announced. Resolutions for submission to congress must be received by May 7, 1967. The' main document exam- ines the effects of technol- ogical and other postwar , changes on the Australian , economy, , class forces and aspects of social life. It gives particular attention , to the central role of the in dustrial working class, the fast-growing importance of the "white collar" grouping, and the part to be played by the Communist Party in Aus tralian life. It sets out policies for peaceful and friendly foreign relations, national develop ment and democratic control, basic social reform and a new quality of social life. It sets forth views on neces sary development towards unity of the Left forces, and a new relationship between the labor movement and other social groupings as basic elements in the search for a "specific Australian way to socialism." Socialism "Given a rational social system and world cooper ation, modern technology could multiply . output of wealth per head by four in 20 years, eight in 30 years and 16 in 40 years. "This would mean that the poorest parts of the world could reach a standard of liv ing equal to that of Western Europe within a generation; by then the present advanced i /uy, countries could provide a living standard four times its &lt; present level, with a 20 hour working week. Monopoly capitalism can never make this advance," it says. "Socialism is the only rational way forward in the age of technological revolu tion." The second document stresses the great need for more challenging presentation of the ideas and aims of the Communist Party, of scientific socialism. It calls for deeper, more comprehensive and realistic analysis of the existing cap italist society and of the ex perience of socialist societies and warns sharply against continued evidences of sectar ianism and dogmatism in the growing contest of ideas be tween socialism and capital ism. It examines what is meant by revolutionary social change in the Australian context and lays stress on the significance of the Australian heritage of struggle to extend and de fend democracy. Both these documents refer to the need for serious effort to improve the theoretical analysis, policies and activ ity of the Communist Party together with further develop ment of its democratic pro cesses and critical discussion of problems. The draft of a revised Rules and Constitution also reflects the search for greater depth in democratic forms. The introductory letter states that the documents should be read and discussed in the context of the existing general Party Program and the programs for the Abor iginal people and for Papua and New Guinea, 