 Ifrom a [?] By Tribune Editor ALEC ROBERTSON in Cuba , where he has been representing the Communist Party of Australia at the July 26 celebrations of Fidel Castro's storming of the Moncado barracks to launch the Cuban Revolution. ON THE I BST COAST OF MEXICO: You walk quickly from the qL Boeing into a mighty airport building, 120 yards long, with' fed i concrete roof contour that sets the wind moaning. The vasin-w-wiilled halls could hold 5000 people on the marble lloorsi'.htyffijaiinost empty. A brass plaque reads, when translated "Acapvtaijjmational Airport , opened by President Cristavo Diaz Ordas/aJg ',jo5,200,000 peso (about A$8, 000,000), 1st June, 1966." There American music through German Telefunken ampllfi 'Mit It'sBfllithre conditioned to cool. But outside, it's hot and steantyfaflflteen laborers in faded cotton pants, shirts and old straw tawfipi. and shovel trenches in sandy airport soil beside the ruwn American Braniff Airways 727 from California lands ai|||rffes tourists who either disappear in big cars or sit insideW'ait for a Mexican Airlines piston Electra — the only other alrfllip appear in the li hours we are there. A Mexican Health iflBflpent girl official who receives them reads a US "MAE" CoJgo's But aortjho' road, beyond the passing US tourist cars and the semi-toffi local trucks, is another part of Mexico— a collection of poor'olwlof rough unpainted wood or palm-leaf walls, and roofs ot't Corrugated black iron, some galvanised, even some of wooded to; In front of one are old Pepsi and Orange Crush signs, bntu Jurist goes in. Dark-skinned men resting in the heat, graceful barefoot women in clean, deep cotton print dresses, and many children, beautiful with round dark eyes, laughing faces, not shy. Under the lean-to of one hut, swinging in a long plaited grass hammock, a dark baby spueals with delight; two teenage girls in sombre, knee-length work dresses get off the water carter's truck and walk in, each balancing on her head a galvanised iron tub of washing. On the 'drome the labourers wear old sandals; inside, the officials are well dressed, with natty shoes. It is a place of contrasts, like — J7ROM the air this looks like baked clay huts spread in dry confusion over 10 mile diameter. In fact, arrival reveals some streets lined with trees, and two big parks. It is a city of 51 million people packed into about one quarter the size of Sydney. It is noisy all night without any break, and for most of the time the streets teem with cars (both dazzling and dilapidated, and nearly all American), 19,000 taxis (mostly beat-up) and hordes of buses in the same tattered condition. Traffic police supplement all trafic lights with whistle blasts and gestures; general police are all armed, and all of the very numerous banks and branches are occupied by two armed police as though bank robbery is an hourly occurrence. Cruising taxis are cheap but hard to find; those standing at ranks or pubs charge three or four times the meter rate. All cabs and buses arc privately owned. Skiled workers in the city get $US4 a day — just over $A3 — but unskilled get only half that, and in fact can't live on it. But accord ing to accounts, this is high living compared with the campesinos of the farms and those seen slopping through the town in barefoot sandals, cottons and faded blanket and straw hat, seemed to spell abject poverty. Army officers, often armed, roam about, though no one can explain what the army does, since Mexico has had no war since 1910. In the back streets poverty abounds. The whole picture is one of a ruthless class society in which the ruling class are torn between admiration of the nation's own rich cultural past and their subser vience to the USA. Certainly the historical, anthropological and art exhibitions are breathtaking in content and presentation. Diego Rivera's great 1934 mural on the theme that Man can control the Universe (with a section on Soviet socialism), and communist David Sequeiros' 3-mural work on World War II are proudly displayed and are among the world's treasures. Yet in the main parts of . the city, the Yank tourist reigns supreme as the arrogant, outspoken overlord to whom (unfortunately) too many Mexico City people seem to crawl. Only some signs, painted on walls like that in the centre of the city "Alto Agresion a Cuba" ("Stop aggression against Cuba") are there to save the honor of the real nation. "THREE hours across the Gulf of Mexico in a four-engined Britannia of British make. As it lands, you are just 90 miles from Florida, and just over three miles off Havana harbor is the sinister spy shape of the US naval ship Oxford on permanent station, "supervising" all that enters and leaves this main harbor of the only socialist territory so far in the Americas. The Cubans live with it but it stokes their fires of hatred of the imperialists who blockade them still. Of necessity, therefore, this is a country still on a semi-war footing. At one airport planes were blown apart by US bombs and shells from the raiders of 1961. In the city is a gap and simple memorial park where the biggest store was burnt down by a US agent; at the harbor front on display a twisted part of a ship blown up by CIA agents. And so many buildings are guarded by green dressed armed militia — more women than men— rostered from the staff. But this is a socialist Havana, too, bursting with growth and life. On the way from the airport, amid bush-green tropical foliage you pass in turn a big villa turned into a technical school, a half-finished factory for fabricating homes, factories for farm machinery, musical intruments, pharmaceutics, food, cigars — and neon signs like "Long live peace and socialism" and "Cuba — Vietnam— Dominica". And it's also the Havana immortalised during the old, decadent, millionaire days by songs like "Sand in My Shoes" — and so, still' driving, you pass a cabaret, a restaurant, a sports stand, a big building (noi the national library) with red, blue and white neon stars flashing; then, back from the beach, trie great 25-storey hotel, formerly Havana Hilton, now Havana Libre — free Havana! In these places today, the working people flock, well dressed in open necked shirts, as they do at night in the streets and shops and "booking" a driver twice her size who went through a stop - with its 400 different flavors and shapes. Modern art hangs in display windows, book and record shops abound. Radios play jazz and Cuban. Dark skins and light are everywhere mixed in uninhibited dem ocracy, and everywhere youth predominates. Women (without guns) control all traffic, and one is seen calmly and firmly lecturing and "booking" a driver twice her size who went through a stop sign. The city already has a festive air and is decorating for the July 26 celebration of the heroic, unsuccessful attack by Fidel Castro and his mates on Moncado barracks, a few short years before they and the people in 1959 swept out the hated old regime and began building their beloved Cuba into a socialist island where the living will be very, very good. "Flower Seller in Blue", by Mexican artist Diego Rivera \ I I July 26 in Havana Statue of Cuban national hero Jose Marti in Havana 