 C-Day: Half-cent coin is a "MUST" MELBOURNE: Dishonest statements have been made by Decimal Cur rency Board chairman, Sir Walter Scott to allay public concern over wide spread price grabs under cover of the changeover next Monday (February, 14). He has made the follow ing claim: "Prices remained stable in South Africa when that country made its smooth change-over to a similar decimal currency system in 1961, and there "is no reason why it will be any different here." Worse here In fact, South Africa chang ed its currency on February 14, 1961, and the following head lines appeared in the South African dailies, the Rand Daily Mail and the Cape Times, over ensuing days: Feb. 16: Decimal Profiteers Warned by Minister of Fin ance. : Feb. 16: Angry Buyers Beat Decimal System. Feb. 17: Profiteering Must Stop. Price Control Warning by Minister of Finance The Australian situation pro- / mises to be much worse be cause the Australian consumer is not being protected by a I- cent coin. South Africa provided a I- cent coin "to minimise rises when converting prices", and has retained it so as to mini mise. all future increases in the prices . of bread, mi, Ik, fares, phone calls, etc. Australia's 1960 Decimal Cur rency Committee (under chair man Scott) chose our dollar system and recommended that a temporary i-cent coin be pro vided for the protection of the consuming public during the change-over. Now the chairman is trying to 'say the consumer doesn't need such protection. The halfpenny is playing a vital part in minimising infla tion today. When petrol prices increase Id. a gallon, the petrol com panies gain over £3m. a year. A cent would produce 15m. dol lars (£7.5m.). With more petrol being consumed annually, the importance of the Id: in this sector is actually increasing. The same situation applies with such commodities as beer, bread, milk and countless grocery lines, millions of pounds of which are sold each week. The federal government would not dare to withdraw the Id. coin . today. In fact, however, the 'Decimal Currency Board plans to abolish the Id., under cover of the cur rency change-over confusion. Every price now ending in Id., Id., lid., 2d. and so on up to llld., must change. The following are urgently required: There MUST be provision of a half cent coin. The Currency Board must list all prices and publish the decimal prices which shouid apply after C-Day. The Currency Board should cease distributing its mislead ing "approximate" conversion tables and produce and publi cise one which shows the exact relation between the old and new currencies. 