 Angry teachers defy the gag CYDNEY : The Council of the NSW Teachers' Fed eration last Saturday called on all members of the Federation to defend their rights to speak freely to the public about the needs of the schools. Members are also asked to make known to the public the action being taken by. the Department to intimidate teachers and stifle their speech. A fortnight ago two teach ers from the Port Kembla High School arid Berkeley High School, in the Wollongong area, were "carpeted" for pub licly criticising conditions at their schools. They had written to the press calling for improved conditions at their schools. One sought a senior studies block which, has since been approved for construction. They were summoned to ap pear before the Area Directo: of Education, who read them sections of the Public Service Regulations which denies any teacher the right to make pub lic statements. Following this intimidation, teachers in the area last week held a mass protest meeting with the full backing of the South Coast Labor Council, which has also sent a protest to the Public Service Board. Tomorrow afternoon (Thurs day) a. public meeting of teachers, parents and trade unionists will be held in the Wollongong Town Hall to dis cuss the needs of education and the efforts to prevent teachers from giving the public the facts on education. The Council of the Federa- tion has given full backing to the actions of the Illawarra Teachers' Association. ' The executive and senior of ficers of the Federation have been instructed to take all action considered necessary to defend the right of teachers t.o speak freely on school condi tions and if necessary to place advertisements in newspapers. Council said the attempts to use regulations against teach ers "are intimidatory and pro vocative in nature and detri mental to the advance of edu cation in this State. "It is the right of the par ents and general public to be informed of the problems and needs of the public schools of this State, including the exist ence of sub-standard buildings, shortages of accommodation, equipment and staff." Council called upon the Dir ector-General of Education and all Directors of Educa tion, primary, secondary and technical) to support teachers in their efforts to improve educational standards and con ditions in New South Wales. Council called on the Federal Government to release the re vised "Statement of Some Needs of Australian Education" pre sented by the State Ministers for Education, and to give the needs of education a maximum priority in the provision of funds to the States. I 