 Country Party youth challenge to MPs pERTH: A censure motion, charging Country Party mem bers of Parliament with neglect of rural interests, has rocketed Young Country Party views to public notice and gained support for them within the parent body. The occasion was the recent Wetern Australian State conference of the Young Country Party, and the censure motion has added to the growing tensions within the national Liberal-Country Party alliance. The young members' views include demands for demo cratic policies which would benefit others in the com munity. The censure motion was withdrawn, but not before two and| a half hours of ani mated debate at the annual conference, which was held over the Labor Day week end, March 5-9. About 60 delegates, aged 18- 30, from all seven branches, attended the conference. Narrogin delegates claimed that MP's are losing the sup port and confidence of young members. The conference adopted sev eral proposals from Goomal- ling-Dowerin which aim to make (National Service Regula tions more democratic: Appeal tribunals for con scripts whose application for deferment was rejected by a magistrate. No appeal machin ery exists at the moment. ® Exceptional hardship, one of the grounds, for deferment under the Act, to be clearly defined. ® After a first deferment, simplified machinery for seek ing extensions of deferment. © More CMP units in coun try districts for those who wish to attend. (The Prime Minister, Mr. Holt, announced the 15Q0 con scripts after the conference was held.) A Narrogin motion, calling for the vote at 20 for men and women, was passed. Pensions The young delegates want all pensions, child endowment and maternity allowances adjusted regularly to match the cost of living, and civilian widows to be allowed an income equal to the basic wage before any means test is applied. An important prop o s a 1 adopted was for probate to be payable over seven years in interest-free instalments. (Probate can be a serious problem for many in today's conditions. In agricu 1 1 u r e, plagued by fantastic land prices and high capitalisation, it can mean disaster for the sons of even wealthy farmers and is a major cause of big monopoly control of the land.) This conference also called for change in the superphos phate subsidy, from a flat rate to 25 per cent of cost per ton. Other notable motions in cluded a call for the Country Party to contest metropolitan seats (in conflict with the Lib erals) and for international af fairs officers within the Young Country Party to increase awareness of SE Asian and gen eral overseas affairs. 