 ' ' I " ' P , ' _ / ' . :> - : ' $ . ' "A ipixrplex of moiksistencios " ! . i IN SYdsireach year |3 about thisiit nfe; i there is a vigorous-- s| ajg; of popular interest irtjif |at- Australia s painters o£4|Jf&y are doing. ART CONTESTS REVIEWED BY H. McC It is the!'serii|=of the Archi bald, Wynne! i | Sullman prize awards. If The annual;!: play.: of carefully / culled entries i|,b these three competitions Sta-.:be seen, at the Sydney Nat $sl'. Gallery, is a sure hox offii )|&raw, bringing together a cq fill, varied and comprehensive: ; parade of the recent achieve juts ; of painters from all Aiist?. I uxsStates. . Unfortunatel| hjisv general in terest tends;:& lalim; down to a placid indiffes sesfbas the year unfolds and art Itfeats to a small private galleisfe appearmg in abstract forinsoi-Iittle interest to the public Mchv ..anyhow, is mostly busttyged during the hours these-irivate galleries remain open, j There are ;;i t&eal -"shockers" in the pres'ef feplays, and no glowing works, gemus, but the selectors have en: able to put together a sh icpf- surprisingly even quality d $ph iofr the dis tinctive type? | painting prac tised by Austi m ' artists. l-:A As you desa j&o-ithe galleries, housing the ill entries you may pause « the gallery above, to buy ffelpgue and get in the mood; ft glance at the large abstract! |)and ' the very concrete but;:i tully mounted remains of (limbered grand piano entitled' JBamst, pianist, where areLW»||"which conceal ' ' S the walls about the information counter. You then find yourself at first among the works of the straight forward or "academic" portraitists. If you belong to the avant garde you will hurry through this section with shaded eyes. We will pause, however, as there are several successful portraits in the academic tradition by Joshua Smith, Reg Campbell, Garrett Kingsley and Gwen Pratt; a some what freer painting by Dora Tovey of composer John Anthill; a stern portrait of Prank Beck and a very candid picture of W. E. Pidgeon (a twice-over Archibald winner himself). Tucked in a corner here there is a very beautiful painting of Kath Walker, the Aborigine poetess, by Cliff Pier which does not belong to this section at all. Conceived in deep green, brown and violet blue, it is the most sincere and deeply felt portrait in the show. ? IN the middle section among a number of inter esting pictures is a genial painting by Frank Beck of Strom. Gould, a portrait of Sydney Symphony conduc tor Dean Dixon on a some what disturbing background by J. N. Kilgour, and two portraits of veteran artist Lloyd Rees showing just how differently two painters can see one man. Finally we arrive at the section which includes the winning por trait. Here we find the painters most consciously struggling with the problem of squaring the demands of portraiture for like ness and natural appearance with the urge to be with the modern movement away from mere repre sentation. This inevitably leads to contra diction and inconsistency, and the winning portrait with all its striking qualities is a complex of inconsistencies. Apart from the observation that no one is likely to accept the presentation of R. A. (Rags) Henderson, director and former managing editor for the Sydney Morning Herald, as a lean pale- faced aesthetic with thin claw-like skeletal hands, there are incon sistencies also in the technical conception and handling. Although the picture stands out very well at a distance, a closer inspection shows the pale face and bony hands treated as though representational, against a back ground of flat shapes reminiscent of abstract art and the rest of the figure treated with a complete disregard fdr form. The whole is effective, but the inconsistency is not resolved. ? THE Wynne landscape selection follows much the same pattern though the abstractionists, freed from the problem of painting a personal likeness, have much more scope here and fill a large wall. Again all trends are well repre sented, and if there is a note of doubt, it is that so many painters are searching for tricky effects rather than striving by observa tion for a deeper understanding of nature. The Sullman competition for subject painting is always the most disappointing and this year is even more so, as painters do not seem to be able to cope with genre or subject. Finally it is notable that our strongest painters do not enter these competitions and the shows as a whole lack democratic content. . TOP: Aboriginal poetess, Kath Walker, was the subject for Cliff Pier. BELOW: Dean Dixon, resident conductor of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, as seen by J. M. Kilgour. 