 Glamor and sense By GLORIA MELTZER " | U S T look at them," said the homely woman in the plain dress sitting be- side me in the foyer of Melbourne's luxury Southern Cross Hotel. We had both staring at a procession of sophisti cated hair-dos, mink coats, fashionable suits and suede shoes among the 250 delegates arriving in big cars and taxis to at tend the "Women at Work" Conference. It was organised by the Victorian Employers' Fed eration and other employ ers' bodies, land was called primarily to over come the present labor shortage in Australia, by trying to induce more wo men into the workforce. In the absence of the Minister for Labor and National Service, Mr. Bury, a Government spokeman, Mr. D. Chipp, MHR, em phasised the fact that more women are wanted in em ployment because of the shortage of labor in Aus tralia. "Talent," he said, "is not confined to one sex. On the question of equal pay, Mr. Chipp stated that thp Government's position was quite clear, that It 'does "not oppose equal pay as such, but that it would be "irresponsible for the Government to . introduce equal pay without first go ing before a tribunal, and studying the matter thor oughly." Dame Mary Smieten, British Government repre sentative at UNESCO, out lined Britain's advance over Australia in its female workforce: Dame Mary stressed . that much more must be done to meet the needs of working mothers — ' includ ing nurseries, creches, and after-school care — and said: "I have always been in favour of equal pay, and I feel that women in indus try should all be mem bers of the trade unions and should actively sup port their demands." Mr. J. Riordan, Secretary of the Federated Clerks' Union of Australia, and an executive member of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, spoke of the trade unions' attitude to women at work. When questioned by a female delegate on the real reasons why the trade unions have not taken more positive steps on equal pay, Mr. Riordan re plied: "We could call a national strike of every female employee. But then we would ear accusations of having oeen taken over by the Communists. n/r challenge to wir. Riordan's arguments n equal pay came when PrL/»' : Brown' Federal Sn f the Austra- Ba,'lways Union, ques- eaujfi that the only way equal pay could be achiev- decidPf if the emPloyers decided to grant it. e ' could come at the ssr f the prflts oi Glared17' Mr" Browr de" of lne Seneral feeiing eondonp frence dw n jatUtudehse"baCk e"" 