 Press explodes Humphrey claim of US "victories" Vice-President Humphrey's claims that "allied forces" are winning every battle in Vietnam have been flatly contradicted by press reports in recent weeks. £ANBERRA observers be lieve that Humphrey over reached himself in his efforts to "sell" the Vietnam war, to help the Holt Government prepare for the sending of more Australian troops. The very day after the claim was made, the same newspaper, i the Sydney Daily Telegraph, re- | ported quite a number of "en- 1 gagements" which the "beaten" I enemy seemed somehow to win. At An Khe, in South Vietnam, | the "Viet Cong" penetrated the ;! entire defence system of the US ' 1st Air Cavalry Division and launched a mortar bomb attack on the major US helicopter base at which the unit's HQ is locat ed. The very fact of a successful .&lt; attack on a divisional HQ and ' the escape of the attackers con- -\ stitutes a victory, i "The combined assault- was one of a series against South Vietnamese and American in stallations in various parts of the country", said the Tele graph. Yet Humphrey had just been telling Australians that it was I "the allied forces" who were on I the offensive. I "A number of the aircraft are I believed to have been damaged," | says the Telegraph report. I At a US-Saigon communica- i tions post on Hong Cong moun- | tain, the liberation forces also didn't seem to know that they' I were on the defensive and los- , ing all their engagements with I the US-controlled forces. They attacked this post, which overlooks the An Khe base, and, says the report, "the defenders suffered serious casualties". | On the same day> further north "the Viet Cong shelled the airfield and railway station at Tarn Ky, capital of Quang Tin Province, 360 miles from Saigon ... "Other guerilla actions includ ed the almost total destruction of five bridges between Da Nang, site of the big US air base, and Hue, in the northern most part of South Vietnam. "The bridges, which were blasted yesterday, were on the country's main line. Same achievement "Their destruction paralysed rail transport throughout the northernmost provinces". And all this in a single day! Some achievement for an army which is on the defensive and beaten in every engagement. Of course Humphrey could say that these were not engage ments in which the US and allied forces "came into contact with the enemy." But to "establish contact with the enemy", that is, to catch him, is the big problem in every guerilla war. The Americans seem no bet ter at this than the French be fore them who did in fact win nearly every "engagement" in Vietnam except the last — at Dien Bien Phu. Typical was the failure of Operation Crimp" launched last month to surround and annihilate large liberation frces. According to American press reports, the US forces pen etrated into the so-called "Iron Triangle" but found only empty trenches. The liberation forces counter attacked and the US forces had to retreat. With later operations, "Double Eagle" and "White Wing", it has been no better. "Nothing so underscores the elusiveness of the enemy in South Vietnam as the frequent battle communique 'initial con tact was light' " grumbles Time magazine. "Double Eagle got its claws into little really organised op position . . . Double Eagle and White Wing failed to make contact with the four Com munist regiments operating In Binh Dinh . . ." Ladk ireensits Not being able to catch the "enemy" is serious. Not being able to get support from among bis ranks is still more serious and means that the US-Saigon armies cannot hold the territo ries they may temporarily "win", since they lack recruits. Thus The Australian of Feb ruary 22 tells of the bitterness of the US forces at leaving An Lao valley after a tough fight. "There are just not enough troops to hold the valley" the correspondent admits. The British Guardian corres pondent explains on the same day (as quoted): "The aim is to search and destroy the Viet Cong. But there are not enough South Vietnamese and American forces to hold the ground that is cleared. "Americans admit that there will be areas taken and then- abandoned by their forces. If the villagers are disillusioned, there is nothing to he done about it." Cannot win Thus it is not because "we are winning" as Humphrey claims, but precisely because "we" cannot win and are in fact losing that Humphrey came, in the US phrase, to "wrestle up" more Australian troops. Even the mighty US is short of manpower. According to the current Newsweek a draft board clerk in Michigan said "We are sim ply running out of young single men in our district". The deputy director of selec tive service in Massachusetts said "Eight months ago we were deferring anyone who was just wanning a seat in a classroom. We can't do that any more." Across the nation, says News week, the pattern is much the same. "To meet the Pentagon's calls for men (projected at some 300,000 draftees and an equal number of enlistments by the end of the year— almost double last year's requirements) draft boards have begun calling up childless young married men and college drop-outs and re classifying 1-Y registrants who were rejected originally for not meeting . mental, moral or physical standards." 1 "The allied forces were on the offensive and 1 I winning every engagement in which they came I into contact with the enemy/' — So ran the 1 Sunday Telegraph report (February 20) of part 1 of United States Vice-president H. Humphrey's 1 press conference in Canberra. | 