 Sukarno's startling speech to mass rally gTARTLING events in Jakarta last week showed that the Rightwing gener als who seized power in October were not having everything their own way after all. Despite their massacre of a million or more opponents, it was shown that powerful forces are still in the field to oppose their terror regime. It was shown that the gen erals and their Foreign Min ister (Malik) did not after all succeed in having Sarawak and Sabah thrust into Malasia without their opinion being sought. All this became clear dur ing two speeches by President Sukarno during, the celebra tions of the 21st anniversary of Indonesia's independence. In the first, -/August 16, \the- Fresident announced that he was still the leader of Indo nesia, while General Suharto and the Cabinet were only his assistants. First Minister General Su harto who, with the western imperialist press and govern ments, had written off Su- karno as a. mere figurehead in the new set-up, had to sit by in silence while this was said. Afterwards he claimed that the Cabinet made all decisions. Undetei'red,: President Su karno repeated the theme in his speech to a mass rally the next day. While condemning the Sep tember 30 coup, he also spoke against the killings which fol lowed and called for an end to them, reaffirming his be lief in "NASAKOM"- — the Readership of Indonesia by nationalist, religious a n d Moslem forces. " Opposition The Australian Broadcast ing Commission reported that portions of Sukarno's speech was blacked out during trans mission. The President also revealed that reports of his opposition to signing the Bangkok agree ment as originally drafted were true. He said he had refused to accept the Bangkok agree ment until it had been changed to say that Malaysia would be recognised by Indo nesia only after Sabah and Sarawak elections and not. with the signing of peace with Malaysia. He appealed to the people of these territories to make the best use they could of this 'provision (which had been included in the Manila agree ment of 1963 but left out at Bangkok) and to make sure they really were free elec tions. "I am sure you really want to be independent," Sukarno told the peoples. JAILED "COMMUNISTS" EXERCISE UNDER SUPERVISION Indonesia's new order 