 Vernon said a mouthful THE most significant outcome of Sir James Vernon's reluctant appearance last Friday at the national wage hearing before the Arbitration Com mission was his admission that the workers' share of the gross national product has declined by 6£ per cent between 1953 and 1963. This means that if the wages portion of the gross national product (total goods and ser vices) had expanded at the same rate as the whole during those 10 years, Australian workers would have received an extra 530 million dollars in their wage packets by 1963. This would have occurred without the proportion of pro fits declining at all. As it happened, these addi tional 530 million dollars went to employers. Sir James admitted that this 530 million dollars was a "worthwhile and significant ele ment." Most workers will heartily agree. Particularly in the light of the fact, as ACTU advocate R. Hawke had shown earlier in his submissions before the Com mission, that due to price rises the basic wage is now worth 7 per cent less than when it was fixed in 1964. This decline came on top of the proportionate decline of 6£ per cent between 1953 and 1963. In other words the fruits of the tremendous expansion of production and productivity since 1953 have not gone to the workers, they have gone to the wealthy. The effect of deci sions of the Arbitration Com mission throughout this period has been to keep it this way. In their attempt to prevent any significant increases in wages, the employers earlier had argued that there was no point in the Commission in creasing wages, that it would only lead to price rises and that past experience had shown that no matter what the Com mission did the proportion of wages remained fairly constant. To demonstrate this the employ ers leaned heavily on Chapter 7 of the 1965 '.'Vernon" Report on the Economy. The irony of it all is that the Vernon Report last year had been severely attacked from the employers' side because it call ed for greater control of for eign investment and for more planning in economic affairs. The drama of the appearance of Sir James Vernon last Friday was the engineering of the col lapse of Chapter 7, the employ ers' main prop, with Sir James's co-operation. Sir James admitted on the basis of figures presented by Mr. Hawke, that the Vernon Committee's commendation of a policy of wage restraints "might require modification." Strenuous attempts were made to prevent Sir James ex pressing any opinions before the Commission. The whole morning was taken up by Mr. J. Smyth Q.C. and Mr. John Kerr Q.C. objecting to virtually every question Mr. Hawke asked. Youth Day at the Arbitration Commission: 150 young workers and apprentices attended a meeting at the Melbourne Trades Hall, later marched through the city to the Arbitration Commission. During the afternoon deputations of the young wokers spoke to employers' organisations in support of the ACTU basic wage and margins claims. 