 WSMFSnaerMm A "screwy" system — must be centralised By Jim Stevens THE general organisation of health in NSW was "screwy" — it should be centralised and brought under overall Government control, Mr. Les Hart, NSW Secretary of 'the Nurses' Association, told Tribune last week. He explained that the State's 250 public hospitals are controlled by the Hos pital Commission while the Public Service Board con trols mental hospitals, old people's homes, baby health centres and the school . med ical scheme. "Tc make sense, the baby health sisters and school med ical sisters and doctors should be part of the general hospital system, under one control. Some municipal councils, said Mr. Hart, also have medical services, which are similarly separately controlled. "All these services have a separate ' administration, fil ing system and hierarchy which means money down the drain," he said. miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiwiiiiiiiii/iiim "The hospital contribution schemes as such, should not exist.' "They should be taken over by the Hospital Com mission which could use the money directly for health services. . "Drugs should also be controlled and distributed by the Commission," he said. Immoral Private hospitals and nurs ing homes should also be taken- over by the Government, Mr. Hart maintained. . . "Some are good, but a large number are not. 1 "It i,s immoral to make money out of sick people. "Hospitals should not be run. for profit." Mr. Hart said he considered there would, be sufficient hos pital beds if the overall health service was properly organised. "What is needed is more domestic nursing for the aged." He explained that a scheme was started some years ago in Newcastle to nurse .old people in their own homes. "The cost of this treatment is about one fifth the weekly cost of a hospital bed." Mr. Hart said he consid ered that some hospitals were too big' and that the biggest should not exceed 400 beds.' "Hospitals should be taken to the people, not vice versa. "Instead, of having such hospitals as the Royal Prince j Alfred with. 1300 beds, more j smaller hospitals should be established in the country centres." Mr. Hart was very critical of the understaffing at hos pitals due to the allocations determined by the Commis sion. "About 700 to ' 800 more nursing sisters are required to properly run the State's hospitals. Numerous small hospitals, he said, are only allocated three sisters. "How can three sisters give attention to the patients 24 hours a day for seven days a week?" "This means that after each sister works her five eight-hour shifts, two days of the week are not accounted for. These hospitals tried to solve the problem by putt ing untrained, girls on duty, which was not fair to either the public or the nurses. Mr. Hart said, that hospitals could not employ . more staff than the number they were allocated as the Commission holds the purse strings. He said the shortage of sisters and nurses could, and must be overcome 'by pay ing decent wage rates. Two weeks ago, Tribune featured an article by a special Medical corres- I pondent analysing the inadequacies of the hospitals system in New South I Wales — a situation which has been further highlighted by the Askin Gov ernment's callous raising of hospital fees by up to 36 per cent ' to a level virtually prohibitive for the ordinary person. Here NSW Nurses' Association Secretary Les Hart gives his own views on- the State's health services in an exclusive Tribune interview. Further1 comments will be published next week NURSES' SECRETARY HART. 1 Money down the drain. 