 Court ballot law insults Federation, teachers maintain JYDNEY : The NSW Teachers' Federation has branded the Askin Govern ment's proposed court controlled ballot legislation as an insult to the Federation. The Council of the Federation Jat its last meeting decided to- seek &. deputation with the Min ister for Labor (Mr. Willis) to protest against moves to in terfere in the internal affairs of trade unions. Earlier the NSW Labor Council called on all unions to protest against the Govern ment's announced intention tc amend the Industrial Arbitra tion Act to allow for interfer ence in trade union ballots. The Government also pro poses to reverse the changes made in 1959 by the Labor Government relating to the right of entry of union officials. "The proposed right of entry changes would seriously affect the ability of unions to organ ise", the Labor Council said. It is an open secret that the NSW Government's main tar gets are the NSW Teachers' Federation and the Public Ser vice Association of NSW, both of which have been campaign ing for wage increases, and in the case of the teachers for improved public education. The Teachers' Council noted that the Federation has been publicly cited as one organisa tion at which such legislation would be aimed. A resolution carried by the Council said: "This is an insult to this organisation which not only conducts its ballots with the greatest probity, efficiency and attention to detail but also has an Executive widely representa tive of teacher opinion. Wasteful "The giving to 500 members the power to have a ballot conducted could not only lead to the needless and wasteful ex penditure of large sums of the money contributed by the 30,000 members of this organi sation but also to the time and resources of the organisation being diverted from matters of vital concern to the members to the holding of unnecessary ballots against the wishes of the majority of its members. Further, this procedure could hand over the conduct of the affairs of the organisation to a disgruntled and insignificant minority. "Such procedure would be a denial of -democracy and of the rights of the majority of the members of the organise- i- 1 Av ' J 'V-i i o «tH1 bivsn. Auio rcuciatiuii vviaa strenuously resist efforts to take from the members the right to conduct their own af fairs in their own way as set out in the Federation Constitu tion, democratically deter mined." YOUNG NSW TEACHERS AT REFRESHER COURSE. Their union one of Askin's targets. 