 Letters to the t Editor MOMwnMnnHHMini TRYING TO FIND Mr. McMAHON'S IDEALS From recent state ments by Federal Minister McMahon it is difficult to find any specific ideal to which he subscribes. He is reported in The Australian as saying: "It is impossible to say how long the battle will last, but I c:o assure you we can look forward to a military victory, although we do not want military victory in the sense of military or territor ial advantage. ' "But I believe one day the communists will be forced to come to the conference table." It is extremely difficult to understand on what grounds Mr: McMahon bases this be lief. The Prime Minister of South Vietnam, Air Marshal Ky, has sa'.d he will not ne gotiate with the communists; now will he allow them to take part in a proposed elec tion in a few months time. He also said he would overthrow by force any elect ed government which is com munist-influenced. When Mr. McMahon speaks of a military victory he is also advocating the escalat ing of the conflict in Viet nam. To do this merely be cause rnrny Vietnamese peo ple choose to be communists is to allow ideological bigotry to replace the humanitarian ideal of Christianity, and the first basic principle of demo cracy, the right of a people to determine their own form of government. Whatever one's political be lief may be, the fact is the ideological conflict being waged in Vietnam is borne by the long suffering Viet namese people, both civilian and armed forces. Australians are not fight ing against Chinese or Rus sian communist soldier ag gressors in Vietnam, and the whole undeclared war is a complete denial of every de cent principle and ideal on which our society is based. Mr. McMahon's reference to Australia's predicament when threatened with invas ion by Japanese forces during World War II has no justi fiable relation to this coun try's participation in the con flict in Vietnam. His contention that the threat in the long term is no less menacing than it was at that time, cannot be sub stantiated by specific evid ence. It is much more probable that the course of time will show the inhumanity, stupid and barbarous waste of hu man lives in Vietnam as one of the most tragic mistakes ever made by a government in this country's short his tory. H. Gould, Mona Vale (N.S.W.) 