 AUTOMATISM AND THE WORKING CLASS TODAY What is Automation? By BILL PARKINSON, General President, Miners' Federation of Australia. Industrialised society today is in the midst of an immense technological revolution — still perhaps in its early stages — which, through the introduction of automatic methods, is transforming the very basis of the production process, often causing— in the capitalist world — the widespread displace ment of workers without providing any alternative avenues of employment. In Aus tralia, the effects of automation are pro found and, as yet, perhaps not fully appreciated by the working class and soc ialist movement. To initiate discussion- on ' &lt; - this aU-important subject, Tribune offers ' this general survey of automation and the prospects it offers for Australia. the word "automa tion" is a commonly used term today which has no specific meaning in the real sense of the "Word, but is used td cover generally the situa tion that is developing industrially. In its present accepted sense, it is a word which confronts not only the trade union movement, not only the People of this country, but the very system under which we live with the greatest in dustrial problem of all time. So-called automation is a technique by which whole batteries of machines, in some cases factories and offices can be operated according to predetermined , automatic control. The raw material required for the product is automatic ally fed in, the machine then proceeds to automatically, process it. The product is then auto matically taken away and often frequently fed into another machine or machines that carry it automatically through any process or pro cesses until the finished pro-, duct emerges. Even today, there are many definitions of automation, but - I think it can best be adequat ely described as a technol ogical change that substit utes human organs and obser vation, decision and effort by mechanical, hydraulic, pneu matic, electrical, and elec tronic devices in order to in crease productivity, control quality and reduce costs. And I think the last words, "reduce costs", are most im portant to the trade union movement because here, re duction of costs obviously means reduction of labour costs. Therefore, we can say that there are three . rapidly de veloping streams of technical progress which are inclined to merge and provide a new approach to production. They are in stages and are as follows: 1. Mechanisation, includ ing transfer devices on production lines which can be more simply referred to as being the application of power to industry re placing some physical ef fort by maohines and at the same time, using the human being as an oper ator. This is precisely what happened in the coal mining industry and I will briefly relate the facts at a later stage. 2. Automatic control of machinery and processing, such as job-shop automat ion, production line auto mation, and business auto mation (data processing). In other words, we have the replacement of the human operator by a control system. 3. This is the advanced control of industrial sys tems by electronic com puters leading to the com pletely automated factory. Therefore, for the .purposes of generalisation it would appear that "technical devel opment" would be a much Continued Page 8 WHAT IS AUTOMATION? Continued from Page 5. better term to use than the word "automation" because in the coal mining industry in „ recent years, there has been no . such thing as the introduc tion of automation, but there have been immense steps in technological development re lating to the means of pro duction by the intense instal lation and use of mechanis ation. But the fundamental fact to keep in the forefront is that, as a result of this in tensive mechanisation pro gramme, redundancy of the mineworker labour force was most serious indeed. Figures and statistics tell their own story here. Miners In 1954 there were 20,100 mineworkers engaged in the coal mining industry in N.S.W. at the end of June, and by the end of June, 1965, (11 years afterwards there were 11,632 employees. Of course, it would be in accurate to state that all of these 8,500 mineworkers be- came redundant as a result of the introduction of auto mation, but, allowing for the natural wastage such as death, compulsory retirements and permahtly incapacitating injury, we could still say that 6,000 of these workers i,n the period referred to, from June 1954 to June 1965, lost their jobs as a result of the new technological develop ment relating to the product ion of coal. Jobs So it can . be clearly seen at a glance that this reduction in the work force represented 42% and that is a most sub stantial reduction in any language, but these figures in themselves would be in complete unless allied to production in 1954 as com pared with production in 1965. Production in 1954 was ap proximately 15 milllion tons in N.S.W., but in 1964-65 it reached almost 22 million tons. So it can be seen at just a rough glance that the work force in the coal min ing industry in N.S.W. in a period of eleven years was reduced by 42%, but despite this production increased by 55%. These must be regarded as startling figures and give some indication as to what can happen with one form of technological development in a given industry. Now this immediately raises the question of the slogan we hear so much about from people in the main who are not noted for their interest in the welfare of workers and their families: "automation creates jobs". This is a catchy slogan and, unfortunately, many people be lieve it and indeed endeavour to advance it, even though probably they have only a slight case, but in the light of my experiences and in the experience of retrenched mineworkers in N.S.W., the Miners' Federation is most emphatic in its submission that technological develop ment substantially reduces the work force of any estab lishment of course in degree of intensity of such technol ogical development. It is also estimated that, should the American economy expand at the rate it has achieved during the first half of this century, it will be possible, by the year 2000A.D. for American industry to produce in one 7-hour day what it produced in the year 1953 iii S 40-hour" week. Therefore, the issue con fronting workers is clear and particularly clear for Com munists whose stand on matters must at all times be based on class, and we can only conclude that the introduction of various de grees of technical develop ment have no effect whatso ever in liberalising the pre sent outlook of the owning class' towards -the working class because the owning class are motivated by the laws of capitalism and the cardinal law of capitalism is maximum profit and just so I long as the capitalist system I exists, just J30 long will there be conflict between the em- I ployee and monopoly em- 1 ployer and the tremendous I benefits of technological dev- s elopment can only be enjoyed ! by the.workers and the people ! generally under a system of I socialism. ! What is required is planned and sustained trade union action now organised by the A.C.T.U. 