 GOOD JOBS ARE HARD TO GET i At the annual AWU convention there was not time to discuss ! wage and margin campaigns, but ... ! A.W.U. OFFICIALS EXTEND THEIR TERM OF OFFICE JYDNEY : The annual convention of the Australian Workers Union, according to its newspaper "The Worker", "sets the pace for the coming year". Industrially and politically its decisions have far reaching effects on the membership and the great mass of the nation's work force, so says "The Worker". The main decision flowing from the first four days' work of the 1966 convention last week was to extend the term of office for paid officials from three years to five. Many AWU men held the opinion that this move was inspired so that general sec retary Mr. T. Dougherty will not have to (ace an election before he retires. It is well known that AWU officials are not underpaid. Mr. Dougherty, who is on about £100 a week plus extras, Mr. C. Oliver (NSW Secretary) about £80 a week and or ganisers on £40 a week, point co this fact. The membership and "great mass of the nation's work force" have been waiting with bated breath for the conven tion to challenge high prices and declining living standards. But it now appears these matters will not be dealt with at all. And then, on the political front, the economic and foreign policies of the Liberal Govern ment are going unchallenged at the convention. In recent times the AWU has directed its "political " fire against the ALP. The decision of the last convention to withdraw finan- cial and moral support from the Federal ALP has met strong opposition from the rank and file. At time of writing (Monday), this year's convention has not even been prepared to make a decision on this matter. A motion which proposed "That every endeavor be taken that the . AWU give financial support to the ALP i.n the elec tion campaign" was referred to the Federal Council. Another resolution from a shearing shed at Girilambone in NSW attacked the Federal Council for withdrawing mora1, and financial support from the Federal ALP. This motion lapsed for want of a seconder. Rank-and-file members are also highly critical of the Union's leadership for not combining the strength of the AWU with the ACTU. The wealthy press of this country is always ready for a good story about "splits" within the trade union move ment. It was the Sydney Morning Herald's story last week about the "Plea for AWU to leave State Labor Councils" which caused a heated reply from the convention. The Herald's so-called "Mt. Isa Echo" — a reference to attacks by the AWU leaders on Labor MPs Cairns and Cam eron and on the Queensland T & LC— was referred to the Federal Council and took up little of the convention time. On the other hand the con vention spent considerable time dealing with the splitting role of the press. It is strongly anticipated that by the time of the next convention some move will be made by the rank and file to affiliate with the ACTU. This is part of the real "echo of Mt. Isa." 