 New illusion: Asian overlord By the Foreign Editor DEMOCRATIC Americans are throwing out a strong challenge to what Senator Fulbright has de nounced as a new "Asian Doctrine" enunciated by President Johnson on July 12. Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Fulbright said that Johnson's new "Asian doc trine" had been produced without the advice or consent of the Senate. The New York Worker "says the speech was the first' dis closure of Washington's real objective in its invasion of Vietnam: to lay the foundation for a complete domination over Asia by US imperialism. Johnson arrogantly declar ed "the determination of the USA to meet our obligations in Asia as a Pacific power." This would be equivalent to the USSR or China saying that, as Pacific powers also, they were determined to "meet their obligations in America". In his presumed role as overlord of Asia Johnson start ed to lecture China: "A hostile China must be discouraged from aggression. A misguided China must be encouraged to wards understanding of the outside world" etc. As the New York Worker says, since China is not engag ed in aggression, Johnson's words mean a threat of force to make China submit to the USA. It also threatens the USSR, also an Asian power., Johnson also said the USA "could not ignore threats to peace in Asia" and added "Asia is no longer outside the 20th century. She is in the same world with us, to be our partner or our problem." Reoalling the US interven tion in Europe after the war with the Marshall Plan, John- son indicated that he had similar plans for Asia today. It is obvious that the talk of fighting for the "freedom and self-determination" for the south Vietnamese is just a cover-up for the larger de sign for the domination of Asia. In Newsweek magazine Wal ter Lippmann warns Johnson that; for all its power, the USA is quite unable to be the world's policeman and "to conduct a global crusade for its way of life and its favor ite doctrines." One reason, he says, is that "there are other great powers in the world who will not obey us, who will not follow us, with whom we still have to work out a livable and tolerable relationship. "Another reason is that the weak and poor people of the earth have found a response to our wealth and our weap ons. "Because they have learned to accept hardship, suffering and death, they can walk when the rich people ride, they can subsist when the rich would starve, they can find shelter when the houses have gone, they can fight with simple weapons against the great and sophisticated weap ons and they are hard to con quer because so many of them are ready to die." "Still another reason why . we cannot play the super-role ' which President Johnson likes to think he is playing is that this great country has prob lems of its own." DOCTRINE-MAKER JOHNSON The man who thought he was Monroe. 