 Faster and faster FOREIGN FIRMS SEIZE INDUSTRY JSSUE of a special Federal Government survey of overseas capital in Australian manufacturing industry last week indicated even the Holt Government is becom ing worried by the tightening foreign grasp on the economy. It is mainly , the manufacturing interests that are chasing profitable war contracts from the Vietnam war and are thus interested in its extension. Public concern has grown since the Vernon Report last year declared that "about one-thircl" of all manu facturing company assets here were already owned by overseas investors, mainly British and American. A special report issued last November by the Com mittee for Economic Development of Australia, said that because foreign capital was concentrating on the most rapidly growing industries, the foreign-owned sector was growing faster ahan the nationally-owned sector. It said: "The flow of (foreign) capital into Australian companies is increasing, a rising proportion of this capital - is of North- American origin, and there is INCREASING CONCENTRATION in the fastest growing and most profitable industries." 54 per cent by 1975 Such facts had led the Vernon Committee to report that, even at the 19(33-04 rate of investment (now super seded) the percentage of foreign ownership in manufac turing industry would rise to 54 per cent by 1975. Against that background, last week's Survey by the Trade Department was all the more significant, for it ! showed how foreign capital is rarely content with a mere share in Australian companies — it practically I always takes a position of controlling, or even complete,- ownership. The Survey showed -that, of 872 manufacturing com panies in Australia that include some foreign capital, no fewer than 812 are under ail' overseas CONTROL LING interest, and 50(3 are COMPLETELY owned .overseas. Of the total of over $6,000 million in assets involved, more than half ($3,355 million) are owned by com panies 100 per cent overseas owned. The Financial Review (14/3/66), commenting on the Survey, said that "the very size" of some of the com-, panics in the Survey meant that they would dominate their entire sector of the Australian economy. War contract sectors It noted that the motor vehicles, patts and accessories is generally known to be "almost wholly owned over seas" — largely in the United States and Canada. Chemi cals and oil refining "is also generally known to be overseas dominated", and so is the pharmaceutical industry. In electrical 'goods, equipment and cables, it notes that two firms (Phillips and STC) "dominate the indus try by a significant margin". All these sectors are vitally concerned in contracts for modern war. The oil refining and distribution industry in Aus tralia is about 96 per cent overseas controlled, and the exploration and production side 85 per cent. Australia is now fully ringed by off-shore oil-search zones already allocated to companies largely controlled . overseas. The ownership of the new and rich oil strike off the Gippsland coast in Victoria is shared 50-50 between Esso (Standard Oil of New Jersey, the world's biggest oil company) and the Broken Hill Pty. steel monopoly. But the promising Barrow Island field off West Aus- tralia is 85 per cent overseas owned. Moonie (QlcC) is 80 per cent overseas owned. ' Continued, Page 12. Foreign firms seize industry Continued from Page 1. The "Financial Review" last week called for a similar official survey of primary industry, property and com merce. Point is given to this proposal by the report (Sydney :"Sun", 15/3/66) that American-controlled syndicates have bought 15,000 Square miles of prime caittle grazing (and possibly mineral) land on Cape York Peninsula. The main/agent in this latest foreign seizure of Australian lands was stated to be Sir William Gunn, Australian Wool Board chairman and leading Country "Party figure. These facts, which more and more Australians regard f as intolerable, are throwing light on the underlying reasons for the Federal Government's actions over the Vietnam war and its general subservience to US foreign . policy. 