 WHAT THE INTERIM CLAIM MEANS By an Industrial Correspondent JQECISION on the Unions application for an interim increase in their full claim for higher margin rates has been reserved but is expected at an early date. inrerim increases sougnr are very moaesr ranging from $2.35 for base rafe tradesmen down to 75c for tradesmens' assistants. These increases represent approximately 22 per cent of current margins. The claim for such an increase is based upon increases in prices and productivity since June 1963. That was the last occasion when margins were increased on application by the unions. In addition to increases in prices and prod uctivity Australian Council of Trade Unions' advocate R. J. Hawke drew attention to in creases for tradesmen already operating in West Australian State awards ($4.30), the Federal Aircraft award ($4.30)-- and Queens land State award ($4.25). The Queensland increases have operated since January 1965, the West Australian since May this year and the Aircraft industry rates since the beginning of this month. The interim increases claimed are, however, , much lower than the amounts already operating in these other awards. This is due to restricting the claims to the prices-productivity formula, about which the Boilermakers'-Blacksmiths' Society has com plained to the ACTU. In his address, Mr. Hawke claimed that in 1 967 the Arbitration Commission, basing itself on a report yet to be made by Mr. Winter would most likely award increases in Federal awards equal to or greater than the $4.30 for tradesmen already operating in some States' awards. Boilermakers' officials have asked why this $4.30 was not claimed now. They have also complained against the fail ure of ACTU officials to confer with the unions on the amount of The interim claim and the case to be argued. Even if the interim claim is granted in full, margins will still be below the amount of the full claim of the ACTU. This full claim will not be finalised before June 1 967. The unions' claims were opposed by the private employers, the Federal Government and the Victorian State Government. 