 SA: Whu the bia swina ? DELAIDE: The recent election results have special significance for the labor movement in South Australia, which faces big tasks in 1967-68. There are to be Senate elec tions at the end of next year which will be followed by State elections early in 68. On the basis of voting figures the ALP vote fell from 51% in the Senate of 1964 to 41% in the recent election. This would mean, ii repeated, the inevitable defeat of the third ALP candidate for the Senate and would give the LCL a three out of five representa tion. The 1966 result .shows that eleven State seats now held by the Labor Party would be lost as the vote ranged from 35% to 45% of the total formals cast. This heavy swing in South Australia amounting to almost 12% (compared to 1963) is a reaction against the State Gov ernment as well as a rejection of the Labor Party as a Fed eral alternative. In light of the many good things carried through by the Government in the last 18 months, why should this be so? Increased charges for1 water, fares and land rates that are borne by the great majority of people helped the Govern ment's unpopularity. The obstruction and delay to Government legislation brought about by the undemo cratic and hostile Legislative Council. Economic difficulties, in cluding the highest rate of un- employment in Australia, brought about by the policies of the Federal Government, have been made the responsibil ity of the Labor Government by a highly organised press and propaganda campaign by the LCL. A stodgy and conservative Continued on P. 11 State of the big swing Continued from P. 3 "image", presented to young people has succeeded despite the Government's move to end the wowserism inherited from Playford by steps to civilise drinking and establish the TAB and a State lottery. Above all, there has been a failure to make a thorough going departure from the pro- monopoly policies of the LCL indicated by the continuation of concessions in power and water charges, rail freights and the provision of cheap mineral and iron ore supplies. To change this situation is not beyond the capabilities of a strong and united labor move ment. The Communist Party chis week expressed the following views on what is needed: The need for a firm stand against the Holt Government to demand the necessary finance for State development. Such a stand to be backed by the or ganising of public support for progressive policies. An ena to concessions to monopoly on the one hand and increased charges to the people on the other. A campaign to involve the trade unions and other people's organisations for the carrying out of electoral reform and the removal of the Chamber of wealth and privilege, the Legis lative Council. Steps to improve the pub lic image of the labor move- ment as the most progressive force in the State with special emphasis on unleashing the initiative of the younger people who are prepared to struggle against conservative attitudes that belong to the past. The Federal Government will not solve the problems in this State or elsewhere. The Labor movement can, if prepared to act boldly, take the initiative and make changes in South Australia that will influence the political situation in the whole country. 