 VIETNAM TURNS ON AMERICANS JHE burning last week of the US consulate in Hue, South Viet nam, while thousands cheered, symbolised the continued up-surge of anti-American feelings among the South Vietnamese population, even those nominally controlled by ICy Government. In a single week, nine Budd hist martyrs inflicted on themselves the most painful possible death— a slow death by fire— in protest against the continuance of the US-backed Ky Government. While in Hue crowds cheered the public burning of President Johnson's portrait, his effigy was being burned, also amid cheers, by 200 Buddhist youths in the streets of Saigon. When a Buddhist leader was attacked with a grenade in Sai gon, the people overturned and burned an American jeep, the driver fleeing for his life. The .Vietnamese hung anti- American slogans on the burn ed-out shell of the jeep. No matter what temporary compromises might be negotiat ed with Ky in top-level man oeuvres by a section of the Buddhist leadership, the Budd hist Leadership Council "plans to continue its anti-Government, anti-American program" says a press message from Saigon. Setting up "was announced of a Students' Anti-Civil War Strug gle Committee. New bomb Two thirds of south Vietnam ese are Buddhists. Meanwhile the US invaders .tried to make up for their dif ficulties with the people of the south by increased ferocity in aggressive air raids on the North, in an effort to wipe out everything and everyone. A new "secret" bomb capable of greater devastation than those used before was rained on an industrial area in the biggest raid yet on any single target, it was announced. On the ground the US admit ted to the biggest weekly casu alty rate on record, with the killing of 146 soldiers and the wounding fo 820 in the week ending May 21. Back in America the anti-war protest tide seemed to be rising as the New York Times gave no less than three pages to a protest statement signed by 6400 people of eminence headed by author Norman Mailer. "The war issue dominates all others," says the London New Statesman's US correspondent in a review of the pre-selection campaigns for the November congressional elections. He says that 100 "peace can didates" are standing for pre selection, one of the most pro minent being 30-year-old Robert Scheer, who is seeking Demo cratic pre-selection in Califor nia on an anti-Vietnam war program. A later report in the daily press last Saturday said Scheer was making "remarkable pro gress". In Wisconsin, home of McCarthyism, peace candidate David Carley, a Democratic National Committee man, is strongly campaigning against the Vietnam war. In Australia the Churches of Christ Social Services Depart ment took a quarter-page ad vertisement in the national press to declare that war is contrary to the mind, spirit and teaching of Jesus Christ. and to say that the last Conference of the Churches of Christ in Vic toria and Tasmania registered specific opposition to the Viet nam war. It "urges the withdrawal of troops, both national service men and volunteers." 2/3 against Viet, war In Dee Why, near Sydney, last Friday, at least two-thirds of an audience of 400 showed its strong sympathy for the anti war case during a forum on Vietnam. Much the strongest applause was for Labor Senator John Wheeldon of Western Australia who put the case for Australia's withdrawal from the war. By contrast Mr. W. C. Went- worth MHR, in whose elector ate the forum was held, disap pointed his own supporters by his attacks on the body organ ising the debate and his un balanced anti-Communism. Striving to give Mr. Vent- worth a fair hearing, the audi ence majority could not restrain its laughter at his theory to account for the non-appearance so far of any Chinese in Viet nam (necessary, from his view point, to justify his view that ' the war is due to Chinese ag gression). Mr. Wentworth said a number of headless corpses had been found among the "Viet Cong" dead after a battle, and it was surmised that these were Chin ese whose heads had been re moved to conceal their identity and their nationality from the Government side. Tributes were paid to Mr. Alan Ashbolt, for his skilled and impartial chairmanship of a lively meeting. Notorious members of the "Australian Nazi" party were observed to leave early in the meeting. Senator Wheeldon congratul ated the Manly-Warringah Com mittee of the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament for having organ ised the meeting. The collection yielded a sur plus over expenses which was . donated to charity. t 