 Cynical words &lt; from Hawaii By the Foreign Editor "|"HE Honolulu meeting and "declaration" of President Johnson and Premier Ky (of South Vietnam) camouflaged, but did not conceal the unparalleled cynicism and hypocrisy of the US position in relation to the Vietnam war. Despite all the talk of "peace" and "reform" the substance of what was decided was a bigger, wider and longer war. "The Honolulu confer ence" said the Sydney Morning Herald editorial on February 10 "represented a determined American effort to strengthen the base of the military effort by bolstering the position of the South Vietnamese Government and by paying greater attention to social and economic re forms. "But it was clearly primar ily intended as an affirmation of . 'a policy of growing mili tary effectiveness'": This is a "polite" phrase for more bombing of the north, more napalm, poison gas and poison sprays for the south; more wholesale destruction of villages and slaughter of Viet namese civilians. A "long war" At Honolulu US commander General Westmoreland em phasised the prospect of a "long war". It was to lay the political basis for this that the "Declaration" was issued last week. The first step, was to claim, that there was "a total ab sence of a present interest in peace by North Vietnam". Johnson and Ky said this on the very day that the world's press was headlining reports of President Ho Chi Minh's letter to the Indian president. Less then a fortnight earlier, letters asking them to use their good offices to bring about peace in Vietnam had been written by President Ho, not only to President Radhakrish- nan of India, but also to Presi dent de Gaulle of France and President Nasser of Egypt. Johnson and Ky knew these things, not only before the rush trip to Honolulu, but also before resuming the bombing of North Vietnam. The Declaration seeks to jollify critics in the USA and South Vietnam and wring more troops out of reluctant allies by pledges of big "re forms" and even "social revol ution" in South Vietnam. Such promises have been issued by the US and its Sai gon puppets at regular inter vals throughout the war. They oave never been followed by action. Every new Saigon Govern- ment, as. it takes power, akes the same fervent declaration. The present ruler, Ky, was even more fervent than most. US Time magazine reported on June 25 last, when Ky was pushed into office by the US military, that he proposed "a program of reform, mobilisa tion and austerity more radical and detailed than any offered by previous regimes. "Ky promised to eliminate 'speculators, profiteers and and black marketeers' and threatened to shoot them," said Time. Pilfering . . . Yet on January 24 the Syd ney Sun quoted the semi-offi cial US News and World Re port as admitted that "in the Saigon area the price of rice has doubled in six months . . . it's the same with food and clothing. "Blackmarketing is bad and getting out of control in some areas. So are pilfering and profiteering . . . the atmos phere seems infected by hon- ky - tonks, get - rich - quick merchants and builders and a general air of decay . . . Wide- Spread corruption at an 'al most comic level' ... is giv ing the Government a bad name . . ." It has been claimed for the US that it would not in all circumstances object to the South Vietnam National Lib eration Front representation at a peace conference. . But at the Hawaii talks, pup pet Premier Ky made it clear that, as far as he was con cerned, he would not in any circumstances sit down to confer with the "Vietcong". Disregarding the US talk of "unconditional" negotiations, Ky has made a very definite condition, and a condition which would prevent peace talks ever being held. Since the NLF admittedly control four-fifths at least of South Vietnam, peace talks at which they are not even al lowed to be present are in conceivable. Ky's stand not only gets the USA off the hook but, more important, it is the pol icy actually being carried out by the US troops and planes in the field as day by day they intensify the slaughter in Vietnam north and south. The steady increase of troop movements, the calls by the generals for a doubling of America's 200,000 troops in Vietnam by the end of 1966 are more eloquent than all the Honolulu phrases. It is obvious that Johnson's motives for making them— to fob off the criticisms of the peace movement at home — are clear to a growing number of Americans, as shown by the comments of James Reston, Walter Lippmann and other well-established critics who have now been joined by Gen erals Gavin and Ridgway. | Photo: The Congress in I session. | I 