 ACADEMICS KNOCK YANK CASE TO LEG W. A. WOOD reviews " Vietnam and Australia" j compiled by the University Study Group on Vietnam. &lt; WELL-TIMED, in its appearance, for the coming Vietnam- dominated Federal elections, comes a booklet of the utmost importance to everyone who wants the facts on Vietnam. It is "Vietnam & Australia", by a group of scientists and economises from the University of NSW. Everybody who seeks peace in Vietnam will thank them for having produced, at such a time, easily the hest booklet of its size currently available on the subject. As the authors emphasise, they are not historians. Their book is none the worse for it. Without fuss and fury, but with cold scientific precision they shoot to .pieces the Aus tralian and American Govern ments' so-called "case" . on Vietnam. , Facts Short on adjectives, the scientists are not short on facts. Their answer in advance to those who will call them parti san is- a frank invitation to critics or opponents to study these facts and see for them selves to what conclusion they point. With such facts the scientists expose— devastatingly— the un blushing mendacity of the Gov ernment in asserting that the North Vietnamese started the war by attacking the South. The sole peg on which this story is hung (apart from one sided and self-contradictory statements in a US White Paper) is a report by the In ternational Control Commission in 1962. The actual story of this Re port is now told to Australians for the first time by the NSW University scientists. They show that the . ICC ma jority was merely passing on the untested, unverified asser tions of the South Vietnamese authorities. And this same report finds the South Vietnamese authori ties and their American back ers guilty of a. whole series of gross violations of the Geneva Agreements. This fact is carefully and (beyond any doubt) deliberately suppressed in the American White Paper of 1965 and in all similar Australian Government and Liberal Party publications on Vietnam. Indicted Not merely in this report but in every report it had niade from the Fifth to the Tenth inclusive the CC (comprising a 2 to 1 non-Communist ma jority of powers) indicted the South and the Americans. And these reports were all written before there was the faintest breath of evidence before the ICC of any wrongdoing by the North! "America is in Vietnam to stop 'Vietcong' violence and ter ror", is another Holt Govern ment theme. But as the book shows, the "Vietcong" never ap peared (on the US' own show ing) till 1960. Whereas already, from 1950 onwards, the Ameri cans were moving into Viet nam, first of all to help the French and then (from 1954) on their own account. By citing facts agreed on by all parties concerned the auth ors show that, long before there were any Vietcong or any Northern "invasion" real or imagined, the US was already .in effective control of, the South Vietnam Army and Govern ment. The "Vietcong" arose, with full moral support from the North to expel the foreign invader, not the other way round. "But Australia is there to honor SEATO obligations." Illegal The authors show that SEATO itself, as. it applies to South Vietnam, is an illegal treaty. It broke that section of the Geneva Accords which, as shown by this booklet, said that neither section (or "zone") of Vietnam would ally itself with a foreign power. Obviously the Western pow ers were planning to break the Geneva Accords at the very moment of agreeing to them. This book explains just how che swindle was worked. A few months before the all- Vietnamese general elections (promised at Geneva for July 1956) were due. to be held the French Army, which a.lone had the power to enforce this pro vision, suddenly packed up and went home. France, which had signed at Geneva, marched out and the USA, which hadn't, marched in! The Geneva pledge, on con dition of which the Vietnamese signed the treaty, was con temptuously repudiated. Puzzle After this the only puzzle is, as the authors suggest, that the Vietnamese are still willing to consider signing yet another peace agreement with the West. (The authors show in this book, which also shows that the Ame ricans are not, that the Viet namese are prepared to sign.) This became clear as far back as 1964 when the North Vietnamese, through U Thant, proposed peace and were re buffed.. It must be said that the book does less than justice to the role of the USSR and other socialist countries in supporting heroic Vietnam from the be ginning. of her struggle to this day. However the hook, as it stands, is a mighty blow for the truth. It helps to show why the Liberals, DLPers and other pro-war stay-at-homes are tending more and more to chicken out of Vietnam debates and teach-ins and why Liber als in office are replacing ar guments with threats, bans and prohibitions. The facts, how ever distorted, are against them and hence must be suppressed. That sort of thing has never worked with Australians before and isn't likely to now. Our copy of "Vietnam and Aus tralia", which is on sale in most Sydney bookshops, was obtained from the authors at 48 Milling St., Gladss- ville, NSW. 