 ON THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE Jeparit seamen bring back gift , from Yiet. troops SYDNEY: The crews of the "Jeparit" and "Boonaroo", the two ships sent to Vietnam by the Holt Government, have been presented with a painting and other gifts by Australian troops there in appreciation for the help and mateship accorded them. It was presented to the crew of the "Jeparit" by members of the Australian Logistic Group while -the ship was in Vung Tau, Vietnam. I The "Jeparit" arrived back in Australia last week after 10 days in the Vietnam war zone. This ffift is rftpardfid hv son-' men as a final blow to the Holt Government's efforts to whip up hostility against the Sea- omen's Union for its strong stand in opposition to Austra lia's involvement in the Viet nam war. I Confirmed i | In an interview with Tribune, I crew members of the Jeparit g confirmed earlier reports from = the Boonaroo men tnat tne Jb'ea- | eral Government has not back- i ed up its so-called "concern" I for the troops in a practical Jway. 13 ' | The only home comforts (Aus- I tralian beer, cigarettes, etc.) the troops have had are those provided by the seamen out of I their own pockets. . | Meanwhile the troops ' in I Vung Tau still have a marquee hospital while the officers are | boused in air-conditioned alu- I minium huts. I The seamen say that part i of the Jeparit's cargo con- | sisted of building materials | for an officers' club. The 30 or so troops (many of | whom were conscripts) who; I came' on board the ship were fbangry about this. Crew members Tom Jones, Bob Frue, Ken Hall and George Jenkins (all young married men from Newcastle) told of the friendly discussions they had with the troops and why the union opposed the Vietnam war. They said that the troops 'had heard of the Government's propaganda about seamen "leaving them for dead," but they did not believe it, Tom Jones said that most of the soldiers to whom they spoke said the troops should not be there. One regular army man, how ever, took the opposite view saying: "We must stop the yel low hordes coming down." The seamen said the situation in Vung Tau is strange indeed. "It appears that even in this port, which is only 50 miles from Saigon, the Viet Cong operate openly and decide what supplies get through," they said. Following the Boonaroo, the Jeparit was the third ship to gHeBHMeaeeeaBeemwHgBeeaeeeaenseraa anchor inside the port. The first was a British ship. An American stevedore told the seamen that when the Brit ish ship arrived, a Viet Cong official approached them for "the two Johnston outboard motors they ordered." The men said that from where the "Jeparit" was anchor ed they could see the poverty of the people. "At least 50 families were living in a straw hut no bigger than 60 by 25 feet. "We could also see Ky's sum mer palace a huge white man sion built on the side of the mountain overlooking Vung Tau," they said. MMWMM — — — — IIHIIIIMIIIIHIIIIHI III II TH II t 43 JEPARIT CREWMAN TOM JONES 