 If Spry's spies don't like you. . . Curtains for public servants, migrants JYDNEY : An adverse report from Australia's secret police organisation "can cut short the career of any public servant or migrant," says a special investigator of the Financial Review. The writer, Trevor Kennedy, points out that in Britain public servants have a line of appeal against any loss of pro motion or other penalty im posed in the name of "security reasons". He can answer the charge before a board of three senior officers of the department. In Australia, no such possibility of appeal exists. In fact, an Australian public servant may live for years "in ignorance of the fact that an adverse security report has placed an insurmountable barrier in the path to further promotion," the writer says. The Security Intelligence Organisation's influence on mi- grants through its connections with naturalisation and other processes are "secret, binding and beyond appeal." To illustrate that the ASIO reports are not always accur ate, Kennedy recalls that when, in 1950, Prime Minister Menzies read in Parliament a security list of 53 alleged Communist trade union leaders, he later had to retract in the case of five of the names. Australian . taxpayers were billed for a mere $230,000 for the first" year's operations of ASIO in 1949. This year the bill is $2,565,000 — and the de tails are never given in the published budget. , The article suggests, how ever, that much of the expen diture goes in highly priced American equipment for spy ing purposes. "For example, there is now a sophisticated American-de vised electronic radar-type in strument which can focus on a conversation some distance away and effectively record it," Kennedy writes. "Its latest acquisition," he writes, "is understood to be a device which no longer makes it necessary to follow cars, but by means of a small attach ment to any car it wants to. observe it can follow its pro gress on a small screen." FLASHBACK TO 1965: Police arresting a peace demonstrator with their customary ? restraint and respect for the individual during one of last year's anti-Vietnam war I demonstrations in Sydney. At these demonstrations extreme right-wing groups often played a disruptive and provocative role, abusing and molesting participants, but I their activities almost invariably went unchecked by the police. ' 1 