 20,000 more Americans for Vietnam war NEW YORK: "More men, more planes, more ships, more money, more material, more wounded, more dead What was a morass is becoming a bottomless pit". THIS comment was made 1 by the New York Times when the US decided to send another 13,000 troops to Vietnam last January. Now, in March, the US has announced, the despatch of yet another 20,000 to the "bottom less pit." This follows the official ad mission that- 109 US, troops were khled in a single week in South 'Vietnam— the' ' week' ending February 26— the highest loss in any single week since the war began. The wounded totalled 747. Most of the casualties oc curred in the fighting at Bong Son, near the coast, where the US forces were trying to break the grip the liberation forces have on the vital highway linking the big US coastal bases. "Blitzing" failed American hopes of "blitzing" the patriots by using large forces and vast amounts of material failed. The liberation forces resisted strongly, and, according to their own account, destroyed more than 500 US and South Korean troops. The US Command spoke of "moderate" losses, but Thomas Reedy, Associated press corre spondent in Saigon, says that "moderate" may mean anything from one-tenth to one-third of the total forces engaged. The US losses coincide with a Louis Harris public opinion poll finding that less than half the people' now approve John son's conduct of the war. It also coincided with Sena tor Robert Kennedy's call to admit the National Liberation front to a "share of respon sibility" in a future government of South Vietnam. The New York Worker says that the American people's enthusiastic. 1 response to Ken nedy's call . frightened the President.,., It says that the impact of Kennedy's proposal and .the Senate Foreign Relations Com mittee hearing was dramati cally demonstrated by the quiet shelving by the New York State legislature of a bi-partisan resolution backing Johnson and condemning peace supporters. Kennedy has recognised that mass discontent exists over the Vietnam war, says the Worker. "Many other Congressmen are beginning to reconsider their present position of sup port of the President as Con gressional elections draw nearer." The Manchester Guardian's New York correspondent, Alis- tair Cooke, says Kennedy's statement excited liberal Demo crats throughout the country. Political observers were ready to bet, he said, that "by November, if the Vietnamese war is taking a heavier toll for no perceptible gain, Robert Kennedy would have succeeded in seriously splitting the Demo cratic Party and seizing the leadership of a new and mili tant liberal wing." Union antagonism Meanwhile the leaders of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organisations, meeting in Florida, have warned Johnson that Labor will not make all the sacrifices for the Vietnam war. Press reports admit a widening of the gap between the Administration and or ganised labor, admitted by Secretary of Labor Willard Wirtz, who attended the AFL- CIO Executive Council con ference. Wirtz said he was "terribly concerned" over the "apparent development of antagonism" between the Administration and the unions. The antagonism develops out £ the Administration's efforts t0 impose a limit of 3.2 per cent. on wage rises. Meanwhile the Wall Street Journal summary of profits for 604 major corporations for the final quarter of 1965 shows a rise of 16.4 per cent, over the same quarter of 1964. Topping the gainers were the corporations enjoying Vietnam orders. Aircraft makers' profits rose 39.1 per cent.; auto and automotive equipment 46 per cent.; electronic firms from 22 to 43 per cent.; aluminium 29 per cent., and rubber 18 per cent. These profits are coined out of the blood of the Vietnamese. An Associated Press message «.iii January 6 said that the US military program for Vietnam "includes the establishment of free-bombing zones in Viet Cong regions, killing rice crops in enemy areas and burning oiher crops and homes." It says of US troops in recent fighting: "Every house they encountered they burnt to the ground . . . Every cooking utensil was smashed, every banana tree severed, every mattress slashed." 