 [?] fwith JUDAH WATEN SOU(iIlCHOE,LS and VSeV( fa jvleyerhold, those tw0 Roviet artists, are to btiS-ed in a new history in.j gjumes of the Soviet thei® The wori it contain long studies of jjj experiment al theatre fflgclosed in 1938 after he was of formalism, and of the; Jewish Theatre which Mikh greeted for 20 years until. i; li in 1948. Mik- hoels was alj fflof the greatest actors in tiglet Union; his performance &,£ Lear is still written abot M Many on Innovations that have been it $$2d into Western theatres sine originated with Meyerhold.;,1 |||as no field of the stage in: was not con- cerned-actis Mnery, lighting and writing, Iff .His theaitwM probably the first to disp||rith a curtain. The stage hanged the sets . in full view Jfflidience as they do today and in many other nglisMfi-es, E. M. Fo|gR AMONG tl|| four eminent English Iatpjlers who pub licly made, t rap they support neither Ame |||blicies in Viet- nam nor the Labour Government's endorsement of those policies is E. M. Forster, the famous. English novelist. He is regarded by many I critics as one of the greatest Eng lish novelists of this century. He gained his high reputation with his novels, "Howards End" ! and "A Passage to India." All his work is filled with a gentle human ism. I well remember the notable part E. M. Forster played at the Writers congress in defence of culture and peace held in Paris in 1935. Al though he is now in his 80's he has spoken out against the war in Vietnam on a number of occasions. ERIC LAMBERT ERIC LAMBERT who died in England several weeks ago at the early age of 47 was a highly talent ed novelist whose novel "Twenty Thousand Thieves" won him con siderable fame and was one of the best novels of war to come out of Australia. For many years after the war, in which he served, he was a mem ber of the Realist writers as well as other progressive organisations. Although not on close per sonal terms with him, I was asso ciated with him in several big fights in defence of democratic rights and in defence of Australian writers who had been attacked in Parliament. One such occasion in 1952. John Morrison, Eric Lambert and myself spoke outside the then Stan Keon- dominated Richmond Town Hall, which had been refused to us to reply to attacks made on us under Parliamentary privilege by none other than Mr. Stan Keon. Mr. Keon became a DLPer and was ejected from Parliament by the electors. Although Eric Lambert was principally a novelist he also wrote some occasional verse. Some lines from his humorous Coronation Ode comes to mind. " 'Neath the moth-holed standards hovering Comes the gem-bedizened sov ereign ..." Then: "Behind the Titled Useless Stand the Bankers and the Brib ed . ; ." Eric Lambert parted company with his former political and liter ary mates after the Hungarian events in 1956 when he was out of Australia. His best work remains a contri bution to progressive Australian literature. 