 Films document chemical war From RUPERT LOCK WOOD, Tribune's special representative at the Sixth Congress of the Inter national Organisation of Journalists. THF "Thalidomide War" is the name aiven bv cameramen and journalists, until there are more precise details of the chemicals used on the Vietnamese people by the Pentagon. In the wombs of mothers lie babies to be bom dead, deformed or mentally deficient, whilst babies born alive die, because the milk in the breasts of their mothers has dried up. Over three hundred journalists from three continents heard reports and saw films on "How heroism answers horror in Vietnam". Five films were shown taken by Vietnamese cameramen in the war-zone one by Wilfred Burchett showing the chemical war damage to humans, food and animals. Animals needed to plough the ricefields lay dead, children sj pet dogs would never bark again, a mother hen choked along with her chickens in a lethal American cloud. Poispned pigs decayed in their sties, while fish — an alternative food when crops and livestock are destroyed — floated bellies upward in contam inated ponds. Children and grandmothers stared from the screens with coma- dim or sightless eyes. Doctors and nurses with primitive equipment did their best for seared skin, respiratory and digestive organs, whilst for others only coffins were required. ? WILFRED Burchett addressed delegates on the Vietnam war, the difficulties and responsibilities of journalists in reporting the truth on American atrocities. In a special interview with Tribune, Burchett said that the military effects of the American chemical war were negligible but the human damage was as appalling as in the Hiroshima and Nagasaki atomic bombings. The Pentagon took no account of genetic effects on future generations, and the Americans used a complete misnomer when they spoke of "defoliation" chemicals. In the rich Ben Tre province on the Mekong delta one-third of the last two rice crops had been destroyed. Banana, pineapple citrus and paw paw were ripening and almost ready to harvest when napalm and phosphorous were used to bum them. The Americans are stepping up chemical war in an all out drive against food production. These chemicals fall on American and liberated zones alike so that crops are burned or wilted on both sides while it is significant that the Americans have an increasingly profitable rice export trade to South Vietnam. Burchett flew from Berlin to Paris on October 19, to address an important rally organised by the French to demand an end to American intervention in Vietnam: 