 LENIN : A biography BOOK REVIEW BY W. A. WOOD LENIN, A Biography (Progress Publishers, Mos cow). $1.50 (15/-) from progressive bookshops. VLADIMIR I L Y I C H LENIN leader of the first successful socialist revolution, in Russia, was a genius in many different directions, but in one especially yvhich stands ouk from a study of his newly published bio graphy. This was his truly amazing ability, which he communicated to the Bolsheviks (communists) of his party to unite multitudes of people, of widely-varying view points, in support of a common objective. As a marxist philosopher, eco nomist, military strategist, and. editor at various times he was, of course brilliant; but these abilities would never by them selves have brought success. What guaranteed this was that he was able, at the right time, to rally behind the slogan of peace, bread and land, millions of WQrk- ers and peasants at varying levels of political thought, of different nationalities and religions who probably, for the most part, agreed on nothing else at that time ex cept their support for these basic | demands. I This was the essence of Lenin I as a great revolutionary political 1 leader — the very reverse of a I dogmatist and doctrinaire as anti- 1 communists, and some distorted I communists, would have him. I The story is tola in ; "Lenin, a 1 Biography", by a committee of 8 nine Soviet authors headed by P. | N. Pospelov. 1 This is the first full-length bio graphy of the leader of history's greatest revolution yet to be pub lished in the Soviet Union. Lenin did his work of unifying the toiling people not by domina- ting them as other celebrities have done, but by a process of reasoned persuasion and educa tion. So, instead of a prophet sur rounded by disciples, we see the leader of a party where every one was expected to, and did, say with complete freedom and frankness what he thought. The biography includes the famous letters written by Lenin to the Party when, expecting to die at. any time, he felt bound to say what he thought about the future leadership. While warning about the faults of both Stalin and Trotsky he named them as "the two out standing leaders of the present Central Committee". The biography leiis how Lenin battled with Trotsky off and on for years, but at the end he was able to write that Trotsky "is dis tinguished not only by outstanding ability. He is personally perhaps the most capable man in the pre sent CC." To recognise a colleague's faults ad yet use and develop his talents must have been a big part of Lenin's genius. What he did ior tne party leaders and the . party! in . general , he did also, on a vaster' scale, of course, for the whole mass of the. Russian toilers. He was out to show them not what he could do but what they could do. Studying his articles in Iskra and later Pravda (both founded by Lenin in a way told in detail here for the first time) the work ers and peasants did not become mindless followers of a leader; they became leaders themselves and not only of a' great nation, but in an objective sense, of all the pro gressive forces of the world. The biography does justice to Lenin's great theoretical writings (Two Tactics, Materialism and Empirio-Criticism, Imperialism, The State and Revolution, Left Wing Communism and the rest). It also brings out the dramatic high-points of his career — his return to Russia in triumph in 1917 after many years of exile and the two occasions later when the Revolution hung- in the bal ance. One of these crises came in Oc tober, 1919, when three-quarters of the present Soviet territory was occupied by 14 invading armies which were pressing on Moscow from all sides. Lenin headed the Government in a military achievement sur passed not even by the embattled First French Republic. Peaceful Co-existence Even more perilous, was the period early in 1918, when party "leftists" wanted to reject Ger many's punitive peace terms and carry on the war. Holding firmly by the doctrine of peaceful co-existence which he had earlier evolved, Lenin de manded that the terms 'be accept ed and a breathing space be won for the new Republic. He was attacked with all the arguments which have become so very familiar to the world's com munist movement in recent- years. It was a touch-and-go — seven Central Committee votes to four, with four abstentions, in favor of Lenin's policy. Much attention is given to Ward's efforts to attain the leadership of . the Party and parti cularly how bitterly he felt over Whitlam's success in the deputy leadership. An important factor in this con nection it left untouched and this relates to the struggle against J. T. Lang (former A.L.P. Premier of New South Wales). Ward was a creation of the Lang period. He was in fact the first Lang candidate elected, and this exer cised considerable influence on him. In the period of the struggle to oust Lang, the trade union move ment took the lead along with State parliamentarians such as Heffron (who later led the A.L.P. in N.S.W.). In the Federal sphere the unions looked naturally to Ward, but his loyalties to Lang restrained him. He waited for the issue to be re solved. Had he played the lead then it could have played a significant part in realising his ambitions for a leadership position. Eddie was a distinctive figure of Labor's Left and he exerted con siderable influence particularly on important sections of the work ing class. He will be remembered for those actions which demonstrated that the A.L.P. best serves Austra lia and the future when it firmly follows the aims and aspirations of the working people and chal lenges the rule and policies of the wealthy and privileged. Eddie affirmed that the A.L.P. should be connected with its trade union base. In this respect his views find response in the growing influence Left ideas iii the labor move ment. The book is a useful addition to the library of any political student. Had it gone the other way, the Soviet Republic might be now just a heroic moment in history, like, the Paris Commune. As it was the Republic survived, and in less than a year the savage Brest-Litovsk treaty was nullified by Germany's defeat in the first world war. Despite the multifarious labors and , dangers of his self-chosen career, Lenin obviously enjoyed life and not only because be bril liantly achieved his main object be fore his tragically early death at 53. - He was born into, a happy, closely united family. His own marriage (to a girl he proposed to, in underground revolu tion style, by a letter written in invisible ink) was also conspi cuously happy. He enjoyed music, drama and literature — was a vigorous walker and swimmer. N ot a great humorist, he laughed often and nobody ever found him dull company. Such was' the man . who did more than any other of his day to change the course of human history for the better. This book is worthy of him. . 