 'Demonstrate' call Send LBJ all the way (back) ! gYDNEY: Many thousands of Australians are ex pected to follow the calls of Australian Labor movement and peace movement leaders to demon strate against United States President Johnson's visit to Australia next week. Already this week up to 30 organisations in Sydney alone were believed to be calling for messages of protest against the Johnson visit, and preparing for public demonstrations next week to show Johnson the wide Australian opposition to the Vietnam war and conscrip tion. -N Johnson, accompanied by an army of political police and publicists briefed to support the election campaigns of Johnson and the Holt Government, will be in: — Canberra: Thursday, October 20 Melbourne: Friday, October 21 Sydney: Saturday, October 22 PEOPLE INTO ACTION First public leader to call the Australian people into action over the visit was the Federal President of the Australian Labor Party (Senator J. B. Keefe) who urged "all Australians to use every peaceful and constitutional means" to demonstrate to Johnson against Australian involvement in Vietnam. He said the visit was an election gimmick. Mr. Anderson, secretary of the Association for International Cooperation and Disarmament, said in Sydney that some 30 organisations were already cooper ating to develop the protest actions, details of which 1 would be announced. "People should bombard the Federal Government, the US Embassy and the Federal Opposition with protests over the visit", . he said. Mr. R. Gould, secretary of the NSW Vietnam Action Committee, said that in addition to rallying support for a central Sydney demonstration on October 22, the VAC would distribute 30,000 copies of a leaflet setting out Bertraitd Russell's initial indictment of Johnson as a war criminal. The Federal secretary, Miscellaneous Workers' Union, Mr. R. Gietzelt, said: "It is important for Australians using constitutional means to demonstrate in order to show how they feel about Australia's involvement in the Vietnam war". The general president of the Miners' Federation, Mr. W. Parkinson, said: "The Miners' Federation agrees entirely with Senator Keeffe, President Johnson must be shown through demonstrations that the voice iof 'all the way with LBJ' on Vietnam is not the voice of the Australian people. HORROR WEAPONS "Despite the fact that President Johnson is the head of the American nation, members of the Min ers' Federation could not welcome him because he is responsible for US aggression in Vietnam, where every international law has been broken. "He has also endorsed the use of horror weapons, such as napalm, destruction of foodstuffs with poison chemi cals and intense bombing of defenceless people." Mr. F. O'Sullivan, president of the Building Workers' Industrial Union (NSW) said: "I completely agree with Senator Keeffe's call. The BWIU will be calling on its members to support Senator Keeffe's call to demonstrate that it is against the interest of both the Australian and American . people t,o be involved in the Vietnam war." Mr. M. O'Brien, Australian Railways Union federal secretary and a member of the Interstate Executive of Continued on Page 12. "NO,NQ, Harold, you nit, I said REINFORCEMENTS,- not;- s DEMONSTRATORS!" Send him home Continued from Page 1. the Australian Council of Trade Unions, said: "President Johnson's visit should not deprive. Australians from indicating to him their dissatisfaction with US policy in Vietnam. "If Australian workers' are denied this right then President Johnson could ge,t the impression that we are all the way with LBJ, when the fact remains that the majority of the Australian workers are opposed to the Vietnam war." . Dr. A. G. H. Lawes, president of the Australian Asso ciation for International Cooperation and Disarmament, said that as head of a friendly state President Johnson should be received with due protocol and dignity. "But at the same time means should be found to express a democratic protest at his policy", Dr. Lawes said. 1 Mrs. Jean Richards, convenor of the Quaker Peace Committee, said her committee had not yet discussed the Johnson visit. "But, speaking as an individual, I would strongly support Senator Keeffe's call", she said. "I would certainly support the suggestion that Aus tralians, if they disagree with American policy, should make their views known to President Johnson with courtesy and dignity." 