 THE NEGRO REVOLT: Chicago the turning point? yTTACKS on Negro demonstrators cam paigning against the color-bar in Chicago have followed a historic move by American Negro leader, Martin Luther King to open headquarters there. In an article in "The Afri can Communist," American Negro Communist . Claude Lightfoot says that the deci sion of Dr. King and the Southern Christian Leader- ship Conference to "come north" may herald the be ginning of a new era. "The explosion in Watts last year, earlier in Harlem and a few smaller ghettos provides the. backdrop of ?r> King's decision to ex tend his activities into the north with Chicago as the fooal point" he says. What is prevalent in watts reflects every Negro ghetto in America. There is ? time bomb ticking away "Levery one of them and measures are forth- oming to relievq the posi- tion, violence will erupt all over America." Mr. Lightfoot says that the civil rights forces have plac ed on the agenda a long range goal of eliminating "slums and slumism". This means dealing with all the problems of the slums, bad housing, lower income, higher unemploy ment rates, inferior educa tion and "a host of other de humanising features which characterise ghetto life." But to solve all this will require "far reaching changes in every area of nat ional life." "These problems cannot be solved with just a hum anitarian approach. All pro- democratic forces must real ise that their own self- interest is intertwined with the outcome of Dr. King's effort to organise the Chi cago ghetto. "One of the basic features of this new phase of the struggle is the shifting of the centre of gravity to the economic aspects of jim- crow. "The gains of the past 11 years have been substantial in some aspects. Presidential "But the presidential de cisions on desegregating schools and outlawing res trictive covenants which were rendered 11 to 15 years ago have not been complied with, as only 7 to 8 per cent of Negro students have been integrated in the south and the most stubborn re- sistance is found in every northern city. "And court decisions on restrictive covenants fall flat as Negro ghettos have expanded in every area of the country. "The Negro people are still 100 years away from freedom." In respect to their econo mic situation, says Mr. Lightfoot, the Negro masses have actually lost ground despite more Negroes being employed in some higher Government jobs. "This window-dressing is exposed to the light of day as situa tions develop as in Watts last year". Mr. Lightfoot says that "tokenism" is useless; that massive reforms are needed which cannot be paid for while the US carries on its present foreign policy. "The cold facts that stare us in the face are that the economy is not shock proof and we cannot haye guns and butter at the " same time" he says. "The coming of Dr. King to Chicago and the problems this movement has posed for solution are insoluble within the frame- work of the cold war. "They require drastic changes in foreign policy . . . When problems are put which will require the out lay of tens of billions of dol lars, such appropriations can come only at the ex pense of the huge cost of the war establishment." Mr. Lightfoot recalls that at a recent White House conference veteran Negro and civil rights leader A. Phillip Randolph called for a program of a hundred bil lion dollars spread out over a period of ten years, to cope with Negro poverty. "This is only a fraction of what has been spent for cold war purposes" says Lightfoot. This year it cost 60,000 million dollars. "Proposals such as Rand olph's are what is needed. But unless they are accom panied by practical activity to promote a peace policy they become idle dreams". Mr. Lightfoot says that Dr. King's proposals to elimin ate slums in Chicago also go to the heart of the cold war since they required a huge expenditure which would not be available without a foreign policy change. "Dr. King and his move ment and many of his fol lowers seem to Understand this and are arraying their forces alongside the grow ing US peace movement. "The civil rights move ment is now raising de mands which will help ex pand the forces for peace and thereby create the con ditions for changing America away from the cold war." "Token" US ruling circles realise what is happening and that "token" recognition of some Negroes is no longer adequ ate. They are "aware of the potential of a link-up be tween the civil rights strug gles and the fight for peace." "That is why they react so violently to every utterance on the Vietnam war by a Negro leader. During the Korean war the Communists were the first target of the war hysteria. Today Negro leaders have become the prime targets. "Several months ago Dr. King started to speak out for peace. In doing so he changed the pattern where Negro leaders, while pursu ing civil rights goals, refus ed to challenge American foreign policy. In fact many of them sought to use the ' ' cold war as a bargaining point. They made them selves lackeys of US imper ialism. And this for token recognition of individuals. "The new position of Dr. King evoked the wrath of the whole power structure, including some so-called Liberals, like Senator Javits and phoney civil rights lead ers like Roy Wilkins, execu tive director of the National Association for the Advance ment of Colored Peoples. "In essence Dr. King was told to speak out on mat- ters of foreign policy was harmful to civil rights. "The attack on Dr. King was followed by the removal of young Julian Bond from the Georgia Legislature, and the most vicious attacks on Cassius , Clay, world heavy weight boxing champion. "All these vicious assaults will come to nought be cause, as we have seen, the new demands of the civil rights movement are not realisable within the frame- l work of the cold war." Martin Luther King Roy Wilkins 