 HOW FOREIGN GIANTS A ARE SPRAGGING OUR DEVELOPMENT Special Correspondent RECENT statement by the unpopular Mr. C. E. Barnes, Minister for Territories, amounted to a confession that Aus- tralia s development can be seriously set back by the way in which big foreign monopolies op erate here. Barnes was announcing the abandonment of major bauxite (aluminium ore) leases on Gove Peninsula, in the north east of Arnhem Land .(NT). Early in 1963 these leases, covering some 57 square miles of land, were granted by the Commonwealth Government to a. subsidiary of the Pech- iney Company of France, one of the world's biggest alum inium producers. The granting of the leases is remembered mainly because some of them covered land of the Yirrkala Aboriginal reserve and there was a pub lic outcry for adequate com pensation on behalf of the Aborigines. Pledges not fulfilled The Pechiney leases formed a rough circle around a cen tral lease granted to Nabalco Pty. Ltd., in which seven Aus tralian companies (including CSR and AMP) are combined with Swiss Aluminium. Under the 1963 agreement, Pechiney undertook to: — Make an immediate start on the mining and exporting of 10 million tons of .bauxite J bver ; ' regular ; periods within 18 years. Construct a port at near by Melville Bay. Submit by March 1966 a firm proposal for building a substantial alumina plant to be completed by 1970. In fact, in the three years that have elapsed, none of these things was done. Na balco on ,the other hand is understood to have made some progress in its pre paration to produce. Canberra reports quoted by The Australian on May 26 said that Pechiney's interest in the Gove leases lessened once they had secured a 20 per cent equity in the Glad stone alumina plant project, due to begin operation next March with an initial output of 600, 100 tons of alumina. This $104m plant, almost completely foreign owned by Kaiser Aluminium of USA, Pechiney, Alcan of Canada and Conzinc Riotinto of Aus tralia (UK owned) will pro cess bauxite from the Weipa (NQ) deposits held by Co- malco (Kaiser and CRA). In other words, Pechibey believes it has found, temp orarily at least, a more pro fitable way than the Gove project to augment supplies of raw material to its smelt ers overseas. This may be fine for Pech iney, but meantime at Gove: Three years which could have been used for exact sur veying of deposits and pre paration for production have been wasted. The leases have been .ef fectively cut off from other, possible Australian, investi gators. Points the way forward There is no suggestion, that Pechiney had found the; de posits not commercially work able; but it is understood that the assessment of the leases carried out by Pechiney had been dubbed unsatisfact ory by the Government's ex perts. According to Mr. Barnes, the Government now proposes to make its own comprehen sive survey of the resources there, before considering any further application for the leases. The Government's belated decision take over the job of properly assessing the field points in the direction required to pre vent foreign firms playing ducks and drakes wi,th our resources in this way. On past performance, how ever, this only amounts to a new public subsidy for some future monopoly leaseholder. The Gove case is only one sample of foreign monopoly policy decisions that nega tively affect the Australian economy. The eagerness of the CRA to provoke a show down recently with the trade unions in Broken Hill wa-s another — subsequently averted by the workers themselves (see Page 8). WA iron ore problems Another aspect of the pro blem is raised by. Tribune's West Australian correspond ent, who reports on. the un satisfactory agreements for the development of the Pil- bara iron ore deposits in the north-west. Unforeseen difficulties have arisen for the companies planning to develop deposits . in the Mt. .Newman and Robe River areas. A recent article in the Aus-, tralian , , Financial ; Review claims that these difficulties stem from a shortage of cap ital and a shortage of "suffi cient managerial and engin eering talent, at least in Aus tralia". This directly contradicts the claims of the Federal and WA Liberal Governments that only overseas monopol- ies have the capital and know how to develop our mineral deposits. Apparently the four com panies involved — AMAX, Cleveland Cliffs (both for eign) , CSR and BHP — will soon reorganise themselves so that joint capital can be used to develop more quickly the Mt. Newman deposits, leav ing Robe River in abeyance. But still, there are many unanswered questions — Why has BHP as yet no contract to export ore to the Japanese steel cartel as have the other companies? Cleveland Cliffs in its Robe River projects is dir ectly allied with the Japanese monopoly Mitsui; if they be come allied in the Mt. New man project which includes plans for s, steelworks, how will BHP be affected? Cleveland Cliffs and BHP had planned a pelletis- ing plant. But since already the Hamersley Co. have arranged to speed up supply of pellets, and companies in Africa, South America and India 'are offering further supplies to the Japanese market, does this mean that Robe River pellets are not really required by the Japan ese? Since the Mt. Newman contract price is lower than in other agreements, how can this iproject compete unless there is an increase in the amount of ore to be supplied? Forms of Govt » action In current discussions, WA Industrial Minister Court's earlier plans for development of the north-west have been . the first casualties — these companies are interested in profit, not in Australian de velopment. . Nothing . less than the na tionalisation of mineral re sources and extraction can cope with these problems in the long run. This would re quire special government steps to amass the necessary cap ital, other than the tradi tional one of borrowing from overseas investors. Some . useful ideas on the immediate problem were re cently aired in a public lec ture in Canberra by a north ern development expert, Mr. J. H. Kelly, who quoted the Vernon Report on the Eco nomy thus: /'It is obviously undesirable that minerals should be exploited solely as a source of raw materials for /the parents, .or affiliates of ; overseas' interests/' / Mr. Kelly, while noting the Vernon proposals for com bined Australian-foreign pri vate investment in minerals, himself laid stress on: — Proposals for an Austra lian finance corporation to take part in northern min eral development, preferably a scheme by Professor H. W 111 Arndt for a corporation set fH up with . government funds, H replenished through a devel- 1 opment . tax on companies. Jgi Publicly owned corpora- fM tions, led by the best entre- ill .preneurs available, and back- S ed with government money, I®! The flexible use of li- ill cences, rents and royalties flf . which could yield a return to 1 the government for reinvest- || ment and for enforcing guide- !f|| lines of policy. ,|| Mr. Kelly "warned that If "works, constructed with pub- ®g .lie funds should not be dis- ff guised subsidies to large oversea corporations." |f| To this . it must be added that merely transferring own- ' '/ ership from the private mm. mW ing monopolies' to a .govern-; Jfif ment dominated by private WJ monopoly is not sufficient. if/I The real solution can only |- ' . be found when, in addition, 1 the people themselves through ; unions and other organisa- > tions take a full part in con- ||| trolling the resources of Aus- M tra'lia in the interests of the great majority. S "I admit crime doesn't pay, padre, but the hours are | so good." 1 