 Green light from test case? Landlords Seek End Of Rent Control Highly organised landlord organisations are mounting heavy pressure on the State Government in an endeavour to secure the complete abolition of Rent Control in NSW. There are approximately 120,000 tenants with pegged rents. This new campaign has been spurred on by the recent Court of Appeal judgement which up held a landlord's contention that the Fair Rents Board should take into account such factors as "changes in the basic wage, average earnings, the ratip of rentals, cost of living figures and pensions". On July 1 the Fair Rents' Board in line with the Court of Appeal ruling increased the rent ( ' of premises occupied by two I pensioners from $7.30 to $11.10 i per week. Although the NSW Cabinet j has approved legislation to pre- 1 vent the Court of Appeal ruling leading to widespread rent in creases, this legislation will not come before the House until August. NSW Minister for Justice . Maddison has stated that land- ' lords who rush in now to take advantage of the ruling will have to refund the amount of ' the increases when the legisla tion goes through. This could prove a costly pro cess for tenants who may be obliged to take Court action to secure these refunds. NSW State Opposition Leader Renshaw, in commenting on the present case, stated "... the Government must act immedi ately to place a stay of proceed ings on any action which might flow from this judgement". Freeze Such action would freeze the position until legislation can be processed through the Legisla- 1 tive Assembly. ; In applying the Court of Ap- i peal ruling the Fair Rents magistrate in increasing the j rent of the pensioner couple | took note of a Queensland eco- ! nomist who had prepared a paper stating that money in 1939 had 31 times its value to- 1 day. The magistrate multiplied ; P' the 1939 net return by 3i and j added the current outgoings to ! arrive at the new rental, i Last week Mr. C. F, Morton, | President of the Tenants' Asso- j ciation, of NSW said in a letter S to the Sydney Morning Herald: s it is cunicuit to understand I the reasoning behind a recent % decision of the Supreme Court | that economic factors, such as i increases in the cost of living t and in wages and pensions since | 1939, may be taken into con- | sideration by a Fair Rents ft Board, especially as interpreted % by a magistrate, to mean that U because age and invalid pen- $ sions have risen since 1939 all I controlled rents should be in- £ creased proportionately . . . | "Anybody with an income be- 3 law the average earnings of | other persons, now about $45 | a week, must he deemed to ""Hnmniiw— i— —— — mi suffer hardship, for the simple reason that prices tend to rise in proportion to the capacity of the majority of people to pay. Consequently, for a magistrate to say, as reported in your columns, that there was little evidence of hardship in a pen sioner couple to live on only $22 a week clearly suggests that the board was strangely mis informed." 