 The Adelaide « a y Festival 1 . : ' 1 i ...and Yevtushenb yHE fourth Adelaide Fes tival of Arts will be held from March 1 0 to 26. Since it began in 1 960, the restival has become an event of national and, in deed, international import ance. Already it has con tributed much to the devel opment of Australian and world culture. The coming Festival, likely >to he the hest yet, will embrace a tremendously wide field of the arts. Apart from the rich program of performances, art workers from all over Australia and from other countries will have an opportunity to exchange experi ences in conferences and in formally. Waiters' Week, a strong Festi val section, will see leading Australian writers taking part in seminars, readings and lec tures. British novelist, critic and satirist, Angus Wilson, will toe a guest, and it is hoped that Soviet poet Yevgeni Yevtushenko will attend. A seminar on cen sorship and visits by writers to schools are included. The London Symphony Or chestra will make its first visit to Australia while the Australian Youth orchestra will give con certs for schools. More than 400 South Australians will combine to give two performances of Berlioz's Requiem Mass. These performances will be . a tribute to the late Professor John Bishop, the Festival's first artistic director and a man who did much for music in Australia. Fifty negroes and Maoris will present George Gershwin's "Porgy and Bess." Famous US folk singer, Odetta, and leading Australian violinist, Beryl Kim- ber, will give performances. Students from Adelaide technical schools will present a musical written by two SA teachers. A chamber music group from Zurich and US and Dutch jazz groups will take part in the Festival. The Australian Ballet will give its first performance since ' its recent return from a world tour. Ballets will include "Elektra" by SA-born Robert Helpmann. Age-old dancing of India will be presented by the Kalakshetra of Madras group. The Australian Dance Theatre will give classical and modern ballet lunch-hour performances, including "This Train," based on Peter, Paul and Mary songs. The Athens Drama Company will present the famous Greek comedy "Lysistrata." Adelaide's Light Square will be the scene of mass Greek folk dancing as a welcome and tribute to the Company. "Jemmy Green in Australia," one of the first plays written and presented in Australia, will be produced by the University Theatre Guild. Author James Tucker was a convict transported to NSW at the age of 19 in 1827 lor "writing a threatening letter. "Jemmy" is based on land speculation of the 1840's and was inspired by "Billy Barlow in Australia," a popular ballad at the time. Another play about early Australia, "Off to the Diggings," will be produced— the first time since 1855. By contrast, the SA branch of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust will present "The Royal Hunt of the Sun," a play based on . the Spanish conquest of Peru in the 16th century. Overseas students at Austra lian Universities will display their culture, with Asians play ing a prominent part. There will be free open-air entertain ment at Adelaide's Elder Park, lunch-hour concerts in Victoria Square, a national flower dis play, art exhibitions, highland games, marionettes and photo graphic exhibition. And this article only covers a part of the rich and varied program for the fourth Festival. The Adelaide Festival of Arts, in a period of six years, has "arrived." It promises much for the future. 2HENYA Yevtushenko, widely - known young Russian poet who will be at the Adelaide Festival, will be delighted with the rich ness of idiom of the language of Australians he meets. For words — Russian words, slang, vernacular, idiom, and what they mean to the Russian people — are his stock-in-trade. His own life story is proof of Yevtushenko's burning sincerity and courage. "And we'll remem ber that in so strange a time, common integrity could look like courage," he says in one poem. Yevtushenko's poetry is lyri cal, personal and rooted in the soil and emotional history of his people. He is one of the young school of poets which includes Vladimir Tsybin, Andrei Voz- nesenkey, Robert Rozhdestven- sky, Bella Akhmadulina (his first wife) and many others who have brought poetry back on to the Russian popular market. They wrote poetry which was dis turbing to critics blindly loyal to "socialist literary norms," who were capable of hitting at a love poem with a sentence like "purely subjective experience, devoid of social significance." The new poets showed once again that such "subjective ex perience" does have a vital and fundamental social significance. And their poems are not the parcelled hysteria of. pop-sex, but love poems genuinely felt. But, the poets don't just write about themselves. Indeed, Yevtushenko has writ ten far more about other people —his old school teacher, his uncles, massive giants of the Siberian taiga where the poet was born, his mother an enter- tainer during, the war, his old soccer mates, his wives, the heroes of Cuba, and, his latest poem, the youthful builders of the Bratsk Hydro-Electric scheme. "The image of the 'simple Soviet man' is the creation of our press. This 'simple man' has been sung, filmed, staged, proudly mentioned in political speeches. But I saw how far from being 'simple' he really was", says the poet. Born on July 18, 1933, in Zima, Yevtushenko bears the Ukrainian name of his great-grandfather, a peasant sent into Siberian exile for burning his landlord's house to the ground. His grandfather, who couldn't read or write, fought against the Intervention of 1919-21 and help ed organise the Red Army in the Urals. He became a Red Army commander but disap peared during the Army purge of 1937. "No one in our family uttered the word 'Revolution' as if he were making a speech. It was uttered quietly, gently, a shade austerely. Revolution was the religion of our family," the poet says. His father, who wrote poetry, used to: recite to him, and his uncles sang him the slow guts- tearing songs of an indestructible people. He was evacuated from Mos cow with thousands of other children in 1941. In Siberia he witnessed, and danced at what he calls, the most terrible thing he'd ever seen— "the weddings of 1941." His poem, "Weddings," recalls the teenage soldiers and their sweethearts, choosing to marry, if only for one night, before the boys hurried off to a (then) certain death in the defence of Moscow. His popular song, "Do the Russian People Want War?" remembers the uncounted sacri fices of his people in defeating the fascist invasion and saving humanity. Back in Moscow he did badly at school, but wrote poetry. And to show that Mayakovsky may have been underestimating the Russian tongue when he said "there might be one or two rhymes left" in Venezuela or somewhere," Yevtushenko col lected 10,000 new rhymes which he used as the basis of his work. After the death in 1953 of Stalin (whom the poet then worshipped) he wrote "Zima Junction." The poem, which he recited everywhere, made him famous, and unearthed op ponents in literary hierachy. It was the story of his family and himself, set in the soil of Russia. He was looking for himself and his people and found them by singing "the simple, blood-heated song." Poems followed poems and success,, success. "Baby Yar," "Stalin's Heirs," "Cuba's Beauty Queen," "The Bureaucrat at the Bath-House," and 150,000 editions of Yevgeni Yevtushenko's work sold out before lunch-time. He recited (and his controversial poems as well) on the three national TV networks simul taneously for hours at a time. Yevtushenko and the new poets have done a good deal to put real personality back into Soviet poetry, the , real personality that had almost disappeared during "the cult of personality", which was completely the opposite— it was a cur aim-personality when succ#ems contained verses in lj|0£ Stalin. Yeviusftenfcrth an angry critic ol Pjpl|bureaucratic and sWf&fmg and a loyal nusshWw determined fighter foPWnJsm. «I 3ay |hbse( who speak in the nari®hunism and in reality ?®Wts meaning are some dangerous enemi.es ous perhaps than its the West," the poet st NevertheffiJ Poetry, par ticularly during and after strikes blows at mp. He all over Russia, Ger- many Youth Festival bj if;, he wrote "Snot-Nose? Sgg? » about the local hooj attacked people at i1- He nce S| wanted to write as ||Mayakovsky, the poet o! gtjution, would SStS II He has achieved t®Pems about home and Wooded love of Peop pig ' sians. But he engage his sword enemies of toman- thpse imhjnpues, rac- ists in t®'-"11" woria of the "$ successfully shifted universal reconciliatW1 Mayakov- sky's othefL o£. satire» irony and ji0 class in justice be # shake eir griP? if Perhaps .wytushenko wm S #when is in Austral It The man at the zoo is a guest at the 1966 Adelaide Festival. He is Angus Wilson, English writer and satirist who has written many short stories, novels and plays. Some of his better known works include "Anglo Saxon Attitudes", "The Middle Age of Mrs. Eliot" and "The Old Men at the Zoo". 