 Future gains for ILS.S.R. CYDNEY: "The working people of " the Soviet Union are complete masters1 of their own destiny", said Mr. R. Dixon, leader of an Australian communist dele gation just back froir. Mos cow, in Sydney this week. The delegation had repre sented the Communist Party of Australia at the recent 23rd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Mr. Dixon, who is presi dent of the CPA, said that the congress,- attended by some 5,000 delegates from all over the Soviet Union, was very business-like and hard-work ing. The Congress was firmly united on all the major issues. But when it came to criticism the delegates did not pull their punches whether they were dealing with the work of ministries or Government leaders, or with regional and local matters. "In fact the 23rd Congress dealt with all issues in a very concrete and realistic way. It concentrated mainly on problems of peaceful economic construction and the advance to Communism. "The new 5-year plan aims to increase industrial produc- 4 tion by 50'/ . When you con-, sider the vastness of Soviet industrial production today, second only to the United States, you realise how ab surd the "Herald" charge of a "Soviet Standstill" is". Mr. Dixon said, it was also proposed to raise the living standards of the people by 30'/ , to improve social ser vices, increase home construc tion and raise cultural stan dards. Vietnam The 23rd Congress had dec ided to give full support to the struggle of the heroic people of Vietnam for liber ation, and to continue to give them full moral, political and material aid. It denoun ced the U.S. aggression in Vietnam and demanded the withdrawal of U.S. troops and 'he right of the Vietnamese people to decide on their own future without interference. The fraternal delegations from North and South Viet nam both expresised, in very warm terms, their appreciat ion of the economic and mil itary assistance given by the Soviet Union , in the measure requested by the Vietnamese. There were 86 delegations from fraternal parties pres ent at the 23rd Congress. The stand taken by these deleg ations, their call for world Communist unity, their dec larations of solidarity with the C.P.S.U. and their apprec iation of its principled stand for world Communist unity, were of major importance in assessing the 23rd Congress, he said. All delegations declared, in strong and emotional words, their solidarity with the struggle of the courageous Vietnamese people against the brutal U.S. aggressors. "The absence of the Chin ese Party and its negative attitude towards world Com munist unity, is to be reg retted. There can be no doubt, however, that the forces working for world unity on the basis of the 1957 and 1960 Moscow meetings are in the ascendant and, sooner or later, will succeed. 