 "I'm against conscription"— Pte. Noack's mother CONSCRIPTS DEATH : THOUSANDS _ . . . __ ' PROTEST "THOUSANDS of people in several States this week protested against the Government's Vietnam war policy while paying last respects to Private Errol Noack, first conscript youth to be killed in Vietnam. In South Vietnam itself, six men and women burned themselves to death in a few days, in condemnation of the Ky regime. In Adelaide— Pte. Noack's home city — student protests were quickly followed by widespread action by trade unions and workers on jobs. In Melbourne, over 2000 people marched through the Streets last Saturday (picture, Page 3) . In Adelaide, more than 60 banner-carrying students attending the Australian Student Labor Federation con ference, marched from the University to picket the Liberal Party offices for an hour in protest against the war in Vietnam, conscription and the death of Pte. Noack. Pte. Noack's mother said: "I am against this con-i scrip tion of lads for Vietnam, from here.. It is so point less. My view is that if we were at a state of declared war they would not have to conscript men. They would 1 go voluntarily to defend the country"! Seamen of the "Iron Baron" flew the ship's flag half- mast at Port Adelaide. A meeting of Boilermakers and Blacksmiths' Society shop stewards called for two minutes silence on the day of the funeral (today, Wednesday) . The union's exe cutive had previously carried a resolution expressing concern at Pte. Noack's tragic death. The South Australian Trades and Labor Council, attended by 150 delegates, stood and observed a, two- minutes silence in memory of Pte. Noack. Fremantle Tribute In Western Australia, waterside workers, seamen and dockers in the port of Fremantle last Monday observed two minutes' silence in memory of Pte. Noack and in protest at the policy which sent him to his untimely death. , 7 A death notice expressing deepest sympathy to . his family was inserted in "The West Australian" by mem bers of the Youth Campaign Against Conscription. The Methodist Church of Australasia at its national conference in Perth last week decided to ask the Federal Government to stop sending conscripts to Viet nam. The Government's policy on conscripts was morally wrong and there was no political justification for it, said a conference resolution. Calling for peace and reconstruction of Vietnam and the longrange development of S.E. Asia, conference urged the World Council of Churches plan to bring all the parties involved to the conference table. 