 Fraser puts the record straight ALP FIRM ON NO CONSCRIPTS FOR "UNJUST WAR" By our Parliamentary Roundsman ANBERRA: A blistering attack by Mr. Allan Fraser on the ultra-Rightists and war profiteers who back the Holt Gov ernment's Vietnam policy was a feature of the foreign affairs de bate in parliament last week. Mr Fraser repeated that the ALP opposed the sending of Australian troops to Vietnam "and is especially opposed to the sending of conscripted troops". "We believe that con scription for an unjust war is unjustified." Mr. Fraser's. speech was especially important as he is chairman of Labor's Foreign Affairs committee. It served notice on right- wing elements that their efforts to change the party's policy before the election would, not succeed. Mr. Fraser warned that loss of the elections by Labor would, give free rein to the ultra-Rightist militarists sitting behind the government to press their policy for a sud den undeclared war on China. Dangerous He said that the men now controlling US policy, to which Australia waas now com mitted by the Government, "are dangerous men allied with the most violent react ionary organisations in that country. "They are prepared, if the North Vietnamese do not now surrender, to escalate till I Vietnam is pulverised and its people exterminated, or until they bring about the holo caust of world war III. "The opposite numbers of these violent and bloody men are among the members of the Government parties in this parliament. The political views of these "dangerous men of war", " these "powerful controllers of the Government" who sat on the front and the back of Government benches "are fascist in character", Mr. Fraser said. "They are those of the John Birch Society, those of the League of Rights. Their char acter is totalitarian, oppres sive and repressive and they control the Government". (The League of Rights is an anti-semitic, fascist type organisation centred in Mel bourne). These persons, Mr. Fraser added, wanted a preventive war against China — "the sud- . den unheralded launching of nuclear attack on key points throughout China, causing ruin and annilation in the places where the attack is launched. Wicked "It is a wicked course which must be regarded as sheer insanity by normal people but it has its supporters among Government members. "We have heard these people in this place go as close as they dare to the outright advocacy of unheralded nuc lear attack upon China". "Those are their military views. Their financial views are the views of the Wall Street adventurers— men with out compassion, men without human feeling to whom the cause of peace is a loss of profit, men who deliberately seek to maintain a war fer ment to maintain the prices of their stocks. "Evidence of this can be found in any financial journal. These men are determined that there must not be a peaceful atmosphere in the world. "These are the people the Australian electorate will elevate to unchecked power in this country if it returns the Holt Government for a further three years". Mr. Fraser pointed out that External Affairs Minister Hasluck, in his foreign affairs survey, had given unqualified praise to Chiang Kai-shek and Marshal Ky — both open advocates of launching a war on China. At this point Mr. Fraser scored decisively over Mr Hasluck who contradicted his statement that Ky, whom Hasluck had praised, shot or jailed peace advocates. "The Minister dare not contradict what I am saying", challenged Mr. Fraser. Mr. Hasluck: "I do con tradict it". Mr. Fraser: "Do you sav the south Vietnamese people SnHiuS6 t0 h?d meetinSs and publicity advocate uncon ditional negotiations with the Vietcong and North Vietnam'? Do you say that?" Mr. Hasluck: "No". Mr. Fraser: "All right." Sinister He then recalled that Holt while in New York had spent the weekend with a close personal friend, "a multi millionaire of character so sinister that he is credited with having inspired Fleming's character 'Goldfinger'. He continually seizes mineral empires wherever he can obtain them," On seeking to give this character a parting gift "Holt had phoned Australia hut had been told that the Govern ment had already given away so many Australian mineral resources that nothing was left for Goldfinger, Mr.' Frasei, jibed. . ( (The Financial Review of July. 8, to which Mr. Fraser alluded, names the man as Charles Engelhard, "controller of a 200 million dollar com plex of platinum, gold, silver and securities that spreads from Manhattan to Melbourne, from S. Africa to Western Europe.") SMILER HASLUCK Chummy with Chiang HAPPY HAROLD Close friends. with Goldfinger 