 CLERGY ATTACK CONSCRIPTION JYDNEJY : "We will stand by and support conscientious ob jectors to the utmost of our strength" Rev. Alan Walker pledged to a cheering meeting, about 1,700 strong, in the State Theatre last Sunday. It was a rally against con scription for Vietnam, called by the Canberra Vigil Com mittee. "Soon we will be reading the headline 'First Conscript Killed in Vietnam'," said Mr. Walker. This headline would mark the shame of the policy which sent conscripts to fight there. "The blind will be drawn and the light will go out in an Australian home," said Mr. Walker, who is Superintendent of the Central Methodist Mis sion. Under conscription, Mr. Walker said, young men were pemg sent to axe xur trie nation, while no demands were made on wealth. Mr. Walker said it was a savage, unjust, ruthless and unnecessary war. If he were of military age, said Mr. Walker, he would choose' jail rather than have any part in such a war. He hoped that a wave of public revulsion would sweep Australia and compel the Gov ernment to withdraw from its position. Rev. John Garrett principal of Camden Theological College (Congregational) called on all Australian ministers of religion to support young men who Continued P. 12. CLERGY Continued from P. 1. refused to fight in the Vietnam war. As a former officer of the Australian Council of Churches he was "ashamed" at its silence on the issue. Mr. Garrett made it clear he opposed Communism, but he believed the Vietnamese would rather have it than see their villages destroyed by ceaseless .fighting and fruitless jungle hide-and-seek. Professor L. C. Birch, profes sor of Biology at Sydney Uni versity, said conscription for Vietnam was a travesty of democracy which would he fought tooth and nail. Young Australians of today wanted to help Asians, not fight them. . The Government resorted to conscription for the dirty . war because it lacked the arguments' neded to make men volunteer. Young men believed their lives were being traded for dollars. Outside powers, in cluding the US> had been con sulted before the young men were sent to die in the jungle, but not the young men them selves. Dr. J. F. Cairns, MHR, chal lenged anyone to prove that the nation was facing an emer gency such as to justify con scription. | Mr. Walker read a message of support from Professor Geoffrey Sawer, of the Aus tralian National University, The meeting followed a few days after a sharp attack on conscription by the semi-official ' Catholic Advocate in Melbourne. 