 New betrayal after 50 years gPEAKING in Melbourne last Sunday, Mr. Calwell warned of the "grizzly old warmongers" who, refusing to fight in earlier wars when they1 had the opportunity, now want to conscript others to= fight in Vietnam. He was addressing a rally to commemorate the defeat of the first conscription referendum in 1916. Most dangerous of the "warmongers" he was referring to was none other than Prime Minister Holt, the gunner who left the AIF in the crucial year of 1940 for a cosy Cabinet seat. (He had to leave the Cabinet in 1941 and became ' free to join his former mates in the firing line but 1 didn't see fit to take the opportunity, spending the rest of the war as a mere member of the Parliament ary Opposition.) That Holt intends to extend Australia's Vietnam commitment, and extend conscription correspond ingly, is a secret to few (though he hopes to keep it from as many as possible until after the elections on November 26) . At the Johnson barbecue last Saturday, Holt indi cated that he was determined, despite all the pro tests, to find what he wanted to find in Australia's reception of Johnson— support for Holt's Vietnam policy. , "The support", he said, "was strong enough for us to go forward" — words that could mean jungle deaths foif hundreds of young Australians. Challenged earlier in Parliament by Mr. Calwell, Holt could not deny that more troops might be committed to Vietnam next year. ? American official sources who usually learn of this Government's intentions before the Australian peo ple do, are much more open in their predictions. The semi-official "US News and World Report" said on October 18 that Australia was expected to double its present commitment of 4600 troops in Vietnam during the next year. The' paper also said that Holt himself was a "hawk" who wanted a "victory" in that unwinnable war and opposed negotiations at any cost. Holt himself has denied this, but External Affairs Minister Hasluck's recent warning in New York against those who wanted to "force an end to the fighting" in Vietnam was clear enough. The militarist puppet dictator of South Korea has statpd that he is coming to the Manila confer ence to demand more troops from the other US allies. Obviously he won't have to look far for a i seconder to the motion, It is rumored thaat the Australian call-up age is to be extended, and that the necessary forms for this have already been printed— a threat to those who may feel now they are safe from the death lottery. It is good that at such a crucial hour Mr. Calwell should help us to remember the historic victories of 1916 and 1917. In the referenda of those years the Australian people said NO to a Prime Minister who, like Holt, thought they could be driven or deceived into giving their lives without stint in an unjust, imperialist war. Backed b/ all the resources of the State, the daily press, and the important mass media, most of the politicians, and most of the clergy, W. M. Hughes did not see how he could lose. At bitter cost to himself he learned the lesson of the Australian people's deep attachment to the cause of peace and independence from imperialist control of their affairs. Obviously the same lesson must be taught Holt — and November 26 will be a good time to make a real beginning of the job; 