 Nothing sacred to pension snoopers By a Special Correspondent CHORTLY after the untimely death of my husband nearly two years ago I applied to the Department of Social Services for the old age pension. IjpHIS amazing story of how applicants Icr a pension are submitted to a gestapc -style grilling by the Social Ser vices Department has been specially written for Tribune by a woman recently widowed. She was prompted to do this by an article in the Sydney" daily press by Mr. W. C. Wentworth, MHR. Mr. Wentworth who favors abolition of the Means Test said there was "un derstandable resentment" against "de partmental snoopers" who pry into the private affairs of oensi oners and claim ants for a pension. The writer says that her politics are the opposite of Mr- Wentworth's, but she will support him on that particular statement. f ' The form applicants must fill in is most detailed. All information about par ents, place of birth, income, and in my case, my late hus band's occupation, must be given. . You fill in "the'- form and with a sign of relief post it away, thinking that you will then receive ' the pension, knowing you are . eligible. But no! The next step is an interview with a gentleman in the Department. You are given an appointment so, knowing all the details in the application were correct, you set off without any qualms. At the Department you are told to "wait until your name is called". For my part, I waited a considerable time. Then my name1 was called and into the offide I went. The gentleman behind the desk, without any warning, handed me a Bible and I was told to take the oath, that I would swear to tell the whole truth! What was I going to be asked? The gentleman had he- fore him the form which I had filled in. Apparently this interview was satisfactory, but I heard nothing for six weeks and then I was told I'd receive the widow's pension from the time my husband died and if all the checking showed my . answers to be correct I'd get the pension. Not long after this I was able to arrange for an old friend of myself and my late husband to have a room in my home. The understanding . was that he would provide for himself and his company would be sufficient to com pensate for not paying for rent. Some weeks elapsed and I'd still not heard about the pen sion. One day I was told by a neighbour, "There's been a man with a brief case looking for you." Sure enough a couple of days later returning from the city I found a card in my letter box informing me that an officer of the Department had been calling on me and would I make an appoint ment. Questions It wasn't convenient — I was working voluntarily for an organisation in the city— but I made the appointment and stayed home, and the officer duly arrived. It was obvious that he'd been asking questions around the neighb_ourhood and then the real reason for this inter view was revealed. Was the gentleman in the house a boarder? No— he had a room and looked after his own needs. Did I do his washing? No, hut sometimes he did mine! Did I clean out his bed room? No, but sometimes he helped me with other house work. What was the relationship between us? He was merely a man who'd been a friend of my late husband and was a friend of mine. Was there any de facto rela tionship between this man and myself? "What do the neighbours think?" At this I really blew my top! Just about three months after my husband's death and .he dared to ask such a ques tion! And I didn't know or care what the neighbours thought. Then there had to be an inspection of the house. I took him into the room oc cupied- by the man. He took a look around and was ob viously satisfied that there were no female belongings. Then into my bedroom. Were there any men's clothes in the wardrobe? So emphatic was my reply that he didn't open the wardrobe to find out. Apparently after all this it was found that I was entitled to receive the pension. Snooping is right, as Mr Wentworth says. But also there is apparently a depart mental' attitude which insists on the most inhumane treat ment of the elderly people who dare to apply for the pension for which they have paid by taxation over the many years they have worked. MHnmntnBMnai 