 — — " l?Ob, I No dice on big names 1 I pOL LOWERS of the international codes of football — rugby league, union B I and soccer — should no doubt be satisfied with the abundance of biff ! 8 games that have been taking place here recently — and they should hav H 1 learnt plenty. I The chief lesson followers of" any of the codes should have learnt, is not to judge a team solely by reputation and results. Here . on tour helping to provide the top entertainment, —and .lessons, are the British Rugby League team and the Italian "millionaire" soccer team AS Roma. Also the Brit ish Rugby Union team, the Lions, has just finished its successful tour. With the Rugby League Test series between Australia and Britain about to begin, local critics will indeed be cautious about making favourable fore- 1 casts about . the outcome. The performances of . the English team has so far been unimpressive, but the League "experts" should be wary of the Englishmen "foxing" to lull the home team into a state of overconfidence. A state of confidence, if not over-confidence, was apparent in the Australians' outlook, during the just concluded Rugby Union test series; Des pite favourable forecasts prior to the Second Test, the home team suffered a devastating I ignominious defeat of 31-0. End result disastrous The British Lions, had any thing but impressed prior to the devastating Second Test. They had struggled for vic tories over Victoria and N.S.W. Country, and been held to a draw by the N.S.W. state side. Nbt to many critics asked the "whys" of the Lions per- formnaces but analysed Aus tralia's chances by reflecting on our past record. In short, judgements were made on reputations, and the end result was disastrous. On the other hand, the Ita lian "millionaire" soccer team, IA.S. Roma also with a great reputation, has failed to im- press. If anything, it has boosted the confidence of the Australian eleven. For a team that has , some of the highest valued players around, and who do nothing else but play football, it was indeed a shot in the arm to the Australian part-time eleven to hold A.S. Roma to a draw last Monday. The English League team last Saturday in its 15-14 win against Sydney indicated that a sudden reversal of its poor form is in the offing and that Australia will have to be really in fprm for the coming series. Beautiful Mixture Last week, Tigran Petros- yan of the Soviet Union re tained his world chess title from challenger Boris Spass- ky, while almost at the same- time, it was reported that a New York tennis coach had made chess a compulsory subject for his tennis pupils. The tennis coach, Dick Skeen, had said: "The con centration required in chess can help a player analyse things more effectively in ten nis". Indeed, if an all round dev elopment of man is desired, then chess certainly must contribute well to the exercis ing of the intellect. As to just what chess is, Soviet Union, Grandmaster, Alexander Kotov gave a beauti ful description in Soviet Weekly, last year when he described it in part thus: "... We now believe chess to be a mixture of a game, a science and art. It has be come a hobby for millions of people who find in it a joy of creation, the excitement of a battle and the intensity of re search ... "Like an artist's canvas or the score of a composer the moves made a century ago bring joy to the lovers of the ancient chess art even to day . . m High | Flyer | Even with Valeri Brumel f! still laid up with an injured 8 leg, the Soviet Union has an- I other very worthy hiirh jumper, in the name of I Valeri Skvortsov to fall back 1 on in its quest for world 1 honors. j| At the end of last month I Skvortsov, a 22-year-old Mos' I cow student, cleared 221 H centimetres (7 ft. 3 in.) at the 1 Moscow versus Leningrad 11 track and field match, at Mos- 11 cow. ;i Skvortsov is the second H Soviet jumper, after Brumel to break the 220 centimetre 8 barrier. Including Brumel, m only seven men in the world have done so to date. m His effort is the second best IS m the world and the best in II Europe, America, Africa or 1 Australia this season. Only the m Chinese high jumper, Ni Chi pi Chinh, has shown a better m result. || Costly 1 Cycle Jg pERTH: Phillip Bristowe- I AW Stagg is an apprentice jff turner and iron machinist at r the West Australian Govern- \ ment Railway Workshops at Midland. He has been select- j , ed, as a cyclist, to represent Australia at the British Empire Games in Jamaica. , If West Australia does not raise its quota of money for |||l the games Phil will have to fei make up . the discrepancy to .yj pay his fare. He will be away at least seven weeks without ; ! pay from his job. Phil estim- J ates he will be over $400 out | of pocket for the privilege of j representing Australia. I m In these days of football I m transfer fees Phil, one of the m best amateur cyclists ever produced in W.A., will certain- « ly owe the State Government || nothing when he returns from :;|j the Empire Games. bf I II \i iTilfffl Tigran Petrosyan, of Armenia (USSR), the neW m world chess champion. |tJ p| 