 , ..v.. , , . — — . i "Ob. THE TRANSPORT SCHEMOZZLE A view from the bus STAN DEACON, a State Executive and Fed eral Council member of the Bus Employees' Union, continues Tribune's survey of the NSW transport system. LJARRY Roberts' article, "Strictly for the Birds", pleading for a "fair go" for long-suffering users of Sydney's bus transport system, is at once a timely reminder of the deplorable level to which these ser vices have sunk, and a call for action to remedy the situation. In attempting to analyse the Askin Government's attitude to public transport and just how they propose to "solve" the problem, one needs to con sider a particular "legacy" be queathed it by its predecessor, the Labor Government. EBASCO I refer here to the notorious EBASCO Report, the full de tails of which have never been fully publicised, but which ex press in general terms the line to be pursued in order to "solve" the transport problem. High priority was given by this firm of American consult ants to the complete abolition of the existing tramway sys tem and its replacement by buses. Apart from the relative merits of trams versus buses as alternative means of trans port, one very clear implica tion could be drawn from EBASCO's Report and supple mentary comments. This was that whereas the tramways system, with its largely outmoded tram-cars and its track system in urgent need of renovation to the ex tent of some millions of dol lars, not only represented a heavy financial liafbility, bu,t would prove an uninviting source of investment to private enterprise. On the other hand, a trans port system converted entirely to buses would be eminently suitable for such investment and, assuming that the entire metropolitan system was too large for any single enterprise, its disposal piecemeal would be a distinct possibility. Private Meantime EBASCO cautioned the Government against pro viding any service to "fringe", i.e., newly developed residential areas, which they insisted , should be the province of pri vate enterprise. The question arises — how far does the Askin Government plan to implement these recom mendations? Before attempting to provide the answer to this query it may be of value to recount the circumstances surrounding the conversion from trams to buses, for these circumstances served to accelerate the decline in ser„ vices and patronage by the pub lic. In the view of the Bus Em ployees' Union, the Department of Government Transport did not have at its disposal suffi cient buses to replace the trams being withdrawn from service. But the Department plan ners, working upon the EBASCQ assumption that because of their greater manoeuvrability, and more rapid turn-around, the carrying capacity of a bus should not be compared with that of a tram, went ahead with their plans. Hasty The after-effects of this too- hasty conversion from trams to buses are still with us in the continuing use of antiquated vehicles that should have Ipng since been scrapped, but which are used in order to maintain the existing inadequate ser vices. Orders for new buses now being met overseas will take some time to make any impres sion upon this situation. What are the immediate prospects? Bearing in mind the above remarks with respect to EBASCO's interpretation oFtRe anticipated role of private en terprise, it is disquieting to learn of actions of Transport Minister Morris which not merely serve to extend the scope of the private operators in newly developed areas, but wnicn conmct witn and oper ate in competition with estab lished Government services. 'Mr. Morris has gone on re cord, prior to his appointment, as favoring handing Govern ment services in Newcastle over to private enterprise. It is not surprising, therefore, that re cently private concerns in New castle area benefited at the expense of the Government ser vice. Similar developments are ap parent in Sydney. Objections What are the chief objections to this trend? Apart from what it portends in terms of the slow strangulation of an im portant public utility, the ques tion arises— can private enter prise operate in the true inter ests and benefit of the public? The answer must be an em phatic No! There is ample evidence to show that under present conditions an efficient road passenger transport sys tem in a city of the character of Sydney cannot provide an adequate service and at the same time operate as a profit- making venture. Handing the field to private enterprise would simply result- in the profitable runs being retained and those which were "unprofitable" discarded. In the USA, often held up as the outstanding example of success of the private enter prise system, there are innum erable instances where com panies enjoying a total mono poly of city transport are in receipt of substantial financial subsidies from the authorities in order to maintain services. Socialist On the other hand, in social ist countries, in cities such as Moscow, public transport is continually expanding whilst fare rates diminish almost to vanishing point. Apart from the all-important nature of the social system from which this springs, it is note worthy that public transport is regarded as a utility to be sus tained by the state itself. And this, as Harry Roberts asserts, is the key to better public transport in this State The employing class, which depends in major degree upon public transport to bring work ers daily to its factories and enterprises, has a rooted ob jection to helping finance a utility which, viewed object ively, is a not unimportant factor in ensuring g&lt; steady and uninterrupted flow of profits from the labors of its employ ees. It follows that chief respon sibility for salvaging the for tunes of Government transport should not be allowed to ia\\ upon the shoulders of working people in the shape of lata increases, but in greater im position upon that section best able to bear it. MR. STAN DEACON 