 Death of veteran Communist 1 (By a Special ! I Correspondent) I WORKERS all over 1 Australia and | I many in New Zealand 1 will remember Norman | Jeffery, foundation I member and former I Central Committee member of the Com munist Party of Aus tralia, who died on Saturday. I Born in 1894 in Foots- cray, Victoria, the son of an English seaman and a school teacher of Irish descent, Norman spent his entire adult life in the service of the labor move ment. He was in the forefront of every militant struggle of the workers waged in that time, from the Indus trial Workers of the World I campaigns of the First World War to the cam- I paigns of today to stop the Vietnam war. Throughout it all he maintained an invincible and infectious enthusiasm undimmed by hard times, prison sentences, political " setbacks or the illness that dogged him in recent years. Soon after he was born Norman's father took the family to the Western Australian goldfields. There he was killed in an accident when Norman was six. ? Norman had to work hard from an early age, helping his mother at a cleaning job, helping his elder brother sell news- papers. He was apprenticed as a wickerworker and early became a strong unionist, being elected to the execu tive at the age of 16. An English socialist cousin introduced him to Blatchford's writings and another early influence was American freethinker Ralph Ingersoll. During the First World War he came as a ship's steward to Sydney, where he lived in Balmain for a while before going to Queensland as a bush- worker. There he took part in the big anti-conscription (campaign of 19i6-17. To wards the end of the war Norman, by then a mem ber of the 'militant IWW, served a sentence in jail, where he carried on a struggle for the rights of the political prisoners. ? In 1920 he became a foundation member of the Communist Party of Aus tralia. He was also the first secretary of the first branch (Balmain) formed outside the City of Syd ney. Very soon the .Party recognised his remarkable abilities and he became national organiser and went on tours of NSW and Queensland— later to New Zealand. In the early thirties he visited the Soviet Union. He was a delegate from the NSW Labor Council to the Red International of Labor Unions. Norman was in the thick of the depression- time battles of the unem ployed. He was a mem ber of the trade union Militant Minority Move ment and fought for many years as a member of the Australian Workers' Union to win support for pro gressive policies. ? In the very early days he was prominent in the battle to win the right to hold a May Day march in Sydney. Later he became chief organiser and mar shal of the May Day march, which he saw grow from a small band of zealots to several thousands of workers. In later years, when working as a tally clerk on the Sydney waterfront, he energetically took up the cause of the World Federation of Trades Unions. He attended more than one conference of the WFTU overseas and became its chief corre spondent in Australia. An effective speaker and writer, Norman Jeffery's breezy, optimistic per sonality left an impression which will long remain with his many friends in the working class and pro gressive movement. Tribune extends deep sympathy to Norman's widow, Nancy Jeffery, and other members of his family. NORMAN JEFFERY 