 Strontium count soars to " colossal amount" CYDNEY: Discovery of a "colossal amount" of deadly strontium 90 in Sydney's rainwater (due to French atomic tests) may lead to queries being directed to Professor E. W. Titterton and other members of the Holt Government's Radiation Advisory Council. From first to last the Gov ernment, basing itself mainly, it would appear, on Professor Titterton's publicly-proffered advice, declared that there would be no danger to Aus tralia in the tests. The French Government it self poured forth these as surances in the greatest pro fusion. The French swore that the tests would be carried out only when the winds would blow the fallout away from Australia. The French version was ac cepted and passed on by the 1 Holt Government and featur ed by the daily press, notably by the Sydney Morning Her ald, which ran a special article last April suggesting Australians had nothing to worry about. Threatened Tribune replied . with an article on May 4 warning that, on the contrary, the French tests gravely threatened Aus tralia and the Pacific. Now, the Sydney Daily Mir ror of November 24 presents some evidence as to who was right. It quotes Dr. D. J. Carslaw, senior lecturer in the .Depart ment of Nuclear Radiation Chemistry at the University of NSW as saying that stron tium 90 and other radio-active elements had increased mark edly in Sydney's rainwater since the French tests. He said: "If the amount of strontium we have record ed has got into the food sup ply I think vit should be care fully watched." The rains which have filled Sydney's dams in the past two weeks were laden with one of the highest rates of radio- activity Australia had ever known. "Tuesday night's prelimin ary count for strontium was colossal",- Dr. Carslaw said. "It appeared to have gone up by 200 to 300 per cent." Dr. Carslaw said it was a matter for concern, though it was difficult to fix a level at which strontium 90 could be considered dangerous. "A little more in the bone marrow of someone who is leukaemia-prone could be the deciding factor for them" he said. 