 ACTU should protest ! aqainst more troops to Vietnam say Sheet Metal Union officials JYDNEY: The federal . officials of the Sheet Metal Workers' Union last week called on the Australian Coun cil of Trade Unions to protest against pro posals to send more Australian troops to Vietnam. The ACTLJ is also called on to campaign for the with drawal of Australian and other foreign forces from South Vietnam. "Our organisation feels that such action would be in line with tLa AfTT I derision in May, 1 965 in which the action of the Australian Gov ernment to send Australian troops to South Vietnam was condemned," the union said. The request to the ACTU follow ed a resolution carried by the union's N.S.W. Branch in opposi tion to recent public declarations by United States' spokesmen who indicated that the Government of that country intended to extend the war in Vietnam. Last week the N.S.W. Labor Coun cil decided to ask the ACTU to ini tiate a national protest against the Federal Government's pamphlet on Vietnam being sent to schools. This move followed a protest let ter from the Amalgamated Engineer ing Union against the Government's action. The union asked that tlw ALP be also allowed to present its views to school children. The annual meeting of the Plas terers' Union's Sydney branch, held just prior to Christmas expressed concern at the reported continual build-up of military forces in Viet nam. Church leaders were called on "to use their influence in seeking a peaceful settlement of the war." No effort should be spared on the eve of Christmas, the union said. in answer to the union, the Rev. Alan Walker (from the Central Methodist Mission) said he shared the union's "deep concern over the build-up of military forces and the whole conduct of the war." He said a group of Ministers is seeking to plan meetings of protest early in the New Year. "I feel sure that we must con tinue the agitation for there is a much larger volume of opposition to the whole tragic business than the Governments of America and Austra lia would like to think," Rev. Walker said. Cardinal Gilroy (Roman Catholic Church) through his secretary said: "Poor Vietnam has long been the scene of turmoil. "The restoration of peace in that country should certainly be the concern of the whole world." No reply was received from thj: Archbishop of Sydney, Dr. Gougfc (Church of England). 