 PR AFT FIVE-YEAR PLAN I More cars, television, wages for the Russians JOSCOW : More Soviet citizens will be driving round in motor cars, as pas senger car production will quadruple. Television sets will double and refriger- ators treble. Steel will rise from 91 million tons in 1965 to 124 millions. These are some highlights from the draft 5-year plan for 1966-70, approved by last week's meet ing of the central committee of the CPSU. By 1970 the Soviet enon- omy will employ 90 million industrial and office workers. Their living standards, like those of farm workers, will consistently rise. Soviet citizens will on the average eat 20 to 25 per cent, more meat, drink 15 to 18 per cent, more milk, eat 35 to 40 per cent, more vege tables, 45 to 50 per cent, more fruit, 50 to 60 per cent, more fish. The wages of factory and office workers will rise over the five years by not less than 20 per cent, and collective farmers' incomes in cash and kind by 35 to 40 per cent. For collective farmers a guaranteed monthly minimum income corresponding to wage levels on state farms 1 will be introduced. I While capital investments in I industry rise 47 per cent., 8 investments in agriculture i will double. Labor produc- | tivity in agriculture will rise 8 from 40 to 50 per cent., 8 electricity consumption per farm worker by 200 per cent, and vast numbers of machines will be supplied to agricul ture. Minerals fertilisers and chemical fibres will increase by 100 per cent., plastics and synthetic resins 170, farm production by 25 and grain by 30 per. cent.; light and food-processing industries by 40. More lands will be drained and irrigated and farming methods in the virgin lands will be more scientific. There will be the same guarantee of swift progress in cultural and social fields. Great encouragement will be given to the study of theoretical and applied mathe matics, application of nuclear power to industry, outer space exploration, improved radio communications and navigation, television, meteo rological, transport, recrea tional, catering and shopping services. The total of houses built will continue to rise. Enough kindergartens and nurseries will be provided to cater for 12.2 million children— a rise of 60 per cent. All this depends on peace — "the most vital task is not to allow a new world war to break out," the draft directive says. The draft congress docu ments emphasise that fi,ve- year-plan fulfilment will help strengthen peace and peaceful co-existence. The documents add- that through the five-year-plan the USSR "will attain new heights in economic competi tion with capitalism," which would "exert great influence on the intensification of the world revolutionary process." Greater strength, it was pointed out, would result for the international labor and world liberation movements. Main percentage increases for the next five years out lined in the congress draft directives are: National income by 38 to 41 per cent, and per head income by 30 per cent. Indus trial output, electric power generation and industrial con sumption per industrial work er by 50 per cent. Means of production by 49 to 52 per cent, and consumer goods by 43 to 46 per cent. Labor productivity in in dustry will increase by 33 to 35 per cent.; oil by 40 per cent, and natural gas by much more. 