 Rent rises will follow rates grab 1 SYDNEY : "Failure of the Asian Government to take steps to halt large rate increases will make genera rent rises inevitable. "This will include thousands of families renting Housing Commission homes." IEADER of the NSW Labor Opposition, Mr. J. Ren- shaw, said this last week in the State Parliament. This followed answers to questions by the Minister for Local Government (Mr. Mor ton) and the Minister for Housing (Mr. Stephens). Refused Mr. Morton refused to freeze the rate incomes of local councils pending the outcome I of the current Local Govern- Is ment enquiry. He said that it would he "unpracticable" and would create "utter chaos" in local government. Mr. Morton in a written reply to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition (Mr. P. Hills) said that all but three metro politan councils had fixed their rates for 1966, and that council rates had risen by an average I of 13 per cent. | Mr. Morton also said that I while his own council (Mos- I man) had not increased their I rates they had added a charge of $8.40 for garbage collection. Higher rents Mr. Stephens, in reply to Mr. R. J. Kelly (Labor, East Hills), said that higher proper valua tions of Housing Commission homes would cost the Commis sion another $800,000 a year in rates. "At the present time it ap pears that the Commission will lose about $800,000 unless some adjustment is made to rents." Mr. Stephens' statement caused a flurry in Parliamentary and Housing Commission circles. In a later statement to the Daily Telegraph he was re ported to have said: "Housing Commission rents were un likely to be increased." Mr. Stephens, however, has kept the lid on a survey on rents in relation to rates, currently being conducted by the Housing Commission for the purposes of increasing rents later in the year. Mr. F. Purse, Federal Secre- tary" of the 'Bikldin'g''"Wo"rkers,-: Industrial Union, this week said that the increase in valua tion of Housing Commission homes would not only mean higher rents, but also higher prices for the purchase of Commission homes. 