 Protests against I Melbourne Nazis I JELBOURNE: The Jewish Council to Combat Fascism and Anti-semitism last week con demned the "serious and provocative action" of members of the Australian Nazi Party in openly parading m the Hitler nazi uniform at Melbourne s May Day rally. It said that the carefully planned action was designed to "incite violence and attract publicity to their infamous cause." "Jews know only too well the world havoc created by- those who advocate nazi doctrines. "The Jewish Council, condemns the activities of these nazi and asks the . Victorian Attorney General (Mr. Rylah) to take the strongest action so that no repetition can occur of this' form of action, an insult to the millions ' of Jews ana' other people through out the world who suffered at the hands of the nazis," it said. The Council welcomed Mr. Rylah's public state ment that an investigation would be made. The incident was the first such appearance of the Australian nazis in Mel bourne. They were seen and chased' away by the May Day crowd before they had even entered the Yarra Bank reserve at which the procession of 5,000 people had, by tradition, ended their city march on May 1. Members of the crowd who were near the parad ing nazis say that at least come cf them were of Ger man origin. Mr. Jurjevic, who wit nessed the incident, asked in a statement: "What about the RSL leaders? Where i= their statement of protest at the appearance of men parading in Mel bourne streets in the uni forms of the nazis who killed and maimed' so many Australian servicemen?" Mr. Jurjevic is Chairman cf the Co-ordination Com mittee of Yugoslav Assoc iations and Settlers of Australia. . A spokesman for the Jewish Progressive Centre of Melbourne said on Mon day: "We had marched in the procession with pictures of the nazi atrocities com mitted in Europe in the Second World War. We especially displayed pic tures of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, whose anniversary we celebrated only last month. "We were appalled at the audacity of the nazis in appearing in public. Some people are prepared' to make the horrors cf the Second World War happen again. "The firm determination Of the entire Jewish com munity is that such a thing will never be allowed to happen again." 