 Topical and timely AGAINST DOGMATISM AND SECTARIANISM IN THE WORKING CLASS MOVEMENT V. I. Lenin. A collection of Lenin's articles and speeches in which he criticises left opportunists who have a dogmatic conception of Marxism. Although written in an earlier period, the fundamental concepts advanced by Lenin are still valid today. A re-study of this material could provide us with a sounder concept of what is really involved within the controversies which are taking place today. 50c (57s posted). THEORETICAL QUESTIONS OF COM MUNIST STRATEGY AND TACTICS A Spirikin. ,Sets out to deal in brief with some of the fundamental questions confronting the Communist movement and outlines some of the basic principles which determine the Communist approach to these questions. 10c (14s posted). ON THE UNITY OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNIST MOVEMENT V. I. Lenin. In this collection Lenin discusses the struggle against oppor tunist, splitting groups in the international working class movement and the need to rally the Communist Parties on the basis of ideological unity. Includes Lenin's speeches and reports at Comintern Congresses. 70c (86c posted). SOVIET FINANCIAL SYSTEM Compiled by o group of authors at the Moscow Financial Institute. Discusses the essence, functions and role of socialist finance; development of Soviet finance; financial system of socialist enterprises and branches of the economy; state revenue of the USSR; state expenditure of the USSR; state credit and state insurance; USSR state budget. Gives an account of the nature and functioning of these economic categories and shows the difference in principle from categories of the same name in the capitalist economic system. 85s ($.01 posted). THE MYSTERY OF THE EARTH'S MANTLE - A. Malakhov The deepest shafts and boreholes penetrate no more than a comparatively short distance below the Earth's surface. What is further down is a matter of conjecture. Meanwhile the study of the deep-seated layer of our planet holds great perspectives for mankind. The secrets which modern science is uncovering do make mysteriols and interesting reading. 65c (75c posted). New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., SYDNEY. — Phone 211-1067. j 