 I %More churchmen join protests Holt's Vietnam war policy is "immoral" By a Special Correspondent JjNOWBALLING protests in church circles in Australia against conscription of youth for the Vietnam war are helping focus attention on the falsity of the Federal Gov- ernment's claim that it is the guardian of morality and patriotism. They are a standing challenge to the Government's wild claims that opponents of its war policy are (ac cording to recent statements by Cabinet Ministers Fairhall, Bury and others) unworthy, immoral, cowardly conspirators and fifth columnists. The Government may hope it can get away with such slanders against trade union ists, under-age youth, worried mothers and other "ordinary citizens," but do they really believe they can use sucn language against Bishop Garnsey, of Gippsland, former" Bishop Moyes, of Armidale, and the half-dozen other bishops who, according to the Sydney Morning Herald, will sign a statement against con scription? Is the Government seriously suggesting that it can success fully pin its slanders on the editors of the Catholic Advocate and Catholic Worker, and The Anglican? And what about Rev. Alan Walker and the 20 ministers of the "Canberra Vigil" — not to mention the Sydney University Deputy Chancellor, Rev. B. R. Wyllie, and the seven fellow- ministers who have announced ,>.:that they will support young men challenging the Govern ment's right to send them away? Every day brings further news of church protests — from Rev. Dr. Harold Wood, a Mel bourne Methodist leader, from the annual conference of the Victorian and Tasmanian Churches of Christ (by resolu tion), by Rev. Austin Day, re spected minister of Christ Church St. Laurence, Sydney. These and other ministers and church people have reinforced the stand of the entire labor movement against the essential immorality of conscription and the Vietnam war. In trying to smear and intimi date the "card-burners" and their supporters, church and Labor movement, the Holt Government is simply confirm ing its failure to convince any thing like a majority of people that the war is just or tljat Australian security is at stake. It is precisely the gross immorality of the war of intervention into Vietnam, the lying used to justify it and the brutality of the way it is waged that is impelling the growing number of people of all politi- cal and religious standpoints to condemn it. They condemn as basically un-Christian and immoral the Hasluck "doctrine" that "force only" is the policy for Australia to adopt towards people's move ments in Asia. They cqndemn the cynical tearing up by the US and its allies (like Kaiser William of old) of a "scrap of paper"— the Geneva Agreements on Vietnam which promised elec tions in a unified Vietnam, All democratic Australians are sickened by the bombings and the burnings of innocent Vietnamese, by the picture, of women and children fleeing from American troops, of young Vietnamese lads being dragged away, trussed and blindfolded, to be tortured by their captors. They are incensed by the use of toxic gases against Viet namese humans, animals and vegetation — in repudiation of Australia's signature on the Geneva Protocol of 1925. They are aghast at the cold-hearted plan to exterminate the whole population of Viet nam — as reflected in the gloat ing over the Vietnamese "bodies" counted after "search- and-destroy" operations. (The US cavalry, says a Daily Telegraph report, "moved out today looking for Communists to kill." What else was the policy of the Nazi extermination squads in Occupied Europe, whose activities sent some leading Nazis to the Nuremberg gallows?) The immorality— the stark- naked injustice— of sending 20- year-olds to .a jungle death while all other age-groups, in cluding war-profiteering capi talists, go scot free is arousing the wrath of more and more Australian believers in "a fair go." As noted by the Catholic Worker last week: Mr. Andrew Peacock was only one of many young, physically-fit Liberal election candidates themselves aiming for a berth at Canberra while drafting younger boys for Vietnam. Bonanza for Monopoly As they go off, the draftees will not miss the headlines promising a business bonanza for firms already doing well out of Vietnam war contracts ("The Minister for the Navy, Mr. Chaney, said yesterday he hoped Australian manufacturers would get more Vietnam arms contracts." — The Australian, 29/3/66.) The troops and the nation are being told that a grave emergency threatens Australia such as to justify conscription. But the - Government shows what it really thinks of the country supposed to cause the emergency by encouraging the very important trade in wheat and wool with the Chinese People's Republic. Australians have noted the barbarous treatment of Austra- han Gunner O'Neill — by persons pretending to be horror-struck at the brutality of the "Com munists" in Vietnam! Lastly comes the hypocrisy of the masquerade that our troops are called for by the South Vietnamese people — when those same people (as the daily press headlines admit) are on the very verge of over throwing the Ky Government, supposed to have issued the request. It is those who try to excuse such activities, not those who oppose them, who lose all claim to morality. Those who condemn and resist what is being done by the Government in the Vietnam war are acting in the best in terests of democracy, of Aus tralian security, and justice. The Government leaves the protesters no choice, and they must use whatever means are available to them. Should the Government now I take repressive action against I its critics, as is clearly threat- j ened, democrats and peace j supporters will again have no J choice but to fight in whatever I way is left open. The present rising protest j movement has the morally j sound base that it is defending j the sacred promises made to j the Vietnamese nation at Geneva, cynically brushed aside j by the US and Holt Govern ments. | The Geneva Agreement must a be honored and that the inde- j pendence and democracy which jj Australians claim as their birth- i right must no longer be forcibly \ withheld from Vietnam or any jj other nation. | 