 BLUEPRINT FORGOTTEN LAND STRUGGLE FOR THE NORTH , by J. H. Kelly ( Australasian Book Society , Sydney) . Pp. xxii, 218. $4.25 Reviewed by LEN HAY IN the welter of words which have been written and spoken in the recent 'discovery' of Northern Aus- tralia as a vital and neglec ted area, "Struggle for the North" is an outstanding contribution towards un derstanding problems facing the future builders of this vast expanse of largely un developed country. Jack Kelly is an acknowledged authority on land development and agronomy, and has spent many years in the field in the process of which he interviewed practically every station manager or owner in the North of Aus tralia. Indeed, in some aspects he is the only person capable of pre senting the facts in their real light. Here is not simply a collection of dry statistics, although all the author's facts are carefully docu mented, but a realistic and prac- tical plan for the economic fut ure of the beef-cattle industry in particular, and Northern Austra lia in general. It is impossible not to feel growing indignation at the cata logue of contemptuous indiffer ence shown by the absentee land holders to any suggestion of conservation or improvement of the land. There are no veiled allusions as to just where the blame for the inefficiency and mismanage ment of the cattle industry lies; the author gives credit where it is due to whomever, without pul ling any punches. Names, dates and places are here for all to see just who is who in the scramble to grab whatever is going, as long as it can be had for virtually nothing. Throughout the book the point is clearly made time and again that the main reason for the critical state of the beef-cattle industry, and the major draw back to any real attempt at es tablishing the industry on a sound, economically viable foot ing is the control of the major proportion of worthwhile cattle country by absentee landholders. As a solution to this problem the author proposes the sub dividing of the huge, unwieldly pastoral runs into smaller units, to be controlled by the resident lease-holder. The practicability of this pro posal is proven in the book by the example of stations run by residents, and the results ob tained by people whose interest lies in the future of the land. The fact that the longest chapter in the book deals with the Aboriginal population is sig nificant, because Jack Kelly is vitally interested in the human relationships which are indivis ible from the basic problems con fronting the North. THE appalling conditions under which these people are forced to work could hardly be described as anything but chattel slavery. It is undeniable that without the Aborigine, there would be no cattle industry in Australia ; yet exploitation of the Aborigines in Northern Australia and their treatment on most of the big stations is almost unbelievable. Despite the callous disregard with which they have been treated since the inception of the industry, however, the native people remain not only cheerful and good-natured but extremely efficient and capable stock hand lers and horsemen. There is no doubt that this book will be the centre of much controversy. The suggestions for advancement of the industry will hardly be applauded by the cat tle barons, but for all Austra lians interested in the future of their country it provides a com plete guide to an area of Aus tralia of which most of us are either completely ignorant or, at best, ill-informed. Besides the cattle industry, the author briefly covers the Ord River scheme, and the recently emergent mineral developments in the North— and the attendant, almost indecent, haste on the part of overseas interests to grab whatever they can — as well as the deplorable actions on the part of politicians who are assisting them to help themselves to the mineral riches of the country. Attractively produced and with many maps and photographs, 'Struggle for the North' is essen tial reading for any clear under standing of the whole problem of the development of Australian resources in the best interest of future generations of Australians. ( Len Hay , a cartographer who has spent considerable time in the Northern Terri tory, engaged in mapping activities, drew the maps for " Struggle for the North".) Available from New World Book sellers and other bookshops. I1111WTM 1 jqy r,y 1 h 1 h M. . \ J mbS ?mm 