 Malaysia and Indonesia U/HATEVER may have been agreed between the Malaysian and Indonesian regimes at tlie I recent Bangkok talks, there can be no peace and I security for the peoples of south-east Asia while such regimes exist there. . Already it is strongly reported that Malaysia - and Indonesia are working on plans for a regional pact that would give a better cover for the econom- I ic and military interests of imperialism than the discredited SEATO organisation. I Malaysia is a neo-colonialist creation . of the Brit- I ish Tory Government, hastily knocked together in 1 963 to give some sort of legal sanction for British retention of the Singapore base. Brunei, one of the territories scheduled for in clusion, rose in revolt and had to be left out. Sing apore left in a hurry last year. The other two territories, Sarawak and Sabah were forced into Malaysia without a referendum or vote of any kind. They remain under the control of the Malay feudalists headed by Prince Rahman, whose regime is built on armed suppression of the Communist Party and other opposition groups. It is appropriate that Rahman is now developing a partnership with the new militarist Indonesian regime of extreme Moslem reaction, built on the continuing butchery of the anti-imperialist forces. Latest evidence of this includes the report in the official Indonesian Newsletter issued in Can berra on May 23, that "Security forces in Djakarta have been ordered to capture 'dead or alive' top communist leaders still fugitive . . . like Sakirman, Tjugito, Sudisman, Anwar, Sanusi, Supardjo ..." The new rulers in Djakarta believe that they can solve the immense economic and social problems of their country by ruthlessly destroying all demo cratic opposition and by opening the door wider to western imperialism i — a belief which dooms them to disappointment. The Bangkok talks were talks between agents of imperialism which has already bathed the south east Asian region in blood since World War II. ? |N the situation arising from the Bangkok talks, the Australian Government's attitude is of vital importance. Holt, is demanding nothing less than that Britain shall stay permanently in the area in full military strength while at the same time his policy is geared to ensuring that US imperialism stays. Such a policy can only mean that Australians must increasingly take part in the ruthless suppression of all progressive nationalist-democratic movements in S.E. Asia. This way lies madness. The cost in lives and money could only become increasingly disastrous. The alternative which more and more Australians are seeing as essential is an independent policy of peace and friendship. But the precondition for this is the ending of all military threats and the complete withdrawal of Australian military forces from south-east Asian countries. Funeral of Pte. E. Noack, first conscript killed in Vietnam. 