 God and physical jerks TpOLLOWING its sell-out season of Peter O'Shaughnessy as Bernard Shaw, Sydney's live-wire "Q" Theatre maintains its high stan dard with a fast-moving product- ion of a new satirical one-actor on commercialism in America — "The Workout", by Albert Bermel. The "Q" — a co-operative venture launched two years ago by a group of leading Sydney professional actors— performs at lunch-time in the A.M.P. Theatre down at Cir cular Quay, and last Thursday's audience of nearby white-collar workers clearly enjoyed the half- hour's diversion from office rou tine — as well as the sharp send- up of hot gospel physical jerks. Author Bermel, an Englishman now living in New York, obviously disapproves of the "big sell" attitude prevalent in the Great Society. In "The Workout" Les, a middle-aged man, wanders into a "health studio" for a supposedly "free" trial course of treatment for his bulge. Instead he finds himself bounced about by a hard little blonde who charges for hire of togs, bludgeons him into buying a bible and sub jects him to a high-pressure line of meeting God through physical : health. Recovering his equilibrium, Les tells the girl she's gone the wrong way about it. A professional salesman himself, he flings him self into an enthusiastic demon stration of how she should have worked on him— mainly by for saking evangelism for sex. So enthusiastic, In fact, that his heart gives a flutter — at which stage the girl tells him he has obviously become so convinced that he needs a full course — and coolly extracts the 50 dollars it costs from his wallet. John Gray and Anne Haddy notch the laughs up one by one as vanquished and victor respect ively. Gjcay in particular has some ' delightful moments, especially when, changing into shorts and sneakers before a most unembar rassed Miss Haddy, who tells him: "Don't worry,. I've seen it all be fore". Production by John Armstrong, well-known to New Theatre aud iences, is full of pace and gets the maximum of punch from a hard-hitting and vastly amusing play. R. M. 