 "EUROPE SHOULD SET EXAMPLE:" FRANCO-SOVIET CALL FOR THAW — Tension must drop pARIS: Cooperation in many fields between the Soviet Union and France can be expected to deepen rapidly as a result of the talks between visiting Soviet Premier Kosygin and French President de Gaulle. v This is clear from the official joint statement issued at the end of Kosy gin's visit. It said that the talks, which passed in an atmosphere of friendship, concerned the main world political problems and development of bilateral relations. They made it possible to consolidate and increase the mutual understanding which characterised the talks be tween the leaders when Gen eral De Gaulle was in Mos cow earlier this year. "A new big step was made in the conversion of SoViet- French relations into relations of closer cooperation, concord and friendship built on the foundation of extensive coin cidence of the fundamental vital national interests of the Soviet and the French peo ples", the statement said. Desirable The leaders considered European problems in the spirit of the Soviet-French declaration of June 30, 1966. "Relaxation of tension is the first necessary stage of the desirable development of relations between European countries, irrespective of their political system and with re spect shown for their inde pendence and their national individuality. The first posi tive results are beginning to emerge in this respect. "It -is the conviction of both sides that this should be followed by development of relations in all spheres and between a-11 European coun tries on the example of co operation which is being es tablished and is developing between the Soviet Union and France." Vietnam Convening in the future of a general European conference to consider problems of se curity in Europe and estab lishment of general European cooperation was discussed. "Both Governments state once more that the military operations in "Vietnam are in creasing and casualties and material losses are growing. They express regret over this situation, the seriousness of which stems from the fact of foreign interference. "This situation also places in jeopardy the neighboring States and is at present the main obstacle to the relaxation of international tension and to the establishment of dur able peaceful relationd be tween many countries." The two sides, guided by a striving to strengthen friend ship and concord between the USSR and France, said it was their task both to realise in practice all the provisions of the Soviet-French Declaration of June 30, 1966, and other- existing Soviet-French Agree ments, for political, economic, scientific, technical and cul tural cooperation, and to seek new areas of cooperation. The work of the permanent mixed Soviet-French Commis sion which, was established in accordance with the Declara tion of June 30, 1966, was stressed for development : of long-range cooperation in trade, economy, science and technology. This cooperation will result in the establishment of con tacts between laboratories, re search centres and enterprises of both countries. Trade "The talks, which took place during the stay in France of the Soviet Trade Delegation and in the course of the Moscow visit of the French Minister for Economy and Finances, give ground for hope for broader realisation of the outlines set forth in the long-term trade agree ment and also for a consid erable devlopment of coopera tion in industry and trade." With a view to encouraging- trade between both countries, agreement was reached on es tablishing a. mixed Soviet- French Chamber of Com merce. The sides reaffirmed then- intention to promote the teaching of the Russian lang uage in France and of the French language in the USSR and encourage exchanges in the sphere of culture and arts. Agreements on shipping and extension of air services be tween the two countries were reached. It was confirmed that visits to France by Soviet commun ist Party secretary Brezhnev and President Podgorny would take place on dates to be agreed .upon in due course. The French Prime Minis- ter, G. Pompidou, accepted an invitation to visit the USSR officially. A direct communication line is being established between the Kremlin and the Elysee Palace, Paris. 