 [?] A school ' I boy says "No" plFTEEN-year-old Sydney Grammar School boy Robert Michaelis has re ceived many congratulations by phone and wire on his. re fusal to remain in the school cadet corps after it took part in a mock "search and de stroy" operation against "Vietcong". He refused to join in the opera- tion while in camp at Singleton and later refused to attend a school cadet parade. For this he was expelled on the spot for breach of school rules. . His mother, Mrs. A. Michaelis, of Mosman,' said the. boys were told they had to finish the operation by burning the mock "Vietnam" village. They were to fire blank cartridges a.t "escaping prisoners". Mrs. Michaelis said Robert was greatly troubled at being ordered to do such things. He had been prepared to do cadet training if it were to defend Australia, but was not in favor of the war in Vietnam. He thought it wrong to compel boys to take part in such exercises which had brought home to him the nature of the war. Mrs. Michaelis .said Robert had no complaint against the school or any of the masters, but was taking his stand on a point of principle. She believed that some GPS schools allowed alternative forms of service to membership in the cadet corps, but at Sydney Gram mar School it was compulsory. The soldiers' "friend" GOVERNMENT Senators spread the baloney -fairly thick when they stonewalled for two hours last Thursday afternoon trying to stave - off a defeat. . Late in the afternoon an amend ment moved by the Labor Opposi tion give full hospital and medi cal treatment to all World War I and Boer War veterans won the support of the two DLP Senators and the Independent senator of Tasmania, R. J. P. Turnbull. To top it off, the Tasmanian Liberal rebel Senator Reg Wright ' announced he would abstain from voting. Government Senators gave up hope of changing Senator Turn- bull's mind when they learnt he was cancelling his plane seat to Laun- ceston to see the vote through. The stonewalling was to keep the debate going into the night so they could sool the big Liberal guns onto Senator Wright during the dinner break. Senator Wright stood his ground over dinner and around the bar and marched out of the Senate as the vote took place. The Labor amendment came out on top. PM on a tight-rope rpHE president of the British Board of Trade, Mr. Douglas Jay, during his recent trip to Can berra told his Labor Party col leagues that two out of three Bri tish Labor politicians were opposed to their Government's support of the American position on Vietnam. Mr. Wilson must be a fairly skilled tight-rope walker. Between majority opposition in his own par liamentary party over his Vietnam policy, and deep division over his economic policy, he can't have much room left to manoeuvre. Challenge to McMahon rpHE ALP Candidate for Lowe, Peter Dunn, has appealed to peace supporters to help him unseat Federal Treasurer Mc Mahon, "architect of conscription and key Liberal in NSW," in tho November elections. A circular claims that the Lowe campaign will be the most in tense in Australia. "We wi,ll call on every house in the electorate" Sociological studies have estab lished that this is the most effective way to win votes, it add and "we shall need 400 cam paigners. We want people who are opposed to conscription and the war in Vietnam from all electorates to participate in this drive" .... The Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament's Newsletter says it is establishing campaign committees in federal electorates, with special attention to marginal seats. Galling on old friends rpHE Northern Territory Council for Aboriginal Rights has cabled to the British Prime Minister and African Prime Ministers of the Commonwealth to back its appeal- to UN secretary- " general U Thant for action to remedy the wrongs of NT Abor igines. Among those it is contacting is Kenya President Jomo Kenyatta, and for this there is a special reason., Kenya cabinet minister Tom Mboya, during his visit here of a ' year or two ago, made friendly contact with the Northern Terri tory Aborigines whom he invited to visit Kenya when convenient. So they feel their cause will find special sympathy in Kenya. 