 M Pit J & V : . u i ;> , . ft ; ' with JUDAH WATEN Poets for Peace in USA Why not read-ins here? JN the last few months in America ah organisation call ed American Writers Against the Vietnam War has been very ac tive. Sparked off by a New York "read-in" sponsored by the New York Times critic Sidney Kauf- mann, the object is to encourage "both writers and students to take a public stand" against 'the war by supporting "read-ins" up and down the country, not necessarily of poems about the war but by poets who believe that it should be stopped. The organisation lists 13 disting uished poets who are prepared to take part in the "read-ins" for no fee, only for their air fares. These include Robert Lowell, the Catholic poet, considered one of the most gifted poets writing in English today and a courageous man who was the first leading American writer to turn down an invitation to a White House cul tural-do because his appearance might indicate support for' Presi dent Johnson's foreign policy. When one thinks of the kind of fees that are normally, paid for poetry readings in America, it is apparent that the poets are mak- ing a real financial sacrifice as well. Colleges are asked to select from a list of four or five who live nearest to them, and students are invited to bring along their own work and take an active part. So far "read-ins" have been held at a number of leading universi ties like Harvard, Columbia and Princeton, and there is to be an immense one for the general pub lic in Philadelphia. The response has been remark able, according to reports in the American press. One paper said they were reminiscent of Russian readings, often lasting three or four hours. Reported too is that some of the young students poets have produc ed some very striking poetry, the most radical since the 30's. Good poetry against the Vietnam war also appeared in the latest issue of "Com- pas" a magazine published by literature sjtudents. For. example, there are Michael Crennan's "Elegy on an Anon ymous Asian", and Michael Hamel- Green's . "Soldier, Are. You Sure . . .", which says: Soldier, The people have been staring at your face for more than ten years now. But all your face has ever meant is bombs, bullets, napalm and dictators. Both poets seem to me to be very gifted. It would be a good thing if a group, of established Australian poets would sponsor a "read-in" and invite these and other young poets to take part. There are quite a number- who would be willing, including several young women at Melbourne Uni versity who have published anti war poems in "Farrago". While I am on th© subject of poets, I can say that notj only are student poets worried about the war in Vietnam and its. conse quences for Australia. Many es tablished writers have similarly indicated their concern at the trend of events. 