 First moves OJ- LUCI L1ULL [?] iifn Australia "|" WO young Sydney men have been sum moned to appear at the special Com monwealth court, Phillip St., Sydney this Thursday at 10 a.m. on charges relating to the burning of their conscription draft cards. One of them is Wayne Haylen, son of the former Labor MHR, Mr. L. Haylen. Mr. Barry Robinson, Secretary of the Youth Cam paign against Conscription, saicl that a large demon stration was expected outside the court. This follows weeks of investigation by police and interviews with a number of 20-year-olds including three young men — Jon Hornibrook, Wayne Haylen, Robin Melrose — and himself. These are the first concrete moves following a series of official statements indicating the Government's inten tion to use coercion in an attempt to quell the growing movement against conscription for Vietnam. In Canberra last week Mr. W. G. Hayden (Labor, Queensland) warned in Parliament that a . .powerful lobby in the Liberal Party wants the Government to use Section 24A of the Crimes Act against people demonstrating about Vietnam and showing their dis approval of the Government s' policy. Mr. Reynolds (Labor, NSW) : "That is the treason section." Mr. Hayden: "That is right." He saicl that his information came from a very reliable source. Mr. Hayden said the lobby wanted the Government to utilise the Crimes Act and Parliament, to be used to proclaim certain countries as "enemies". Section 24A. relates, inter alia, to people who excite disaffection against the Government: or constitution of the Commonwealth. "This apparently," said Mr- Hayden, "is seditious intent and the penalty for this offence is imprisonment for three years." Earlier, he had said that the Minister for the Army, Mr. Fairhall, had talked about "a fifth column existing in this country" merely because people in Australia were opposing the Government's foreign policy. This morning',, said Mr. Hayden, "we heard Mr. Bury (Minister for Labor and National Service) refer to 'the enemy in our midst'." Mr. Hayden said: "People in this country have a perfect right to express dissent. We are living in a democracy and one of the essentials of a democracy is the right to express non-conformity." On March 31, Mr. Bury said that Australia's "enemies" were conducting "political warfare in our midst!', and threatened prosecution of card-burners. On March 28 Mr. Fairhall had attacked street demon strations which he claimed could turn into civil war, and said: "We have got to put our foot on it." ACTION GOES ON NEWCASTLE; Five hundred people marched through the main street of Newcastle last Saturday morning in demonstration against overseas conscription and the Vietnam war. Fifty per cent of the march ers were young people. Many onlookers from the footpath joined in, and workers emerged; from hotel bafs to toast the marchers as they passed. The march proceeded to a rally in Civic Park and, long after it was over, several dis cussion groups continued in the park. The march followed a very successful rally of 300 people the previous night. Speakers included Mr. B. Robinson, sec retary of the Youth Campaign Against Conscription (Sydney) and Mr» J. Comerford, secre tary, Miners' Federation North ern Board. ADELAIDE: More than 80 people last Saturday week in Adelaide held a demonstration against conscription for Viet nam. The demonstrators, mainly students and women, walked ' Continued on P. 12. Wages and Prices Continued from P. 1. police measures against trade union and peace activities all brought warm applause. One of the resolutions carried by the meeting listed the var ious demands, including rolling- back and pegging of prices; a $4.30 rise in the State basic wage, with an interim increase of $2.50; quarterly adjustments to the basic wage; lifting of the Federal basic wage to the level of the State basic wage; and opposition to the employers' claim for a "total" wage. A further resolution warned of the blatant and growing pol ice interference with civil liber ties and trade union activities and condemned the use of "brutal and unnecessary force" against last week's anti-con scription rally. "These actions could not take place without the bless ing of the Queensland Nicklin Government," it said. It called for an end to Police State methods, and demanded! that full democratic rights be provided in Queensland, includ ing free speech, the right to protest and demonstrate, and the right to hold meetings with out police interference. In Sydney, bundles of peti tions demanding price control were piled feet high on the table in front of the> Leader of the Opposition (Mr. J. Ren- shaw) in N.S.W. Parliament last week. He presented the petitions carrying 70,000 signatures to the NSW Government on behalf of the N.S.W. Labor Council. The Government accepted the petition, but refused a demand from Mr. Renshaw during ques tion time for a similar prices enquiry as the one being con ducted by the Queensland Gov ernment. Mr. J. Kenny Labor Council Secretary told Tribune later that if the Askin Government continues to refuse to arrest price increases, "it will find the workers of N.S.W. follow ing the example of Queensland workers." of Poland. « This great spate of record | smashing is no reflection If some super race of people, but l| simply the end effect of sports- | men and women given unhind- | ered, the facilities and circum- 6 stances to give of their sport- 1 ing utmost. I These conditions contrast | sharply with those under which | Australian athletes perform. f When a runner of the calibre | of Ron Clarke, acclaimed as the | best ever distance runner, says | that he is doubtful of running | in the next Olympics because i he cannot possibly see how he E will be able to prepare pro- jj perly for them, then its time ) thfi PTVt/firnmpnf. Hid something positive to solve the situation. Other countries give substan tial help to their athletes, why doesn't Australia do likewise? 