 Wave Hill and the ACTU 'pHE strike of Northern Territory Aboriginal stockmen will go down in Australian history. The Aborigines have made their , own decision and produced their own leaders, in arr industrial dispute with the most poweriul overseas combine in the Territory. They are fighting for vital., industrial issues Besides the main issue — equal wages — they are now fighting the arrogant "dismissal" order by Vesteys. Used against white workers, this savage form of intimidation would arouse widespread resentment. There will be even more resentment when such blatant intimidation is directed at Aboriginal work ers. ' Industrial and moral issues are knitted together in this struggle. Every Australian should give full suppbrt to the strikers, whose fight for equality is a fight to erase some of the stains spilled upon the national honor by suppression of the Aborigines. Many outside the trade union movement will support this strike. Yet the main support will come from trade unionists, as indeed it should. Unionists everywhere will wonder how the ACTU executive could meet for a week without making a strong condemnation of Vesteys, the Industrial Com mission and the Federal Government. They will be amazed that a stirring call did not go out for nation-wide support — moral, financial and industrial — for these brave men who are prepared . y. to take on the White Establishment. . , ; „ I itf.v &lt; This amazement will deepen if a Darwin rumor proves true— that far from taking any such action, the executive only issued a warning against "outside interference", said to mean the Aborigines' own organisation. The North Australian Workers Union, through its secretary (Mr. P; Carroll), as well as the Aborigine leaders themselves, have placed great emphasis on the urgency of support, both financial and otherwise, from the unions in the South. This reflects great credit on the North Australian Workers' Union, since the Aborigines are not union members. Indeed, how could they be, when their wages are so far below even the basic wage, still less the award for white stockmen. The struggle is against a wage of pittance and deplorable conditions and the NAWU is leading that struggle. It has called for the widest possible support from all unions, and that includes the ACTU leadership itself. This is no way implies that it is not an industrial dispute worthy of the fullest, unselfish support. NAWU leader Paddy Carroll puts it bluntly, but correctly: r "Any man who. accepts work on Wave Hill station . to replace striking Aborigines will be treated as an industrial renegade. Industrial renegades were once i called scabs. "Many stockmen in the bush may not have heard that Wave Hill is part of an industrial dispute. Any ) attempt to treat the strike in that way would be met with additional union action." ; The Aborigines on the cattle stations, as other ' workers usually do, went to arbitration. The Arbi- tration Commission agreed that they were entitled ' to equal pay with white workers— but not for three years. The Aborigines say they want it now and are struggling for it. A common Australia-wide pat es tern since Arbitration was introduced. J Not the least of those who will be disappointed s. and angered at the ACTU's stand will be the eight trade union leaders in Canberra, representing thous ands of workers who, in a letter in the Canberra I Times, last Saturday set out the case for the AbOri- . gines and called on the ACTU and the Federal Gov- : ernment to "see to it that the Aboriginal stockmen '' are given full wage justice right here and now". This call should receive a warm response from the whole trade union movement, and far beyond its ranks. Money is the first need to help the Aborigines win their just demands. 