 Behind oil ships, a deeper struggle JHE United Nations Security Council resolution on the oil . embargo on Rhodesia is a great disappointment to the Zimbabwe (Rhodesia) African People's Union, says a statement issued by the Union in London. The Security Council, with the Socialist and some Afro- Asian countries abstaining, carried a British-sponsored resolution upholding British action against oil-ships but rejecting stronger action. The half-hearted measures proposed in the resolution will do nothing to stren gthen the "efficacy" of economic sanctions against Smith, says Zimbabwe. The African contribution to the Security council debate was iron- curtained out of the Australian daily press. In the debate, the British and US delegates complained because the African chairman of. the Council, L. M. Keita, of Mali, did not call the meeting as early as they wanted. However the African, group (according to TASS news, agency) said the US-British side's real complaint was that the Africans had frustrated their attempts to rush an ineffective decision through the Council before the Afri cans could frame a satisfac tory resolution. Uganda delegate Kironde said the British draft res- olution tried to' limit the matter to the two tankers aiming to take oil to Rhod esia via Mozambique. Stop Sth. Africa But the African countries believed that Smith could not be removed without the use of armed force. Sanctions, especially those that were not obligatory, could not defeat Smith as long as Rhodesia continued to get help from Verwoerd's South Africa, Portugal and British, US and other western monopol ies. On behalf of Mali. Nigeria . and Uganda, which repre sent independent Africa on the Security Council, Mr. Kir onde moved that the South African Government be com pelled to take all necessary measures for stopping oil deliveries to Rhodesia. He asked that the Council call on the British. Govern ment, which claims respon sibility for the Rhodesian sit uation, to use all measures, including armed force, to overthrow the racialist min ority dictatorship in Rhodesia and put into effect the UN resolution demanding inde- pendence to the colonial , peoples. Soviet support Soviet representative P. D. Morosov supported the African resolution. In a speech mainly supp ressed by the Australian dailies Mr. Morosov said economic sanctions had been imposed against Smoth very lat.e and had proved inef fective since Smith's allies, the South African racialists and Portuguese colonialists, were sabotaging them. South Africa and Portugal would not dare to defy the UN, he added,, if they did not know they had the sec ret backing of the main im perialist powers, the USA and Britain. African rising? Sections Of fjho "Rrif-.ich nvosc frankly admit that the Wil son Government is doing everything to avoid a head- on collision with South Africa, which, it thinks, would lead to a- general rising of Africans against Verwoerd, Smith and the Portuguese rulers of Angola and Moz ambique. This is emphasised by last Friday's statement of Port uguese dictator Salazar that a "false step" could set off a "fire" in Africa. In a statement to Tribune correspondent Dennis Francis, ZAPU'S London Representat ive Nelson Samkange said ZAPU did not believe sane- - tions would stop the racists. It believed that Wilson did not really want to overthrow Smith. He was aiming at a Cyprus-type constitution div iding Zimbabwe on racial grounds. ZA£U wanted one non-racial nation in which everyone would have equal rights. All parties and peoples in Zim babwe should confer to framei a constitution with one man one vote. The British Government would only send in troops if I there was. "a break-down of law. and order" — Smith's persecution of the African., majority not coming under' this head. ' Therefore the people would look elsewhere for help. "We should have taken up, arms a long time ago. and' will do so soon," he said. / c The struggle was continu ing, mainly in the country side in Zimbabwe. An est-, imated 25, OOP were in .jail, j Mr. Samkange said he hoped Australian workers would consider imposing f real sanctions on Rhodesia y and refuse to . load goods for Smith. 