 A letter to John Steinbeck I A new and better world may rise 9 And none who witnessed stay alive, H Yet the crippled mites with tortured eyes — I Their image will survive. fl — Boris Pasternak, "The Fearful Tale" 9 John Steinbeck, dear and kind-hearted old John, let's take our jackets off just as we used to, although our wives be sternly looking on, to drink their health in whisky, vodka— as you choose to. You're still the same, with the same strong farmers' buildt with the face all purple-red with wind and whisky, with the hunter's and the trapper's brooding beard, with the angler's crafty eyes — still moving fast and briskly. The craft of trapping souls — you've learned it to the full When you were here .with gruffish make-belief you said to us, a wary, time-taught wolf: "Now, wolf-cubs, come along and show your teeth!" Then stood there in the somewhat awkward silence and waited with a satisfied old grin. Then to one girl: "Aren't you a bit too smileless? Tell old Pa John what trouble you are in!" And she, a slit-eyed, cunning Tartar-, chit, a steppel and wolf-cub put through roughish grooming: "They took my driving licence and it's it, dear Mr. Steinbeck , makes me look so gloomy." John Steinbeck, dear and kind-hearted, old John, we're grateful that you didn't come and flatter. And I'm afraid my tone's a little wrong — it's not so often, after all, I write a letter. Dear John, it's not for me to teach you life's old science. No, it's for you to teach and teach me yet. But you yourself taught us not to keep silence, and that we do not keep it you may bet. John Steinbeck, we are proud of our great land, but don't you worry — proud within the bounds of reason. No sort of rubbish in this country will we stand ; and there's enough of it for us to whet our teeth on. At times they prove to be just milk teeth — that I know ; the cuts they leave don't always prove enduring. And yet the local scum have lost a tooth or so at times ... Our teeth, I assure you, are maturing. It does them good to bite while they're still growing , Or else they'd lose their sharpness pretty fast. It may be, someone's "Grapes of Wrath" are only growing; but yours, dear John, H ' are yours already in the past ? M You always had an ear for the voice of the times. H Now listen John: 9 from faraway Vietnam 9 through jungle thickets 9 to New York and Moscow flies, 9 craving for defence and vengeance'. ' — 9 "Mummy, 9 Mum. .." 9 Does Charley scrape the floorboards with his claws 9 . and a chill run down your spine at night because 9 a pilot on his murder-mission soars, 9 perhaps, with a copy of that splendid book of yours? 9 We sure can call these days the winter of our hope. H One can't live nowadays as quiet as clockwork ticks. H When politicians go out dealing dope H They lose the right to deal with politics. 9 "Let politics be blowed," 9 You'd say in return, H "Pah! Politics! 9 A lot of filthy nonsense." 9 0 no, John, 9 they're a matter of concern 9 for men of courage when it comes to soul and conscience. 9 There'll be no intimacy left in all the world 9 if tender hearts don't struggle for their nation, 9 and. that's why Lo-well 9 in his heart's aloneness curled 9 tore up the President's official invitation. 9 You know Joan Baez? 9 She can't compare with you 9 and looks too young to cope with Uncle Sam, 9 yet you can hear her singing, 9 clear and true, 9 her "Mummy, 1 9 "Mummy!" in the name of free Vietnam, 9 Of course, your plans are yours to lay and draw. 9 But can't you hear the jungle ring with sounds of killing, 9 and how he curses all the architects of war, 9 your grandson with the hoarse guitar — 9 Bob Dylan? 9 1 feel I may be putting too much on; 9 I wouldn't like to copy someone's ways, 9 but, dear old John, but, dear,, kind-hearted John, 9 aren't you a bit too lenient these days? 9 I feel my tone may seem a little wrong , 9 and yet I can't remain aloof and cold. 9 Yes, we are wolf-cubs. 9 Join us, old wolf John, 9 and show your teeth, the fighting teeth of old! 9 For my part, I believe complacency's a vice. 9 I'm just a wolf-cub, not a wolf — / don't pretend it. ' 9 John Steinbeck, 9 &lt; I'm fulfilling your advice 9 and showing you my teeth; fl don't be offended! 9 Translated by Dorian Rottenberg 9 