 Young men selected by a legalised "Press gang" f HE National Service Act (passed in November, 1964) contains unusual features which are unprecedented in our country — selective compulsory military service and con scription for service overseas in peace time. The very basis of this Act negates Australia's traditional democratic rights. In a democratic country any restriction on freedom deemed necessary should be universal, ror example, every Australian or Zl years is required to register to vote. Voting is compulsory. This requirement is universal as also is its application. The same cannot be said of the National Service Act. The Act states that ''the Minister may from time to time, by notice published in the Gazette require all male persons" who are not regis tered and reach the age of 20 years in a (specified time to register. ine registration is universa. in the set period but the Min ister need not call for regis tration every six months. At the whim of the Government, therefore one's date of birth couid decide whether he be comes a conscript or not. Last year the Minister re quired 40,989 men who reached the age of 20 in the period January 1 to June 30 to re gister. Of these 21,777, or slightly more than half, were selected — the remainder were given indefinite deferments! By the arbitrary act of draw ing a marble out of a barrel, one Australian is liable for up to five years' military service while another is not required to serve at all. The next step in selection is even more undemocratic. According to figures given by the Minister for Labor and Na tional Service (Mr. Bury) on April 29, of 21,777 balloted in, only 9778 were medically ex amined, the remaining 11,999 being allowed "exemption and deferment" and not medically examined. It is not clear how the 9,778 were chosen or who chose them. One deferment is for all men who are married before regis tration. Another deferment is for reason of education or training of a particular indi vidual. if such deferment can be maintained to the age of 26, then liability to service ceases. Deferment in the case of a student or an apprentice is not automatic. Thus the personal opinion of the exam iner may intrude. Of the 9778 men called up for medical examination, only 4747 (48 per cent) passed, and of these 4471 were earmarked for drafting into the Army— out of the original 40,989. Another 3957 were "set aside" for sub sequent examination and con sideration for call-up in 1966, to make up the year's -intake of 8400. With the exception of the drawing of the first marble, all the processes of elimination take place In secrecy. Today 10 per cent of our 20- year-olds are being drafted for up to five years' military ser vice. The minimum period of service is two years (provided they are not killed meanwhile). Their private lives will be com_ pletely upset and they will lose touch with their trade or pro fession. The remainder can set out to develop and' consolidate their skills, save up to buy a car, a house or get married in the valuable formative years of 20 to 25. Furthermore, the Act does not give adequate remuneration or protection to the unlucky ones. A conscriptee is not guaranteed his job on dis charge; all he is guaranteed is the right to litigation over his job. This present method of con scripting 10 per cent is no dif ferent in principle to the notor ious "press gang" , method of other days. The lottery method of selection only gives a fac ade of universality. To stand by and see the rights of a minority trampled is to jeo pardise the democracy of Aus tralia. The intent of this conscrip tion is to have a flexible meth od of filling the Army up to the desired strength. This method allows the authorities to press into service men who have no free interest in the Army. Conscripts are being sent overseas in peacetime — somei are already in South Vietnam. A new "principle" of international relations — the right of inter ference in the affairs of an other country — has opened. People who support overseas service for conscriptees in peacetime are unwittingly sup porting this new principle. Interference cannot succeed without conscription. Australian tradition— and the United Nations Charter — has been built on the right of small nations to exist without inter ference. Using our army or conscripts overseas is a nega tion of this principle. The Government could not tell the people the Army was under strength for interference in Vietnam, that 10 per cent of our 20-year-olds had to be pressed into service to make it work. A system was worked out that has a facade of demo cracy. The Government, with the aid of the majority of the press, has succeeded in pulling the wool over the eves of rnahv Australians. — J.T, 