 DANGEROUS ALLIES IN FIELD: WHITE SAYS US. 'RECKLESS' — DRV bombing 4 entirely failed ' By the Foreign Editor £ANBERRA: No amount of twisting by the Government can hide the real meaning of the admissions of Army De partment secretary Bruce White, partic- ularly the exposure of what American alliance really means to Australia. So far from helping Australia's defence, Aus tralians are being taken to Vietnam where their lives are endangered not merely by the; normal hazards of war, but by the strange "security" ideas of their US and South Vietnamese allies in the field. No matter how much army minister Fraser says Mr. White was talking "in a technical context" and defence minister Fairhall says he wasi "misreported , the fact is that Australian forces in Vietnam suffered because the US and South Vietnamese troops on their flanks failed to be sufficiently vigilant. That, as Mr. White correctly indicated, was the main reason for the troops' demand to be moved away from their dangerous "allien" and allowed to conduct . operations on their own. Australians' criticism of their allies' recklessness in the war against a skilled, terribly tough enemy, has been reported by nearly every Australian correspondent who has gone to Vietnam. "The bitterness of tlie troops' feeling was undoubtedly the basis for the remarks of Mr. White, who has " recently' been there and interviewed them. . That Mr. White himself sympathised with them can also be scarcely doubted— and that he wanted others to know how he felt. It is certainly odd, as others have noted, that such an experienced, public servant, speaking to only 100 people, should, not have observed among them, a number of reporters busily taking down his words. Mr. White further exposed the uselessness, as well as the cruelty, of the continuing bombardment of North Vietnam. "Clear and hold" According to the cynical view of the Sydney Morning Herald, Mr.. White was only saying what all American and Australian leaders know (but apparently are not supposed to say) that "the bombing has entirely failed to weaken (North Vietnam's) will to fight." As such weakening, with a consequent journey of surrender to tho "conference" table, is supposed to be the whole object of the US' aerial savagery, why does the Herald think the US still carries it on? While Mr. White was thus exposing the futility of air operations in the north, the Australian operation at Hoa Long was similarly showing the futility of ground operations in the south, It also shows what Prime Minister Holt really meant when ho returned, from Manila to say that from now on the , aim must be to "clear and hold."— not just "search and destroy". The idea has been that if the "vietcong" have been ""sought" and then "destroyed" the rest of the population can be. left with South Vietnamese troops to be "pacified." and won over to the Allied cause by "aid". Tho Hor, Long operation showed that this policy won't overcome the people's hatred of foreign rule. According to tho Sydney Daily Mirror's correspondent (on October 31) the operation was an official admission of "failure" of the Australians to win the support of Hoa Long village only five minutes from Australian headquartersT Not one friend Despito a wholo year of trying to "win" the people "the locals still spit as the soldiers walk by" wrote the corres pondent, John Sorrell. Tho "Vietcong" were known to be active and "the locals wero refusing to put the finger on those responsible". Apparently the Australian forces could not count on even one friend among the "locals" because in "Operation Bundaberg" they carried away almost the whole able-bodied adult popu lation (males between 12 and 45 and females of 12-35) totalling 1000 for interrogation. "Somo did not make the return journey" said Sorrell. Here was a "conquered" village— five minutes walk from the conquerors' headquarters— yet it was in full possession of the patriots. , Sorrell said that some South Vietnamese troops used in the operation were "well known for their brutality". A captain of the puppet Vietnamese forces who found an alleged "Vietcong" told Sorrell "I am going to beat him .up. then kill him'!' Sorrell did not see the man again.' 