 Did 13 die through company negligence? 10 KEY QUESTIONS ON DREDGE CATASTROPHE 0N May 20 the dredge "W. D. Atlas" sank off Jervis Bay, claiming the lives of 13 crew members. Here are some leading questions which "Tribune" believes the Marine inquiry investigating this tragedy — now being held in Sydney in a cloak of press silence — MUST answer: . Was the dredge a death-trap — and was this known before the dredge put out to sea? Is it a fact that the heavy 35-ton tumblers — part of the high superstructure which operates the dredging buckets — were not dis mantled before the dredge left Whyalla? Was this not done bcause it would have meant waiting two days before a crane was available? Is it a fact that on the night of the tragedy the wedges securing these tumblers broke adrift, causing the tumblers to start sliding? I Assuming these points are correct, did the owners — the Dutch firm Westminister Dredging Co.— know from experience that leaving J this gear in position would make the W.D. Atlas top-heavy and a safety f risk in open seas? : . Is it a fact that on its Voyage oiit ip Australia the dredge' was forced to call in at Lisbon to have the tumblers dismantled because | it was listing in heavy seas? f ® it a fact that after being passed as having a full load, a company 1 official ordered the water tanks to he filled? I Is it a fact that not even life-boat drill was properly carried out | for nine months prior to the disaster? I Is it a fact that for the fateful voyage some crew members who had never before been to sea were signed on? What is the company doing in the way of compensation for the survivors and the victims' dependants? OPEN INQUIRY If there is some substance behind these questions, the Westminister Dredging Co. will have a lot of explaining to do. Australian trade unionists want straight answers NOW — particu larly as this company has displayed its bitter hatred of unionism time and again during its several years of operations in Australia. Unionists— and particularly delegates — have been repeatedly sacked by company officials for standing up for union principles. Australian workers don't think it's good enough for a foreign firm to be allowed to make millions in this country and thumb its nose at our unions or safety standards. I These are the questions. They must be thoroughly investigated by an open inquiry. The facts on the W.D. Atlas must be brought to light and the real culprits behind this shocking tragedy exposed. W. D. Atlas ... a death trap? 