 ABORIGINES DETElMlSlMJM WIN A '"BETtEREiVt; ; '||f "Not one man will go back until we get proper pay!" From HENRY McCARTHY, specially assigned by Tribune to find and talk to the NT Aboriginal strikers. DARWIN: "No more will we go back to the station — not one man will leave here, until we get proper pay," said Captaii.. Major, leader of the Aborigines who recently walked off New castle Waters Station, 250 miles south of Darwin- Captain Major, tall, bearded and confident, was talking to me at Elliot where the 80 Aborigines camped after leaving the station 80 odd miles away, at the end of April. They were protesting against a decision of the Common wealth Arbitration Commission, on March 7, not to grant equal wages with whites to Aborigi nes for three years. Captain Major said that at Newcastle Waters Station the wages were $10 a week for stockmen and $6 for other workers. On some stations the wages were . much lower than this, he said. "I first started to ride horses when I was 11 years old. "I became a horse-breaker and after a lot of hard work for years and years, I have no money and neither have the others," Captain said. He said that Mr. Roy Ed wards, owner of Newcastle Waters Station, was good man for rations and accommoda tion, but "he was no good on pay and we often have no money left at the end of the month." When I suggested that it would be a good spell for a while in the Elliott camp, an other station hand, Charlie, said, "Yes, it is alright here, but we would prefer to be at work and getting the same pay. If we can get enough tucker to stay here they will have to pay us." On the way to the camp at Elliott, we called at New castle Waters Station. Mr. Edwards, was in Queensland, but the store keeper said that some of the Aborigines who left had re turned to seek their jobs back. We asked Captain about this. He reacted as though we had told him a side-splitting joke. When the others found out what he laughing about they all joined in. The men laughed, the wo men laughed,, the kids laughed and we laughed. These Aborigines speak a mixture of pidgin and Eng lish. They are often hard to understand, but we understood their laughter. It expressed more than words their determination and courage to win this struggle for wage justice — and njre. Their confidence is being boosted by their faith in the unions. This was expressed by Mr. Dexter Daniels, the Aborigine organiser for the North Aus tralian Workers' Unton. He said, that when an Abori gine Welfare Department officer had tried to frighten the Aborigines at Elliott with a threat that they would be sent to Snake Bay (a Welfare settlement on Melville Island, dreaded by them) they had re plied: "We will do what the union says." Mr. Daniels safd that there had been walk-offs from other stations, than Newcastle River. These included Brunette Downs Banka-Banka and Mambloo. These people had been forced to return. Because of their isolation, they were unable to contact the union. "I would say that they are all prepared to leave the sta tions, but our big problem is transport. "If we could overcome this problem I feel we could win this quickly, because the stock men are needed for the mus tering," he said. What appears to be a cold blooded high-jacking of Abori gines' money,, is the payment of their pensions and child endowment to the pastoralist For every seven or eight Stockmen employed on each station the rest of the tribe with women and children numbers around 70 or 80 people. The Secretary of the North Australian Workers' Unton (Mr. P. Carroll) said that most of the adults are put to work in some way or another. They receive no pay, but the station owner receives their pension and endowment cheques, deducts their "keep" and they get what's left, if any. The Northern Territory Ad ministrator (Mr. Dean) at a press conference in Darwin, last Tuesday week, admitted that pastoralists took $15 of the $24 fortnightly pension re ceived by Aborigines on cattle stations. He said $10.40 of the $15 was for maintenance of the pensioner and $4.65 either for accommodation or towards the establishment of accommoda tion. Child endowment was paid direct to the pastoralist, he said. If ever there was a band of workers who were entitled to wage justice it is the Abori gines who work the remote cattle stations of the Northern Territory. The size of the stations (many owned by overseas monopolies like Vesteys, the in ternational meat combine, which owns 17) range from hundreds to thousands of square miles in area. The wages and conditions of Aborigfines have been govern ed, since 1933, by ordinance of the Northern Territory Ad ministration. From 1933 to 1949, there was a minimum wage of 50c a week, with provisions for food, cloth ing and tobacco (food, was usu ally tea, flour and meat; tobacco "plug"; and clothing the minimum of the cheapest quality). On some of the stations when the "wet" season arrived and there was no work, station owners took back the meagre clothing and drove the Abori gines off the station to fend for themselves in the bush. "When they returned after the "wet" they were re-issued with the same clothing and put to work. This inhuman cruelty was repeated year in and year out. In 1957 the ordinance was changed to provide a mini mum wage of $4.82 with $1.50 for clothing a week with im proved rations and accommo dation. The judgment brought down by the Commonwealth Arbitra tion Commission agrees with the claim of the North Aus tralian Workers' Union for equal pay but lays down a traonsitional period of three years. The Aborigines and the trade unions generally, 1 think other wise. A worker in Darwin summed it up pretty well when he said: . "They heard all the evidence, they summed it up like learned scholars and made a judgment, but there's one thing they seemed to miss. "Station owners need the Aborigines, but the Aborigines don't need them and . . . neither does any one else for that matter." SOME of the women with their children. CAPTAIN MAJOR, with some of the Aboriginal strikers. 