 JIMMY BROCKETT By Dal Stivens, 21/- (21/10 posted). A VAILABLE again in a new edition by the Australasian Book Society. A humorous hook which leaves the reader with mixed feelings, Jimmy Brockett typifies the early buc caneers who plundered Sydney in the 1900's. Exciting and turbulent, the book is an accurate chronicle of time and place written in colloquial stvle and is likely to remain a rorce in Australian fiction. THE POEMS OF ROBERT BURNS And Selected Letters, 39/- /41/5 nostedl. A SELECTION of letters and poems introduced by David Daiches, i who summarised the many as pects of Burns' character:— "Song-writer, satirist, narrative poet, celebrator of friendship, of love, and of hate, Burns was also a brilliant talker, an intelligent observer, and a fascinating and sometimes dangerous personality." The hook contains more than 40 line drawings which are unusually beautiful. THE MERRY MUSES OF CALEDONIA 46/-, (47/5 posted). TDRESENTS for the first time in an unexpurgated, scholarly edition, the most authentic presentation of Robert Burns' texts available. In addition to the delight and amuse ment to be found by all readers in Robert Burns' folksongs and lyrics, this volume holds obvious importance for the literary com munity, for its scrupulous scholarly accuracy and for the fresh light it sheds on Robert Burns' many-faceted poetic gift. THE POEMS OF ROBBIE BURNS 24/3. (25/11 posted). TN this edition an attempt has been made to indicate some of the possible sources of Burns' in spiration. The more lighthearted poems of Burns were criticised by Words worth in favor of his more serious work. On the other hand Tennyson called the latter "those stupid things, his serious pieces" and favored Burns' "exquisite songs" — both kinds are in this edition. V. I. LENIN — A BIOGRAPHY 590 pages. 15/- (17/5 posted). ipHE most complete biography of Lenin yet published. Depicts him as the organiser of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, the genius and strategist of the revolution and the founder of the Soviet State. In compiling the book, use was made of Lenin's writings, archive ma terials and the reminiscences of his relatives, comrades in arms and contemporaries who knew him. Available from — NEW WORLD BOOKSELLERS 425 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. 