 CHALLENGE TO THE CIVIC FATHERS: Congestion and a " dead heart " Sy Eddie Mcxher JAST week in Sydney 500 delegates from 14 countries attended the 9th ConsrresS of the Aus- tralian Planning In stitute. Highlight of the Congress was the call of the NSW Gov ernor, Sir Roden Cutler, and Mr. Edmund N. Bacon, a vis iting town planner from Ame rica, to develop the "dead heart" of Sydney. Sir Roden Cutler said: "We must find the way to bring people back to the city." Mr. Bacon said: "You must produce a clear, sharply de fined and unified planning concept. . . A very real ques tion for planners is to see to it that the community, espe cially the young people, achieve involvement." rppiocd efof.omonf.fi frnm IpqH- ing personalities will be wel comed by all who wish to see the City of Sydney made in to a showpiece with no "dead heart". Elections A MAJOR issue in Com munist Party policy for the last City Council elections was the "dead heart". ' When I contested the elec tion as Communist candidate for Lord Mayor, I urged the newly elected Lord Mayor, Mr. Armstrong, to examine Communist policy and adopt the plans for eliminating the "dead heart". In view of the statements at the Congress, the Commun ist Party again stresses the urgency of getting on with the job for, as the Governor said, "Plans should be made in ad vance or rising costs would make it too late; time was running out for town plan ners". The people of Sydney can not accept this— Sydney must be brought up-to-date and this means as well a.s plan ning to bring life to the "dead heart". Action is needed to solve the problems of pedes trian and motor traffic, con gestion and parking for these are still the major problems that keep people away from the city. While the new traffic system has made for greater safety for pedestrians, it has not solved the traffic snarls and worse than that it is irritat ing to pedestrians because of time losses standing for the change in lights. Stand at any busy corner in the city and you will hear remarks like "traffic today moves slower than in the days of the hansom cab and horse-drawn drays and carts." Maybe an exaggeration, but that is how people feel. Walk ing from Macquarie Street to George Street, only a few blocks, takes up to eight to 12 minutes. This waste of time can be multiplied for it occurs on every street corner. Add to this parking fines and cost of people employed to collect them and it all adds up to enormous sums of money wasted. Future "pHIS is the present position — what of the future when there is more traffic and people? The answer is clear — one big mess unless the question , is tackled with an overall olan to include subways, overhead walks or footpaths at first floor level; new buildings along the lines of Australia Square which allows people to walk from street to street under the first floor, and free parking supplied by business houses, banks and insurance compan ies along the lines of parking facilities at Anthony Hord- erns. Failure to respond to the demands of the people places heavy responsibilities on the Civic Fathers, but they cannot function without cash. This cash must come from private enterprise, particularly the monopolies (banks and in surance ' companies) with a special grant from the state and Federal Governments. Only in this way can the "dead heart" be brought back to life. CHAOS AT KING ST. Ten seconds to zero 