 GOOD SWAG AND MIXED BAG THE GIFT: Poems 1959 >, by David Martin (Jacaranda Press, Sydney) . 2.95. HAMMERS AND SEAGl )LS : Poems by Victor Williams (Australasian Book Society,, ydney) . 1.95. Reviewed bf OGER MILLISS "pHESE two most attractive ly produced volumes of verse prompt some interesting comnarisons in techniaue and approach by two poets whose work comes under the gen eral umbrella of "socially- committed". David Martin's "The Gift", his first collection of poems since his "Selected Verse" in 1958, provides further proof of the continued de velopment of this fine and sensi tive poet. Up to several years ago, Martin was a regular contributor to Tri bune's magazine pages, and those readers who ma.y in the intervening years have got out of touch with his work will find much to enjoy in this new book. "The Gift" contains many signs of a new maturity in Martin's work, based not on any jettisoning of the principles by which he has always stood, but if anything a deepening and broadening of his understanding, together with a wider diversity of form and a greater command of his craft. The poems in "The Gift" range from the light-hearted yet path etic banter of "The Satyr and the Nymph" to the biting satire on both his trade and his fellow prac titioners in "On the Poetic Pre valence of Nuns" and "Fallen Poets" and the moving sensuous- ness of love-poems like "Towards the Rock", to the bitter nostalgia of "Dreams in German", in which he invokes the appeal and yet revulsion of his German back ground. "To coll my country dear Still burns the mouth. But Buch- enwald flows right From German lips into my English ear. If for nothing else, Martin is to be thanked in "The Gift" for his gift of two outstanding poems. Firstly, "The Captain", a fine narrative poem about an old White Russian sailor in Australia, to whom Communism is anathema but who nevertheless cannot help going down to see a Soviet scien tific sailing ship when it visits Melbourne and is invited aboard by the crew, who "give him the un of their ship": "This has nothing to do with pity, For pity is clammy, it shivers, And the guns of Aurora are hot; And a man is a man for a' that, And a sailor is a sailor for a' that . . . A shout rolls over the water. 'Good-bye, Coptaln Voronov!' They say that he blessed the red crew, And they thanked him." And the second, "Fidel", a poem on Cuba written at the time of the Bay of Pigs invasion and first published in "Meanjin" in 1961, in which Martin concludes with a striking re-affirmation of his be liefs: "It's very strange: however deep you drill, To have or not to have remains the sum Of the debate and, string it as you will, This Is the tune the eampesinos strum. "It makes good music If you have the ear. 1 recognise the voice of their guitars; Some storf 8 lor a traitor year by Yn But still I'1 the fnmi!iar bars." "OAMM£| and Seagulls", Victl Williams fir8t collection 'J : the slim "In to Battle J a Song" some twelve y&lt;j 8. is more of a mixedb| At his be#!9ms ls a lyrical poet of coe Power, as the poem P on this page amp W' exemplified in this voluurf the simple but effective J |em ' "Invitation" and the g Early Finish Midnight S ''.Monkl" et>9er on the bonk The eheK Mnturies lie 0t his feet And history in his hands like rivers flow. The patient shovels undermine the prisons, Hurry the dawn where man and freedom meet; We'll cross our river sooner than we know." As an industrial worker, he has a strong sense of the need to draw on the machine age for his imag ery. He is most successful when he is direct and straightforward, though; sometimes he tends towards an over-reliance and over-repeti tion of the same type of meta phor — as in the long title-poem itself. A more disturbing feature of some of Williams' work, however, lies in his pronounced tendency towards sacrificing poetic quality— and hence lasting quality— for a pre-occupation with topical issues on their most immediate level, which sometimes leads him to the following: "Truman' beckoned Australia. 'I want your steel and your ore. I must have your land for a war- base, I will buy your sons for war. " 'Ask the Japs did they get our scrap-iron? Ask the Dutch, is Java free? Dollars won't buy Australian sons To strangle liberty'." ("The Price of Blocd") The sentiments contained in this may be admirable, and the poli tical analysis hang-on, but one wonders if the way in which Wil liams expresses them has anything at all to do with poetry. In fact, from the literary point of view, such a poem is so reactionary that it may be considered anti-poetry, and its inclusion— and that of one or two other poems— in "Hammer and Seagulls" at the expense of such a fine thing as "To Katharine Susannah Prichard" is difficult to understand. This does not mean to say in the least that great or lasting poetry cannot be written on imme diate and politically topical sub jects, but it is fairly safe to say that it will possess no lasting value unless the poet can endow his subject with some universal and permanent significance, and, of course, unless he can utilise the skill and technique his craft de mands. Perhaps the best statement on this dilemma was made years ago by John Morrison, in an article in the old Melbourne "Real ist Writer" of March-April 1954, commenting on Vic Williams' views on poetry at the time: . . The struggle between Good and Evil is older than Senator Mc Carthy and Broken Hill Proprietory, and some of the first voices ever raised on behalf of human liberty and ideals are stilt fresh today. They are the great poets, even fnough some of them were never deeply involved In specific contemporary struggles.' and again: "David Martin's stature as a poet derives less from the fact that hp has persistently raised his voice on issues urgent to the moment than in the fact that he has written some pieces that will be read with delight long after those issues are resolved." tt 6/ f DAVID MARTIN Drawing by Louis Kahan Reprinted from "Meanjin", No. 1, 1961 