 "ALP must go to right or left" QUESTION: Why was the ALP beaten in the elec tion? Mr. Aarons: Firstly, because the Government made a spe cific appeal to backward sen timents, the fear of Asia and communism, the idea of the I "red and yellow hordes" of Asia and the associated "need" to tie ourselves to the United States. Secondly, because of the problems connected with the ALP leadership. Mr. R. Dixon (CPA National President) : It was. not parish pump issues, but fundamental issues, that decided it. The ' ALP offer on State aid to independent schools showed no sign of shifting Catholic I | voters over. All this shows i J some sophistication and de- I I velopment of electors. I The ALP, among the major fl parties, received the most con- | 1 scious vote, from people who | I had to make up their mind I I on Vietnam, 'conscription and j £ thje US alliance. The iless 1 conscious voters tend to go | I with the status quo. I QUESTION: Do you see ! a split in the ALP and a j section moving to a coali tion of the left? Mr. Aarons : The result of the current struggle around leadership of the ALP must be that its policy goes either to the right or to the left. If the ALP leadership moves to the right, this will set up countervailing forces in that party and in the trade union movement. Most ALP mem bers would oppose going to wards the position of the DLP. QUESTION: Will the de feat of the ALP in the election lead to more dis cussion among its members about the CPA proposal for "coalition of the left". Mr. Aarons: There is al ready much discussion among ALP members about the way forward. We hope they will consider our views, including leading members whose pre sent struggle reflects a strug gle between two lines of pol icy. The concept of the "coali tion of the left" is NOT an immediate proposal for some new political and organisa tional form embracing dif ferent political left forces, such as is already seen in trade union organisations. Modern monopoly capital ist society has created prob lems that require a socialist solution. It is necessary to develop socialist ideas ex pressed, not in the context of 40 years ago but in the pre sent monopoly-capitalist con text. We believe the concept of coalition of the left will promote and influence dis cussion of these ideas and is the only way to a new dir ection of Australian develop ment. It is a concept of a coal escence of different forces in & loose way, into lines of par allel action — as was seen in the opposition to . the LBJ visit. Mr. Dixon: Great scientific and technological changes will occur in the next 10 years. To automate even a section of industry requires big capital expenditure, which .ensures still greater monopolisation of the means of production. So that the growing demand for a wider distribution of wealth requires public own-' ership of those means. A so cialist solution is essential. QUESTION: Will this concept be embarrassing to the ALP? Mr.. Aarons: Some will be opposed to it and doubtless many will be embarrassed, yet there is no need for this em barrassment. On many ques tions ALP policy is very like that of the CPA— not because of pro-communism, but be cause any party of radical trend must adopt certain stances towards monopoly capitalism and certain views. For example, we don't agree even with the views of prominent ALP left-wing leaders on foreign policy be cause we differ on the view of the USA. Some capitalist groups, have come out, like the ALP, against the Vietnam policy of the Government, from a com pletely different position from ourselves, or from, say, Dr. Cairns. Yet there are these widen ing strata moving along lines of common action over Viet nam which makes the import ant point that "coalition of the left" is not concerned only with the CPA and the ALP. The main thing now is to develop discussion among groupings taking lines ' of common or parallel action. MR. R. DIXON 