 — I, || t1ll 111 inur— SP&ffiTS -W CeriumM The strange case of four swimmers Swimming fans are no doubt still wondering about the strange cases of the 8 four Olympic swimmers, Dawn Fraser, Linda McGill, Marlene Dayman and Nan Duncan, who were severely penalised for alleged misconduct during the Olympic Games in Tokyo in 1964. THE charge of alleged misconduct resulted in Miss Fraser being expelled by the Amateur Swimming Union of Australia for 10 years, Miss McGill for four years, Miss Dayman for three years and Miss Dun can for three years. Judging from the length of the penalties, it is logic al to assume that Miss Day man and Miss Duncan were equally guilty of the ' alleged offence, each re ceiving a three year sent ence. Now however, the Amat eur Swimming Union, at a meeting in Brisbane, last week, moved to allow Miss Duncan to reapply for membership after May 31, yet rejected moves to re instate Dawn Fraser, Linda McGill and Marlene Day man. Had age difference be tween Misses Dayman and Duncan had anything to do with Miss Duncan only be ing reinstated, then it would also have been taken into account when each re ceived their penalty— but each received three years. It is obvious that the A.S.U. ascribes to itself the powers of a despot, arbi trarily deciding issues as it thinks fit. The conclusion that swimming fans must reach is that within the A.S.U. framework something de finitely stinks and should be set right by a public inquiry. Time to speak up! T AST week it was report ed that the brilliant young Test cricket bats man, Doug Walters had re ceived notice that the only thing between himself and two years in the army, was a medical examination. The same thing holds for the Australian surf champion, Jeff Dawson, who may enter the army in April. A group of about forty people last week demon strated at the midget car racing at Sydney Show grounds 'against the expul- 4 mP? » sion for life of the champ ion racing car driver Len .Brock, who was disquali fied for life, for using bad language. Apart from the action of drawing the public's atten tion to the extreme . sever ity of the sentence impos ed on Brock, the demon strators set a precedent that other sports follow ers may very soon follow. That is to demonstrate— against the conscription of young sportsmen (and others) into the armed ser vices to fight in the dirty Vietnam war. From the United States comes the news that the world heavyweight box ing champion, Cassius Clay, has received his draft notice, for the U.S. army and is certainly up in arms about it. "I don't have no person al quarrel with those Viet- congs", said Clay, thus hinting that although he may have failed his army I.Q. test some time ago, he has a good idea of just what is going on in Viet nam, and wants no part of it. It would be a big boost . towards peace in Vietnam if more Australian sports men and women spoke out against the war. In view of the huge national and international public controversy taking place over the Vietnam war, all leading athletes, recognising the great influ ence that they themselves exert among the youth of a country, should make themselves familiar with the facts — and like Cassius | Clay, speak out! 8 Horse sale in the USSR p>ACING circles in Aus tralia have been inter ested to learn that the Sov iet Union has conducted its first public auction of thoroughbred and trotter ' yearlings. The representative of the Anglo-Irish Agency Lord Patrick Bereford was pleas antly surprised to find that the thoroughbred yearlings were wqll devel oped, in first class condi tion and well turned out. In addition he found that on the average, the yearlings were not smaller than those bred in England and Eire. All the offerings were | eligible for entry into the I general stud book of I Great Britain. I Prices secured for the I yearlings offered were low, I compared to those obtained I for British yearlings. ( Lord Bereford was de lighted to obtain a good class filly named Asha she will be trained at Epsom, the headquarters of Eng- lish racing, her purchaser is optimistic as to her future. The State owned studs in . the USSR have bred some high quality horses in the last few years, such as Za- beg and Anilin. The latter is the winner of the 1964 Russian Derby, was third in the 1964 Laurel Park In ternational, run in Washing ton D.C. and fourth in the Prix de L'Arc de Triumphe. The latter is not only the most valuable in Europe and England, but probably the greatest prestige race in the world, even out ranking the English Derby. The French event this year was won by Sea- bird II, the greatest horse since Ribot a decade ago. Behind Seabird II, were Reliance and Diatome also two outstanding three year olds. In running fourth behind this superlative trio and ahead of the best Ameri- performer, Tom Rolfe, Anilin was by no means disgraced. Anilin, after an import ant win in West Germany was strongly financed for the Laurel Park Inter national, but was unexpect edly withdrawn and re turned home. B.M. North Sydney. Doug Walters Cassius Clay 