 NEW GUINEA'S SEVENTH STATERS By Jim Cooper The old colonial mentality dies hard. And apparently in New Guinea it dies harder than most places else. Most recent example of this way of thinking is the pro- longed campaign being waged by the wealthy trade and planter monopolies — which in turn influence the Administra tion—to have New Guinea in corporated as the Seventh State of Australia. The .latest prominent figure in New Guinea to suggest this takeover is Dr. John Gunther, former Assistant Administrator and now Vice-Chancellor of the University of Papua and New Guinea. He is quoted in the Sydney Morning Herald (May 24) as saying that "a majority of New Guineans wanted the Territory to become Australia's Seventh State". Just who the learned doctor means by "majority" it is dif- ficult to fathom. But what he is. actually say ing is that a majority of the New Guineans with whom he has come in contact consider that it will please the Great White Master to say they favor incorporation. This attitude — of saying the expected thing — is typical of the colonial situation every where, reflecting the subser vient status forced on the col onised and under-privileged. Opposing While the planters and their supporters are pledeJling the Seventh State line, other more progressive capitalist circles are vigorously opposing it. Lawyer and financial mag nate Norman Cowper was re ported as saying that objec tions to the Seventh State idea were so numerous that he was "astonished" that it should be seriously considered. Mr. J. R. Kerr, QC, says that it seems preferable that New Guinea should be fully inde pendent. Even the Herald, in a scathing editorial (April 29) stated": "A spectre is haunting — worse still, confusing — New Guinea, and it is high time it is exorcised by the Com monwealth Government. The spectre is that one possible goal of New Guinea develop ment is a seventh state of the Australian Common wealth." Why the split among the groups who really say what goes in New Guinea? Those who appear to oppose the Seventh State do not really believe in equality for the New Guinea people. But theyi do realise that with world opinion so strongly against colonialism they can not maintain the old order or any obvious imitation of it. They also believe — on the basis at developments in other former colonies — that after in dependence they can retain their acquired rights of ex ploitation through their own ership of plantations and manufacturing and trading concerns. Colony The present position is that Papua is a wholly-owned col ony of Australia, while a.s a Trust Territory subject to Aus tralian control, New Guinea it self is not much different. New Guineans are only painfully feeling their way to wards equality. Incorporation into Australia would deny them their freedom and confirm their inferior status. At the same time; it is interesting to examine pos sible reasons for the oppo sition to Seventh Statism among old circles. The Australian Constitution provides that Parliament may admit new States, on such terms and with so many re presentatives in each House of Parliament as it thinks fit. The key words here as re gards New Guinea and Papua are "as it thinks fit". If New Guinea, were given pro-rata representation in the Federal House, it would be en- titled to some 25 to 30 mem bers. A group this large could obviously command the balance of power in parliament. There seems little chance that the Australian Establish ment would be prepared to risk such a voting bloc. Secondly. Arbitration Court awards would have to apply to New Guineans as well as Main- landers. One cannot imagine New Guinea plantation owners showing any great glee at hav ing to pay decent wages to their employees. So if New Guinea were to be absorbed as a Seventh State, it is hardly likely that it would be on the basis of real equality. The sacredness of "White Australia" plugged by the daily press is not the real reason. If it suited the exploiters to ditch White Australia, it would soon be jettisoned. So anyone pedalling the Seventh State line is propos ing the continuance of colon ialism in similar or worse con ditions than those of today. The Australian labor move ment does not accept the Seventh State — only complete independence will do. 