 SAGA OF A NATION JN Vietnam today rages the biggest war in 15 years, the most brutal war since 1945. the most unpopular war in Australia's history. The people of Vietnam, down trodden for centuries by for eigners, are close to realising their aim of self-government — independent and democratic. But their aim cannot be realised while a huge foreign ; army and air force are pound ing and burning and shooting Vietnamese on their owit soil. The Vietnam war is thous ands of miles from Australia, but its salvoes are being heard in thousands of homes here. The Government has sent nearly 5,000 men into this war which has no bearing on the defence of Australia. A third of these men are there by compulsion; at least one such conscript has already been killed, fighting people with whom he had no quarrel. There is deepening concern, discussion and criticism of this, among the Australian people. The Government is pouring out a flood of explan ation. But much of what it says is contradicted by competent observers, and the most decisive aspects of the war and its causes are omitted. That is why this Special Supplement is published. The Bronze Age — Vietnamese people formed by a mixture of Mongoloids and Indonesians. 207 BC — The kingdom of Nam- Viet set up by a Chinese general. Ill BC — Vietnam incorporated in China. 900 AD (approximately)— Vietnam regains in dependence from China. 1799 — French enter south Vietnam. The long resistance struggle begins. 1885— French occupy Vietnam. 1893 — French complete conquest of Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. 1908 — Nationalist rising in north Vietnam. Anti-French activity continues. 1931 — Ho Chi Minh (real name Nguyen Ai Quoc) takes the lead in forming the Com munist Party of Indo-Ghina. 1940-1941 — Japanese imperialism seizes Viet nam from the French. 1941 (May) — Ho Chi Minh convenes a meet ing of Vietnamese patriots to form the Patriotic League for the Independence of Vietnam (Viet Nan Doc Lap Dong Minh Hoi) or "Viet Minh" for short. 1944 — The Viet Minh free the northern pro- s vince of Cao Bang from the Japanese. 1945— Defeat of Japan. Establishment of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam proclaimed with Ho Chi Minh as President. 1946— The French, after agreeing in March to recognise the DRV, renew their attacks on it and begin an all-out attempt to recon quer Vietnam. 1949-54 — USA pours in $3, 000m. in arms and aid to save French power. 1954— French defeated at Dien Bien Phu. Geneva Conference provides for the tempo rary division of the country into north and south military zones to facilitate the evacu ation of the French, and for the holding of nation-wide general elections in 1956. US forms SEATO in September, 1954. 1955— Ngo Dinh Diem installed as President of "South Vietnam" by the USA which con tinues to pour in weapons and sends military "advisers" to train and command his army. 1956 — Diem refuses to hold elections promised at Geneva. Widespread repressions. 1960 — Formation of the South Vietnam Nat ional Liberation Front. Wide areas freed from US-Diem troops; land reforms insti tuted. 1961 — US forces raised to 21,000 in South Vietnam. 1963 — Diem overthrown and killed. 1964 — Tongking Gulf incident. US warships and planes attack north Vietnamese terri tory. 1965 — US begins sustained bombing of north Vietnam in February. In April, Menzies an nounces despatch of Australian troops. In June the US instals the Ky Government, ninth since Diem's removal. 1966 — At Honolulu Conference in February, the US backs the Ky Government. March 8 Holt expands Australian commitment, in cludes conscripts. In March-April massive demonstrations of Buddhists force promise of elections from Ky. On May 7 Ky an nounces he is staying on for a year or more. A new civil war begins in South Vietnamese cities, Da Nang and Hue. BACKGROUND MAP shows strategic buildup, 1945-66, of American bases for attack on China. 