 In place of patronaae wrfcaf fairs By Noel Counihan "|"HE Elizabethan Theatre Trust's call for a Per forming Arts Council draws attention to the urgent need tor a national policy or sup port for all the arts to re place the piecemeal patron age of today. Five years ago, after three years investigation, the Arts and Letters Enquiry Committee of Victoria submitted to the then Prime Minister a 26-page report calling for a properly constituted enquiry, allong the lines of the famous Canadian Massey Com mission. into the condition of each of the arts. Such an enquiry would examine evidence from representatives of major groups within each art and from distinguished individuals. The resultant report would be tabled for parliamentary debate and action. The South Australian committee also submitted a re port along with the Victorian. Prime Minister Menzies rejected both reports as "untimely." , The July Newsletter of the Victorian Artists Society pub lishes an article from Meanjin editor C. B. Christesen re-raising the issue of the 1961 reports. Mr. Christesen states that since 1961 the governments of Gt. Britain, U.S.A., Scandinavia, Netherlands, and France nave initiated massive programmes in support of the arts. "Our cultural progress has been allowed to lag disgracefully be hind the nation's immense mat erial advancement'" he writes. ? THE Commonwealth Art Advis ory Board, under the author ity of the Prime Minister's Dept. notoriously lacks initiative. The parsimony and prejudices of Federal Governments have guaranteed its impotence. Recent newspaper criticism of its failure, except on one or two occasions, and then inadequately, to enter representative displays of Australian art at the famous and important Venice and Sao Paulo Biennales, is justified. Countries like Iran, Israel, Ice land and Tunisia, as well as the major powers, rent provisions to exhibit with pride their contem porary art, but not Australia. ? fpHE National Gallery of Vic toria will very soon mount a retrospective exhibition of an artist who was one of the most influential pioneers of modern painting in this country during the twenties and thirties, and one who has throughout the years retained his integrity and dedi cation to aesthetic principle, William Frater. The 74 year old Scottiah born painter, currently President of the Victorian Artists Society, thor oughly deserves this honour, llMflb should be repeated in alt ata galleries. 