 Losses mount after "offensive" that failed U.S. MORALE DROPS IN VIETNAM More refuse to fight THE failure of the United States' dry-season offensive in South Vietnam and the heavy US losses now being sustained in the wet have caused a sharp decline in the morale of American forces) there, according to a Soviet press report. This trend can be expected to grow as the current monsoon offensive of the Vietnamese liberation forces develops and with the new extension of the US call-up to 35 years. The Soviet newsagency TASS' special correspondent at Hanoi, E. Kobelev, has reported that Private Adam Weber, US conscript in South Vietnam recently jailed for refusing to shoot at the Vietnamese, is not the only one to take this stand. He writes that in the past 10 weeks alone there have! been five cases of US soldiers refusing to) fight. Early in March, soldiers from two American companies at Phu Loi demanded to go home. Late in April members of an American battalion at Lai Khe refused to take part in a punitive expedition against the people. Four Negro soldiers at Lai Khe committed suicide rather than-fight the Vietnamese. Protests against the war have been especially strong from members iof the conscript First Air Cavalry Divi sion and First Infantry Division, which have suffered the heaviest losses. "VC are winning" Captured by liberation forces, US Captain William Eisenbrow, a US adviser to Saigon puppet troops, appealed to other US troops to write home letters calling for an end to the war. All this helps explain the constant calls ,of US . Defence Secretary McNamara, General B. Sternberg and other militarists for more and more men to win what is clearly an unwinnable war. The British Manchester Guardian, asking where Ame rica is going "to" (since President Johnson has said "There is no going back") , says: — "What the country is going on to is thousands more corpses to add t,o the scores of thousands of soldiers and civilians already killed; it is going on to more than a million people without homes, to more forests burned down and farmlands devastated, to ever greater inflation and corruption." The London Daily Telegraph says that the "Viet Gong" are clearly winning. "Catholic" split The "Catholic" demonstration in Saigon, highly pub licised and complete with "marching girls", does not conceal the dissatisfaction with the war and US policy which is strong there even within the Catholic ranks. One ,of the leaders of the upsurge against puppet Premier Ky, starting last March, was a South Vietnam mese Catholic leader, Rev. Hoang Quynh, who said Ky was worse than the overthrown dictator Diem. The continued insecurity of Ky is shown in admis sions that he cannot afford to leave Saigon to attend the US-sponsbred Asian Pacific conference in Seoul, South Korea. It is also admitted that other Asian Governments represented there have told him to stay away as they do not relish being associated With him. ! r / U ,/ - r « J'K I "»/»» - s, »»,» ".Wr 'S 