 THE LIBERAL PARTY The power behind the prancing M.P.s "POWER IN THE LIBERAL PARTY" By KATHERSNE WEST . , . Illustrated KATHERINE WEST'S book is crammed with factual detail, carefully dug out, verified and put together. It is so fair-minded and, in parts, so critical that it was not till her appearance in Channel Two's Four Comers on February 26 that this reviewer found out that she is her self a Liberal. But its limitations will disap point many who might at first be attracted by the title, and by Vane Lindsay's enigmatic jacket design with its Union Jack in sour, chun- derous brown. For the title itself greatly limits the book's scope. It's not about power in general, the powers that be, including the great powers like U.S.A. and U.K. and how these push and pull at the party of the rich and powerful from outside. It's about the workings of auth ority upwards, downwards and sideways, but always inside it. It's about the machinery that uses the power, not about the fuel that generates it. The book is also academic — strong on detail, weak on general isation, so unilluminated indeed as to be almost unreadable. But certain things dawn on us as we read. One is the relative stature of the creatures whoi posture and pr.once in the parliamentary limelight and, on the other hand, the men who subscribe and col lect the money, and so give the politicians their orders. . Who and what are the Liberal cabineteers in Victoria? A farmer, a few lawyers, a realtor and so forth — all of them, in the eyes of the owners and controllers of great wealth, servants to a man. Who are the men who give the orders? First, Sir William Anderson of Shell Oil, one of the most rapaci ous international monopolies that ever bought a Sheik or sold a homicidal pesticide. Then Donald Mackinnon and R. C. Guthrie, who grow wool in the Western District and help direct a company or so to get a trip to town on expenses. Sir Ian Potter, stockbroker, dir ects 13 companies. Herbert Taylor, accountant, directs 14. William Kirkhope directs seven; Chester Guest directs six, including two Broken Hill companies. K. A. Tay lor directs five— all insurance com panies. Sir Arthur Warner is in a class apart. He pirouetted in the parli amentary limelight for a brilliant season or so. But there's more evidence here that he was a bene ficiary than a benefactor of the party. South Australia, another State with a long history of Liberal rule, presents much the same picture. In the foreground— till Labor got in after Mrs. West had done writ ing—were Sir Thomas Playford, like Bolte a farmer and son of a farmer, together with some four or five complete stooges who tend ed their departments and did as they were told. In the background, the families that have owned South Australia since the first settlers partitioned it — McBride, Duncan, Barr-Smith, Rymill, Cudmore— and, of course, Holden. No non-Labor leader, we read, "has had such dedicated support" as Playford has had from the Adel aide "Advertiser" — of all dailies even in Australia, surely the most dull and null. Menzies won the 1963 Federal election with a catchphrase. The A.L.P., he said, is run by. "thirty- six faceless men". In reply, the A.L.P. (as too often it does) came over all defensive. The 36 are not faceless, it said, each represents those who elect him. But the stronger reply is surely that the men behind the Parlia mentary Liberal Party represent nobody but themselves and their companies. They obey the poet's advice: Do good by stealth, and blush to find it fame! When will some Australian gov ernment do what the present Brit ish Labor administration is sup posed to be going to do-legislate to make all donors to party funds disclose their donations? Not to forbid such almsdeeds, but simply to let the people and the party rank and file, the em ployees and the smaller share holders, know what the directors are doing with everybody's money. The less stealth, the more blushes. Mrs. West had bad luck. Her book went to press shortly before three big changes— the Liberal de feat in S.A., a Liberal victory ;n N.S.W., and the retirement of Sir Robert Menzies. Menzies created the Liberal Party— out of the wreckage of the United Australia Party that had sunk from under him. He made it his instrument— and no one else's. He strengthened it— and thereby himself. Whereas under the U.A.P. Can berra was responsive to all the "interests", under the Liberal Party it obeyed fewer and fewer of them— every . Federal public servant knows that. The story of the Liberal Party, they would say, is the story of the final consolida tion of the power of the Austra lian bourgeoisie and its centralisa tion in Canberra. But which section of the bourge oisie? Though we learn that a State general election costs the Liberal Party some $20,000 a year and a Federal several times that, Mrs. West tells us little about the source of Federal party funds. But the centralisation was brought about by Menzies. Now, with his departure, anything could happen. Not — for the moment — to the bourgeoisie, but to his party. It was a pity Mrs. West didn't hold back till the end of the chap ter. The book reviewed here was written before the Liberal Party captured the New South Wales Government last year and, of course, before Sir Robert Menzies hand-' ed over the Prime Ministership to Mr. Holt. But broadly the picture given remains up to date and, a guide to the forces behind the Askin Government, which is yet to be told. MR. MORTON (left) and MR. HUGHES, are Cabinet Ministers in the N.S.W. Liberal Government ... but they don't hold the real power. 