 Work begins on 21st congress of Communist Party gYDNEY: The 21st national congress of the Communist Party of Australia will take place in June, 1967, the party's cen tral committee decided last week. The Committee advanced a series of proposals aimed at opening up a wide and vigor ous discussion among Party members and all who are in terested, on all aspects of party policy, for the exten sion of Australian living stand ards and democratic liberties, for improved relations with peoples of Asia and world peace and for progress to wards a Socialist Australia. The Congress will deal with important events for the labor movement and for Australia. Main themes Themes to be studied in pre paration and considered by the Congress will include:— (1) The direction and consequ ences of the technological change taking place in Aus tralia and how it affects class structure and social forces. (2) The perspective for the development of a leftwing coalition of parties and or ganisations in the light of class trends in Australia. This will call for thorough and constructive analysis of the political and social issues, in the struggle for which such a coalition could emerge. Issues for consideration in clude:— (a) Foreign policy and Austra lia's relations with Asia. (b) The struggle against mono poly control: for a fair deal for the working people; re forms of education, housing, health and social services. (c) Culture and education for leisure. (d) Such problems of modern life as town-planning, trans port, alienation and lack of purpose, and wider demo cratic participation of the people in the solution of the nation's problems and in all aspects of public life. (3) The role of the trade unions in meeting technological change; dealing with the special problems of women, youth, and migrant work ers; industrial unionism; arid co-operation of indus trial and white collar organ isations. (4) Theoretical and ideological work including the struggle against reactionary ideology; projecting Marxist ideas and applying them to the Aus tralian reality. Developing the dialogue with the Labor, trade unions and other left trends and seeking a con sensus of views and com mon action on all main issues before the people. (5) The role and work of the Party in these conditions, including the development of the concept of the mass party; improving party life and democracy; strengthen ing the public position of the party and reaching out for open dialogue with other left and progressive forces. The views of party and non party people on the proposals for the 21st Congress should be sent to the Central Com mittee, 168 Day St., Sydney. Commissions are being set up to work on these themes and to prepare documents that present views clearly, positively and challengingly for discussion and debate within the party and among the left forces. 