 A PRETTY SHABBY I SOLDIERS' FRIEND By our Parliamentary Roundsman r ANBERRA: "Shabby, shoddy tactics" was the best reply Prime Minister Holt could make last Thursday to efforts by the Federal Opposition to have hos pital repatriation bene fits extended to all World War 1 veterans. Holt said this after Mr. Gal- well had read out a telegram from Sir William Yeo which said "NSW RSL appreciate ef forts you are making to have this benefit introduced." The Government pulled out all stops including gagging the debate to prevent acceptance of Labor amendments during debate on a Repatriation Bill. Labor's amendments, if ac cepted, would have extended medical and hospital benefits to World War I and Boer War veterans; guarantee automatic acceptance of cancer as a war injury; and increase pensions i to widows of disabled pension ers. When the Government intro duced the measure in the Sen ate the week previously, be cause Senator R. C. Wright (Liberal, Tas.) and the two i DLP. Senators and independent ' senator R. 3. D. Turnbull voted with the Opposition, the Sen ate included in the Bill an amendment extending hospital and medical benefits to all World War I and Boer War / veterans. Determined to prevent the Opposition amendment being carried the Government intro duced into the House of Rep- rfiSOnfflfi'tr/ai? o ma... t __ a iicw Bill wmcn deleted Clause 9 of the Bill as originally submitted. Dissent Clause 9 was to extend hos pital benefits to all World War I and Boer War veterans. They also added a new Clause 14 which turned the proposed legislation into a Money Bill. This meant that the Senate could not ever again amend the legislation once it was pushed through the House of Representatives. Mr. Reg Pollard, before lead ing the debate for the Opposi tion, unsuccessfully moved for the Bill as it was sent from the Senate and the Government's new Bill to be discussed to gether. When the Acting Speaker, Mr. Lucock, ruled that Mr. Pollard's suggestion be not . agreed to, Mr. Pollard moved dissent from this ruling. The Chair man's ruling was upheld. During the debate Mr. Pol lard said "If the Government reduced its expenditure on the wicked Vietnam war it might be able to do more for returned soldiers who had already fought for their country in the Boer War and World War I." Mr. Stewart (Labor, NSW) i during the debate said: "The I thing we are arguing about I most in this Bill is the need i to provide veterans of the I Boer War and the 1914-18 War I with medical and hospital treat- I ment for non-war caused dis- 1 abilities. After the Government gagged the debate the Bill went to the Senate. Senator Wright chang ed his previous position and voted with the Government Which meant that the Bill in its original form was passed. The shabby, shoddy tactics s&oken about by Prime Minister Holt really applied to the Gov ernment, which despite their soldiers' best friend" . image went all the way to prevent ex tensions in hospital and medi cal treatment for many ex- servicemen. 