 Woman refused permit to teach in NG I j The Australian Government has refused permission to an Indian woman of British nation- j ality to enter New Guinea to teach the people, because her colour bars her from Australian I citizenship. The woman, Miss Pritarn Prasad, leri ayoney last rnursaay tor ner home im Fiji, after successfully completing four years' full-time study to become a teacher. The Department of Territories and the Department of Immigration both refused to grant permission for her to enter New Guinea. The Department of Territories told her that her application "does not come within the established immi gration policy for entry into Papua and New Guinea" and that "you are not eligible for permanent residence in Australia and ... it would not be possible to give your application further consideration." T b 0 Twi rvi i crr»o tmn HanorfrMflMf passed back the buck to the De partment of Territories with the statement: "The question of the entry of per sons to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea is one for the Depart ment of Territories. "However, so far as Miss Prasad's stay here is concerned she is not eligible under Government policy to be granted residence status, a pre requisite to Australian citizenship. "From this department's viewpoint, therefore, it would be expected that on completion of her present studies, Miss Prasad will make departure arrangements to return to her own country to apply there the knowledge she has gained here." Miss Prasad has emphasised she does not seek citizenship and has offered to provide a bond to return to her home island of Fiji after her term of teaching. This was rejected. She has lived with Mr. and Mrs. J. N. Peek, of Mimosa Road, while training as a fashion and handi crafts teacher. She studied first at Bankstown Technical College and later- at East Sydney, to N.S.W. Technical Educa tion Department teaching standard. As she neared the end of her course, Miss Prasad felt a call to spend some time teaching in New Guinea before returning to her native island. She anticipated no difficulties when she answered in August last year an advertisement calling for teachers in New Guinea. She sought an appointment to live with and teach the natives as a technical education officer. The Department of Territories replied: "One of the basic qualifications for engagement in the Territory Service to be satisfied by any applicant is that of eligibility for permanent resi dence in Australia. "I have been informed by the Immigration Department that yoU are not eligible for permanent resi dence in Australia and in view of this it would not be possible to give your application further considera tion." Miss Prasad wrote again to the department, expressing amazement that she was precluded from teach ing in the territory because of the colour of her skin. "Surely the people whom I would be teaching suffer a similar 'dis ability'?" she asked. "My object in offering my services was to try and help the natives to a better way of life and to have some of the advantages that I my self have been able to obtain because of the educational opportunities which I have grasped. "I can assure you that I have no desire to attain Australian citizen ship or to contaminate the Austra lian community toy residing in your country and I enclose a Statutory Declaration to this effect. "In the light of this undertaking, will you please give my application further consideration." Almost a month went by before the request was answered by a reply of two paragraphs. Mr. C. E. Reseigh, for the Secre- tary, wrote: "... I appreciate the offer of your service as a teacher in the Publics Service of the Territory, tout regret that your application does not come within the established immigration policy for entry into Papua and New Guinea and therefore cannot be further considered." 