 j u n j n r t vi h u n o |-| ELLO Tribune Juniors, There is still a lot of talk about new decimal cur rency. We all know it won't buy as much as the old currency did, just look what they have done to the Id lollies! I like the designs on the currency, do you? It's so nice to see more of our Aus tralian animals used and also to see such famous men as Smithy, Henry Lawson, Green- way, etc. Have you had a good look at the back of the one dollar note? It has a number of aboriginal drawings; do you know what they represent? There are two snakes, two kangaroos, a lizard, the hunters with spears, woomeras and nulla nullas, women with baskets. How many more of the drawings can you name? I think that it is very good that ia ' small) pfleee of the culture of . our aboriginal people is brought into the spotlight and I hope that it will make you anxious to learn more about not only the culture but the people. Do many of you live in towns with aboriginal names? Do you know the meaning of them? You do! Then write into Junior Tribune by noon March 16. The best entry for Senior and Junior letter will receive 50 cents. Dinewan. # THEY DAY THE MOUNTAIN PLAYED JUNIOR Tribune reader Marjolrie Olive (12) of Greenacre (NSW) has sent in to us two book reviews that help us to understand more about our Aborigines and their folk-lore: "The Day the Mountains Played", written by Judith Wright, is a book for seven to twelve year old children. The pictures are very realistic and colourful. "Although the story is not true it has many examples of the Aboriginal way of life. "When you first look at the book you may not like it but I found that once T started I could) not stop. "Another lovely aboriginal book for children is: 'The Magic Boomerang' written and photographed in colour by Bruce and June MacPherson. "I really think that this is for all ages. My brother aged three loves it, my sister aged nine likes it, my mother likes reading it to Paul, my brother, so does Dad. I am twelve and I enjoy it. "This book; is about two closie friends who want to know about the Aborigines and so meet up with an Aboriginal spirit who is helped by them to find the missing magic boomerang and while at it they learn all about the Aborigines. "I suggest both these books for kiddies, as I think as well as being interesting, they will find1 a lot of knowledge in. them,". Majorie Olive. # # rpHE MAZE. No ancient maze compares with a mod ern city, with its "No entry" and "One Wiay Street" signs). Can you help Tom and Jan find) itheir way to the movies, circus and museum? # # # PUZZLES FOR FUN DEAR DINEWAN, Here is my suggestion for the coded message: saywlA mwis neweetb hte yetfsa gsfla, edagnnregni royu wno feli oucld sacue . hte detha fo noertha. Michael Day. W.A. 