 OUTSIDER LOOKING IN THERE is an air of an out sider looking in on the Australian scene in COOL CHANGE MOVING NORTH by Royston Morley. To my mind the author looks in only on a small section of the 1 Australian scene. Despite this the book is enter taining reading and so frank in its description of sex relations of , the characters — including the use of that four letter word which has been the cause of bans in other books — that its approval by the censors is a pleasant surprise. Mr. Morley was in Australia for three years when he was asso ciated with A.B.C. television. He takes pains to point Out: "It's not a book about Australia. I wouldn't know how to begin to write one . . So in COOL CHANGE MOVING NORTH he has selected as his characters a business man Harry Carey whose marriage is on the rocks — maybe because his wife was a bit odd, or maybe because he let her know of his associations with other women, particularly with Bevie, daughter of a wealthy busi ness man who lives a queer, inhi bited kind of life in a dirty flat at the Cross. The other characters meet at Harry's home at Whale Beach. He has as a next door neighbour an ageing man-about-town playboy employed by a radio station, whose closest friend is a homosexual. While living in a make-believe world the main characters in the book are brought together in ah attempt to save the life oi an Aborigine who is "framed" by the police for rape of a young girl. This is based on a real case of some years ago. There are also other incidents based, I believe, on past events in Sydney including the Goossens and Arrau cases, police brutality and book censorship. It is plain from the book that Mr. Morley is both a capable ob server and writer. But the book would have been more acceptable had he observed a wider section of Sydney-siders, thus giving a more balanced view of the population. As a near harbour dweller I appreciated the descriptions of the cool change after a torrid, steamy day. But I wondered why the Eng lish people resident in Australia had to find so many of our habits peculiar. For all that COOL CHANGE MOVING NORTH is worth read ing. Published by Heinemann, Lon don the price is $2.25. — J.M. 