 'Sydney's %gj I p 'and :wMyla >. ? , t , #» . )V4fl Tribune's Industrial Reporter C YDNEY : Union leaders are confident that today (Wednesday) will see one of the biggest demon strations for higher wages held in Sydney for many years. As Tribune went to press thousands of building and metal workers from big pro jects in the inner , city were preparing to stop work and march to the rally a,t Wyn- yard Park. The NSW Labor Council unanimously endorsed the rally in support of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' cam paign for higher wages and lower prices. The ACTU at present is ar guing before the Commonwealth Arbitration Commission for a $4.30 a week increase in the basic wage and $5.90 in trades men's margins. Officials of the building trades group of unions, which sponsored the demonstration, found enthusiastic supp o r t when they addressed about 12,000 workers on 100 building sites in the past week. Waterside workers, railway, printing and maritime union ists are taking part and at least two busloads of workers were expected from the NSW South Coast. The history of all major campaigns shows that when there is determined mass acti- vity, with clear leadership gairts are won; but that other wise, gains are minimal. All, experienced unionists know that sound court argu ments, while important, cannot themselves win the workers' re quirements. The recent demonstration in Newcastle, where 4QOO workers marched in soaking rain, showed to what 'extent union ists there understand this point. So do the Queensland work ers, over 150,000 of whom re cently went on strike in Bris bane and other centres throughout the State on one day alone, demanding higher wages in support of the unions' wage claim in the state Court. Failure to mount such actions can bring such results as last year's 5/- to 6/- increase, de scribed by the whole labor movement as "paltry" and "outrageous." Successes On the other hand, the £i basic wage increase granted in I960 and again in 1964 fol lowed widespread mass action throughout the country. Last year Queensland work ers won substantial margin increases which even the Court conceded resulted from wide spread strike action. In 1963, NSW workers won their demand for three weeks' annual leave following a. mas sive delegates' rally in the Sydney Town Hall, with threats of further action. On twd ear lier occasions the Court had . refused this demand . The 40-hour week was an other important reform won in 1947 following massive strikes and was finally granted un der the threat of a. national stoppage. Today, however, few work ers' families can live on the income of one wage based on 40 hours. The wages of both husband and wife or excessive overtime are needed to cope with the ever-inoreasirtg bur den of high prices. Learning the lesson from the past, the present wave of. de monstrations and other actions should be developed until the claims are won, Next week: Pic tures, story of Sydney rally. Part of recent Newcastle wages demonstration. 