 f r v vjr-'V' -7 . "hv - fin brief - In brief' v: brtel v In brief ! BEATLES BLAST BOMBINGS |N Tokyo last week the Beatles took time off from pop songs it o con demn the Vietnam war and make it clear they thought the US had no business in Vietnam. i Asked at a press conference about the Vietnam War, John Lennon said: "We think about it every day. We don't like it. We don't agree with it, We think it is wrong." The other three Beatles made it clear afterwards that they agreed with Lennon and thought the US had no busi ness to be in Vietnam. Refused to fight1 LARGE crowd applauded when three young US sold iers, at a press conference held in a church in New York, said they had refused to fight in Vietnam. The three soldiers, Dennis Mora (25), James Johnson (20, a Negro) and David Samas (20), recently conscripted and trained for Vietnam, said they would not go to fight in a war of annihilation against a peo ple fighting for freedom. Johnson said that many brave Negro soldiers were dying in Vietnam being told it was for freedom, while Negroes were not free , in many parts of the US. As the US Negroes were fighting for freedom in their own coun try, so were the Vietnamese in theirs when they fought the US. Negro and White JyJEGRO Henry Winston was elected National'Chairman and Gus Hell General Secre tary of the US Communist Party at its 18th national Congress last week. "The fact that a Negro and a white man were eleqted as party leaders is of great sym bolic importance", Mr. Win ston said. "It is evidence of the genuine internationalism of the US Communist Party. It is. a splendid example for the entire nation, an example of fraternal solidarity of Ne groes and whites." Yanks had to retreat rpHE establishment in Hav ana (Cuba) of the Exe cutive Secretariat of the Afro- Asia-Latin America Solidarity Organisation coincided : with fresh provocations against Cuba. This aroused a storm of protests and a wave of soli darity..- with - Cuba demon strations in/ many countries. Cuban president Dorticos has now commented that this soli darity movement, together with the supporting state ments of the USSR and other socialist countries, "finally forced the imperialists to re treat." 