 SPOTLIGHT on the TRUST | In your opinion, has the Trust succeeded or failed? \X7HEjN it was first formed twelve years ago, high hopes were entertained that the Trust would really give live theatre the encouragement — both mat erially and otherwise— it needed. . But although the Trust does have some positive achieve ments to its credit, it hasn't lived up to expectations, and those of us working in theatre —both professional and amateur —are generally very disappointed with what it's done — or, rather, hasn't done. I think it's generally felt that by now we should have profes sional theatres in each capital city working in the true ensemble manner, presenting repertory theatre for a definite season each ,year. O What steps do you think should be taken to improve the material situa tion of theatre in Australia? XpIRST of all, there must be a vast expansion in the amount and extent of subsidisation going to all theatres— professional and amateur — particularly for untried Australian plays, to promote which was one of the main jobs the Trust was charged with. All theatres are hamstrung right now by rocketing costs, and we can't do as much as we want to do or should do unless we can get financial help from somewhere. That's the main thing the Trust should be doing— making sure that struggling theatres which are trying to present worthwhile drama — and particu larly those trying to encourage Australian drama — receive a fair share of whatever means the Trust has at its disposal. As regards Australian drama, the Trust just hasn't done enough over the last few years to encourage its further growth or to assist in getting new Aus tralian plays performed. Admit tedly, it's held a few readings of new plays by local writers, but none in Sydney have got past the reading stage. Some time ago, the Trust — or, rather, the Old Tote Theatre- held a reading of Frank Hardy's new play "The Ringbolter" — one of the most exciting evenings of its kind I can remember for a long time — but nothing more came out of it. Frank's play and several other Australian plays are still awaiting production by the Trust. In ' Sydney the Old Tote Theatre's work is much less experimental in all ways than appears to be the case with the Russell Street in Melbourne, for example. At the Old Tote we very rarely seem to get beyond the classics— "The Representa tive" notwithstanding, Edward Albee appears to be as far as the Old Tote can go in contem porary theatre. You can't help feeling that the Old Tote's limitations are closely connected with its proximity to the Trust. A lot of attention needs to be paid to expanding professional theatre all round. With Sydney as big as it is, surely other pro fessional groups could be estab lished — not necessarily with resident companies, but set up with the idea of visiting large suburban centres like Bankstown, Parramatta and Sutherland. 5 What do you think of the Trust's proposal for the establishment of a national council for the performing arts to take over financial reponsibility for the theatre in Australia? T'D have to know more about what's actually meant by it. It could be only a smokescreen behind which people who've done nothing will continue to do nothing. Maybe it means that they're admitting failure and walking away from their re sponsibilities. On the other hand, it might be a good thing. But the question all of us in the theatre are going to ask is: is it going to be easier or harder to get financial support? I think the whole idea is too vague as yet to really say, but if any such body is formed it should be more representative of the theatrical world, including professional and amateur groups, and actors themselves. A Do you think the Trust still has a part to play in the development of drama . in Australia? I TyTAYBE. Maybe not. It's not I just a question of an or ganisation as such, but what the organisation does — it's got to justify itself. Maybe a new national council would be no better than the Trust. As far as I'm concerned, the Trust could reform itself and start to do a wonderful job for Australian theatre. But to do that, a lot of the intrigue and personal squab bling that everyone knows is such a feature . of its existence will have to come to an end. And it will have to move closer to the people, instead of just living a comfortable life at the top. All theatre needs an audience — experience has shown that a steady store of support for theatre does exist in Aus tralia, and what has to be done is to go out and tap it. There's another aspect to this. If you look at the Trust's balance sheet — or deficit sheet — you'll see that most of its attention, and most of its money as well, has gone to opera and ballet, with drama coming off a very poor second best. A real poor rela- i tion, in fact. | This is another reason why in the theatre it's not felt that the Trust has done its job, and some thing we think will definitely have to change, no matter what organisation is responsible. C So you don't have much faith in either the Trust or the proposal for a Na tional Council? r WOULDN'T say that. We ' really want the Trust to succeed, and we've always sup ported anything of a positive nature that it's done. The na tional council could be a good thing, but we have no real guarantee that it will be any better. I think I can say for little theatre in Sydney at least, if not in the rest of Australia, that above all we want action and we want results. We don't want charity and we don't want lavish handouts for nothing, but we've been battling for years providing the public with good theatre on shoe-string budgets, and I think it's time we got a fair deal. wmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmamn In recent weeks the Australian Elizabeth an Theatre Trust has been in the focus of attention, facing severe criticism to the effect that it has failed to live up to its responsibilities in encouraging Australian Theatre. The Trust itself virtually accep ted this criticism by proposing at its Annual General Meeting that a new National Council be formed to take over financial responsibility for the perform ing arts. Here MIRIAM HAMPSON, Secretary of Sydney New Theatre, answers questions on the Trust controv ersy put to her by Tribune's drama critic. 