 The bomb, China and war HE scream of. American jets over the China- Vietnam border last week brought World War III a big step closer. China stated that the US fiffhters shot down one of its aircraft on a training flight inside the Chinese border. An American statement that it was on the Viet nam side, of the frontier claimed ignorance of the identity of the destroyed plane. But whether. that plane was Chinese or Vietnamese, whether over China or Vietnam, it could- in no way ! absolve the USA of guilt as a deliberate aggressor, since its aircraft could be in this area only through flagrant violation of international law. There is no room for doubt that the Chinese claim is substantially correct; the existing American aggression against Vietnam has been compounded by a major provocation against China, a long-standing target of US preparation for world war. There could be no clearer demonstration of the danger of US policy which has contributed so much to the Chinese, leaders' decision to develop and test nuclear weapons. The explosion— also last week-r-of a third nuclear bomb built in China had already served as a grim reminder of that fact. Earlier tests had already dispelled any - doubt among western experts that China, with socialist .organisation, had the scientific and technical capacity to master the atom. . ; , ui The. decision of the Chinese Government to follow the nuclear path was made clear when China (like France) refused to join the partial nuclear test ban treaty of 1963 and proceeded to explode its first atmospheric test the next year. The Political Committee of the Communist Party of Australia said (Tribune, October 21,. 1964).: "We believe that such testing, by China is not essential for the defence of the socialist countries and it may be used as a pretext for the proliferation of nuclear weapons. . . "The CPA adheres to the policy of the world Communist movement, agreed tp both in 1964 and 1960, to struggle for the abolition of nuclear weapons testing and other partial measures along the path towards complete abolition of nuclear weapons and to universal general disarmament." This declaration applied, and applies, not only to tests in China but also to France's, long-term unjustified program of. tests in the South Pacific— a program now assisted by the Holt Government in permitting French aircraft bound for the test zone to ferry through Australia if not actually carrying bombs. r ' The guilt, of the United States in this matter was lent further . emphasis , last week with an admis sion that Washington had received — and rejected — a Chinese invitation to join in a pledge never to be the first to use nuclear weapons in the future. (Only the USA has used them in the past.) For Australians, the big question is: what has the Holt Government to. say? Is it meekly to accept US rejection of Chinese approaches on nuclear weapons and US provocations on or inside the Chinese border? Or is it to take note of reports that the Canadian Government has decided in principle to recognise the Chinese Peoples' Republic? Why shouldn't the Australian Government do the same? It has, to a degree, parted company with the US on the issue Of trading with China — with substantial benefit to Australians. Why not go further? If the British Government, which still gives poli tical support to the US in Vietnam, could dissociate itself from the resumption of US air raids earlier this year, why shouldn't the Holt Government dissent from the brink of war tactics now being pursued on the Chinese frontier? Whatever the exact course followed, it is indis pensable to Australia's national security that a halt be called to the US drive towards war with China. 