 Excused from I combat duty MELBOURNE: A 20-year-old youth con scripted for national service was excused combatant duties but ordered to register for non-combatant service when he told Mr. H. Bennett, SM, in Melbourne City Court on Thursday that he was a pacifist, who objected to wars and armed forces in general and the Vietnam war in particular. He was Frank t. Panter, cadet engineer and student of Albert Street, Windsor. Panter said he considered war to be a crime against humanity,, de stroying body and mind and the moral strength of society. Asked by his counsel (Mr. J. Sher, instructed by J. Zigouras and Co.) whether he believed "the communists" in Vietnam were entitled to use force, he said: "No, I condemn it strongly, but that does not prevent me sup porting their cause." Panter said he thought there was no justification for state ments that North Vietnam was guilty of aggression against South Vietnam. The North was supporting the people in the South fighting the Ameri-. cans, . but this could not be compared with what America and Australia were doing in South Vietnam, because the North was supporting a popu lar movement, which had clearly won the support of the peasants for its policy of liberation and land reform. There was no justification for intervention by,. America and Australia. Mr. L. J. Fowler (for the Minister for Defence): Why did you say in your statement that you are a Communist if you do not belong to the Commu nist Party? Panter: I don't think you have to be a member of any party to be a Communist. You believe one of the poli . cies of the Communist Party is that if they, don't gel; what they want by peaceful moans they will use force?- Yes. 1 accept the rest of the constitu tion of the Communist Party except their belief about force; any reference to violence i oppose. To bring peace Then wouldn't it be incor rect to describe yourself as a Communist. — You are just picking one thing out thv r oppose. Do you think you owe debt to society? — Yes, to hi peace to the world. 