 The irony of Anzac Day Handing to Japan what she couldn't conquer By a Special Correspondent It is a gram fact that this year Anzac Day — basically a day ot memorial tor those who aieo in the war against Japanese imperialism as well as those of World War I — finds Australia increasingly penetrated by Japanese monopoly interests who failed to achieve their aims by military means. By Anzac Day, 1942, the Japanese aggressor troops were at Australia's gates and Darwin had been bombed. April, 1966, has been chosen for a visit by no less than two Japanese delegations whose purpose is to weigh up the potential of Australia as a further source of raw materials and a field of new profitable investment. One of these delegations, the Japanese Natural Resources Survey Mission, is to deter mine and advise the Japanese Government on "Australia's potential as a long term source of supply for raw materials and foodstuffs." Additionally, a 25-member delegation of Japanese busi nessmen arrived in Australia I to attend the 4th joint meet ing of the Australia-Japan Business Co-operation Com mittee beginning on April 18. The Australian delegation of 23 ' to this committee was dominated by the representa tives of six major companies who are largely directed or in fluenced by foreign capital. The huge ConzinC Rio Tinto (capital $150m. 85 per cent foreign owned) and I.C.I.A.N.Z. ($210m. and 62% foreign owned) together with Clyde Industries, Western Mining Co. and the Commercial Bank, would have 1 little respect for Australian independence if this came be tween them and their profits. Two major Australian-owned companies, Colonial Sugar Re finery and the Bank of N.S.W. were represented; so were the Wheat Board, Plywood Board and the Chamber of Manufac turers. Japan as the most advanced Asian capitalist nation has a vast potential as a market for Australian raw materials and Australia's capitalists are falling over themselves in their eagerness to capture some of this market. Japanese domination of our raw materials market is lead ing to some arrogant assump tions. Mr. Eiichi Ogawa last Sep tember in a public statement referring to iron ore said in part: "They felt, in effect, that the mines, ports and railways being developed were theirs." This arrogance can be ex pected to grow as Japanese imports increase in volume and variety and also as Japan ese capital investment in creases. Australian exports to. Japan have risen from $323m. in 1960-61 to $442m. in 1965, and Australian imports from Japan have now reached $259m. These Japanese imports come into direct competition with Australian secondary industry and have a depressing effect on the expansion and differentiation of Australian industry. This 1ms caused the Govern ment to take steps to limit imports, a move which brought immediate reaction by Japanese interests. Japanese capital penetration, as yet small, is growing rapidly. The biggest capital contri butors are the major Japanese monopolies — Mitsubishi, Mit sui and the Sumitomo com panies — which were the main war profiteers of the Japan ese empire. Mitsubishi is joined with a U.S. company in a 50-50 owner ship of the Savage River iron ore development in Tasmania and with the U.S. Utah Co. in a coking coal project in cen tral Queensland. Mitsui is in copper mining at Esperance, W.A. ahd is asso ciated with Thiess Peabody in a 20 per cent partnership in coal in Queensland. It also has a joint interest with the U.S. Cleveland Cliff Co. in the Robe River iron ore project in West Australia. Their interests extend, to New Guinea where the timber subsidiaries of the giant Nitto Line are already accounting for more than 70 per cent of New Guinea's timber trade. v By a take-over of an Aus tralian company Nitto has gained control of the huge Cape Hoskins timber lease of 120,000 acres. Nitto subsidiary, A. J. Mc- Ghie and Co. is also the prin cipal company placing New Guinea timbers on the Austra lian market. Japanese interests also pro posed a joint venture in fish ing in the Papuan Gulf and in pearl culture in Fairfax Harbour, Port Moresby. The South Pacific Post (April 7) reporting yet another Japanese trade delegation visiting New Guinea stated: "The Japanese want to have a majority- interest-in- any pro ject they undertake" and "nevertheless the Japanese in tend at the Canberra Confer ence to make clear their reluctance to invest in New Guinea except as senior partner . in specific undertakings." The Japanese investment in Australia of $34m. is as yet small alongside the total for eign investment of $4,730,803,- 000 but is growing rapidly. Their policy of seeking abso lute control of all joint ven tures could place them in a dominant position in some sectors, to dictate economic policy in Australia. In view of ' this and the wider U.S. capital invasion of Australia it is an urgent requirement to introduce res trictions on foreign capital in Australia. PHOTO shows the Darwin Post Office receiving a direct hit from Japanese bombers. 