 : WBMiTSM industrial scene ARBITRATION UNDER FIRE FROM A.C.T.U. — GMH verdict consequence By a Special Correspondent |N a strongly worded attack on certain aspects of arbitration the Australian Council of Trade Unions Interstate Execu tive has asserted some fundamental trade union principles. The ACTU decision was made at its meeting in Melbourne on September 28 following consideration of the unsuccessful claim for $6 wage increase for workers employed at General Motors-Holden. The unsuccessful claim was submitted to arbitration on a decision by the ACTU terminating a strike by GMH workers in four States at the end of 1964. Background to this decision included, in addition to the GMH decision, an adverse de cision affecting postal workers in which claims by the union were rejected. Reflecting dissatisfaction with these decisions, the ACTU re solution says they raise "ser ious doubts about the effective ness of the arbitration system in settling such industrial dis putes on a fair, just and equit able basis." Alternative In the light of this the exe cutive said it will be "forced to consider alternative meth ods and procedures to have our claims satisfied on a- just and equitable basis." Asserting the rights of unions to seek wage rises outside of arbitration, the decision said that arbitration decisions were to be regarded only "as fixing minimum rates which are to be built up by additional pay ments determined by negotia tion. "In these circumstances the trade union movement must have the right to bargain in a free and unfettered way with employers for over-award pay ments in excess of the minimum rates awarded by the Commis sion." Pressing this right to proceed outside of arbitration, the exe- cutive called for repeal of penal powers which restrict, "free col lective bargaining." . The executive also asserted the right of workers to their share of "increased productivity and/or profitability where tech nological progress and improved worker efficiency are the root of such profitability" and to a share of a company's extraor dinary prosperity which work ers' skills and labor make pos sible. Previous occasions on which the ACTU has carried strongly worded decisions attacking ar bitration were made in 1954, following abolition of quarterly basic ' wage adjustments and refusal to increase margins; in I960, following rejection of claims for increased basic wage and three weeks annual leave; and in 1965, following the re jection of a basic wage claim and granting instead small 'margins rise and rejection of a subsequent form of appeal against this decision. In 1965 the executive voted eight-all on a proposal for a national protest stoppage. Workers who frequently find their efforts to act outside arbi tration frustrated by penal powers and indecisiveness from the ACTU and some of its branches will expect the ACTU executive to support what it says this time with deeds, The Gasworkers' and ETU contingents in last Monday's Six-Hour Day procession in Sydney. 