 Betum of the Boonqrao 'All the blokes say it's a crazy war' Seamen tell their story Exclusive Interview by Dave Davies of the Victorian Guardian Melbourne: "How far down the gangway do you want to get before I chop you down?" This was the reply from a machine-gun toting U.S. mili- tary policeman to Boonaroo crew member Roland Davis when he casually suggested that he would like to go ashore in the South Vietnam ese port of Van Tau. "I thought he must be jok ing," said Roland, "but the way he handled his machine gun and the sound of his voice convinc ed me that he was fair dinkum." I had breakfast with the crew of the Boonaroo shortly after the ship berthed in Melbourne on Monday morning after its historic voyage to South Viet nam. Boonaroo seamen made nat ion-wide headlines in May when they took their ship to Vietnam only "under strong protest" due to their opposition to the war. Back in Melbourne it didn't take long for stories to flow about their stay in the Vietnam war zone. "We were right in the war zone," said Sandy Strachan. "Planes and helicopters were going over all the time." "Ufa aaiil/1 coa f Vta Avn1/vci/\Mr« UG GUUAU OCC lliG CApiUOlUilO of bombs and napalm on shore. It was said one side of the river was under our control, but the other bank was in the hands of ' the 'other side'. "The ship was in such a posi tion that if an attack had been launched on it, there would have no hope of getting out. Also, the sinking of the Boon aroo would have blocked the whole river, so we didn't feel very comfortable." US Obstruction The men were prevented by the U.S. forces from going ashore, despite an invitation from Australian troops to visit their base camp. The army men even offered to take the seamen to their camp under armed escort. U.S. obstruction of contact was strongly resented by both the seamen and the Australian troops. "Our relations with the Aus tralian army men were excel lent," said Brian Anderson. "They told us that they were on speaking terms with the Americans, but that was about all. It seems that the Yanks wear hair oil and after-shave lotion and carry transistor radios in the jungle, which makes them lovely targets. U&lt;J bile auaaic note gumg in to any actions with them". I asked the men whether they thought the Seamen's Union policy of opposition to the war was correct in view of, their ex periences. "My oath it is," they said in chorus. "Our views were con firmed and strengthened by what we saw." "None of the men we spoke to were happy about the war," they said. "Our troops, 'volunteers' and conscripts alike think the whole thing is a big political mess-up. They want to come home, but while they are there they don't seem to have much alternative. "All the blokes we met reckon it's a crazy war." "The Aussies were really savage about the fact that there was no beer or cigarettes on board our ship", said Barry Hamilton. "They had been led to believe that this was our cargo, so you can imagine their shock to find that we only had military stores on board. Very unhappy "The men are very unhappy about conditions," he continued. One bloke told me that it was so long since he had used a knife and fork that he wouldn't know what to do with them. "The rations are terrible. We gave some of them the best feed they have had since they left Australia." ' 'Things are so bad at Vung Tau base that the troops were extremely grateful when we pre sented them with our dunnage (scrap timber for packing the cargo) to make a floor for their hospital." The Boonaroo men had a lot to say about the situation in South Vietnam. "The Viet Cong are every where," they said. "At one place on the coast the Yanks built a rest home. Then the Australians built one nearby. So the Viet Cong built one for themselves a bit further along." | "Convoys of trucks have to' give up a percentage of their.' load to the Viet Cong if they want to pass along the roads", they said. "A contractor told us that in order to get a shipment of pet rol through he had to leave one truck of petrol for the Viet Cong. They don't even get the truck back". The seamen's estimate was that about a half of all cargoes reaching South Vietnam finish up in the hands of the guerillas. Sandy Strachan told me about the conditions of the South Vietnamese wharfies. "Ameri- can contractors get 3,500 U.S. dollars a month for unloading the ships, but wharfies get 72 cents for a 12-hour shift. It was said that a fair percentage of the wharfies were in the Viet- Cong." American bosses were annoy ed when the seamen gave the wharfies food. "It takes away their incentive to work," they complained. Australian troops are disgust- 1 ed with the atrocities commit- I ted by American, South Korean 1 and South Vietnamese forces. They told of a woman guerrilla f shot in action by the Austra- E lians, who immediately gave her I first aid. Later, she fell into the hands of South Korean troops; she was raped and killed. Mass shootings of Viet Cong "suspects" are common, while a favorite method of interroga tion by the Americans is to throw prisoners out of heli copters one by one. The theory is that the last man may talk before he is push ed out too. Printed and published at 21 Ross St., Forest Lodge, by D. B. Young Pty. Limited, of 1 68 Day St., Sydney. 