 020 — — — — ii _ Threat to freedom new election issue HOLT NAILED ON POLICE SPIES Home, office burgled © YDNEY : A Liberal Reform candidate, Mr. Fran cis James, who has produced damning evidence of secret police breaking and entering his home and office, this week attacked the Government for whittling down the freedom of the individual over 15 years. His exposure of the sinister methods of Hoiti's secret police is the most shattering blow at the Government since the election campaign began. Publication of the secret documents (shown at right) is certain to have touched off a witch-hunt in side the .Security Service itself, which is under the , Prime Minister/ Mr. James said he was convinced the documents are genuine. He told a meeting in the Strathfield Town Hall on 'Monday night; that the typed page of the ASIO file on himself "contains information which could not conceivably have been known to anyone but close members of my staff and myself, unless my telephone had been tapped and my home and office searched". Sinister record Mr.- James also attacked the Government for politic al censorship of the ABC quoting the case of the Charlton- film oh Vietnam and the Bidault. film, and for legalising telephone tapping. He recalled also the refusal of an efitry permit to Mr. Abdullah Majid, a "responsible senior expert in Malaysian studies," who had been appointed to a Sydney University post. "What sort of a Government is this when the Prime Minister himself can read out in Parliament a so-called security report on a perfectly innocent and harmless housewife" (Mrs. Anne Michaelis) "because her son objected to being a member of the school cadets?" , He sharply condemned the Government for having -refused a passport to the Anglican Primaite Arch bishop Mowll to re-visit China in the early 1950's, and revealed that his opponent in Lowe, the present Treasurer (Mr. McMahon), had conveyed the decision to the Archbishop. An official attempt had been made to prevent Mr. James visiting Nor'h Vietnam last year. Mr. James told the meeting that the Prime Minister has in principle agreed to send another battalion to Vietnam before April next year. . He said "1 have been right twice before and I say that if this Government is returned a third balttalion will go". Freedom issue Mr. James' exposure of security police activities under the personal authority of the Prime Minister has raised a new and important election issue — - tlhe de fence of individual freedom. The following immediate demands are raised: — Parliamentary control of the activity and budget of the secret police; An end to the use of police by the Govern ment to harass, silence and spy on opponents and critics; Abolition of legalised telephone tapping. PHOTOSTATS of parts of what seems clearly a dossier of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, stated by Liberal Reform candidate Mr. Francis James to have been left anonymously in his car. Top. section reveals police spying on Mr. James goes back to at least the beginning of 1966, during which he has actively exposed the Vietnam war. Files are also indicated on the Liberal Reform group and Mr. W. E. Gollan, retired headmaster and a well-known communist spokesman, for peace. (Mr. James stated 1,4/11/66 he had met Mr. Gollan again recently 30 years :;!ver being in his class; they disagree politically.) The file implies guilt by association. LOWER : Vh« document reveals: International investigation of Mr. James? ' legal to North Vietnam (top para); eavesdropping (24); telephone tap- - ping (2a, JO, 3 ); breaking and entry of the "Anglican" office (26) and Mr., Jumv- b-.;-,- '28) for political spying; spying on mcils inside the Post Office -sr. a-. i c Monday night that para 26 concerns correspondence ,jn v,'': ' 'foments published in the "Anglican" of Government plans to scr... more Loops to Vietnam. He said the file is wrong: the "two /\ lid i car 'i iiai n .i!;. v. no wrote to him are wartime friends, one a US 2- star /enerai, i ojh.., j Canadian now a member of the International ' Con- troll ...ornrnissiv, Lvr-..i-n>ing reference to payments for overseas literature (para 2.'). Mi. mud his payment of £50st. a year to North Vietnam for publi :ot '.a&lt;- txen authorised by the Trade Department and was met from his ani ; :i! £ i ,3C0st. British TPI pension. The do'iunc: >i ''-droits, 'here is no basis for any charge. 