 jliilJJiSlJJi JJ Grab that Crab! IT'S a toss-up as to who are the more vigilant when it comes to safeguarding our morals — the Melbourne police who last week made public laughing stocks of 1 themselves over the "Atro cities in Vietnam" pamphlet fiasco — or Custom officials at Sydney's Kingsford-Sniith Airport. Mr. R. Dixon, general president of the Communist Party flew into Sydney last week after a visit to . the Soviet Union and other Soc ialist countries. A customs official, obviously a zealous guard of our moral code, exercising his right under the law to confiscate all literature in case i,t was obscene grabbed all the . books and literature that Mr. Dixon had in his luggage. There was a tourist's guide to Prague and a book titled "Towards Socialism" written by a group of British Labor Party writers. Mr. Dixon had bought it in . Australia before he left. Suspecting no doubt thai Tchai kovsky was a Russian spy our sleuth took a recording of his Sixth Symphony from Mr. Dixon's bag. Then he made a real find a tin of Russian crab. In a hushed tone he said to a quarantine officer "it's from Moscow." "Very dangerous stuff, said Mr. Dixon, "it's Chatka crab', sold all , over Australia." "When Mr. Dixon rang the . Customs Department to complain of his treatment he was told that Customs officers have the right to examine literature being brought back tc see if it is obscene, His belongings were later returned ... to him. Not even Father JZOR three days last week 50 of America's most beautiful girls never had it so bad. They couldn't drink or smoke, gc to a party, or be alone with a man even their father. These were the rules of the Miss America contest. Mr. John Alton, an official of the contest said that the rules were to protect the image both of the entrants and of the contest. Other banned activities included conversations on such controver sial subjects as civil rights and the Vietnam . war. Well at least that last rule makes i sense, for America's ugly record both on civil rights and the war in Vietnam is more than enough to put an ugly scowl on any beautiful American girl's face. Government indicted \A/E are still waiting to hear the Federal Govern ment's reply to some pretty serious charges by the Aus tralian Financial Review of their mishandling of the motor-car industry. On September 2 the Australian Financial Review said: "Of course motor manufact urers make marketing errors . . . But the Government can be in dicated on at least three counts for the present circumstances of the motor industry. It failed to take budgetary action to lift consumer spending to a more acceptable level. ' It has distorted the motor vehicle market by arbitrary re distribution of the work-force, It has foisted on to the motor manufacturing industry a product ion plan without any true apprec iation of its economic conse quences .... Looking for some reason for such a peculiar Budget strategy it might be concluded that the Government has quite consciously adopted -budgetary techniques aimed at keeping the economy in restraint. Behind such tactics would be the implication that the Govern ment realises it is going to in crease its call on particular re sources later this fiscal year by calling up more men for National Service. This could best be carried out in an economy operating at less than ' peak capacity." It is interesting that tne loquacious Mr,. Mahon has re mained silent. Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (Holt): At the Prime Ministers' Confer ence in London speaking on Rhod esia, 'force is not . practicial politics." In the US, as if you don't re member "we're all the way with LBJ". Double talk is of course a nec- cessary part of the stock and trade of politicians like Mr. Holt. 