 SYDNEY confronted pOLLOWlNG the Canberra and Melbourne ex- I periences, a top-level policy decision was evidently taken that if, as expected, a major demonstration occurred in Sydney, the procession must take evasive action. On Saturday, after leaving Sydney airport and approaching the New South Wales University, fthe cavalcade carrying Johnson, Holt, NSW Lib- ; eral Premier Askin and other top brass abruptly left the planned route and raced at breakneck speed through back streets to avoid a waiting demonstration of nearly 2000 university students. Entering the city proper, at the Liverpool St. end of Hyde Park, the procession was confronted by 10,000 people massed along both sides of the i street displaying and shouting a great variety of slogans opposing the war policy. ( Among the scores of different slogans displayed by people who had composed and printed then; individually were: Only 89 Bombing Days to Xinas, Get Out of Vietnam, Johnson's Baby Pow der—Napalm, Who Profits from Vietnam War?, Bullet-proof cars for Vietnamese Children, Go home butcher-bird, lady-bird, Frogman wins American Crawl, LBJ go home, Sieg Heil, Presi dent Goldwater, Down the drain with Lyndon Baine. Between 10 and 20 young men and girls sud- denly threw themselves on the road in front ol the presidential car. The whole procession halted for more than a minute while police and Ameri can G-men pounced on the young demonstrators and hurled them aside. As the huge crowd, booing, shouting "Mur derer!" and "Hey, hey, LBJ. how many kids have you killed today?" swayed against the barriers, the official cars were hurriedly diverted around struggling groups and set off at high speed through the city. Thousands of people, including children, who had travelled in some cases long distances to the city to see the procession, were angered by the. official decision to drive fast through the city. Many onlookers threw flags down in disgust. Meanwhile more demonstrators were gathering outside the Art Gallery, half a mile further on, where the President arrived at high speed foi the State reception. Soon nearly 5000 people were massed outside, facing the entrance, which was blocked off with official cars, police motor cycles and horses, uniformed and plainclothes Australian and Ame rican police and American pressmen. The banners and the massed chanting of the demonstration dominated the situation, and "Go Home Yank", "Murderer" and other slogans drowned the loud speakers of speeches at the reception. Two American flags were pulled down . from the line of flagpoles, leaving the Australian flag fluttering. Inside, according to one daily press report, Johnson was so upset that he retired to compose himself for a period. After the speeches, he was suddenly rushed out and into his car which drove off fast, surrounded by running G-men. On his return from a harbor cruise, Johnson was met at Circular Quay by about 1000 more demonstrators. "The demonstrators won a victory", concluded the editorial of the Sydney Morning Herald (25/10/66). Referring to the Sydney cavalcade and the "flight" of Johnson from the Art Gallery reception, it placed the blame for the "mess" on "those in charge of security arrangements". 