 Teachers shape up for Federal elections EDUCATION NEEDS TO BE A PRIME ISSUE ADELAIDE: The annual conference of the Australian Teachers' Federation here de cided that all State Branches of the Federation during 1966 should feature education . needs as a Federal election issue. These activities will include the holding of simultaneous meetings in the States of teachers, parents and community organisations at a date to be fixed prior to this year's Premiers' Conference. "HE conference unan- 1 imously called on the Federal Government to grant immediate funds to State Governments for education. Such grants would enable the States to make the necessary increased allocations for their education services, conference said. The resolution,' sponsored by the NSW Teachers' Federation, also called on the Federal Gov ernment to set up a national committee of inquiry to in vestigate pre-school, primary, secondary and technical educa tion throughout Australia. Minister hits at Fed. Govt. Both the NSW and Victorian teachers called for concerted efforts to draw the needs of education at all levels to the notice of the public and of the State and Federal Govern ments. The South Australian Minis ter for Education (Mr. Love- day) accused the Federal Gov ernment of ignoring pleas from State Ministers and educational authorities for more funds. Mr. Loveday, who was open ing the 46th annual conference of the Federation, said that as each State was already devoting about a quarter of its revenue to . education, it was obvious that the provision of Common wealth resources was impera tive. Teacher training a key problem , He said that, in recent years, increasing stress had been put on the need for students to obtain the best secondary edu cation possible to fit them for higher standards and skills re quired in the community. "While statistics show that parents and students have shown increasingly their recog nition of this need, it is ob vious from the unfulfilled de mand for skilled people that much more must be accom plished. "In South Australia the num ber of students taking second ary education has increased from 20,800 in 1956 to an esti mated 62,000 this year. "This has been achieved in the face of ever increasing di fficulties in securing sufficient teachers of quality for second ary schools", he, said. Mr. W. White, president of the ATF, called for the removal of inequalities of opportunity in education. These inequalities, he said, were largely due to a lack of adequate teachers, make-shift or obsolete classrooms and a large variation in conditions within schools. State and Federal Govern ments were called on to pro vide teachers, equipment and schools of normal standard for Aboriginal and mixed com munities, and to take special measures to overcome environ ment handicaps. To educate Aborigines Measures advanced to encour age and enable Aboriginal children and adults to under take higher education in all fields, especially in the field of teacher training, include: © Granting special scholar ships. © Arranging special tutorial assistance where desirable. Encouraging the granting of apprenticeships, cadetships and similar avenues of train ing. ' © Employing trained Abori ginal people. Conference also called on Governments to preserve the language and culture of the Aboriginal people on the basis of equality. A resolution by SA to, estab lish a teacher exchange between Australia and Asian countries, including Papua and New Gui nea, was unanimously adopted. The resolution also suggested establishing an international post-graduate school of educa tion at the National University, to which equal numbers of Aus tralian and Asian students would be admitted. Conference also carried a mo tion of sympathy to teachers of India at the death of Prime Minister Shastri and expressed the hope that the agreement to establish and maintain peace between India and Pakistan would be successful. "This historic agreement should inspire similar actions for the peaceful settlement of international strife", confer ence said. 