 "MUNI'- RELEASE FROM SORROW By Henry McCarthy IT'S mOst unlikely that you have ever seen a "Pukamuni", or know what a "Pukamuni" is! In fact, the only white people ever privileged to see one, were a few hundred, at Bagot Aboriginal Settle ment, in Darwin on the Saturday afternoon of May 7. The Tiwi Aboriginal people of Melville and Bathurst Islands, in the Northern Territory hold it several months after the death of one of the trible. Some, or all members of the family of the dead person go into a state of mourning following the death. This is to placate the spirit of the dead person. In Darwin it was the case of a 15-year-old boy named Douglas Pruganteiyamirri Atau-Ana-Piwei. He died in a plane while being brought to Darwin several months ago. Usually the "Pukamuni" is held on tribal ground, but because Doug- m M las was buried in Darwin the cere- i|| mony was held in the Aboriginal II settlement there. If And fr the first time white !| people were allowed to watch, pro- h krirlarl fVtoro ufoc r\r\ InfArforAnno in any way with the moving cere mony. The ritual consists of a series of corroborees over a period of pionths, from the time of the Actual burial until tribal law and convention has been satisfied. The final ceremonial corroboree yvith everyone taking part, appro priately painted and adorned may take up to 48 hours. In this Corroboree the imme diate family tell the life of the dead relative; distant family relatives tell the story of their distant relative and friends tell the story of their deceased friend. Finally grave poles are placed around the grave and all those who have taken part in the Corroboree make a last gesture of grief and farewell. The dead person's family are then released from their state of mourning, or "Pukamani". During the period of mourning the father of the deceased is not allowed to feed himself. Every piece of food he eats is cut up and put in his i mouth by tribesmen. They even place his cigarettes in his mouth and light them for him. (Tribal taboo requires that the poles placed round the grave can- qot be cut, carved and painted by close kin of the departed. The family must pay other mem bers of the tribe to do this. Once they were paid in kind. But now white man's money has replaced this; a death ritual has been known to cost more than $200). . v ' - PHOTOS ( Left) : Almost at the end of the ceremony of sorrow, the father of the dead boy rises from the ground to stand upright. (Above) : Part of the "Pukamuni" corroboree. (Below) : His period of mourning not yet over1 the father has a cigarette lit for him. He is even fed by tribes men during the Pukamani. 