 Prices Index does NOT show cost of living trends By an Industrial Correspondent JYDNEY: The Commonwealth Statistician's Commonwealth Price Index figures for the quarter ending March, 1966 showed little or no change in retail prices during that quarter, fit thus raises two questions: O Why does the Index show prices static when people know that it is costing more to live? What is the effect of this on the union wage claims currently before the Arbitration Commission? Some workers seek to ans wer the first question by saying that the figures "must be faked". There is no good reason for that assumption. Despite its title, the "Con sumer Price Index" does no measure the cost of living and is not published as reflecting fluctuations in the cost of any minimum family budget. The Index only reflects the general tendency of over-all retail prices. For this purpose it is no doubt reasonably ac curate as a statistical Index. Unions have criticised the Index on the grounds of the items which are priced — that is the "regimen" on which the Index is based— and the con sideration given to each of the five groupings into which this regimen is divided — that is the "weightings" in the Index. But these criticisms arise from the mistaken use of that index, with that regimen and those weightings, as a meas urement of fluctuations in actual living costs or family budgets and for wage adjust ment purposes. The Statistician has always emphasised these facts and that he takes no responsibility for any use made of the Index for wage fixing purposes. There is no Index based on a regimen and weight ings related to a minimum family budget or any other standard of family living costs. Some inquiries reveal that the statistician began work to establish a cost of living In dex but has not proceeded with this. If we had such an Index we would know what wage was needed to meet the cost of a minimum family budget and we would have an official cost of living standard against which to measure award wages and actual living standards. Main factors This thought emphasises two matn factors concerning the basic wage. These are; a) The amount of the real wage, i.e. its value meas ured in terms of purchas ing power, and b) The maintenance of the real wage by adjustment of the money amount to meet price rises. Of these (a) is the most im portant. If the value of the real wage is low, if it is inade quate to meet minimum fam ily needs, it will remain in adequate and its real level low no matter how frequently it is adjusted (daily if you like) in accordance with price rises — and this irrespective of the re gimen and weightings on which the Index is based. These facts reveal one rea son for the demand for a basic wage based on minimum family needs. The present wage— $30.80— for the six Capital Cities Average —has no real or valid basis. It results from the wage in 1953 being altered upon six occas ions in accordance with vary ing estimates made by a mix ture of Arbitration Commission Judges of such differing and uncertain factors as i"econo- mic capacity", "productivity", "capacity to pay" and prices. In the claims at present be fore the Commission, the Aus- tralian Council of Trade Un ions takes the present basic wage rates which were fixed in June 1964 as a starting point. The ACTU seeks to raise both the money wage and its real value. The increase in real value is the $2 sought for increased productivity and the increase in the money wage is the $2.40 needed to restore the purchas ing power of the rates fixed in 1964 which has declined since then due to price rises. ACTU policy The wages policy of the ACTU is not confined to this limited formula of the current rates increased in accordance with movements in prices and productivity. This policy also Includes as sessment of a basic wage in accordance with present day family needs and regular ad justment of thiat wage in ac cordance with price movements measured by an Index specially constructed for the purpose, and which will show move ments in the cost of the living standard on which the real wage is assessed. Ail this shows that dissat isfaction with the failure of the Consumer Price Index to fully reflect increases in the cost of living calls for more than mere denunciation of tha£ Index. It requires im plementing the ACTU wages policy in full. Meantime, claims at present before the Commission have yet to be won and the Con sumer Price Index figure for the March 1966 quarter does not alter this. Claim unaltered Had the Index figure shown an upward movement the ACTU claim would have been Increased to meet this. As it is the claim remains unaltered. The Index does not show an over-all decline in prices. If prices are stable they have been stabilised at the Decem ber 1965 level and that is much higher than the level of June 1964— the date when the cur rent basic wage rates were fixed. The Index figure for March does not in any way alter the fact that the current purchas ing. power of the basic wage is $2.40 less than it was in June 1964 and this is due solely to price rises as measured by the Consumer Price Index. Thus, the weekly pay envel ope of every worker is "light on" by amounts ranging up to $2.40. This loss will continue until, and unless, the basic wage is increased by this amount and a system of regu lar adjustment restored. This is the ACTU claim which the employers, support ed by the Holt Government, have attacked. 