 ! CqlweiB's new sfcteiMent ALP members will be there | IN the course of a running propaganda baffle, mosf of the daily press last j week put a blanket over an important statement last Thursday by Federal S Labor Leader A. Calwell. I Mr. Calwell predicted that j there would be "demonstra- ! tions against the war" dur- I ing President Johnson's visit, I and that people of all poli- | tical standpoints, including 1 Labor Party members, would j take part. 2 Earlier, Senator J. Keeffe, 1ALP Federal president and a j vigorous critic of the Vietnam i war policy of Washington and I Canberra, had called for de- I monstrations during Johnson's S visit, which he publicly branded | as a political "gimmick". I Last week the issue was dis- cussed by the ALP Federal S Parliamentary Caucus. .The press sought to interpret the discussion as some kind of re buff to Senator Keeffe. To settle the matter, Mr. Calwell made this statement on October 13: — "The resolution passed unan imously a.t yesterday's Caucus meeting welcoming President Johnson's visit to Australia did not contain any criticism of Senator Keeffe's call for peace ful and orderly demonstrations against Australia's involvement in the Vietnam war and against conscription. "Senator Keeffe made it clear to Caucus that he had not called for any demonstra- tions against President John son. "There will be demonstra tions against the war, and par ticularly against conscription, and among those participating there will be members of all political parties and those who belong to no party. "I suppose these will include Liberal members of the Asso ciation for International Co operation and Disarmament; members of the Country Party and the DLp whose sons have been dragged off to war, and members of the Australian Labor Party. "It is not for the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party to say what individuals must or must not do; they have the right to decide for themselves. "President Johnson is cer tainly used to demonstrations by now; he does not have to travel 10.000 miles to see one." Commenting on Mr. Cal- well's statement, Mr. G. An derson, secretary of the Asso ciation for International Co operation and Disarmament (Sydney) said: "Mr. Calwell's statement should be supported by all who subscribe to the basic demo cratic right of citizens to dis sent against the Vietnam war policies of the US and Austra lian Government. "The circumstances of the President's visit ori the eve of ap election in which, the Vietnam war is to be a crucial issue will be legitimately re garded by , many responsible citizens as a crude breach of the spirit and practice of dip lomatic protocol. "Clearly the visit has a pri mary political purpose and de serves to be treated according ly." MR. CALWELL 