 KENNEDY STAND f IS AID TO PEACE STATEMENT by US Senator Robert Kennedy that the "Viet Cong" (South Vietnam National Liberation Front) should he offered a "share of power" in South Vietnam has taken to a new level the public opposition to the US Govern- ment's Vietnam policy. The ironclad refusal of President Johnson, backed by Vice-president Humphrey, State Sec retary Dean Rusk and others to recognise that the NLF in fact controls and governs most of South Vietnam is a major blockage to a settlement. Previously Kennedy has indicated dissent from John son over Vietnam but now, says the Sydney Morning Herald's New York corre spondent (last Monday) "his dramatic move is re garded as an open break over Vietnam." The New York Times be lieves Kennedy may carry "at least half the Senate" with him over Vietnam, as it is in a state of "turbulent unrest" on the question. Backing for Fuibright Senator Fulbright's mail has been running 29 to 1 in favor of his stand against any further escalation of the Vietnam war. Letters received since the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, of which Ful- brigth is chairman, began its sensational public hearings on the conduct of the Vietnam war, total 5000. This was stated by Senator Fulbright's office last week. Reacting violently against the committee's exposure of his administration's activities, President Johnson has ceased calling Fuibright in for con sultations and has crossed him off the White House guest list. Highly damaging to Johnson was the testimony of former President Eisenhower's chief military adviser, General James M. Gavin, who said that the US /was on a colli sion course with China and should work for a political solution that would follow an honorable withdrawal. After the retirement of Eisenhower, President Ken nedy continued to hold Gen eral Gavin in high honor, so his joining of the anti-escala- tion campaign is a severe | blow to Johnson's pretence that he is merely carrying on wi,th his predecessors' policy. Bring China in — Genera! General Gavin said that for the US Vietnam was "a baited trap." By throwing everything into Vietnam, the US would be short of man power elsewhere. He said that "sooner or later we are going to haye to bring China into the councils of the world. We have to get these people into the society of people to talk about these problems." General Gavin said the US should approach President Ho Chi- Minh for direct negotia tions. Equally impressive was George Kennan, former-- -top advisers to President Truman and main sponsor of the post war US attempt to "contain" Communism. He said that even if the "Viet Cong" were to control the whole of South Vietnam this would not "present dangers great enough to justify our direct military intervention." The Administration, he added, should aim to "liqui date our involvement as soon as this can be done without inordinate damage to our prestige." 