 [?] With Tribune's Industrial Roundsman "|HE recent black ban of oil tankers by tug- men has paid off. Australian shipowner, R. W, ivijlaiki a lunivex JLVJUUBio ivxac- arthur" is off the hook for a while longer. BP has agreed to charter this tanker for 12 months, but, the oil companies say there' is no ; guarantee of any long term em- . ployment of the remaining tank- er which has been without a ; cargo for 12 months. The agreement' was made at ; a conference in Melbourne be- tween the oil companies and ' R.W. Miller and Co. and presid- ' ed over by Shipping Minister > Mr. Freeth. This conference was suggest ed by Justice Gallagher follow ing the hearing of the tanker blackban dispute. Mr. Freeth has also made a ! statement declaring the Gov ernment's intention to have pet roleum products carried around the Australian Coast in Austra- : iian-manned and eventually Aus tralian-built ships. ? A N overseas cargo ship rec ently in Sydney had the ; following notice pinned up , while in South Africa: , "Under the Immorality Act, any European male found in the company of non-European women is liable to prosecution. . "A number of prosecutions have recently taken place when European seamen have been found merely riding in taxis with non-European women. Two , crew members of a Dutch ves sel were sentenced to three months imprisonment and cor poral punishment. "In the past the authorities have shown some leniency but the Immorality Act is now strictly enforced and no ex tenuating circumstances are taken into account." ? TAELTA Industries (N.G.) Pty. Ltd. is (offering . Australian building workers a job in the Territory for a flat rat of $2 per hour. The tropical jungle atmos phere, malaria and tropical ul cers is at your own expense. You ' pay your own air fares, ; get no holiday or sick pay or ; public holidays and be sacked on an hour's notice. Usually ? you would work about 98 hours ; per fortnight. The BWIU has warned mem- ; bers about these jobs. In fact : by working in Australia under ; the base award rate plus over- time, living away from home allowance, holidays etc., a work- j i er would come out a mile ui ; front. I 