 jjSif Stppe of h' a tier lAilx>r can dowithout FAREWELL JACK DUGGAN Queensland Guardian PETE THOMAS ivrites a postscript on the hasty retirement recently of the State Opposition Leader. |N the sorry Duggan affair, the Queensland State president of the Australian Labor Partv (Mr. Milliner) last week sounded an- essential note. "What had happened, Mr. Milliner said, should be seen by all politicians as a warn ing that they should not in dulge in share market deal ings. "Obviously", he said, "if politicians go into the share market, they will be unable to discuss objectively legisla tion before the House." The workers will agree, thoroughly. The happenings around Mr. Duggan are well known. Mr". Duggan has been a Labor Party MLA since 1935, with a gap after the 1957 split. (To his credit, he stayed with the ALP in that split, while all other State Ministers joined the Gair faction.) Mr. Duggan has been, at various times, a Labor Min ister, Deputy Premier and, since 1958, Leader of the Op position. " Magnitude " Last week he announced his resignation from the Oppo sition leadership because, he said, of taxation difficulties "of some magnitude". The tax difficulties arose, he said, from his dealings in shares, because of which — he told Parliament— he has been classified as a trader rather than an investor. He said that publication of his tax situation might take place within a few days, or it could be next year. In fact, as it turned out, Mr. Duggan's disclosure was made to Parliament just one day before the release of the Tax Commissioner's latest an nual report, in which "John Edmund Duggan, of Too- woomba, investor" was listed as having understated his tax able income by $66,342 in the eight years to 1962-62. Mr. Duggan, in his state ment to Parliament, said that he did not intend to be "the subject of cross-examination" Which means that some ques tions that workers may ask can, possibly never be ans wered. Nevertheless, what is known causes concern to people de voted to the cause of the labor movement. One fact that emerges is that the tax difficulties had been known to Mr. Duggan as far back as 1963 when he wrote a letter to the Deputy Commissioner including a passage that "like all people who break the tax laws, I must expect to pay the pen alty involved". Delay So- why the three-year de- day in Mr. Duggan's resig nation move? The answer may lie in a further passage in the 1963 letter, saying "If I should have the misfortune to have my name published I will imme diately . . . voluntarily relin quish the Parliamentary office of Leader of the opposition." Thus the decision on con tinuing or resigning his posi tion seems to have depended not on his fault (which he asserts was. 'not a deliberate case of evasion) but on- whe ther the fact was made pub lic. But suoh features — while not edifying— are not the main point. The point for the labor movement to judge is how any politician or official, let alone a Parliamentary leader, can imagine that he speaks for the working class and its socialist aspirations while he is concerning himself with building up a fortune by dealing in that most capitalist establish ment, the Stock Exchange. As. Mr. Milliner pointed out, personal shareholdings can cloud objectivity. To take one case. A few years ago there was the reve lation that the Nicklin Gov ernment's then Minister for Mines held shares in Austra lian Oil a.nd Gas (and also— as the Queensland Guardian later disclosed — in Mt. Isa Mines) . This was a situation which called for the strongest chal lenge by the Opposition in Parliament. Impeded But could such a challenge he fully and effectively mounted by an Opposition led by a man who (as he was quoted as saying in Sunday Truth last weekend) himself holds 200 shares in that very same oil company (AOG) ? There was obvious cause, also, for the Opposition to demand that the Government make known the full list of share interests held by Min isters. ' But could it be expected that such a demand would be raised by an Opposition Leader who himself was buy ing and selling shares on a considerable scale? Workers may ask, also, whe ther the effect of the Duggan share dealings on objectivity (to which Mr. Milliner re ferred) has impeded the Par liamentary Opposition effort in various campaigns. For example, many trade unionists found the role played by Mr. Duggan in the great prices-wages campaign eariler this year to be far from inspiring. In the circumstances, could it be otherwise? The gap between the finan cial situation of Mr. Duggan and that of working class families was so great as to foster a remoteness of atti tude. The extent of Mr. Duggan's income can only be guessed at. But it must have been big to enable an understate ment of over $66,000 in eight years — an understatement averaging out, over those years, at about $160 a week. Security That is, the understatement alone (quite apart from the stated income) was equivalent to about the full wage of three tradesmen ! Would a campaign against price rises on family neces sities, or for a couple of dol-' lars pay rise, really mean much to a man in Mr. Dug gan's financial position? AnH urnnlH lnVinr's r.cmse nf socialism have any urgent and dynamic appeal to a man doing so well out of Stock exchange dealings? Mr. Duggan pleads concern for his family's security. Very worthy. But does Mr. Duggan (or anyone else) imagine that they are elected in Labor's name to highly-paid posts in order to ensure their own families' se curity while those who elect them as their representatives face the insecurities and dif ficulties? Moreover, were the Dug gan finances so parlous as to I need supplementing by exten- 1 sive share dealings? ' After all, Mr. Duggan has I been an ftlLlA Hlmost con- tinuously for over 30 years j and either a Minister or On ' I position Leader for most of I the past 19 years. 1 And if . he retires or is | beaten for his seat, then he I nt on to the pension : which Federal Government 1 have considered sufficient for I ordinary people, but on to a generous pension awarded by the politicians to themselves. Workers congratulate the new Opposition leaders. They look to them for positive, vig orous action and real leader ship, directed towards a unit ed, militant labor movement. And workers urge that all heed the warning from the Duggan case. Workers do not want lead ers who "stand for the emanciation of the working class one by one — and me first!" The workers want leaders , who will march at their head in all the campaigns . 1 for, a better life for the /m' working people and towards W the socialist goal, to instal 1 the working class in its proud and rightful place. fe SHARE-DABBLER DUGGAN The working-class can kiss . 