 They can't win, but Big Ed shoots off his mouth US AMBASSADOR FORESHADOWS MASSACRE RAIDS ON N. VIETNAM feJlEW and terrible US blows against the people of north Vietnam involving heavy casualties to civilian) men, women and children were being pre pared by the US military. They were foreshadowed by the US Ambassador to i Australia, Edward Clark, m a speech last rriday in Canberra on his return from Washington. Clark forecast that the bombing would be widened to take in a wide range of "public utilities" in North Vietnam. If these include the- famous Red River dykes near Hanoi it could mean the instant death by drowning of up to from two to three million people. From Moscow, Rupert Lockwood notes the pledge of the Warsaw Treaty powers headed by the Soviet Union at their,. Bucharest conference last week to give the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ever-increasing assist ance. He says this is regarded as timely in view of American threats to bomb the Red River dykes. This could cause terrible floodings and the drowning of countless mm, women and children. Moscow's Pravda Hanoi correspondent, V. Shaparov, is quoted by Lockwood as reporting that "a monstrous crime is being prepared against the Vietnamese people". Shaparov says that in four months there have been over 500 American bombing raids on dams and dyks. In a speech that appeared to be lacking in compassion, in view of the deaths implied by the program outlined, Clark said: Put them in a vice "We will knqck out oil dumps, electric grids, power lines, dams and canals. If you put them in a vyce, they arc' sometimes ready to talk business and you get better attention." Time magazine underlines the Ambassador's threats by saying in an article on the same day that "if the worst came to the worst, the US could destroy the power and irrigation dams in North Vietnam's Red River Valley, flooding millions of acres of crops." However, indications this week were that it was the US aggressors rather than the Vietnamese who were writhing in Mr. Clark's "vyce". Protests continued from all over the world. They included a warning from the USSR that continued bombing of Haiphong would endanger Soviet ships. Chinese Premier Chou En-lai also pledged that China would assist Vietnam "whatever the risk and the price". On the1 battlefield of South Vietnam a torrent of "we're winning" propaganda could not conceal the fact that victory for the US is as far removed as ever. Forecasts by the White House last week that the war could be won this year, though endorsed by Marshal Ky, merely recalled US Defence Secretary McNamara's boast in 1964 that the US could pull out by the end of 1965. They were corrected by Australian Army Minister Fraser, just back from the battlefield, who said that victory "would take a long time." US in great peril And only a month earlier US General Sternberg, just back from Vietnam, was telling a US audience that victory was impossible without another half million troops and the US was in greater peril than at any time since the civil war. Continued on Fage 12 U.S. bomb plan Continued from Page 1 The killing of some 200 al leged Vietcong only 60 miles from Saigon last week had to be paraded as a great victory although it implied an admis sion that the opposition was still present in strength close to the capital in &n area just recently the scene of similar victory claims. The London New Statesman asks whether any "solid and lasting results" have accrued from such victories. "How many more miles of road ars open and safe — how many v.llages are effectively governed by Ky's regime — how many people b:.ve stopped paying the taxes of the Vietcong?" it asks. Hopes for prace attached to British Prime Minister "Wilson's Moscow visit mainly overlook the fact that peace missions to succeed must be directed tc the source from which is eman ating the orders for more bombings and more escalation of the war — Washington. It must be stressed that peace can only come on the basis of fulfilling the Geneva. Agree ment terms, the- main one of which required the t.otal with drawal of foreign forces from Vietnam. In insisting on this the Viet namese, north and south, are insisting only on what was agreed to at Geneva by the major powers concerned and endorsed by most of the world except — as was later shown — the VS/V 