 He'll try to con' Australia on Vietnam AN ADVANCE REPLY TO LBJ TRIBUNE predicts that, in his speeches in Australia , I President Johnson will make some or all of the follow-' ing claims , in an attempt to wheel more Australians behind his Vietnam war policy and his principal sup - porrer, the Holt Government . The answers are therefore given in advance ... "America is fighting to save South Vietnam from North Vietnamese or Chin- I ese aggression." REPLY: Not even the Americans have ever claim ed to find a Chinese in Viet nam. Only American offici als have ever claimed / to find "north Vietnamese" soldiers fighting in south Vietnam. These claims are unconfirmed by any other source. Even American official sources have not claimed that more than 10 per cent of the men fighting against the Allies in south Vietnam are northern Vietnamese. I The National Liberation Front (or "Viet Cong") are genuine Vietnamese nation alists—this has been admit ted by on-the-spot writers from the London Times, the New York Times and many others. Even South Vietnam Premier Ky admitted on January 29 last that "the Vietcong are closer to the people than we are". "We must continue bomb ing until the North Vietnam ese stop invading the South." 1 REPLY: The air attacks on north Vietnam were be gun on the official version on February 7, 1965 because of a ground attack on the US base at Pleiku, south Vietnam, in which, it was alleged by the US, key equip ment items used, such as mortars, came from north Vietnam. Later the Defence Depart ment admitted that the mortars used in the attack were captured US 81-mm mortars. "America wants peace but Hanoi and Peking refuse." REPLY: During 1964 "Ha- noi" (the Democratic Repub lic of Vietnam) was report ed to have made peace pro: posals but they were reject ed by the USA. "The outstanding — and many will think devastating — fact is that Hanoi offer ed to talk and Washington refused" — the New York Times, November 16, 1965. Washington preferred to escalate the war with the air attacks on the DRV. Today President Johnson's official attitude is, as be fore, that he will "negoti ate at the drop of a hat". But he refuses to recog nise the National Liberation Front. Bomb-happy On the eve of his depart ure for Australia, the south Vietnam regime, which the US backs to the utmost, de clared it would not negoti ate peace except on condi tion that the NLF was dis solved—that is, surrendered unconditionally. Johnson's last act before leaving Washington for Aus tralia was to reject requests for a bombing pause. "We fight for democracy and independence in Viet nam." REPLY: Here is the re port of a responsible and experienced American jour nalist, Neii Sheehan, writing in the New York Times (quoted in the Melbourne Sun on October 10 and also in the Sydney Sun): "For its own strategic and political ends the US is pro tecting a non-Communist Vietnamese social structure that cannot defend itself and perhaps does not deserve to be defended. "Americans are continu ally chagrined to discover that idealism and dedica tion are largely the pre rogative of the enemy. "I can only conclude that the Vietnamese will die more willingly for a regime which, though Communist, is at least genuinely Viet namese and offers them ' some hope of improving their lives than one which is committed to the galling status quo and which is the creation of Washington. "We have kept our agree ments about Vietnam — the Communists have broken theirs." REPLY : The American intervention in South Viet nam, beginning when the SEATO Treaty was signed in September, 1954, broke the key clause of the Geneva Agreements which barred either South or North Viet nam from forming foreign alliances. From 1955 onwards the International Control Com mission criticised the US and South Vietnamese authorities for breaking this and related provisions of the agreements. Another key Geneva art icle — that elections must be held throughout Vietnam hot later than 1956 — was also broken by the southern regime with US support. Because of this, the south ern patriots formed the NLF in 1960. "We are ready for a. mu tually phrased withdrawal from Vietnam." REPLY: This would be logical if the Vietnamese were attacking and invad ing the USA while the US Continued on Page 1 Z One of the prima reasons for President Johnson's present tour, says Ray- I mond Kerrison, Murdoch press man in New York, is "an attempt to halt a landslide defection from the Democratic Party led by a president whose popularity is at an all-time low." Yet Australia's ' Liberal-CP Government has no compunction about in volving Johnson in the Australian election campaign. The important address he is to make in- Canberra this Friday in: the first election throw of the Holt Government. A truly Australian answer is expressed by the two lapel badges, (re produced above), issued by the Eureka Youth League of Australia — and now being sold in hundreds in all States. Answers to Johnson Continued from Page 1 attacked and invaded Viet nam. But since the USA is in fact the only country doing the invading and attacking, it will be obliged to with draw before there ca-n be peace. President de Gaulle, of France, is among those em phasising this. "We are acting to save the Asians from a dictator ial minority". REPLY: Out of about 1,600 million Asians, the US action in Vietnam is backed by Governments control ling a population of some 89 million — Thailand, Mal aysia, South Korea, For mosa, the Philippines. 'Most Asian countries are either hostile (like 700 mil- ,lion-strong China) or neu tral (like 436 million-strong I India) . 