 THE PRESSURE IS ON THE PREMIERS By Our Parliamentary Roundsman C.YDNEY: A delegation from the New South Wales Teachers Federation flew to Canberra this week to lobby the state Premiers as they gather there for their annual meeting and Friday's Loan Council. The teachers are pressing the Premiers to ask for special Commonwealth cash grants to the states for public education, above any normal allocation. Past experience has taught the Premiers not to look upon their visit as an annual visit to Mecca, but rather more like Oliver Twist asking the Beadle for more soup. The States depend on the I Commonwealth for an allocat ion of the income tax collected, for special grants, and for an allocation of Loan Council money for their works and housing program. The Commonwealth, as the sole collector of the main taxes, holds all the purse strings. The States only gather in the chickenfeed like stamp and probate duties and land tax. The States are in a permanent stage of starvation and never receive from the Common wealth what they need to cover their requirements. The States today are poorer than ever, with great backlogs in education, homebuilding, hospitals and other essential services. The NSW government last year cut back on 27 new high schools, and other school buildings because of lack of money and now under heavy pressure, are planning to build some new high schools and other school buildings, provid ing that this year's allocation is big enough. Last week a delegation from the N.S.W. Labor Council to the NSW Minister for Hous ing (Mr. Stephens) told him that unemployment in the build ing industry was today reach ing the proportions of the 1961 crisis. They asked that the govern- ment, at the current talks press the Commonwealth to double all allocations to State Housing Commissions, and to arrange for the release of fin ance through the Reserve bank at low interest rates for those wanting to purchase or build their own homes. The Premiers have made no secret that they are not ex pecting very much extra from grants and are placing more hope in the loan council alloc ation. (Continued, Page 12) PRESSURE ON PREMIERS (Continued from Page 1) They haven't forgotten that the new Federal treasurer Mr. McMahon, during the last session of parliament said that $1000 million of overseas mil itary expenditure was yet to be met. They expect' him and Mr. Holt to cry 'Vietnam war' as of one the main reasons why they cannot meet the premiers' requirements. Loan allocations to the states last year were $448 million, only $12 million more than the year before. An amount of $102 million was agreed to at last year's meeting for housing loans, roughly about the same as the year before. In an attempt to stave off a crisis in the build ing industry, a small addition of $15 million was released in February. Queensland and NSW rec eived some special grants for drought relief. None of the Premiers . are happy at the formula revised last year for tax reimburse ments, and are certain to raise this during this week's talks. 