 BRBTAUTY ISOLATES THE U.S. yMERlCAhr ih the strange situation; jibeing an iso lated global! ijpdwer wrote American ctmentator Wal- ter Lippnwiast month. fiw "We do ndmione reasonably strong ally rare the risk and the costs o «Usk policy," he added. The cities i duntries in which anti-Vietnam demonstrations— necessarily ai demonstrations —have taker ace, girdle the world. Some Ike biggest have been in the I H$elf. For this i! |»re two main reasons— the Wig savagery of the methods JSpy the US ag gressors agaiij||whole people; and the immoirod unjust char acter of the Significantly,® Holt Govern ment found :i®essary in its rgnoni: pamohl gpetnam Ques tion" and Ansv j|to include this question "While the1' iPong must be resisted, it " rosary to use methods sui si the bombing and burning' ullages?" It then explains that "the Aus tralian Government has made known with firmness its convic tion that the dictates of humanity and the principles worked out through the Red Cross and the var ious international conventions for the treatment of prisoners of war must always be observed." Australians, Americans and South Vietnamese troops are all under orders to do this, says the pamph let. What "international convention", one wonders, allows an American soldier to drag along a string of "Viet Cong" prisoners, each tied by the neck to the man in front? The picture, issued by the Amer ican newsagency United Press In ternational has been reproduced by Mr. Gerald L. Stone in his book War Without Honor. Such examples are not just in dividual excesses, but part of a deliberate plan. On April 23, 1966 the Government TV station 2ABN in Sydney showed a film of brutality training so bad that it shocked most Sydney press TV commentators into print. The film showed US soldiers at "Tiger camp" being taught to ad- minister the drowning or water treatment torture to a mock pri soner. Mr. Stone tells in War Without Honor at page 130 how westerners, including Australians, are being "drawn into the role of conspir ators in the torture and murder of captured guerillas" by handing them over to the puppet troops for slaughter. An Australian warrant officer told Stone that "I go for a walk" when a prisoner is taken "and when I come back they tell me that the man was shot trying to escape." Mr. Stone says that the South Vietnamese puppet troops ("rang ers") "have a reputation for refus- , ing to take prisoners and for slic ing out the livers of captured Vietcong while they are still alive". Death may save the Vietnamese from torture, but not always from mutilation, as Mr. Stone notes on page 133: "The Australian battalion, soon after its arrival in Vietnam, be came involved in the seamier aspects of the body count. "A patrol excised the finger of a dead guerilla whose body was too bullet-riddled to carry back j to battalion headquarters. The fin- j ger was wrapped up, tagged and : carried back to verify the first j Australian kill of the war." | The Holt Government's claim in j its official pamphlet that "defin ite measures have been taken to | ensure that . Khe bombing of civil- | ians is eliminated as far as is j humanly possible" is not borne ! out by the facts. j But an American United Press j International dispatch from Sai- j gon (quoted by the London New ! Statesman on March 11) says a I senior US commander in Sadgon j described his - strategy as follows : "If the people are to the gueril las as the oceans are to the fish, J then, like Mao Tse-tung says, we are going to dry up that ocean" ("in short, kill the people", com- ! ments the New Statesman). j Last year the US air force j sprayed crop -killing chemicals on j 517,000 acres of riceland, says the same report, and hopes to destroy j another 200,000 acres by the end of this year. US Professor Bernard Fall says in his book "The Two Vietnams" I that in the West's view "the popu- | lation at large becomes an object j that is manipulated, transferred, searched and seized, shoved out of the way when it impedes military operations and finally strafed and napalm-bombed until the mounds I of innocent dead overshadow the negligible damage inflicted on \ the battle-hardened guerillas oper ating in their midst." Such tactics are leaving "as many as four Viet Cong villages a day in smoking ruins", accord ing to a report which artist Bruce Petty made the subject of a car toon in The Australian on May 3, 1966. Gerald L. Stone, in his book War Without Honor, tells of an Australian warrant officer arriv ing in a Vietnamese village. "Tell the chief", he says, "that we have come to help the people of the district. We will see that they can live safely. . . But tell them that if they oppose us, we will burn their homes to the ground and destroy their crops. We will be very hard on those who oppose us." 