 Drab but beautiful THE DYEHOUSE Mena Calthorpe This is a book about people — People working in industry. It is the story of their desires, their frustrations, their hopes. Drab reality is 'part of it (the drabness which is part of a' factory area in Sydney), humanity is a large part of it and above all love is part of it. The concept of change and development emerges towards the end. Lessons are learnt, tomorrow is another day. 70c (79c posted). THE MYSTERY OF THE EARTH'S MANTLE A. Malakhov. The deepest shafts and boreholes penetrate no more than a comparatively short distance below the Earth's surface. What is further down is a matter of conjecture. Meanwhile the study of the deep-seated layer of our planet holds great per spectives for mankind. The secrets which modern science is uncovering make fascinating reading. 65c (75c posted). VICTIMS AND HEROES K. Simonov A powerful novel which tells the story of the opening months of the Second World War on the Russian Front in 1941. It is the first Soviet novel to reveal the truth about these months — the first to ask why the Soviet Union was unprepared — how Hitler's army was -able to advance so far and so fast. There is no sparing of criticism which goes right to the top. 1.75 (1.94 posted) DIVIDED HEAVEN Chrlsta Wolf Prize winning novel by an East German author— story of two young people deeply in love— the story of their divided country and the choice they made. Depicts the urgency of life East of the Elbe and the pull of the unknown, west of the Wall. 70c (80c). " ON PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE V. I. Lenin In recent times it has been suggested that Khrushchev in vented the concept of "Peaceful Coexistence". We therefore commend to your attention a little booklet composed of Lenin's writings and speeches during and after 1917. Peace ful coexistence implies recognition of the possibility . that countries with different social and politicial systems may ex ist parallel to each other, without need for "cold" and "hot wars.. This idea is as vital to the future of mankind todoy as it was in 1917. 20c (29c posted). New World Booksellers 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607. J 