 . : . ; . ... . . . ... , . . - . - Take your golf with confidence By the Challenger gOLF has often been described as a sport of concentration and confidence. The saying probably derived from some wit whose logic ran something like, "if you concentrate enough on a shot and pull it off, then you've got confidence". It follows that if a golf er's confidence stems from success, then the reverse also holds true, and the crafty player will endea vour to better his chances by toning his failing form with shrewd tactics. This may have been the case with the seasoned professional golf champ, United States' Arnold Palmer, in the Dunlop In- | ternational tournament at the Australian Golf Club last Sunday. After first refusing to a play-off for the first prize 1 ma Palmer decided nn o I fl sudden-death play-off, but was out-generalled by the outstanding twenty-year- 8 old N.S.W. professional I Bob Stanton. . I Palmer's ability has made him a winner of al- g most every tournament oj g note in recent years and g with it the number one | money winner of all time, g In 1963 he became the first | eolfer to win over $100,000 g in prize money in a single g season. . . I As to the secret of his g success? Palmer answers this in a general way in his hook "My Game and Yours" in which besides instructions in the right technique urges the play er to intense concentra tion. The ability to concen trate on a shot while under extreme Pf®, reS temperament not easuy ruffled hut even so tne nerves of the best players fail at times. . Concentration, .co ence, temperament, un canny ability, Arnold Pal mer has them all. This is attested to by the army of fans that follow his game-and the results that he gets. Aboriginal boy athlete pERTH: Marble Bar— W.A's hottest town— is I sending a 14-year-old part- Aboriginal school boy 90 miles to compete in the State schools athletic championships. Marble Bar P & C raised his air fare. Headmaster Whitmore speaks very highly of Henry: "Right now he's the leader of the school. He can beat boys years older at games and whatever sport he takes up he masters within a week." HO I Puzzled concern reg isters on Arnold Palmer's face as he misses a short putt during the Dunlop International. 