 v , - « A-,.-. I CHURCH CREPT UP ON ! TENANTS JYDNEY: Disclosure of the likely devel opment of a multi-million dollar shop ping mall at Edgecliff in the Sunday Telegraph last weekend comes as no sur- prise to tenants, shopkeepers and business people of Edgecliff. It is estimated that there 'l are over 7.0 empty houses, flats and accommodation . buildings in the area own ed by the Church of Eng land on the 28.6 acres of land granted to them over 100 years ago. The Church leased out the | land for 99 years and the leases expired in January ) 1965. Pressure was put on leaseholders and many hand- j ed in their leases several years before the full time had expired. | Six houses have been pulled down and many others have remained vacant for over two years. Roofing iron and other materials have been removed from some to repair others. Vandals have ruined some and others have become rubbish heaps. The Edgcliff Preparatory School, covering more than two acres of ground, is also vacant, the school having moved into a new building on the Weigal Grounds at Rush- cutters Bay. The City Council allowed the school to be built on ODen sppce land reserved for pri vate recreation. Residents long suspected that some big commercial develop ment would take place because no attempt has been made to build on any of the vacant land. Many people tipped the shopping centre project. In 1962 a similar shopping centre was proposed on por tion of nearby White City ten nis courts, but was rejected because the land is zoned "open space for private recreation." I Past promise ® In a statement put out last f year the Church of 'England Glebe Administration Board claimed the redevelopment of the , area would be , "predomin antly residential in character" j and "the Church looks forward to the gradual renewal in I Edgecliff in full co-operation I with all authorities and PER- | SONS CONCERNED." I It is quite evident that all | authorities have not been ad- I vised of their plans, as the f City Council has just finished | reforming many of the street | gutters in the area. | Other "persons concerned" must also include the tenants ; and business people. However, no one seems to toe able to get any information from the I Church authorities or their I agents. I One small shopkeeper in I Thorne Street, Mr. Dominic I Tauso paid over £10CO for his I business about three years ago. I Now in ill health, he is un- I able to sell out because the ft Church agents will not give I any buyer a satisfactory lease. I He claims that if he is forced I to close he will have worked 1 long hours for three years for 1 less than the basic wage. I Other shopkeepers in the I "front street" (New South I Head Road) will be swept out I of business when the proposed I road, widening takes place, I leaving no opposition to the I proposed shopping mall. Pressure also is being put on tenants. About 18 months ago, aged people, many who had lived in Edgcliff all their lives, were approached to give up their tenancies and move into St. John's Village, built in the Church ground of St. John's Church at Glebe, paid for by the Government on a basis of £2 for every £1 raised by the Church. Being worried, many old people 'took this accommoda tion without any tenancy rights. In actual fact the public paid two-thirds of the price to move out the, aged people while the Church let many of the places again at £5" to £6 a week on a 5A agreement. Previous rents were about 30/-. Other people who have asked for repairs to be done are told that it would cost too much and are offered another house at a much dearer rental, provided they sign a 5A agree ment under the Landlord and Tenant Act. Others have been proceeded against in the Fair Rents Court for big increases in rents. Mrs. Ivy Hough, . of 30 Ar thur St., Edgcliff, has lived in one house for 25 years. Sev eral years ago she took over the remaining portion of the 99 -year lease. When it expired she agreed to pay £3/3/- a week rent al- though the 1939 rent was only - £1/7/6. Late last year she was ap proached by the Church agents, Jones, Lang and Wotton, to sign a 17 A agreement for 12 months at £3 a week. Her husband, Mr. Sid Hough, refused to sign it. He was later proceeded against for an 18/- rent increase. Whilst giving evidence at the rent court on January 26 Sid Hough collapsed and died. His widow received notice from J. C. Bardon & Co. that the case would go on again on Feb ruary 11. Mrs, Hough is in poor health and was suffering from shock. Only by the efforts of her doctor was a further adjourn ment agreed to. Although Jones, Lang and Wotton are the Church Trust's agents, all matters dealing with increased rentals are handled by J- C. Bardon & Co., of Randwick. It is not only in the Edg cliff area that the -Church is pushing commercial develop ment. In Darlinghurst, the St. John's Church Hall has been demolished to make way for a petrol service station. This house in Cameron St. has had its roof removed to repair other premises in the area. I Part of the present Edgecliff shopping centre threatened by road widening, i 'ft 