 Johnson brushes aside peace terms U.S. BOMBS AGAIN IMPERIL WORLD Public desire is flouted By Tribune's Foreign Editor RESUMPTION by the United States of the bombing of the Democratic Re public of (North) Vietnam means another loner steo towards the disaster of a third. nuclear, world war. It means a new escalation, a new ancl much more dan gerous phase of the dirty war against the independence of Vietnam. The socialist countries, headed by the USSR, have pledged again all necessary aid to the DRV and say they will not sit by while US bombers pbuncl it to pieces. Although pretending to favor peace, the US president has thus brutally rejected the realistic terms offered again last weekend by DRV President. Ho Chi Minh. (See Editorial, page 2) . Its current new "peace move" to the United Nations is thus no more than an attempt to hoodwink the world. PUBLIC DEMANDS During the 37 days' pause in- bombing, demands from all over the world had urged that the bombing be riot resumed. All these demands — whether they came from U Thant, the Pope, the Australian Council of Churches, or neutral and allied governments like those of Japan and Britain (at one stage) have been dashed aside. In taking this step, President Johnson and his Washing ton warhawks have slammed the door on the possibility of a peaceful solution. The Sydney Daily Mirror said in an editorial on Jan uary 28: "President Johnson has repeatedly affirmed the desire- of the US to find a peaceful solution. "Renewal of the bombing, however, can have only, one effect. It will kill any hope of peace by negotiation". But that was never the real aim of the bombing "pause' — as was widely recognised by the world's press from the start. Thus the British Manchester Guardian said that previ ous "truces" and "pauses" in bombing had "usually been followed by violence at a hitherto unattainecl level." CLOAKED WAR PLAN The Paris Le Monde said "The impression is that the President is looking for a way to show he is not to blame . rather than to achieve agreement". Complaining that the Vietnamese were using the pause to carry on infiltration, the USA itself used the lull to land 4,000 more troops in south Vietnam. The -Christian Science Monitor 'admitted- on -December 31 that plans for future fighting in south Vietnam occu py the Pentagon despite the present peace negotiations", under a heading Pentagon Polishes Plans for Offence. The secretary of the Australian Association for Inter national Co-operation and Disarmament, Mr. G. R. Anderson, said in Sydney this week that a meeting would be held on Tuesday night to plan activities for the com ing year, including demonstrations already projected to coincide with the opening of Federal Parliament. Editorial, Page 2. 