 [?] Bougainville land grabs Sweet copper cop for Rio Tinto By Jim Cooper MN ASHAMED official backing from the Federal Government of a 25 square mile land grab of rich copper-bear ing country in Bougain ville by the mining monopoly Conzinc Rio Tinto, has heightened rather than hindered the strong and growing op position of the people. It is true, as claimed by some members of the House of Assembly in New Guinea, who are supporters of the Government, that millions of dollars will be made from the operations in Bougainville, but the question is by whom? Certainly not the local peo ple .but rather by Rio Tinto shareholders. The size of the venture is underlined by the export in come which is estimated to be $35 million and the value . of the fields is estimated around $600 million. After outlining some of the "benefits" the scheme would allegedly bring, Territories' Minister Barnes said in the House recently: "Unfortunately some people on Bougainville feel they should have title to the mineral rights of the area and thereby only about 300 to 400 people should benefit from the mining operations." "This involves a principle which is completely opposed to our ideas - in Australia where the title to the mineral rights is held by the whole community." He then spoke about the company's being discouraged and relinquishing its interests. But this was in the nature of pure bluff and probably a ruse to break down opposition of the people. Conzinc Rio Tinto of Aus tralia Ltd. is an 85% owned subsidiary of the Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation Ltd. of Lon don, through its wholly owned subsidiary C.R.A. Holdings Ltd. of Melbourne. This company was formed in Melbourne in 1959 to ac quire the Australian interests of Rio Tinto Co. of London. After its merger with the Zinc corporation, it acquired the ' name of Conzinc Rio Tinto of Australia. It follows a consistent pol icy of trying to get a strangle hold on Australian minerals and mining. It is now taking a very keen interest in miner als in New Guinea. Its survey of Bougainville revealed the presence of cop per in an area where gold had been mined previously. Last March it applied for and ob tained a mineral lease of about 25 square miles. During the following meet- ing of the House of Assembly, beginning on June 7 the Direc tor of Land Surveys and Mines, Mr. D. S. Grove, moved extensive amendments to the mining ordinance, which, while it made some minor concessions to the New Guinea landholders, consolid ated the ownership of all minerals in the Administra tion and provided for the pay ment of all royalties to it. The amendments proposed a base payment to the land holders of $1 per acre per annum. Mr. Paul Lapun, the mem ber' for Bougainville, moved an amendment that demanded 5% of the royalties for the people in the area. This greatly alarmed the Ad ministration who used every possible debating trick to con fuse the issue. But they were finally forced to agree to a basic land rental of $2 per acre annually. The bill was approved by the Assembly, but the people of Bougainville were not im pressed. A meeting of 35 Roman Catholic priests at Buka Pas sage, chaired by the Bishop of Bougainville, Bishop Le- may, urged the repeal of the ordinance and unanimously resolved to "Make known the voice of the people in pro testing against the present ordinance." Bishop Lemay said that Territories Minister Barnes, during his visit to Bougain ville, had refused to listen to the local landholders and took the line that "you have nothing to say, since all the minerals belong to the Gov ernment." Bishop Lemay announced that the Catholic Church sup ported the people's stand, and the missions unofficially supported the royalty de mands because in their view this served the best interests of the people and also be cause it was the accepted practice in many countries. 