 Wharfies stop-work demands refund of savage fines SYDNEY : An overflow stopwork meeting of waterside workers last week in the Sydney Town Hall called for a refund of attend ance money fines and a moratorium on all attendance money debts. pHE Sydney meeting was one of many held through out Australia last week by the Waterside Workers Fed eration to hear reports on the outcome to date of the "All- in" conference between the union, employers and the Fed eral Government. The meeting said the recent worsening of the economic posi tion of waterside workers must "be alleviated by a refund of the fines and an interim increase in the hourly rate of attend ance money and meal allowance. Fines Attendance money of $2.82 a day is paid to waterside work- ers when no work is available, however most members were fined about 30 days of this money by the Stevedoring Authority during the disputes last year. Redundancy The Sydney men endorsed the stand of their federal officials in opposing the proposals so far submitted by the employers on permanency, contributory pensions and redundancy. "Any scheme for permanent employment must give equal ity, satisfactory to all members of the organisation and on no account can we accept the divi sion of members into 'opera- tional' and 'holding' compa nies." A demand was made that an industry pension be financed without contributions from workers. "Even as a contributory scheme the employers proposals are inadequate and unaccept able," the meeting said. A resolution noted that the conference report on economic demands such as wages, attend ance money and meal allowance have been relegated to the "tail end" of the agenda. Federation officials were con gratulated for securing agree ment from- the Federal Govern ment to alter the long service leave earning period from 20 to 15 years. Call to Labor Council The Sydney Branch executive was called on to develop cam paign in support of the Austra lian Council of Trade Unions' claims for increased wages, margins and price control. The meeting urged the NSW Labor Council to call together all shop stewards and job dele gates in action similar to that which brought great success in the three weeks annual leave struggle in 1963. This action was urged "in face of the unsympathetic at titude of the Arbitration Com mission since 1952, and in par ticular the 1965 decision of the Commission." Only by united action of the whole NSW working class can the wage and margins claims be achieved, the meeting declared. 