 IL —llwhS, I. h. ij i Writers against the war OME 60 men and women prominent in literature and the arts in Australia, have signed a short but trencnani criticism or cne Holt Government's policy on conscription for the, Vietnam war. They say: — "Whatever we may think of Australia's participation in the war in Vietnam, it is not a nat ional cause because the Austra lian community has not deci sively demonstrated its support. "Therefore it is morally wrong that young Australians should be compelled to fight and perhaps die in Vietnam, and we ask the Government not to continue with the dispatch of conscripts." The signatories are:— Meena Abdullah, Hugh Ander son, Allan Ashbolt, Martin Boyd, R. P. Brissenden, Robert Burns, David Campbell, Jon Cleary, Betty Collins, C. B. Christesen, Char- mian Clift, Mary Durack, Geoffrey Dutton, John K. Ewers, George Farwell, Pat Flower, Robert D. FitzGerald, Neilma Ganter, Oriel Gray, Rodney Hall, Frank Hardy, Gwen Harwood, Bernard Hesling, Dorothy Hewett, A. D. Hope, Flex- more Hudson, Florence James, George Johnston, Nancy Keesing, Sylvia Lawson, Noel Macainsh, Mungo MacCallum, Donald Mc Lean, J. S. Manifold, Leonard Mann, Alan Marshall, David Martin, Oscar Mendelsohn, Tony Morphett, Myra Morris, John Morrison, Wal ter Murdoch, Aileen Palmer, Katha rine Susannah Prichard, David Raw- botham, Roland Robinson, Thomas Shapcott, R. A. Simpson, Bernard Smith, Stephen Murray-Smith, Ivan Southall, Randolph Stow, Kylie Tennant, John Thompson, Margaret Trist, F. B. Vickers, Bill Wannan, Judah Waten. > ' ' Member for Michael "THERE are persistent re ports that Douglas Dar.by MLA, the riglht-wing out- lander of the NSW State House, is going to be read mitted to the Liberal Party. These rumours come hot on the heels of the advice that Michael Darby, his son and one of Air Vice Marshal Ky's greatest supporters, had no sooner been drafted into the army than he was whisked off to officers' training school at Scheyville (NSW). Now comes word that he is to go south to a longer officers' school— perhaps to be groomed for a career in the Army's political warfare depart ment. - We can't help wondering if there's been a deal somewhere! Ultra right on way up? VA/E can reveal that the de cision to appoint an Ambassador to Taiwan (For mosa) was taken by Federal Cabinet without being rec ommended by the External Affairs Department. Some of the statements by the External Affairs Minister (Mr.. Has- luck) qnd the extraordinary joint communique he signed with Dr. Wei-Tao Ming, described as "Min ister of Foreign Affairs of the Rep ublic of China," have greatly wor ried many government back bench ers, specially Country Party MPs. The communique implies that the tiny puppet regime of Chiang Kai- shek is still the government of China by saying: "The two min isters examined various factors related to the reappointment of an , Australian Ambassador to the Rep- . ubiic' of China to resume the representation of Australia in 1 China which had been interrupted 1 with the movement of the Chinese 1 capital from the mainland." P Trade Department circles are 1 concerned - because they fear the I . Chinese government might retaliate S against this considered insult to I them. ' | China is buying from Australia I about 40% of our wheat crop, and ' is our fourth biggest trade ' cus- i tomer. 1 It is clear that the extreme right wing fringe of the Liberal partv $ who plugged for the decision to ap- point ah ambassador to Taipeh are 1 ' now exercising much greater ores- 1 sure on the Government that "thev H could get away with when Menzies i was about. || And us too | by God! : I "|HE best comment after |i the inquest on the fatal I shooting in West Australia of Kg James Ronald McGuinness by ffl a policeman was made in a j letter from a reader of the 9 "West Australian" quoting i| the Duke of Wellington aftef H reviewing his troops: O "I don't know if they will fc frighten the enemy, but by God M they frighten me." ||H The coroner on May 26 found S8 . that while there had been lack of II care, or negligence by Det.-Sgt. IS Goodman, he did not intend to if fire the fatal shot and the pistol 11 had been discharged accidentally, 141 in the broadest sense of the word. ijiim The best outcome of the case so far has been that Police Minister J|4 Craig has suggested a new direc- tion to the police on the use of fire- " arms- 