 S. Africa ' heading for catastronhe ' sans Resha gYDNEY : "South Africa is heading for catastrophe," Mr. Robert Resha, Director of International Affairs of the African National Congress of South Africa, declared at a dinner in his honour at Sydney University last Saturday night. The dinner, sponsored by the Australian Committee of the South African Defence and Aid Fund, was attended by some 200 people from all sections of the community. Supporting speakers were Mr. E. G. Whitlam, Deputy Leader of the Federal Oppos ition, and well-known Metho dist clergyman, Rev. Alan Walker. Mr. Resha said he had come to Australia to inform the Australian people of the real situation in South Africa and of the involvement of their Government in that situation. Referring to the recent "elections" in South Africa — in which the Nationalist Gov ernment had been returned with an increased majority — . Mr. Resha said there had been elections for the three million whites only. The fourteen non-whites had only been "spectators", he said. Africans and Coloured, Mr. Resha claimed, were in the category of "non-people". The country's vicious Pass Laws, he added, meant that non-whites "had no name," only their registration numbers. Without a pass in his pos session, a non-white could not obtain employment, accom modation or education. He could not travel from area to arep, without a pass, or "be married or be buried." To South Afriba's leaders, any opposition to Apartheid was automatically Communism, Mr. Resha said. Non-raciaf The African people, Mr. Resha emphasised, would not sit still and accept suppres sion. But this did not mean that they intended to "drive the whites into the sea". It had to be recognised, he said, that 75 per cent of the white people were in fact South Africans. The aim of the A.N.C. was to create a non-racial society in which South Africa would "belong to all those who live in it, black and white". All he asked of Australia, said Mr. Resha, was to "dis engage itself in South Africa" — to observe the United Nations resolution calling for economic sanctions against South Africa, cease trading with South Africa, and render all possible assistance to the victims of apartheid. The Western powers, he said, were heavily involved in South Africa by trade, invest ments, and the supply of arms. If this, activity ceased, then the "princely living standards" of the whites would be affected and they might come to see the futility of Apartheid. Describing South Africa as "apart from the gas ovens, as bad as Nazi Germany," Mr. Whitlam defended the Defence and Aid Fund against the "Communist smear" attacks launched on it. He criticised the Federal Government for iits failure to send "even a First Secretary" from its Rio de Janiero Em bassy to the recent U.N. Sem inar on Apartheid in Brasilia, at which Mr. Resha had been "one of the experts" invited to speak. Mr. Walker warned of the dangers of 'incipient racialism' overtaking Australia, as in stanced in the opposition to Mr. E. St. John's nomination as a Liberal candidate for the forthcoming Federal elections. 