 Greek workers on trial BOUT 128 Greek workers and trade union leaders are on trial as part of a drive by the present right-wing regime of General Kourouklis to im pose fascism on the Greek people. News of the "trial", which oegan late last month in Athens, has been sent to Australia by Tony Ambatie los who was released from .jail in 1964 after 164 years' imprisonment. Tony Ambatielos, formerly general secretary of the Fed eration of Greek Maritime Un ions, was a leader of the anti- nazi resistance movement in World War II. Imprisoned for opposing the police state regime after the war, he was released fol lowing world protests and the downfall of the Karamanlis Government. An?nS' those now facing jail mciude officials of the Greek fhArkers Federation and Athens Reporters' Union. charLL of. the reused are charged with "participation in an uprising" or "provoking an uprising." Tony Ambatielos reports that every night from July 15, 1965 when Premier Papandreou was forced out of office, until October, Athens was the scene of mass meetings of hundreds of thousands of democrats protesting against the virtual seizure of power by pro-fascist forces. The Pressworkers Federa-, tion held a public meeting in an Athens theatre on August 20 last year. The meeting was without in cident but fascist agents burn ed newspapers on the street and set a car on fire. Police seized 200 people, many of whom were ordinary passers-by. The right-wing press carried headlines: "Athens in Flatties"— "Police Surrounded" — "Barricades Er ected." The leadership of the Press- workers Federation were seiz ed even though they were no where near the incidents. Leading fascist spokesmen, in answer to the almost un iversal demand for elections are proclaiming that Parlia ment may be closed but elec tions will not be held. Tony Ambatielos said there is an "incredible determina tion" by workers and demo crats to bar the road to fascist dictatorship. During January alone, over 105,000 workers took part in strikes calling for free elec tions and higher wages. Democrats throughout the world are asked to pro. test against the attacks on Greek trade unionists and others persecuted. 