 Blows by the Rightwing I , By a Political Correspondent I 'J1HE recent New South Wales I Conference of the Aus- I tralian Labor Party revealed a 1 determination by the right-wing H forces controlling the NSW H machine to harden their per il sistent challenge to the nat- 1 ional policies and leadership H of the party. -v || t The official group dominat- 11 ing the conference delivered a if series of blows; at the efforts If already carried' out at the m- Federal level to unify the party || in preparation for a serious m campaign to topple the weak- j® ened Holt Government at this H year's Federal election, if The keynote report of State J| president C. Oliver, as well as ft speech of deputy Federal M E. G. Whitlam (who is M »acked by the NSW officials), II Save no support whatever to |1 idea of gearing up for a ®| determined campaign to win the 1 flection. Whitlam made it clear m > for his money, the elec- Hg "n was already lost. III was significant, therefore, III that although the official pol- iff cies carried the day on the @ basis of voting numbers which & were roughly similar to . last ||| year's the indifferent response m of delegates to . Whitlam's mi ®Peech, in contrast to the stand- if o S, 0vation for Federal leader f yaJwell and his fighting speech, If lndicated that the body of the 4 f0nference were looking for a '1 |1 .. 11,116 Right wing threw down if gauntlet to the . Federal H leadership particularly on for- fgg aiS'n Policy (repeatedly declared III y Mr. Calwell and other Fed- Nations intervention, not only into the Vietnam war itself even in a proposal for a UN takeover of British military bases in Singapore as the British phase out. This proposal, which 'will certainly be met with wide hostility i,h Asia, is a reflect- tion of the policy of one country only— the United States, which has repeatedly used the ' UN flag in neo-colonial takeover efforts. The controllers of the con ference showed their hand on the education issue by circul ating the Whitlam "minority report" which recently found so much favor in the daily press as an instrument of attack ; against the policy prop osals of the ALP national education advisory committee. (These were endorsed by the Federal Executive, as a basis of discussion at the forthcom ing July special conference on education, in Brisbane). Further, the NSW leaders ex tended the attack on the Fed eral policy by introducing their own education committee's re port, which substantially agreed with the Whitlam group's views Savoring removal of restrictions on use of public funds to subsidise private en terprise in the field of school- ing. As President Oliver said; "State aid is here td stay". The NSW leaders are well aware that this distorted and over-simplified presentation of the public education problem has been repeatedly rejected by (Continued on Page 12) eral leaders as the key issue of this election year) and on the controversial "public edu cation issue, the favorite anti- labor political football of the daily press. Mr. Oliver's presidential ad dress set tlie tone of bucking the Federal leadership in these issues. On foreign policy, his main aim was to proclaim the impor tance of a military alliance with the United States. For this pur pose, he. quoted ALP policies from the early days of the wr against Japan. What Mr; Oliver did riot do was quote from Labor . Government policies in the late-war and early post-war period, when a more cautions attitude to US policy came into being, as clearly shown by the refusal -to allow use of Manus island as a US military base after the war. Vietnam Both Mr. Oliver's speech and the report of the committee on foreign and defence policy (which was adopted as con ference policy) carefully avoided any emphasis on the main question of our time- opposition to the Vietnam war and termination of Australia's involvement there. The official policy went out of its way to condemn such union and rank and file action as the Boonaroo seamen's res istance to the Government's conscription of civilian workers into the war. Even more significant was the raising of the banner of United ALP RiVSEW (Continued from Page 11) majority national opinion in the ALP , By thus serving notice of headlong opposition to Federal policy, they have deliberately created a divisive situation in the. labor movement at a time when its unity and mass action are urgently needed .on vital issues. In the ballot for the new executive, the rightwing again demonstrated their determin ation to free their, hands for reactionary policy lines by sponsoring a ticket loaded to the extreme.., right. This was best illustrated by the dropping of well-known metal trades' union leader J. Hefferman and in the replacement of Dr. L. Ross, Australian Railways Union (who resigned) with ARU delegate Bailey whose views are known to run close to those of Santamaria's National Civic Council. Overall, uerhans it was the rightwing's very pattern of re fusal to compromise through out the conference that laid the basis for the noticeable growth of determinatior , by the forces of the left, to regard the conference as the starting point of a more vigorous fight around the progressive major Federal policies at present be ing subverted by the NSW leaders. 