 inran irai mm m hh ngiHflw in mm m pn ills I i, V"JnoT9 'J I A I Elliill UUWilMMMMh lliiiiUUUiiiiiillllllliiiiiilllI iiiiiiiiiiilllliiiilllliiifliiii lb Dim A silent cheer from the ladies jZEMALE members of Can berra's Press Gallery gave a silent cheer last Thursday when the Ladies toilet was taken off the secret list. ' Their closest means of hand-washing had been nailed up during the SEATO conference — 'it was in a forbidden area. When the 70 servicemen retreated from Parliament House last Thurs day they took with them the only real secret of the SEATO confer ence. They had guarded on behalf of Australian Security police certain forbidden areas. Anybody walking along the bottom corridor would see a young serviceman sitting on a stool with absolutely nothing to do. As it wasn't a forbidden area he challenged nobody and lived in complete harmony with all who passed by. This was in contrast to some of his colleagues who challenged M.Ps and Cabinet Ministers. He readily confessed he didn't - know why he was there or what he was supposed to do. The Labor opposition on Friday moved back to their caucus room. It had been taken over for a typ ing pool for the SEATO secretariat. It was a bit of a twist for as Mr. Calwell recently explained a Labor Government would scrap the mil itary aspect of SEATO and con centrate on the economic and cul tural relations between SEATO nations. People, war — and Rusk TET'S face it, big brother is watching over us all the time. However you look at it you can't get away from the fact that Michael Charlton's film "Vietnam, People and War" was not shown while the SEATO Conference was being held in Australia. Following widespread protests the Government cleared it for screening over the ABC last night (Tuesday). In a begruding statement- clear ing the film Minister for External Affairs 'Mr. Paul Hasluck said:— "Although in my opinion the film, gives an incomplete and at times unbalanced picture of events and issues in Vietnam the public is well able to judge these things for itself." Well if the people can judge these things, why hold it up. It was held up because one of the American Government's leading warhawks, Dean Rusk, was here trying to whip up more cannon fodder for the Vietnam war and he may have been offended. It's no secret FTER three weeks of secret negotiations, deadlocked talks between a delegation from Nauru Island and representatives of the Australian Government have been adjourned till October or Novem- ber. \ The talks dealt with the future of the phosphate, the long-term security of the Nauruan people, the long-term trust funds set up with much of the royalties from the phosphate, the rehabilitation of Nauru and the capital assets of the British Phosphate Commission. Pressmen who rang the Territo ries Department were unable to find out where the talks were be ing held. Chief Hammer De Roburt, open ing a press conference at the Can berra Rex last Saturday said:— "I can only answer our side. I can't indicate what the Australian Government's point of view is." It's now known that the reason for this was because a prepared press statement giving both points of view was banned by the Terri tories Department. This expresses the general atti tude of the Department to the dele gation at the talks. It's been reveal ed that the Australian side first put a spoke in the wheel by meet- pig with the Nauruans only for about an hour or two a day for the first two weeks of the confer ence. They speeded things up in the last week, but put their thumbs down to their requests. Chief de Hammer said their dele gation want their island rehabilitat ed1 so they can still live there. To cap it all when the Chief was asked by the press whether Aus tralia wanted Nauru's phosphate, he replied "That's no secret." The comedian TT must be an American way of life. Addressing the National Press Club last Friday US .Secre tary of State Dean Rusk, told this story:— He was flying to address a uni versity audience when a message was received from the aerodrome control tower— there was a crowd of 1000 to meet him. Find out what's written on their banners, wired back Dean. As he told the Press Club, "when 1000 meet me anywhere they always carry banners." 1 Back came the reply: There's m only 50, so come on in, the natives i are friendly. m 