 [?] QYDNEY trade union leaders have protested to the Feder al Attorney General, Mr. B. Snedden, against a 6.666 per cent increase in price of court transcripts -with the decimal change-over. The increases will mean an additional cost to unions of 3.5d per page of Conciliation and Arbitration Court proceedings. It was only recently that the cost of transcripts were increas ed from 7d to 9d for a folio con- HO oioumg ujl (4 wujLua. jLXiexc art?- approximately six folios to a .page. By charging 8c per folio the Management Services of the AG's Department is violating the Decimal Currency Board's own policy. ? gTEELWORKERS at the BIIP in Newcastle point out that the company, without recourse to arbitration tribunals, increas ed the , price of steel between 1955 and 1964 by 45.86 per cent Even with last year's super profits of $39 million (£194 mil lion) the workers' claim for a $10 (£5) a week industry allow ance is still refused. ? npHE latest gimmicks on the go are the Go-Go this and Go-Qo that. We even have Go-> Go girls wearing Go-Go dresses. A mate of ours reckons every thing is Go-Go except wages. THIS IS WHEN YOU GET THE DOUBLE RED LIGHTS! ? pOUR workers representing the Vigilance Committee at Garden Island Dockyard last vvpplr tnlrl Mr Matthpws wTiv NSW Parliamentarians should not get big salary increases, while workers have to cope with high prices on low wages. Mr. Matthews (a retired Queensland judge conducting the inquiry) denied any truth in press reports that he was con sidering a 47 per cent increase in their salaries. The impression given was that increases would be grant ed on the basis of a comparison with business executives' sal aries and not the Arbitration Court methods used for work ers' wages. If this is so, State MPs might even do better than a 47 per cent increase! ? A STORY in the press last week told of two a.w.l. American servicemen who have been "living it up" for the last two months in Saigon. One of the men, a corporal, told a "New York Times" in terviewer that he heard one bar girl say, "I hope all Americans get killed here. "After I beat her up, I left the bar and decided right then I wasn't going to give my life for these people," he said. 