 "I can't obey these laws" says Fischer PRETORIA (South Africa): A searing indictment of apartheid in South Africa and eloquent defence of his own actions as a Communist ware made here last week in court by Abram Fischer QC, who faces possible death sentence. Mr. Fischer, eminent Johannesburg lawyer, is on trial on 15 counts,- including membership of the banned South African Communist Party and con spiracy to commit sabotage. He has pleaded not guilty to all the charges. He told the court that he accepted the general rule that laws were for the pro tection of society. But in his opinion one was com pelled to transgress such laws if they became oppres- ive. "My conscience does not permit me to obey laws' which are wholly unrepre sentative of three-quarters of the population," declared 57 -year-old Mr. Fischer, who in the past has de fended Nelson Mandela and many other leaders of the liberation movement. (The whites, the only people with a vote in South Africa, make up about a fifth of the population.) Three suicides The conditions under which he had been detained for the past four and a half months amounted in some ways to solitary confinement Mr. Fischer told the court, describing the inhuman con ditions which, he said, has resulted in the suicides of three people. Apart from a brief visit from his children and lawyer, he had to kill 23 hours each day. If the work he had done could help to build a better South Africa, "I will be able to bear with fortitude the sentence which the court will impose," Mr. Fischer said. Mr. Fischer's counsel, Mr. Sidney Kentridge, opening the defence case, had stated that he would not call any witnesses, but that Mr. Fischer would make a state ment. Mr. Fischer said he did not fear cross-examination but had decided not to enter the witness box as cross-examination would in volve others;, among them his friends, and this he was not willing to do. He was on trial for his political beliefs and the conduct to which those be liefs drove him, he said. He had engaged in his activities because of the dangerous conditions in South Africa, and because he felt it was his duty to do something about them. The glaring injustices in South African society had inspired him in work for the Communist Party, which stood for extension, of the franchise, the ob jective for which he had worked for 30 years. He believed that South Africa's problems could only be settled by a Marxist solution. "The vast majority of white South Africans seem to believe that the non- . white is an inferior being 1 and shouldi not be treated as a complete human being. This attitude is unreal. Colour prejudice is a wholly irrational phenomenon," he declared. "Little discontent" Mr. J. H. Ljebenberg, the prosecutor, immediately attacked Mr. Fischer's one- hour statement as a "polit ical speech" directed beyond the court "because he knows this is his last opportunity to have a go at the Gov ernment and to propound his views." The prosecutor claimed that there is "very little dis content among the masses," and what therte was had been caused by subversive movements like the Com munist Party. "With the arrests of their leaders, there is peace ana quiet in this country," he claimed. 