 No conscripts, say WA RSI branches pERTH: Three WA sub- branches of the RSL will oppose the use of con scripts overseas when the league holds its anual state congress in Perth next month. Two are Katanning and Koorda— country sub-branches —and Belmont— a suburban branch, which asks congress to oppose the policy of conscript ing national servicemen to com bat areas, particularly under the ballot system, because Aus tralia has not declared war. Pingelly Shire Council at an earlier meeting this year decid ed to protest to Federal Parlia mentary representatives at the method of selection. One coun cillor referred to the system as "unfair, unjust and undemo cratic". Public support continues to grow for the four university students arrested with urn precedented police brutality on Saturday, June 11, during an anti-war demonstration in For rest Place on Saturday, June 11. One .of them, Les. Heinrich, read a courageous testament of his views against conscription for such an immoral war as the Vietnam struggle, in which the security of Australia was in no way threatened. He was speaking at a subur ban meeting in Palmyra con vened by the Vietnam Action Committee. Speakers J. Holmgren and P. Burnett put forward av careful ly documented and reasoned case shattering the arguments for participation. Mr. Holmgren quoted a news item from the "Kalgoorlie Min er" (owned by the "West Aus tralian") stating that the area in which Australian troops were now fighting had been held for 19 years by the so-called Viet Cong. He recalled that after the end I of World War 2 . in 1945, the French occupiers of Vietnam rearmed Japanese troops to overcome the Vietnamese guer illas who had played an im portant part against the Japan ese invaders. They also brought in Foreign Legion troops— mainly Germans of Nazi sym pathy who found a haven in the legion. I The V.A.C. called for the most f wide-spread discussion of the I issues of the war in home E gatherings which would be ad- | dressed by V.A.C. speakers. | 