 BASIS NOW EXISTS TO DEFEAT HOLT GOVT. By a Political Correspondent I AST week 9 meeting of the Fedeitl Parlia mentary Labor Party in creased the possibility of the defeat of the Holt Government this year. The basis for that defeat already exists in mass op position to the Government's unpopular Vietnam war policy, to conscription, and to its neglect of major economic and social issues '—including the cost of living, effects of drought, the public education crisis and increasing foreign monopoly encroachments. But to translate the. possi bility into certainty will depend above all on the development of a vigorous fighting unity of all the forces of the working class and other sections opposed to the Government's policies. It will require the isolation of those anti-Labor interests and - extreme right-wingers in side the Labor Movement who will continue their efforts to push ALP policy to the right. Press setback Last Wednesday's Caucus vote, which confirmed the existing leaders in office until the Federal election, was a big setback to sections of the daily press, representing wealthy interests, Australian and overseas. Their bitter campaign, : tak ing the form of an attack on Mr. A; Calwell, has in 1 reality been aimed at spragging the last 12 months' trend in ALP foreign policy, especially its increasing opposition to this ' aggressive United States war of intervention into Vietnam. The outstanding significance of last week's meeting is that it affirms the existing policy with particular reference to' opposition to the. Vietnam war and conscription for that war. If the broad forces of the labor movement, firstly the rank and file of. the trade union movement, and the many other sections critical of Holt's policies, can be united in action in coming pnonths, then the Holt Govern ment will go. Right rebuffed The vote was also a heavy blow at the main centre of right-wing scheming in the ALP — some leaders of the NSW branch. Some sections of the press last week revealed that the NSW leaders had issued what amounted to a directive to NSW Members of Parliament as to how they should vote in the crucial Caucus meeting. This was a letter quoting a resolution by the NSW Central Executive t'Pthe party. It is understood that the resolution pressed Caucus members to support Senator A. Mulvihill's motion for a spill of the leadership posi tions, so that a secret ballot could be taken for a new leader. This was, in fact, the plan of the pro-Whitlam forces. However, when Senator Mulvihill (former ALP assist ant secretary in NSW) moved his motion in Caucus, with Mr. L. J. Reynolds, MHR, as seconder, and the lively debate was completed, the matter was settled by direct vote, 49- 24, against any interference with the existing leadership. It was estimated that no fewer than 11 NSW members ignored the NSW officers' letter. , . . .The ; qlear-cut - Caucus -vote - amounted , to. a directive;:; that the personality clashes of the recent period should be put in the deep freeze until after the election, due by next December. While certain press and TV commentators, undaunted by the result, are already priming the pro-Whitlam campaign for the post-election period, it can be said now that Whitlam has lost a lot of prestige among ALP members in recent weeks and would be hard put to win the leadership even if and when it were vacated by Calwell. At the same time, the Labor Movement as a whole must be vigilant in two directions. . The Holt Government, whose stocks have been sinking steadily as the brutal and senseless character of the American war becomes more widely recognised and as the people of South Viet nam cities rebel against the Ky regime, has no alternative but to find some political diversion in coming months. The Menzies Government, in all election campaigns after 1949, used variations on the theme of the anti-Communist scare campaign for election eering purposes. In the present situation Holt will be unable to resist the tempta- tion. inside ALP In the coming months there is real danger of a major provocation by the Holt Government. It . could come in the form of a frame-up of one or more opponents of the Vietnam war policy, possibly using the political sections of ' the Crimes Act. The second danger lies in the fact that the right-wing inside the ALP will certainly continue their struggle to sabotage and water down the progressive policies of the party, particularly relating to foreign policy. These include: Opposition to the con scription of Australians for service" overseas. : J r /, . ; Opposition; to the involves mepL.of any Australian combat troops in the Vietnam war. The conclusion of pacts of a peaceful character between Australia and the various countries of South-East Asia. The ALP opposition to con scription for overseas service has been strengthened by the publication on March 12 of a Gallup Poll showing that 57 per cent, of Australians sur veyed said that national ser vicemen should stay in Aus tralia (these included 65 per cent, of ALP voters and 61 per cent, of DLP voters). December figures had been 52 per cent. Interviewed last week-end on TV Channel 2's Four Corners, Labor leader A. Cal well again declared that the Vietnam war was a "senseless, useless" war. He stated that a Labor Gov ernment would work to reverse the present Govern ment's policy of military in tervention; that it would seek to "disengage" the forces, both Australian and American; and that he envisaged that Australian troops could be brought out of Vietnam in six to nine months. This statement does consti tute a challenge to the policy of the Holt Government and, to some extent, of the US Government. However, it also represents a watering down of an earlier statement, reported as made by Calwell in Tasmania on April 13, that a Labor Government would immediately bring all con scripts home from overseas. The change has evidently resulted from pressure on Calwell inside the party. Such pressure undoubtedly would come from the Right, using the fact that ALP foreign policy continues to rely on the American alliance as one of its bases. China trade Thus a serious policy con tradiction lies in the back- ? grbund, on attitude to US war policy. Right-wing forces can be expected to make the most of this. Another contradiction lies in the matter of the Australian trade, both with China and with North Vietnam. In inter views last Wednesday, both Mr. Calwell and Mr. Whitlam stated that a Labor Govern ment would sell wheat to China. Mr. Whitlam was quoted (Sydney Morning Herald, 28/4/66) as accusing the Holt Government of hypocrisy because it was "accusing China of -being an aggressor, but' is selling it strategic materials." The implication is that the ALP leaders do not regard China as an aggressor, and it would clear the whole matter up if they said so plainly. But over several weeks, the use of this issue by ALP spokesmen as a debating point against Holt has been so handled as to create confusion because they have tended to put in question the matter of trade, rather than the war policy itself. Helps Holt This confusion was again extended in the same inter view when the two leaders said a Labor Government would not sell tallow to North Vietnam (a trade arrangement only recently discontinued by the Holt Government), on the ground of its possible military use. The implication of such an undertaking was that some how North Vietnam is a threat to Australia, an untrue sug- gestion which can only lend support to the Holt Govern ment's policy. Such pointers to the politi cal struggle continuing inside the ALP are cues to the whole rank and file of the Labor Movement. The battle of opposing class interests and policies is being reflected, as always, inside the ALP, and all those who believe Australia should not be in the Vietnam war are vitally concerned with the course that is followed. There can be no substitute for unconditional opposition to Australian military involve- fnent in Vietnam, with con scription as the most imme-i'- diate target; and for positive policies of trade and other exchanges with all countries i of S.-E. Asia. ' It is oniy a consistent and clear-cut stand that can rally sufficient forces and enthu siasm for the considerable task of defeating the Govern ment and, even more impor tant, reversing the main aspects of its pro-monopoly foreign -and. .economic jpolicies. Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Calwell) arrives at Australia Hail, Adelaide, where he spoke to an audience of 1,000 inside and other 1,000 outside, denouncing conscription for Vietnam. 