 |£A TOWN\ \ PLANNING I BILL | I I ADELAIDE: A hew Bill introduced by the State Labor Govern ment could provide South Australia with its first real chance to introduce an element of planning into its town and region devel opment. The concept of the Bill — known as the Planning and Development Bill— is progres sive and needs to be fought for. The very nature of capitalism is such that the idea of develop ment and planning is anything which serves the interests of profit making. Under this soci ety towns and regions merely ' grow. This applies even to cities with a good start like Colonel , Light's Adelaide. Already the Liberals are snip ing at the Bill. Opposition lead er (Sir Thomas Playford) said that the zoning regulations ' could harm the confidence of manufacturers. Regions, towns The Bill seeks to establish a State Planning Authority to promote and coordinate the planning of regions and towns. A Director of Planning would be chairman of the Authority which would consist of the Director of the Engineering and Water Supply Department, Com mission of Highways and Sur veyor General. The Governor would appoint five others representing the SA Housing Trust, City of Adelaide, Muni cipal Association of SA, Local Government of SA Inc. and a joint representative of the SA Chamber of Manufacturers and the Adelaide Chamber of Com merce. A rather serious omission is representation from trade un ions, amongst the most import ant ' organisations in the coun try. On recommendation of the Authority, the Governor may proclaim any part of the State to be a planning area. The Authority examines such a planning area and assesses future development. It then prepares a plan in consultation with every council and author ity, responsible for the provi sion of public services in the area. A copy of the development plan must be supplied to Coun cils concerned' and made avail able for public inspection. Main items The Authority or appropriate councils can recommend the making of regulations giving effect to the plan's objective. Main items for which the regulations could be made are: Zoning and reservation of land for future acquisition by public authorities (Compensa tion for any looses applicable here). Control and development along main highways. Preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historical or scientific interest. Preservation of trees. Control of advertisement hoardings. Improvement in appear ance of ruinous or dilapidated buildings or land. Provision of adequate space for car parking and the loading and unloading of vehicles where . new constructions occur. Facilitating the re-develop ment of sub-standard areas. Printed and published by D. B. Young, 168 Day Street, Sydney, at 21 Ross Street, Forest Lodge. 