 RED SQUARE TURNS IT ON From Rupert Lockwood MOSCOW: The Soviet Un- ion entered the 50th year of its history as the first socialist state with a great demonstration on the Red Square last Monday, 49th anniversary of the Oc tober revolution of 1917. Representatives of the first socialist family of peoples could surge into the square the more joyfully because of an' all-time record harvest, steadily rising wages, housing and cultural standards and advancing industrial techni ques. Some of the latest anti missile missiles shown in the military parade were tube- encased. These are designed to destroy enemy missiles "notwithstanding weather and radio interference." The military part of the parade ended with giant orbit al missiles of unlimited range and then nearly a million Moscow citizens marched by, danced or performed gym nastics in subzero tempera tures. Peaceful CPSU General Secretary, Leonid Brezhnev, told the Kremlin reception which fol- | lowed the march: "We have f all grounds to say that, the g international "position of our M country is strong. The peace- | ful policy of the Soviet Un- p ion, constant concern for ; cohesion and might of the h socialist community, invari- || able support for the liberation I movements of the peoples I have raised high the interna- I tional prestige of our coun- | try." 1 Defence Minister Rodion 1 Malinovsky said on the Red 1 Square that "In conditions of I aggravated international ten sion the CPSU is showing tireless concern for the fur ther raising of the defence potential of the Soviet Union," and everything for "the fur ther strengthening of the bro therhood of Warsaw Treaty armed forces" in repeating the pledge of all-round aid to Vietnam. Marshal Malinovsky ex pressed regret at the position of the Chinese leaders "who are coming out against unity of action of socialist countries in supporting the Vietnamese people. This hampers cohesion of all progressive forces of the world for beating back the American aggression in Vietnam and encourages Un ited States imperialism to new crimes." Walk'Ouf Chinese diplomatic repres entatives in Moscow marked the dawn of 50 years of social ism by walking out from two main anniversary ceremonies —in the Red Square and in the Kremlin Palace of Con gress—because of restrained | criticism of Chinese failure to | f join in socialist action to save Vietnam from its pre sent horrors. In the Kremlin Palace Arvid Pelshe, Political Bureau mem ber of the Communist Party, stressed that "assistance ne cessary to repulse United States aggression" would be rendered to Vietnam and dis missed as worthless American declarations about readiness to improve relations with the USSR while the US extended aggression. "Actions splitting the ranks of fighters against imperial ism are a great service to the common enemy— imperial ism, world reaction," said Pelshe. "The heavy responsi- j bility for these actions rests entirely with the Chinese leadership." 