 The big Sydney March last Sunday organised by the Vietnam Protest Committee. It was held on the 21st commemoration of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima. (Story page 3,) WE CAN'T PUSH ASIA ROUND NOW SAYS WRITER JYDNEY : The era when the west was able to coerce Asia had come to an end, author Allan Ashbolt said at Sydney's Hiro shima Day rally at the Sydney stadium attended by about 2,000 people last Sunday. Hundreds of those present had marched from suburban starting points and through the city to the raily. Marches, rallies and other anti-war demonstrations were held in Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Fremantle, Newcastle and other cities. They were part of a world wide commemoration of the deaths of those killed by the American atom bomb on Hiro shima in 1945. Ceremonies were held in Hiroshima itself, in New York, Chicago, San Francisco and elsewhere. Mr. Ashbolt said that in a sense Hiroshima stood for all those killed in barbaric : and brutalising wars. Violence He warned that the west was "establishing another era of violence" and added: "For years we have been able to coerce Asia. This era has come to an end and the world is faced with the spectacle of the most awe some state in the world trying to obliterate a peasant people. "We are here to try to redress the balance, to re-form the dig nity of man and return to the idea that human life was made to be preserved, fostered and encouraged to grow in know ledge and wisdom". Condemning a stock argu ment for Australian's Vietnam involvement, Western Austra lian ALP Senator John Wheel- don said "If the ANZUS and SEATO treaties mean anything at all they mean that if Aus tralia needs help, America will give it. "Whatever the treaties may say, the US would assist us only if it was in their interest. Otherwise they will not help whether or not we have 4500 troops in Vietnam". He hoped there were no be lievers in the "domino" theory in . Peking. They might decide that if a so-called Communist victory in Vietnam threatened Australia, a US victory there might similarly threaten China. Disastrous Writer George Johnston, auth or of the novel, "My Brother Jack", now a current TV serial, said it was the "bounden duty" of every decent Australian to make the Pacific Ocean in truth pacific "and the world a world of peace where all the people can get on with living and not with dying." US policy towards China, where he had spent many years as a reporter, had been dis astrous, he said. Mr. McNamara, president of the NSW Builders' Laborers' Federation, said the Vietnam war was a monster pregnant with the possibility of a third, atomic war. He believed the coming elec tion campaign offered a great chance to end "our tragic parti cipation in this war" and wel comed the decision of the Inter national Co-operation and Dis armament Association to enter into it. Women wearing the Save Our Sons sashes headed the march to the stadium. Other women's organisations, peace organisations, youth and stud ent associations and unions (including the boilermakers, sheet metal workers and build ing workers) were prominent. Mrs. P. Hopwood's appeal raised over $1300 at the stadium rally, where Gary Shearston won a tumultous encore with anti-war songs. In Newcastle a march of 300 ended with a Civic Park Rally. Melbourne's rally of several thousand heard a strong plea from Opposition Leader A. A. Calwell for peaceful co-exist ence of nations. Brisbane peacelovers held a cenotaph ceremony, while at Perth two young men burned draft cards before a cheering crowd. FOLK SINGER SHEARSTON Encore for peace AUTHOR JOHNSTON In truth pacific 