 Cooperation Art Award soon Art Affairs With NOEL COUN1HAN WITHIN the next month the winner of the first Inter national Cooperation Art Award will be announced. Inaugural judges (are Queens- land Art Gallery director Laurie Thomas and artists Lloyd Rees and John Renshaw. This important «award, to be given annually, was established by decision of the Artists' Conference of the Sydney Peace Congress In 1964. Its initial purpose was to endorse the United Nations Inter national Cooperation year, 1965. It will honor the artist, painter or sculptor, considered by sel„ ected judges to have made an outstanding contribution to Aus tralian art. Embodying the award will . be a medallion designed by Austra lian sculptor Paul Beadle, at pres ent in New Zealand, 9 &lt; THIS column would like to give a gratuitous plug to that splendid series, The Masters, described with some justice by its publishers, Knowledge Publications, as the world's most complete gallery of painting". Art teachers in particular should be interested in this library, which at 95 cents a copy provides ast onishing value. Each issue is devoted to a single great painter and contains at . least a dozen colour repro ductions ranging from nine by ten inches in size to doubly page spreads. An Anglo-Italian venture, mod elled on the Italian folio style, made without stapling to enable the double page reproductions to be flattened out effectively, and edited by Sir John Rothenstein, they are made possible I should think only by the large scale editions and the use of existing blocks in many cases. The text is informative if not exhaustive or profound. The general level of colour re production is good, although in evitably uneven because of the large scale printing, and at its best in the larger reproductions which are very fine. At 52 artists per year it is ob vious that within a couple of years one could possess a remark able gallery of the finest art, At time of writing issues which have appeared feature separately Goya, Vermeer, Canaletto, Bott icelli, Hals, Blake and Poussin. IN brief reply to critics of my support for the statement of the Central Committee of the Australian Communist Party concerning the Soviet Writers' Trial, and especially to those upset by my use of the term "closed trial", I can only say that any trial to which the international Com munist as well as capitalist press is denied access and to which only "invited" mem bers of the Soviet public are admitted is in my opinion a closed trial. The charges bore an uncomfort able similarity to those in earlier trials, in the Stalin era, which in the name of the security of the Soviet state perpetrated gross injustices and whose victims had later to be rehabilitated, in some cases, sadly enough, posthumously. We, in our ignorance , at the time and in defence of the world's first proletarian state defended those trials. Writers were especially victims of these malpractices. I feel that the international protests by British, French, Ital ian, Swedish, Finnish, Austrian and Australian Communist Part ies, the comments by such out standing communist intellectuals as Louis Aragon of France that to deprive men of their liberty for the contents of a novel or a story is to make a difference of opinion a crime, as well as the disquiet among the Soviet public expressed in the request by a score of leading scientists and other public personalities that Stalin be riot re-established, will have been acknowledged for Soviet authorities and that Dan iel and Sinyavsky will be released before too long. Concerning my reference to "censorship mentality" in official Soviet circles; I have never yet seen in the magazine The Artist, published by the Artists Union, one reproduction of work by the controversial sculptor Niezvestny praised by Marxist Ernst Fischer i.n his tonic Marxist book 'The Necessity of Art'! and regarded by many as the equal of Henry , Moore and Giacometti, Jugoslav critics called Niezvestny "The Michelangelo ' of the twentieth century." Why? 