 Women protest over cleaning contracts YDNEY: The school cleaning dispute flared up again last week when about 120 women picketed two new high schools in Sydney in protest against the employment of contract cleaners. &lt; Cleaners from 11 public schools went on strike for hours and with t protest banners picketed the new Bankstown Boys' High School. About 60 women from the Rundwick area also demon strated outside the new Rand- wick Girls' High School. Early last February the Mis cellaneous Workers' Union threatened a 24-hour State wide stoppage of public school cleaners and caretakers against the Public Service Board giving cleaning contracts to "a private company. The strike was .called off pending a court hearing of the dispute. At the time over 2000 cleaners at a mass meeting in the Syd ney Town Hall condemned the action of the PSB "as an at tempt to lower wages and conditions." Large protest demonstrations were also held in Newcastle and Wollongong. Following these demonstra tions contracts were withdrawn in the Newcastle and Wollon gong areas, but the Board has refused to withdraw 15 con tracts in the Sydney metropoli tan area. The union says that' contract cleaning would worsen wages and conditions by: Reducing annual leave from four weeks to three weeks. Reducing sick leave from two weeks to one week. Abolishing increment ser vice allowances which vary from 4/- to 12/- a week. Extending working hours from 33 to 36 hours for females. Abolishing preferences to women, including those in receipt of State aid, widows and others in needy circum stances. Under the present female school cleaning agreement, widows and other needy people have preference to do this work. Mr. D. Howett, NSW secre tary, MWU, said the contracts have been given to General Contract Cleaning Australasia . Pty. Ltd. | He said the union has pre sented evidence to the Board , that this company is breaching the award, ' including wages; breaching the contract by sub contracting, and breaching the Arbitration Act by failing to &lt;2 keep proper time and wages )j sheets.- ;uu; J| Mr.- Howett said the State J| Premier, Mr. Askin, has been M informed of the situation and f|| is asked, to do something abour f".: it. Meanwhile further demon- /y strations and picketing will be I- held, he said. A . mother of two children || with a sick husband picketed i- the Bankstown School last. week p and said: k) : "Why pick on women i. ; cleaners! . / "If the Government wants an p economy drive, let them start ty- with their own salaries." $| . BS PICTURE shows women picketing outside Bankstown High School. 