 Who seeks Viet peace? IF it did nothing else President de Gaulle's speech in Cambodia on September 1 at least helped to clarify the question as to who really seeks peace in Vietnam. ,r' The French president put forward a peace plan which was at once endorsed by) Cambodia and the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (whom it par ticularly concerned), and favorably received by the world's majority of socialist, neutralist and pro gressive governments and peoples. Understandably so — because if the plan, after thorough discussion, proved acceptable, it would mean the end of this frightful' war and the danger 1 it raises of engulfing the whole world in a total nuclear war. Australia, comparatively close to Vietnam, has already lost some of its best and bravest there. . That it wants peace in Vietnam is the fervent theme of the Holt Government jio less than of the Johnson Administration. -r One would expect then that both these Govern ments would at least look closely at any peace pro posals, particularly, perhaps, those submitted by a major world power still an ally of both the US and Australia. Actually Mr. Holt could not wait 24 hours to get " the text of de Gaulle's speech before rubbishing it in its entirety. US official spokesman Bundy also !r, wiped it cold and, some, days later, the US presi- - dent himself ruled it out. What they mainly object to is President de Gaulle's statement that before negotiations begin, the US forces must undertake to leave Vietnam at a stated time. They don't actually have to leave before the talks begin. They are offered a face-saving oppor tunity to negotiate the time and. manner of their withdrawal. But they will have have to accept that (as was already decided by the Geneva conference) in a neutral and independent south east Asia there would be no room for foreign occupation troops. This is underlined by Johnson's further "con dition" — that he must first be shown a timetable for the withdrawal of "north Vietnamese" , from soiith Vietnam — reflecting the US official myth that the south Vietnamese Liberation forces ("Vietcong") are only northerners in disguise. Nobody appointed the Americans to decide how the Vietnamese arrange themselves in Vietnam or to determine the fate of other countries than their own. To convince the American leadership of this by mobilising support behind the demand of the Asians to'be left in peace must be the most urgent task of Australian democrats. 