 U.S. millionaires in big W A land grab PERTH: United States syndicates, some representing the most powerful finance houses in the world, own or have option over a known seven million acres of West- ern Australia's developed or virgin farm land — an area nearly as big as Belgium. This figure excludes the many millions of acres under iron-ore and bauxite mining and oil-exploration leases and the Nor'West Naval Base. This is causing alarm and anger among primary producers because many young people wanting to take up farming cannot do so through lack of funds. WA's two major producer organisations, the Farmers' Union and the Pastoralists & Graziers' Association, have called on the Federal Government to provide reasonable and long-term capital loans to young farmers. Buying Spree The purchase by the US Linkletter-Chase Manhattan Bank (Rockefeller) syndicate of the 1400 square miles Anna Plains cattle station (140 miles south of Broome) brings their WA land holdings close to 1,500,000 acres. Another US syndicate will arrive in WA in the next few months with . a view to buying up to 1;000,000 acres in the north- north-eastern and eastern wheat belt area. .. ; ; Most of the properties to be viewed are between 5,000 to 30,000 acres, for which syndicate members are pre pared to pay from $8 to $30 an acre. . Like the Linkletter-Chase .holding in the South at Esperance (where Linkletter has a. personal farm and Rockefeller a 15,000 acre one) some land would be farmed by individual syndicate members. The rest would be re-sold. The US-based House of Morgan— the financial giant of the world — through Western Australian Development Corporation, has study rights (to conduct trials of crops and fodder with, the view of upgrading for re-sale) over 4,500,000 acres of undeveloped land south of the Trans- Australian railway. (See footnote for more information on Morgan arid Rockefeller.) Government must act Defence Minister Fairhall has added his voice to those protesting against excessive foreign ownership iof Aus tralian industries. ".Australians would be culpable if they allowed foreign ownership of Australian industry to go too far. Many of the developments on which overseas investors have capitalised are opportunities Australians should have seen", he said in Newcastle this month. It is the Federal Government, of which Mr. Fairhall is a Cabinet Minister, that is culpable. THE GOVERN MENT MUST ACT1 Financiers' Homework Professor R. M. Berndt, Professor of Anthropology at the WA University, was one of two Australians who attended, by invitation, a symposium last week in New York on the development of WA North and the Northern Territory. Among proposals discussed at the symposiuiri were big land development and irrigation schemes, dams and introduction of new breeds of cattle and new crops on highly mechanised stations. "Australia did not have the capital for sufch, projects'" "It was an experimental meeting. Representatives of big finarice groups were doing their homework before investing here. The conference served to bring together American resources for development in Australia rather than in Asia", he said. FOOTNOTE: The House of Morgan, with assets In 1952-53 of 55 billion dollars, is the financial giant of the world. It is the chief financial operator for ,the Commonwealth Govern ment in America, charging heavily for US negotiated loans. Among an impressive list of Australian holdings, Morgan partners duFont in General Motons-Holden and Rockefeller in Mt. Isa and Coca-Cola. It is prominent in Consolidated Zinc Corporation, which Is part of the consortium Conzinc - Rio Tinto and Kaiser Steel operating Hamersley iron-ore deposits. The House of Rockefeller is the heaviest American investor in Australia, dominating the oil market through Standard Oil (Esso). The International Bank, from which Australia hafs borrowed heavily, is headed by a Chase Bank man. Eugene Black. 