 Holt hands LBJ a blank cheque Harold Holt's recital of 19th century poetry on the lawns of the White House won't register as a great cultural event, but the sentiments expressed will certainly go down in political history. When the Prime Minister left Kingsford Smith airport on flight to visit Mr. Johnson in Washington and Mr. Wilson in Britain, he said his mission was just to get to know them better. Yet no sooner had Mr. Holt landed on American - soil than the "getting to know you" theme (a la the music of the King of Siam) was quickly trans formed io the political slogan "all the way with LBJ". . . , Mr. Holt's all the way with LBJ was not just a I cheer chasing politician's phrase; it was a very con sidered statement reflecting the views of the Aus tralian Government and the dominant section of the Australian ruling class. The special correspondent of the Melbourne Herald, E. H. Cox, travelling with the Prime Min ister's party in a despatch to his paper last Saturday wrote — "Mr. nolt in the last 10 days has highlighted the most important to date of the subtle but important shifts in Australia's policy since he succeeded Sir Robert Menzies. "This is a determination to make Australian links of common interest with the US closer than ever, even if in doing so Australian policies become more aligned with Washington than with London. ? CIR Robert Menzies in a recent article warned Great Britain that if she carried out her de clared policy of withdrawing her troops from East of Suez, Australia would move closer to the USA. But the moving closer to the US by the Australian Government is not done as an equal ally, but as a third rate subordinate that carries out the menial tasks of the American President in attempting to pressurise Britain and France to send troops to the bottomless pit of the Vietnam war. All the way with LBJ means that the Australian Government has no option other than supporting the escalation of the war in Vietnam and in the dangerous bombings of Hanoi and Haiphong. It gives a blank cheque to America to bomb the industries, power grids, dams and populated centres in North Vietnam. It is a policy that further isolates us from our neighbours in South East Asia. This makes it certain that Australia has already committed herself for the sending of more troops to South Vietnam, as part of the new US build-up. This explains why Treasurer McMahon last Sat urday told the Young Liberals conference in NSW that he was in favor of a wider call-up of our youth. But perhaps the best spelling out of the meaning, of the slogan was an interview that the Minister for the Army Mr. Frazer gave to a Channel 7 reporter when he returned to Sydney from Vietnam. He said it was natural that Australian casualties should be on the increase because we had doubled our forces there. And that's what "all the way with LBJ" really means. 