 WA Budget turns , down the screws ptKlH: While telling us that WA has never been more prosperous, the Brand Government is tightening the screws on the wage-earner in the Budget put to Parliament last week. Amending legislation will be introduced to abolish quarterly adjustments of the basic wage but despite the widespread demand for price control, there is no move to curb prices. As Opposition Leader Ton kin said, "the people are to be subjected to reduced stan dard . of living, costs and charges will rise without check and wages will be pegged." Cost of dying Even the cost of dying will increase greatly with steeper probate duties. A 50 per cent rise in hos pital charges and heavy in creases in bus fares will hit the people who can least afford them. The increased stamp duty on receipts — the equivalent of a turnover tax which may be ultra vires the Constitution — will add to the cost of living if businesses are allowed to pass it on to the consumer. Workers are incensed at the proposal for a doubling of parking fees to force people to use public transport at the exorbitant new rate. Although parking rates are a Council matter, Government pressure can be brought to bear in . various ways to raise meter charges. So blatant is the contrast in W. A. between the rich profits and "perks" of industry and the deprivations practised on the people, that Premier Brand found it necessary to .make "explanations". As W.A.'s development in creased, it generated - more earnings for the Treasury, which brought a reduction in the Commonwealth Grant, he said. . But there is a Federal res ponsibility to assist W.A. de velopment in the interests of of the nation as a whole, par ticularly in "regard to such projects as the Ord River scheme. . Money which' 'should be channelled into such develop ment is being soaked up by the Vietnam w.ar as the Fed eral $1,000,000,000 defence allo cation shows. This war expenditure by the Holt Government will be the main obstacle to the basic change in the tax reimburse ment system which is neces sary if the Grants Commission i,r; not to defeat the very pur pose for which it was created — an equitable tax return to States with development problems. 