 INDUSTRIAL SCENE PAY STOPPAGE CALL BY BWIU — Critical of ACTU SYDNEY: The NSW Conference of the Building Workers' Industrial Union last week in Sydney called for a nation-wide stoppage against the meagre wage rises and galloping price increases. The Australian Council of Trade Unions will be pressed to call the stoppage and hold demonstration marches to all State and Federal Parliaments. A resolution said: "We are critical of the campaign by the ACTU since the 1965 Court decision on wages. "To correct this and to draw the rank and file into the wage struggle, greater emphasis should be placed on direct negotiations with em ployers." The conference also decided tp ask the NSW Labor Council to call a 24-hour stoppage throughout the building in dustry to. back up the long standing demand for long service leave. Aborigines A donation of $100 was made by the- conference to assist the striking Aboriginal workers at Wave Hill and Newcastle Waters cattle stations in the Northern Territory. The conference said the settlement terms agreed to by ACTU secreatray, H. Souter, do not meet the Aboriginal workers' just demands. "In the interests of all Aus tralian workers we call on the ACTU executive to repudiate Souter's agreement and to immediately implement a strong campaign to end the inequality now existing and rally support for the Aboriginal workers on strike." A resolution condemned the emergence of fascist-type organ isations in Australia and called on the Federal Government to act in accordance with the principles of the Potsdam Declaration which pledged all wartime allies to prevent the resurgence of facism in any form. Monopoly The union membership was called on to actively campaign to defeat the Holt Government and secure the return of a Labor Government pledged to carry out demands of the trade union movement. "We declare that the policies of this Government are based on the needs of big business and monopoly groupings. "Its economic policy is leading to growing unemploy ment; its foreign policy is shaming Australia before the world and drawing us into evermore aggressive actions in Vietnam," conference said. . Other resolutions called for a free national health scheme and demanded that natural gases to be used as a cheap fuel for the people and not to en rich monopoly. 