 Here's how prices have robbed you since 1953 By the industrial Correspondent SYDNEY : To pro tect basic wage rates against further loss of purchasing power due to price increases the Aus tralian Council of Trade Unions is call ing for: Restoration of quarterly adjust ments. Economic con trols including price controls. The demand covering quarterly adjustments is part of the claims due to be heard by the Arbitration Commission some time in March. Claims for increases in the existing rates are also based partly on decreased purchasing power due to price rises. The erosion of the value of the wage is shown by two ex amples. 1. Since quarterly adjustments to meet price rises were ab olished in September 1953 the Arbitration Commission has made six decisions in creasing the basic wage rates. Each increase was said to result from an estimate of current "economic capacity". If none of these increases had been made and the prac tice of quarterly adjustments (or price rises continued in stead, the current basic wage rates would be higher by am ounts ranging (rom 12/- to 43/- a week. 2. Current rates were fixed in June 1964. In the 18 months since the, price rises have reduced the value of the 1964 rates by amounts ranging from 18/- to 24/- a week. So price increases have re duced the purchasing power of the basic wage rates to LESS than their 1953 and even their mid-1964 levels! This loss applies to all adult male workers, except those cov ered by State awards in New South Wales and West Australia. Continued use of quarterly adjustments in those two States has saved workers from this drop in purchasing power of current rates. Losses for adult females and all juniors vary according to the percentage of the basic wage ihey receive. But these examples show only the position of these wage rates today. Total of income loss The research office of the Boilermakers' and Blacksmiths' Society has estimated (below) the total accumulated loss of income suffered by workers since September 1953 when the cystem of quarterly adjustments was first abolished. SYDNEY: A Federol award work-' er on the Sydney basic wage lost £187. NSW State i award workers and State Government employees covered by Federal awards lost £23/8/-, while the adjustments to their wages were suspended be tween September 1 953 and Novem ber 1955, and another £3/10/- between June 1964 and December 1965 when adjustments . were again suspended. MELBOURNE: Federal award workers covered by the Melbourne basic wage lost £638. Workers covered by State Wages Board determinations and State Govern ment employees received quarterly adjustments until August 1956 and since then have lost wages totalling £621. ADELAIDE: Both Federal and State award workers have lost a total of £327. 6 CAPITAL CITIES AVERAGE: Workers in all States covered by awards prescribing the 6 Capital Cities average rate have lost £417. Waterside workers and a large body of Commonwealth Public Servants have suffered this loss. HOBART: Federal award workers on the Hobart basic wage rate >have lost £652. Workers covered by State Wages Board Determinations and State Government employees have lost £543/1 8/-. BRISBANE: Workers covered by Federal awards prescribing the Bris bane basic wage rate have lost £381. State award workers htave been saved from loss by continued use of adjustments to meet price rises. Most workers in Queensland are covered by State awards. PERTH: The loss for Federal award workers in this city is £680. State award workers lost a total of £63 during a freeze on their wage from 1953 to 1955. Today at £16/2/- their State basic wage is approximately 23/- below what it would have been if quarterly adjustments had been applied with out interruption to their wage of £12/6/6 in July 1953. This differenced between1 the fate paid and the adjusted rate has existed since August 1955, and has cost State award workers a fur- £546, making their total loss ap proximately £609. Urgency of campaign These estimates emphasise the urgency of the unions' claim for restoration of quarterly ad justments. Further price rises including the "sleight of hand" increases during currency change-over will increase the loss of income and further reduce the purchasing power of wages. The ACTU has called for a campaign to support its wage claims. 