 |— — — — — | — j— p: 1 , , -MP - ' I - S ' -U- A--" - 0 ' " / ; I WV S.ut t » | \ I How young is young for champions? By The Challenger "|T would be good to be able to remain at the age' of eighteen, so that we could know everything," is sometimes the defensive — though lame reply of man-y adults when being verbally out-generalled by a present day youngster. And sportswise, no doubt many adults these days probably wish that they were even younger than 18 so that they could not only know everything, but do everything, that many kids are taking in their stride. Sporting events during the past week have reveal ed' a number of really pre cocious sporting youngs ters, capable of holding their own in any company I In golf, ten-year-old Peter Stewart of Moree shot a hole-in-one on the 144-yard, par three third at the Moree Golf Course' Young Peter has only been getting tuition for six weeks and is certainly dis playing a keen develop- ment of correct hitting. I In athletics, a potential I Olympic walker, 15-year-old I Mike Smith is having I trouble getting his records fi ratified because of the N.S.W. Athletic Associa tion's inability to field enough officials for the job. Last weekend Smith set an unofficial record for the under-17 walk over 1,500 metres. His time of 6 mins. 49.2 sees was a N.S.W. State sub-junior record. Another fifteen-year-old, Western Suburbs (Sydney) H bowler, Brian Rhodes took B five wickets for nine runs I in last Saturday's grade B cricket at Pratten Par k. A i fantastic performance by 1 , any standards, Rhodes fin- 1 1 ished with five for nine off 1 six overs' (two maidens). ' Among the batsmen that Rhodes sent to the stands with a zero tally, was the Australian Test cricketer Doug Walters, a player hailed by the experts as the greatest, since Brad- man. I Also he was unlucky not I to have had State Colts I batsman John Benaud | caught out, the chance be- | ing dropped by a team g mate. 1 Rhodes' devastating per- 1 formance was timely for I his team, as it had faced 1 almost certain defeat prior I to his bowling burst. 9 Most thinking adults I would agree that today's 1 generation of young peo ple, despite the criticisms made of them, are an aware mob in more ways than one. Get something done! rpHE' Melbourne Cricket Club plans a new 2.5 million dollar extension to the M.C.G. to accommo date an additional 20,000 people. This will boost the capacity to over 140,000. It would seem to an out sider, that this move has been motivated by the need of the M.C.G. to keep apace of the Victorian Football League's mam moth project, the Vic- torian Football League Park, which when complet ed will outdo the M.C.G. for seating capacity. To the Sydney sports fans the fact that Mel bourne will have two gigantic stadiums for open air events will make many feel like emigrating. The facilities and capa city of the Sydney Cricket Ground are inadequate and many proposals have been made in the past as to intended solutions. 