 World war danaer a rows JYDNEY : Sustained American attacks on the demilitarised zone in Vietnam have further escalated the war and gravely heightened the danger of a world war. As the American bombs fell1., the Soviet Defence Minister announced a new strengthening of the USSR's armed forces in view of the American aggression in Vietnam and provocations against Cuba. UN Secretary General U Thant simultaneously warned that the Vietnam war was on the verge of becoming a major war (see editorial, Page 2). The attack on the demilitar ised zone, lying between North and South Vietnam, is seen by some observers a. s a possible prelude to the invasion of the Democratic Republic of Viet nam, demanded last week by South Vietnam Premier Mar shal Ky. Loss of a "special mission" US plane over North Vietnam strengthens this view. Although Ky's views were re pudiated by a minor US official and by Australian External Affairs Minister Hasluck (see story this page) it is believed he would not have said what he did without US approval. It is also recalled that every previous US step in escalation has been preceded by official statements denying that it would be taken. Thus a few days before the bombing of Hanoi and Hai phong on June 29 Under Sec- | retary of State George Ball announced that no such deci- 1 sion had been made. j As Ky made his twice-re- I peated call for an invasion of j the north and an attack on I China, US propaganda began | Continued on Pago 12 J Crew members of the "Jeparit", (L to R)( Joe Birleson, Tom Jones, Nobby Clarke, George Jenkins and Bob Frue display the painting presented to the Seamen's Union by Australian troops in Vietnam (story page 10). World war danqer grows Continued from Page 1 to take a turn apparently cal culated to prepare world opin ion for the invasion Ky sought. It was stated that "Operation Hastings", carried out by US forces just south of the de militarised zone, had been fought against a "full division" of North Vietnamese troops who had allegedly "infiltrated" across the zone. If this were true the so- called division would have had to pass through an area of North Vietnam where, on the US's own showing, every bridge and road has been repeatedly bombed and the whole terrain closely scanned by US air pat rols. Not being a party to the Geneva agreements, which it has itself violated from the start, the USA has no right to complain about others' alleged breaches. In any case, nobody gave the US the right to police such breaches or take its own uni lateral decisions as to who is responsible. Still less has it the right to punish the alleged vio lators. The International Control Commission was assigned by the Geneva conference to verify its fulfilment. As a co-chairman of the conference it was the duty of the British Government to point this out to the US ad ministration and to warn the US against committing a uni lateral act of aggression. Instead, the Government, hungry for US backing in its sterling crisis, has abdicated its decision and given a prompt and overall endorsement of the f latest US act. I Obviously the world's people cannot rely on such men as Prime Minister Wilson, but I must use their own strength to E avert the new war threat. i A lead has been given by 44 | American Congressmen who j denounced Premier Ky's speech and called for new negotiations | to end the war. J Indian Prime Minister Mrs. Gandhi, the World Council of Churches meeting in Geneva last week, and U Thant him self in earlier statements, have | said that the first step to peace must be an end to US bomb- ! ing. | 