 kDN THE INDUSTRIAL SCENE [?] — Holt backs pastoralists QARWIN : By rejecting applications for unemployment benefits J for Aboriginal stockmen after they walked off Vestey's Wave Hill' Station, the Holt Government has shown clearly that ! it stands on the side of the pastoralists in the struggle for award wages tor Aborigines. j A senior Government spokesman who was asked why this decision had "l been taken was quoted in the Northern Territory News as saying that) "the system was not devised for this sort of customer". s Thirty eight of the stockmen applied to the Director General of Social | Services for unemployment benefits after they learned that they had been 1 sacked from Vestev's Wave Hill Station. 1 Secretary of the North Aus tralian Workers' Union, Mr. Paddy Carroll said, "we know they have been sacked and yet Vesteys are now saying that they have not been sacked and are on strike." (The Wave Hill station Aborigin als are part of a strike movement by Aboriginal stockmen and their families in the Northern Territory, for equal pay with whites on cattle stations. The strikes began with a Waik- offi at Newcastle Waters Station last May. Now as well as these two stations there have been walk- offs at Helen Springs and Mount Sanford stations.) The official stand of the Gov ernment is that to comply with the provisions of the Act the Aborigines should not be parti cipating in a strike. If they are not participating in a strike then they must be available for employment, will ing to undertake suitable em ployment and they must have taken reasonable action on their own part to find work. In fact what the Government says is— "Go back and work from daylight to dark for em ployers who will pay you sub standard wages that are unac- cepiaoie 10 you ana me wnoie trade union movement. "Go back and eat salt beef and dry bread and live in tin humpies, unsuitable even for animals, or else fend for your selves — we'll give you nothing." This Government backing for the huge foreign owned Vesteys' international beef, shipping and pastoral monopoly, will only strengthen the already Austra lia-wide movement supporting the Aborigines stand for wage equality and justice. Unlikely Reports of the Gurindji tribe accepting a contract system of work at Vesteys' are said to have been presented as a way out for the station owners and unlikely to be accepted by the Aborigines. While Vesteys refuse to pay equal wages it is hard to ima gine them paying contract rates which are higher than wages. The Northern Territory Coun cil for Aboriginal Rights rejects out of hand any settlement of the dispute based on a con tract system and will advise its members accordingly. The fact remains that con tract work has been raised by Gurindji people but it is im portant to realise what thoughts these people have on the mat- ter f Firstly, the people at present on strike at Wave Hill who are largely Gurindji people will NOT return to work until they get equal wages and a better standard of living. Secondly, they demand a change in the management of the Station. They will not con tinue to work under the degrad ing conditions prior to the strike when the manager "whistled to an aborigine like a dog" when he wanted him. Thirdly, the aboriginal stock men of Wave Hill are men used to long hours of work. They are not used to inactivity so it is possible that until the dis pute is settled, they may seek some form of work, on a con tract basis. But this is not likely. One thought uppermost in the minds of the Gurindji is ownership of their own tribal land and the establishment of a Co-operative ' under their own management with some Euro pean advice. But the fact re mains that even this proposi tion is only a side issue to the main struggle, which is equal pay. PASSING ROUND THE HAT Aboriginal leaders Captain Major (left) and Dexter Daniels among Sydney wharfies who took the hat around for the striking Northern Territory stockmen after the two representatives had addressed them at a lunch-hour meeting at the Glebe Island canteen last week. They have spoken to some thirty meetings during, their Sydney visit, winning,; wide support for the struggle of their people for wage justice. Addressing a gathering of about 50 young people organised by the Eureka Youth League at the Orana coffee lounge last Friday night, Captain Major described how he had been thrown from a horse last May and suffered injuries, hut the station boss; had refused to send him for hospital treatment and offered only liniment for raw injuries. Today (Wednesday) Captain Major and Mr. Daniels will speak at Sydney University and at the South Coast Labor Council during the evening. On Thursday they will interview MPs in Canberra and try to see the Minister for Social Services, (Mr. Sinclair), and the Minister for Territories (Mr. Barnes). They will go to Melbourne on October 28 for two weeks and will return to Sydney in response to many requests. , 