 US. generals can see the writing on the wall | T is no wonder that US G.eneral John M. Gavin and other top-ranking military men were rec- ommending last week the cessation of US bombing attacks on north Vietnam and the withdrawal of US troops from south Vietnam. Gavin, chief military ad viser to President Eisen hower, has been publicly supported in his- stand . by General Matthew B. Ridgway, former US com mander in Korea. He wrote to Harper's Magazine declaring that "my own views completely coincide with Gen eral Gavin's." What both generals no doubt have in mind is the complete collapse of the vast U.S. offen sive that was intended to rout the "Vietcong" as soon as the 1965 moonsoon season ended in September. The generals and the 33 sena tors who last week were reported to be seeking a continued bomb ing pause maybe realised that the U.S. is being beaten in south Vietnam. „ The semi-official U:S; News and World Report, quoted in the Sydney Sun of January 24 last, admitted sensationally: "The United States and south Vietnam forces actually hold less ;erritory now than they did a year ago." This is supported by the British Manchester Guardian, which says "hardly a square mile of territory has been permanently pacified . . . Fighting continues . to the outskirts of Saigon." So much for the headlines of the Australian daily press — "Vietcong smashed" — ''Vietcong annihilated" . . . and the com muniques reporting an extras ordinary number of kills." So much for the 8,500 Americans admitted to have been killed or wounded in Vietnam last year and the 31 (to date) Australian killed. So much also, for America's 10,000 million dollars wasted on the war last year. Not one single solitary square mile of territory won to show for it! On the contrary, terri tory has actually been lost. "Our" side always wins clashes with the "Vietcong" according to the communiques. It is |always the "other" sides' bodies that are counted, while "our" casualties are invariably "light" — absolu tely negligible, in fact. It wasn't his year And yet somehow it is the other side, which is always be ing "thrashed", "pounded", "shettered", etc. by our invincible air force, that is winning terri tory. It is pressing ever closer to "our" capital, Saigon, and "our" generals are calling for re inforcements. In 1961, they wanted 21,000. Now they alraedy have 200,000 and are demanding 400,000. Is this the story of a victorious army? And in face of all this, U.S. Time magazine had the impu dence to select the U.S. com mander, General Westmoreland, as the Man of the Year! That was Time's idea conceived much earlier, of what he was go ing to be. "Today South Vietnam throbs with a pride and power, above all an esprit scarcely credible against the summer's sombre vista" boasted Time on October 22 last. "The remarkable turnabout in the war is the result of one of the swiftest, fciggest military build-ups in the history of war fare. Everywhere today south Vietnam bustles with the U.S. presence. "Bulldozers by the hundreds carve sandy shore into vast plat eaus for tent cities and airstrips. Howitzers and trucks grind through the once-empty green highlands ... Day and night screaming jets and prowling heli- copters seek out the enemy . . If boasts could win a war, US worries would be over by now. Despite the "swiftest and big- I gest build-up,", etc., over the I past three months, later they j have been unable to capture a | village — not a square mile or a i square inch. They can't even i prevent patriot attacks a few j miles from Saigon or Da Nang. j As the New Statesman said on January 14 last: ". . . Despite the enc(rmous increase in US forces ; in the past year, no military pro gress has been made. "The Vietnamese have been further alienated by the destruc tion of villages and heavy civilian j? casualties. ... I quote a Herald- I Tribune headline 'Scorched Earth Policy— GIs Raze Homes, Crops Where Reds are Aided'." It was all meant to be so very ! different. Everyone will remem ber how the Pentagon experts ! explained last year during the initial reverses that this would be inevitable until the end of the "monsoon season." This was supposed to aid the liberation fighters by giving them air cover from American planes. Once the monsoons were over, however, the US would show them! What has actually been shown, however, is that under all condir tions the Vietnamese patriots, fighting for a just cause, are well-nigh invincible. 