 Mother of them all SMOTHER M. Gorky. Once more in print — written half a century ago, published 266 times in 42 languages. Dealing with events which actually took place on the Volga in the first years of this century. More than the story of a woman and her family — it is the indomitable story of the entire working class. 95c ($1.11 posted). ' SOVIET UNION Illustrated monthly — No. 199. This issue, dealing with Soviet medical research and health services, was specially prepared in response to readers' requests. Heart disease, cancer, influenza are discussed — ,! the wiping out of epidemics. Amazing operations on the j brain, heart and eyes explained. Methods of child care i are explored, as also are the ways in which normal healthy I people are kept fit and well. 20c (30c posted). MAN AND HIS ENVIRONMENT Boris Lyapunov. ? What are the origins of life on the Earth? How many i B . different worlds coexist in the greater world — the universe? i What does the interior of the Earth consist of? These ; questions are discussed and also the mysteries of the s ocean's floor. 60c (70c posted). GLOBAL ENGINEERING I. Adabashev. A global survey of the Earth- — is it possible for our planet to continue supplying everything needed to sustain life and turn the wheels of industry? Scientifically based, the author's answers are optimistic. However, vast schemes are 1 envisaged which will improve climate, communications and even the artificial growth of minerals in natural sur rounding#.. These schemes sound fantastic, but lare in fact scientifically feasible 50c (60c posted). HOW RELIABLE IS THE BRAIN? E. Astratyan, P. Simonov. A study of neurophysiology in relation to the restoration of impaired functions of the central nervous system. What enables the brain to function without interruption for years? How is the central nervous system repaired? These questions are of interest not only to biology and medicine but to experts in automation — the answers can assist in the develop ment of computing systems. 65c (72c posted). THE MOON AND MAN M. Rebrov and G. Khozin. is outer space important to man? Are conditions so crowded on Earth that we must search for other worlds? What useful purpose is served by the building of vehicles for inter planetary flight? What can be gained from flights to other planets? These questions are answered in simple terms. 50c (57c posted). j New World Booksellers I 425 Pitt St., Sydney — Phone 211-1607. 