 Solicitor warns . . . Act amendments will cut damages pERTH: The Brand Government's proposed amendments to the Motor Vehicle (Third Party) Insurance Act will undoubtedly have the effect of substantially reducing damages awarded to victims of motor accidents, a solicitor told Tribune. Western Australia is already notorious for the fact that damages claims are lower than in other States where the influence of civil juries in accident matters has tend ed to keep the damages high, he said. There are some advantages to West Australians flowing from the absence of civil juries in damages claims, which tends to keep down legal costs and the costly appeals which often fritter away damages awarded by juries. Tribunal The Brand Government claim ed that this tendency would be increased by the setting up of its new tribunal. Age ' this might be true but it w not compensate for the faci that whatever tribunal was set up would probably be dominated by Motor Vehicle Insurance Trust nominees and would be charged with the duty of keeping down accident dam ages. The fact that it would be free from the influence of higher courts and not subject to ap peal except on questions of law would have a further de pressing effect. Legal opinion is mystified about the reason for setting up this tribunal. It is thought by some that it is simply another example of the increasing bur eaucracy of the Brand Court government. Another explanation is that the Government may be seek ing to use the M.V.I.T. as a concealed taxation agency. Two years ago the Government in creased the combined motor vehicle licence and third party insurance charge as an open taxation measure. If the amount of damages paid out in future is reduced by means of the new tribunal, less money will need to be ap portioned from licence receipts to the M.V.I.T. There will be a surplus which can be paid to general revenue. It is important that trade un ions and other popular organ isations add their voice to that of the Law Society and the Royal Automobile Insurance Club in opposing this measure. 