 Deluge since decimals urgent telegram from the Queensland Trades and Labor Council sent last Friday called on the Australian Council of Trade Unions to organise national stop- work action in protest against the delaying legal tactics of the employers in the basic wage case. Australian workers urgently need a substantial wage increase to make up for price rises during the basic wage freeze and through the orgy ,of price increases following the introduction of decimal currency, ihe telegram said. In Melbourne, 4,000 unionists on Tuesday demon strated at the High Court against the employers' legal challenge which has held up hearings of the national wage case by the Arbitration Commission. Prices "emergency" call Unionists throughout Australia are calling for .strong- action against high prices. In Brisbane, for example, Premier Nicklin has been called on to declare a State of Emergency to roll back and control prices. About 400 unionists representing 40 unions made this call last week at a meeting in the' Brisbane Trades Hall to plan action on prices and wages. Over 200 Brisbane building workers — from the Pearl Insurance and Eagle Towers construction jobs called on the Queensland Trades and Labor Council to call a j one-hour stopwork protest meeting of city workers — "the venue of the meeting to be Parliament House". Scale of price rises The following price table has been sent to Premier j Nicklin by the Building Workers' Industrial Union which initiated the call for a State of Emergency. The table shows that the average Queensland family has been robbed an extra 10/- a week on just a few hems. Old price New price Newspapers, six days 4 6 5 5 Fares — adult workers, 6 return trips 13 0 18 0 High school child, 5 return trips 2 6 5 0 Butter, 21b 10 3 10 5 Eggs, 1£ doz 8 4£ 8 8£ Bread, 7 large sliced loaves 11 I H 12 7| Milk, 2 bottles daily 12 3 12 l(f £3 2 10 £3 13 0 The February 12 edition of the "Queensland Shop keeper" listed 48 different headings of goods that have gone up in price since publication of the last issue of the paper. Broadly, the same position exists in other States. NSW conference On the NSW South Coast, the Labor . Council is calling a mass public rally on March 13 at Wollongong in support .of higher wages and for price control. The NSW Labor Council has called on unions to demand from individual employers that they now pay the unions' wage claims. The council is also calling a Living 'Standards Con ference to which people's organisations will be invited. (See Page 10.) Pensioners leaving the Sydney Town Hall last week after holding the opening session of their 33rd Annual NSW Conference. See story Page 1. 