 Policy that cannot win HE same complacency in policy that helped lose the Federal Government the Dawson by-election was again the mark of Prime Minister Holt's "state ment to the nation'' in Parliament last week. Holt, faced with the task of "selling" to the Aus" tralian people the decision to, send conscripts to the unpopular Vietnam war, as part of a trebled Australian commitment of 4500 men, could find no new reasons. Not that there are any new reasons to plunge' . Australia deeper into, shameful support Of the United States attempt to impose its will on the peoples of South-East Asia. Holt, untrained in foreign affairs, had to rely on the barren explanatiou of . Hasluck's .External : Affairs Department. "This is no civil war'', lie said. "It is the principal present manifestation of the expansionist activities of Communist China . . . channelled through and directed from Hanoi'." This claim, as totally unsubstantiated as it was when Menzies made it in 'July, 1965, founders on the rock of these simple fac'ts There are no Chinese troops in Vietnam. No Vietnamese troops have carried out, or threatened, aggression agaiiist any. other coun try. ' The only aggression in the Indo-Chinese region has been carried out by the United States. In any case, if (as Holt said) "the 'tide of battle is turning in Vietnam", why is it now necessary to INCREASE Australia's forces there? ? Britain, Canada, Japan, West Germany, Italy and France— all the major post-war allies hi the USA- have flatly refused to join in the "unwinnable" war of intervention in Vietnam. Not content with such a degree of isolation, Holt last week made his speech on .the very day that United Nations secretary U Thant called for a dowinscailing of the "Wat. Early indications are that the only happy faces following the "statement to the nation" were those of war contract lobbyists whose persistent pressure to get American war supply contracts were said by . . Holt to have succeeded. ' As for the Government's subordination of Aus- tralia's economic interests— troubled as they are— to' the American war, the .extent of public disgust was well put by the Sydney "Herald's" Finance Editor, who wrote: "The economic content of Mr. Holt's statement ' was not only insignificant— it was also fatuous." When Menzies early last year first committed Australian combat forces to Vietnam, Tribune stated that the decision was so fundamentally opposed to the real well-being and security of Australia that it would ultimately bring the Government down. Last week Mr. Holt, who so complacently brushed aside Labor Leader Galwell's demand for a refer endum on the overseas conscription issue, took a further long step towards ultimate defeat. One thing is certain in this election year — Mr. Holt and his "powerful friends" in Washington are not going to win the war of intervention against ; Vietnamese independence. Sydney wb'men, celebrating International Women's Day with a march through the streets, last Thursday displayed slogans that hit hard at the Holt Government. 