 THE SUCCESS III UEUUDE AT THE ADELAIDE FESTIVAL OF ARTS WITH JUDAH WATEN \ | HE Adelaide Festival ol Arts has once again been a great success. Actually there ware more inter state visitors this time and most of the concerts, theatre perform ances and the ballet were boohed out. The art exhibitions were well patronised and the sales of paint ings I understand broke all previ ous records. Adelaide has proved itself an ideal venue for a Festival of Arts. There were some new features which made this Festival the most impressive to date. It seemed to have a more international flavour. There was the classical Greek theatre from Athens, Festival of Asian dancing and the Kalakshetra Dancers of Madras. Significantly Writers Week, an important aspect of the Festival, also tended to assume a more in ternational character largely be cause of the participation of the famous English novelist Angus Wil son, the two Soviet writers Yevgeni Yevtushenko and Anatoli Sofronov, the well-known Russian translator of Australian literature Oksana Krugerskaya, and several New Zea land writers. Notable too was the presence of Kath Walker, the Aboriginal poet. She was met at the Adelaide, air port by the Soviet writers. Anatoli Sofronov told her that his mag azine Ogonyok would publish her first book of 30 poems. Angus Wilson wno opened Writ ers Week set the tone for the sub sequent proceedings in which 70- odd Australian writers, took part. In his address he urged writers not to be "cosy", not just to "pat each other on the back." "Writers should be dangerous persons, magicians, wizards, revol utionaries," Angus Wilson said. WRITERS DISCUSSIONS There was plenty of frank dis cussion at the subsequent Writers seminars, particularly on the sub ject of the "The Australian Ab original in Literature," introduced by Roland Robinson and Mary Durack. She emphasised the im portance of Katharine Susannah Prichard's "Coonardoo" in help ing to make succeeding generations of writers see the Aboriginals as human beings and not the grossly caricatured creatures that they had been in previous Australian writ ing. She referred to the work be ing done by Aboriginal writers, such as Colin Johnson, who for the first time were writing from within the Aboriginal community. Roland Robinson discussed the still deplorable conditions in which the Aboriginal people lived. There was general agreement that writ ers should do everything in their power to help the Aboriginal peo ple to win a better life. Angus Wilson who is half South African warned against too great a concern for the past, for the myths and the ancient ways; he advocated a forward looking atti tude which saw the Aboriginals en joying equal rights in the modem world. This was the first time this sub ject had been debated at Writers Week and I trust that the discus sion which was taped will be broadcast. At another seminar Anatoli Sof ronov dealt with the subject of Australian Literature in the Sov iet Union. He read out a long list of Australian novels and short story collections that had been published in the Soviet Union. The people of the Soviet Union appreciated Australian writers for their obvious opposition to pomp and posturing, Sofronov said. In discussion Oksana Kruger skaya said that some of Patrick White's stories were soon to be translated and she felt that the Soviet people would be interested1 in them. The seminar on Censorship and Pornography disclosed that the large majority of writers are op posed to all forms of censorship. Several writers expressed the view that public opinion was veering towards opposition to censorship especially of works of fiction. Co-discussion leader Dr. J. J. Bray, QC, and one of South Aus tralia's leading poets, said he knew of no scientific proof of any causal relationship between literature and undesirable sexual behaviour and crime. "I know of no case of any sin ner who has seriously ascribed his downfall to Ovid, D. H. Lawrence, James Joyce or other such writ ers," Dr. Bray said. His fellow discussion leader Clem Christesen, the editor of Meanjin, said that writers had a duty to cauterise society when needed, to prick pomposity, to scarify and to satirise. "If the community adopts restrictive attitudes as I think ours does, it is part of the writer's task to resist legislation and bur eaucracy in the field," he said. YEVTUSHENKO One of the highlights of the fes tival was Yevgeni Yevtushenko's poetry readings. The distinguished artists Dame Judith Anderson and Peter O'Shaughnessy took it in turns to read the excellent English versions of Yevtushenko's poems from the two just published Sun book collections of his work. But it was Yevtushenko reciting in a language which only a small section of the listeners could have known who aroused the greatest enthusiasm. Of course the English translations enabled the audience to know what was being declaim ed by Yevtushenko, yet the secret of his success is not merely in the poems themselves, lyrical and apt as they are, but in his manner, in his ability to establish an im mediate and sympathetic contact with his listeners. The Australian poets who took part in open-air poetry readings were also able to win a sympathe tic hearing from large audiences. This has been the case at every Festival. As in most countries to day poetry reading is popular in Australia and those poets who strike a contemporary note can achieve quick communication. I thought Geoffrey Button with his new satirical poems was remark ably successful. THEATRE An interesting theatrical experi ence was Peter O'Shaughnessey's solo performance in a selection of George Bernard Shaw's writ ings entitled Shaw on Love and War. These were witty, penetrat ing and timely, and justified Angus Wilson's assertion that Shaw was one of the greatest English writ ers of this century. The Adelaide Advertiser said: "But perhaps where Shaw's pro phetic insight was hit most closely home by Mr. O'Shaughnessy was in his quotation from the preface to John Bull's Other Island, deal ing with the Irish uprising, which might be interpreted as an up-to- the-minute comment on the situa tion in Vietnam." A fine performance of Brecht on Brecht by the players from Wal Cherry's Emerald Hill Theatre in Melbourne added another new note to the theatre side of this festival. Space does not permit me to do more than just mention the exhil- irating performances of the Lon don Symphony Orchestra, the Aus tralian Ballet fresh from a trium phal international tour which pre sented three striking and contrast ing ballets, and the choir of 12 men and 12 women, all full blood1 members of the Pitjantjatjara tribe from the Ernabella Mission, which made a deep impression with their singing and corroboree dancing. The writers as in previous years visited the schools and spoke to whole assemblies and to senior classes. I spoke to the Adelaide Boys High school, Findon High school and St. Peters College. At the last-mentioned two schools I answered questions - for nearly half an hour. I can only say that I liked the young people and as Angus Wilson put it, the "young people today are immensely hon est." It is hoped that at the next Festival writers will also visit workshops and factories and address the workers there. I under stand there is general agreement on this proposal among those responsible for Writers Week. 