 Do a little — it adds up:Odetta By HARRY STEIN SYDNEY: Odetta, the outstanding American Negro folk singer, is also Odetta the citizen-fighter for civil rights and for peace in Vietnam. Her choice of songs for the , Sydney Town Hall concert last Friday night, while varied, gave expression to this combination. For example, as she sang "We Shall Overcome" there was a verse "we will walk in peace" — and she made it clear she meant every word. Odetta is tall, dignified, with a personality and voice that warms the audience. She combines vocal power with a whimsical sense of humour. Afterwards, I was ushered into Odetta's dressing room. As she completed her make up, she began to answer my questions: — "I'm only one of many singers in America who are fighting against the war . in Vietnam musically," she said. She had sung for peace on many university campuses and at a large rally in Madison Square Garden, New York. This was her answer to American TV and radio station campaign programs of songs aimed at military glorifica- ton to promote the war in Vietnam. "If only everybody would do a little to stop the war, it would soon add up to a very large amount," she said. r \ Odetta said that while the majority of the American people did not yet share her views about the war, neverthe less there was a solid block of voters in opposition that had to be taken, into account by the government. "I wonder just what sort of 'minority' we are supposed to be fighting in Vietnam. The United States has a huge army in Vietnam and all sorts of sophisticated war material yet still the war shows no sign of coming to an end. "I read everything I can get my hands on about the generals we are supporting in South ' Vietnam. It seems to me that once again that USA has picked the wrong side." Turning to the civil rights movement, Odetta said: "While there are many differences among the American Negro people on how to achieve their freedom, the majority agree they must have their freedom now. FOOTNOTE: Odetta said she hadn't heard many Aus tralian folk songs, but would be delighted to receive songs from "Australian Bob Dy lans." 