 FRESH LOOK AT FREE ART With NOEL COUNIHAN jONOR Arundel's "The Freedom of Art" (Lawrence and Wishart, $1.25) is a welcome ad dition to the new Marxist literature on the problems of Art to-day. rPHE publication in English of works by Georg Lukacs and Ernst Fischer, the recent examination and ortique of Picasso by John Berger, and now Honor Arundel's booklet have helped to extend the horizons of contemporary Marx ist thought ana' have done much to lay the basis for the over coming of narrow prejudices and sectarian attitudes within the Left. These books, particularly Berger's, which probes in greater depth into one specialised field than the others, are all con troversial and open to argu ment on many counts, but they bring a stimulating freshness to contemporary Marxism. ? TJONOR Arundel was at one time film and radio critic i for the Daily Worker. She writes for Marxism Today, The Scotsman, and various Scottish literary journals. Her new book is scholarly, and indicates familiarity with mod ern artistic trends in both the socalist and capitalist worlds. Its style is lively ana' free from jargon of any sort. It is a practical book con cerned not only with the com plex problems of the artist and the creative process in modern terms but also with the spirit ual and cultural needs of the people, and the necessity for the Labour Movement, not merely the Left, to assume greater responsibility for the satisfaction of the people's hunger for a higher way of life. We live in a society where, she says, emphasis on purely material values, jimportant as they are, at the expense of purpose or inspiration, incites people to "live for kicks" or "to take part in the rat-race for respectability and power". ? CHiE has an eye for the apt quote, for example Oscar Wilde on certain academic paintings: "Their meaning is too obvious and! their method too clearly defined. One exhausts what they have to say in a very short time, and then they become as tedious as one's rel atives" Or Van Gogh: "My great longing is to learn to make these very incorrectnesses, these deviations, re-modellings, changes of reality, so that they become, yes, untruth if you like — but more true than the literal truth." And Lenin: "There is no doubt that in this field (literature N, C.), great freedom must be assured to individual initiative and personal inclinations, great freedom of thought and fantasy, form ana' content." ? "rpHE Freedom of Art" raises sharply yet dialectically a number of highly relevant questions concerning the role of art in life, and the relation ship of the artist and the work of art to the struggles of the working class and its allies. It poses them for rethinking and for discussion, not necess arily turning over new ground in what is such a complex field, but in such a way as not only to be of great .interest and value to artists, writers and others, as well as to all those genuinely interested in the arts and who are so often set back by the "high-brow and obscure jargon of much contemporary writing on the subject, 