 FROM EAST TO WEST WAR CONDEMNED pROMlNENT speakers at meetings on both sides of the Australian contin ent last Friday1 sharply condemned the war of intervention in Vietnam. 9 In Sydney, author Alan Ashbolt told a meeting of about 400 people that the Vietnam war was a colonial war to put down a colonial people. In Perth, Mr. Francis James, of Sydney, told a meeting of over 400 people that North Vietnam hat! made four explicit offers to end the Vietnam war— all of them followed by fresh United States escalation. Sydney . jyjR. ASHBOLT, author of "An American Experience," said that the Vietnam war issue cut across class and religion. It was leading to a "profound social disintegration," which might possibly lead the way to crea tive, not conventional politics in Australia. But instead of having a wel fare state, the people could be subjected to an "authoritarian warfare state" in which indivi dual action could be crippled and Australians become "mind- manipulated mass-men" at the disposal of the Government. The colonial war in Vietnam was being conducted with the aid of the current superstition that "they" must be stopped somewhere. Nobody was certain who "they" were or what they must be stopped from doing. Conscience Mr. Ashbolt said objection on anyone's part to a particular war to destroy the National Liberation Front in Vietnam was just as much a matter of conscience as objections to all war in general. Warning of the danger of blind obedience to governments Mr. Ashbolt said it was for "such obedience that men were condemned at Nuremberg," as was later Eichmann in Israel. Professor Frederick May, of Sydney University, said he was granted exemption as a consci entious objector in England during the last war by a panel which included an ex-ambassa dor and a trade union repres entative who were genuinely anxious to find out why he thought what he did. He believed that in Australia, too, such questions should be judged in a place removed from an atmosphere of "criminality". Mr. S. P. Lewis, president of the Teachers' Federation, said the Federation was concerned at the call-up of teaching staff for the services in view of the shortage of teachers. Ballad The meeting concluded with the playing of a new record, The Ballad of Bill White, sung by Glen Tomasetti. It is being sold by the Bill White Defence Committee for one dollar. Mr. William White, a teacher who&lt; is appealing against a magistrate's decision to commit him to the armed forces, was present. His appeal is now be ing considered by the High Court. Those present at the meeting, . held to discuss aspects of the National Service Act, contribut ed a further $218 to the fund, j . . . Perth I1 rpHE Archbishop of Perth (Dr. Appleton) chaired Friday's 1 meeting in Perth Town Hall, 1 addressed by Dr.. Jaspan of the W.A. University and Mr. Fran cis James, managing director of the Anglican. , Dr. Jaspan spoke of' his re cent visit to Cambodia; of the construction in that country, and the small but useful help given by Australia; he made a plea for greater assistance. Mr. James contrasted this with the horrifying destruction in Vietnam, for which Austra lia must share the guilt. The country was torn by the most brutal war human society has seen, and the situation is one of unrelieved gloom, terror, ag gression, poverty and degrada tion. He stated he was ashamed every time he looked at Aus tralia's presence in Vietnam, and spoke in support of the Geneva Agreement, saying we were morally bound to imple ment it in the light of Menzies agreement. Four-fifths of the people in South Vietnam live in areas effectively controlled by the N.L.F., said Mr. James. In North Vietnam in spite of the widespread death and damage from American bombing, he saw few signs of starvation, none of the beggary and prosti tution so rampant in the South. Ho Chi Min's name was a household word in Vietnam. He had spoken with him, said Mr. James who referred to his honesty and integrity, his intel ligence and compassion. 