 Milk makes the Government sick C YDNEY : Milk is good for babies, but it is making the nsw Government pretty sick. Consumers in Sydney and Wolloneone are , not happy about the fact that they have had to pay one cent a pint extra for their milk since last Friday. The Minister for Agriculture Mr. Chaff ey and Deputy Prem ier Mi. Cutler, at the Country Party conference last week had to listen to a North Coast delegate explaining how milk could bring about the Govern ment's defeat. Mr. Allen Ussher (Bowraville) told delegates: — "The North Coast dairymen no longer have confidence in the coalition Government. "There are five North Coast members of Parliament who are quite rightly very concerned about the present position. "Without them we may not have a government in power at the next elections." NSW is governed by a Lib eral-Country party coalition, with a slender majority of two only in the Legislative Assembly. The five North Coast MLAls are under heavy pressure from dairy farmers to leave the Country Party and become "in dependent Country party" members if the Government refuses to allow the dairy farmers to sell a percentage of their milk in the Sydney zone, at 10 cents a pint. North Coast dairy farmers will stand their own indepen dent Country Party candidates at the next election if the Gov ernment and MLA's don't play ball. Mr. Cutler as a keynote of his speech at the Country Party conference promised the North Coast dairy farmers a subsidy if they kept out of the Sydney milk zone. This was rejected by them, as a similar promise before the last election never saw the light of day because of so-called "constitutional difficulties". The Government is also under fire from the Milk Vendors Association in the milk zone for its decision allowing a price increase. Sooner or later the Govern ment will have to end its piecemeal approach and estab lish a single authority for con trol of the NSW mi,lk industry. If it takes over the handling and distribution of all milk on a non-profit basis farmers and consumers could get a better deal. The crisis within the Country Party that broke out over milk is not unduly worrying some key NSW Liberal Ministers, They see any loss of Country Party seats as a way of chopp ing down a number of Country Party Ministers in Cabinet and adding them to the Liberal Party. They believe that any inde pendent Country party mem bers would vote with the gov ernment. Chief Secretary Wil lis' speech at the Federal Rural j conference in Wagga last week has been warmly welcomed within the parliamentary Lib eral party. He made it perfectly clear in his speech that the big country towns now represented by Country party members should have Liberal Party MLA'sr 