 BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE THE depth and spirit of socialist Cuba's, building for the future is perhaps most clearly spelled out in educa- tion, and most particularly in that area of crisis in Aus tralia today, teacher train ing. Writing in prison in 1953, the rebel lawyer Fidel Castro said: "The little rural schools are attended by only half the school-age children — bare-footed, half-naked and undernourished — frequently the teacher must buy necessary materials from his own salary. Is this the way to make a nation great?" From such bitter observations by Cuban revolutionaries, stemmed today's education policy and achievement that has been highly praised by UNESCO. When the revolutionaries took power in 1959, it was found that, of the children of school age, 600,000 or 50 per cent had had no schooling. One million of the population were illiterate. Public school buildings were cheaply and poorly constructed. At the same time, there were ; 10,000 certified teachers wholly or mainly unemployed. When the new government approached the old school teachers, it was found that not many were prepared to go to teach in the countryside, still less to the mountain areas. They had been conditioned by a system in which politicians' favours counted for a lot in obtaining any public service job, including teaching. And indeed, many of them left Cuba with their political patrons of the old regime. CACED with this situation, the revolutionary leaders did some hard thinking about what kind of teachers they wanted, anyway. Fidel Castro, in a little-known speech to teenage teacher trainees an a remote mountainside in the Escambray when I was in Cuba in July, put the answer this way: "We had to dedicate the greatest possible effort to the training of teachers for the future. We had to make plans for forging true educat- ors. We had to train teachers in the highest sense of the word. "We needed teachers who not only would work in the cities but in the countryside and in the mountains . . . the nation's most remote mountains . . . teachers who are ready to teach in any part of the world, wherever a brother people is in need." Ho asked the question that is today being asked in every social ist country: "Is it possible that our young peo ple, who did not experience our country's past . . . may perhaps be incapable of appreciating their role and function in the present society . . . become infected with the viruses of moral flatulence and comfort- seeking?" "The answer was 'No' — and first and foremost 'No!' in the ranks of the young teachers. \ "Although they may enjoy every kind of satisfaction in the material and spiritual realms, our youth will also have a solid education, a well- formed political consciousness, and an upright character of tempered steel. . . "Those who fell and those who died for the Revolution did not make their sacrifices in order to pave the way for a generation less heroic, less self- sacrificing, less combative, less strong . . . (but) for the betterment of man and the constant improvement of each of our new generations. . . ''We must undertake this task and achieve it and our teachers— never forget this — must bear the brunt of the effort; our teachers must perform the most important job." In such words are spelled out the concept that teaching is one of the most honoured of all callings, decisive to the nation; only exceptionally devoted young people will meet it requirements. |— |OW did they go about making this concept work? A basic step was to make it hard to become a teacher — seemingly a strange approach in a country where the shortage of trained teachers even now remains some thing of an emergency. But if the criterion was to be quality, the capacity and will to build the character of young people, if teaching was to become the most honored profession, then it could not be easy to graduate as a teacher. First it was necessary to build in trainee teachers the quality of working to overcome difficulties. And so this revolutionary gov ernment of mainly young men and women who developed their own qualities as guerrillas in the mountains or members of the underground turned back to the mountains. In the highest and wildest ranges, the rainy Sierra Maestra, they established the school for the first-year training of teacher trainees, at Minas del Frio where recruits for the old rebel army had been actually tested out. As Fidel Castro, the guerrilla commander-in-chief, put it: "It is a difficult place, inhospitable, cold and hard to take. There the students spend their first year. It is a test of the probability of their being able to endure other hardships later, of whether or not they will be able to carry on without fear, without breaking down under hardships . . . We need teachers who do not break down when they are sent to the countryside or the mountains. After that first year of basic orientation into the vocation of teaching, they go for two years to the hardly-less-rugged Escam bray mountains, to a college at Topes de Collantes, receiving an all-round high-school education, in troductory educational science, and also taking part in such work as the planting and harvesting of crops, particularly on their coffee plantation, and in construction work. The final two years are spent at the Makarenko Teaching Institute near Havana, extending their education to the higher in termediate level and mastering the science of teaching. At this institute, too, practical teaching is highly organised. Not very far away, in a lush suburban area of Havana's west-side form erly monopolised by the wealthy, the mansions and bungalows are today functioning as a "scholar city" for 50,000 primary school children dVrffVrom all over Cuba. m There the Jfc trainees from the Makareialplnstitute are cutting their' Kp as practical teachers. i In the early m the teaching of many chilw and the first teacher trainewiad to depend on an improviBcorps of semi- educated but ftrmined young people who w®y delayed .their own chances' Wgher education by volunteeriifiorvfive years' service in re# areas. Today they are ho® students at higher institute: Now the poBr really unfold ing in practiwhis year 6,800 new scholarship students began work at the initial teacher training college in the Sierra— nearly double last year's figure. At the next higher college in the Escam bray, there are 4500 in 2nd year, 2888 in 3rd year. At the higher institute there are 1493 in 4th year and 819 i,n 5th and final year. The growth rate in teacher training is clear to see, for there are very few failures in these classes of zealous young people. "|HE Cuban system of teacher training is prob ably unique in the world and at the very heart of it is the idea of the responsibility, honor and privilege of being a teacher. As Castro put it: "The new society cannot be formed with out a new concept of all the fundamental problems of life — tt is precisely you who must assume this very important and decisive task of educating the new generations who will live in a socialist society." And trainees themselves? Silvia Gutierrez, an attractive 20-year- old training at the Makarenko In stitute, said simply: "We're proud to be allowed to' teach and develop new people who will simply love their fellow men." The fruits of all this are still to be gathered and tested. By the end of this year the first of the new rural boarding schools will be functioning. In 10 years, 3,000 Monday-to-Friday such schools will dot the countryside and mountains, close to the country children's homes. Rural communities will have top priority also for day nurseries. Country women will be freed to take part in production. In the cities, all children will receive their meals at school. In total, by 1975„ all Cuban school children will be receiving their meals, clothing, shoes, medical care, sport and recreation free through the schools. Already, the days of improvis ation with inadequate, heroic forces are passing— like the year 1961 when (despite the attempted invasion by US mercenaries) 707,000 people were taught to read and write and the illiteracy problem broken forever. Already Cuba has the highest rate of school attendance in all Latin America. As each larger annual contingent of Cuba's own young socialist teachers begins work in the new schools, there is appearing a new young gener ation that is full reward for the tension, sacrifice and difficulty of Cuba's present days. Makarenko: a pioneer of new methods of socialist education in the Soviet Union in the 1920's. An experimetal pre-fabricated housing scheme being built outside Santiago. fum&i Fidel Faring this year's ®6raii ns in 