 ...AND FOR ANTI-NAZIS, \ PERSECUTION AND GOAL By a Special Correspondent i "pHERE is no shortage of stories in recent history of men who fought fascism and end- ed up before an anti fascist" firing squad. Just as there are countless stories of men who risked everything — and lost the lot — scrambling over the Berlin Wall. But there are also a few stories of men who fought Hitler only to end in West German jails. One, which is getting headline treatment in the German Democratic Re public, concerns Emil Bechtle. Arrested over a year ago, he is now on trial before the Federal Court in Karlsruhe. The charge against him is that he broke the law by his efforts to rebuild the West German Communist Party banned by . the Bonn Consti tutional Court. Bechtle was jailed by the Nazis in 1933 for the same crime involving him again to day—the crime of being an active Communist. He man aged to survive his long years in nazi dungeons and in 1945 set about the rebuilding of the German Communist Party. Eventually his efforts be came too troublesome for the Bonn authorities and in 1954 he found himself back where he started in 1933— once more in a German prison. Out again, he took an active part in the campaign to mark the tenth anniversary of the ban on the West German Communist Party. Once more he fell foul of the authorities and last year was arrested to stand charge as a member of the Communist Party. |T has been impossible for the Bonn authorities to establish their case against Bechtle. This has been because the actual reason for his latest arrest was his active opposi tion to the West German re- vanchist policy, its planning for nuclear rearmament and its heavy mining last year of the borders of the German Democratic Republic. So the West German police set about concocting a. case against Bechtle chiefly on the basis of evidence supplied by paid agents, pimps and pro vocateurs. They tried to force him to speak by using blackmail and threats against his family. They used the letters of Bechtle's sick wife to impli cate him. When she died they blamed his own stubbornness for the cause of her death. Promises of freedom were made if he would renounce the Communists and testify against them. None of their efforts succeeded in breaking Bechtle's will and the Bonn authorities have been forced to bring him to public trial. - It is significant that just at the time when German Federal Republic is asking for an amnesty for nazi war criminals they are trying a man who fought Hitler. While men who were re sponsible for the murder of thousands of innocent people are allowed to flourish in West Germany's post-war af fluence, Emil Bechtle, with his remarkable record of anti-nazism is jailed in a Karlsruhe prison. How is this story of a true German patriot handled by the world's freedom-loving press? is it placed beside the stories of those other "her oes" breaking through the Berlin Wall? Not at all— for the heroism of Emil Bechtle in 1966 there is the same silence that pre vailed when he was jailed in 1933. The reason: the same peo ple are in power in West Germany, with the same friends in other places. ANTI-NAZI BECHTLE Repeat of 1933 