 — -| The tension goes deep at Broken Hill illllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllM By Harry Stein iniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM "THERE was tension in the air in Broken Hill last week and the week before, and it wasn t just because the place had been invaded by interstate pressmen and TV crews. Beits were being tightened in case the dispute in two silver-lead mines developed into a long struggle; the shoppers in Argent Street were cutting their purchases back to "necessities only". The teal cause of the ten sion was the consciousness throughout the Broken Hill Community of the deep- seated ,antagoinism between the unions and Conzinc Rio tinto of Australia, the giant British-based company that owns the two mines. On the boil The dispute, which broke ' into the open over contract prices for some miners' teams, had been on the boil for months. A stopwork meeting of min ers last April encouraged mining parties to resist price- cutting tactics of the com pany "reminiscent of Mt. Isa". Miners and union officials . repeatedly told me that the contract price dispute with the Conzinc Riotinto of Aus tralia group was really only a symptom; the dispute could have developed over many other issues. Speakers at last week's mass meeting spoke about certain things pulled by the Riotinto group which were an utter disgrace". "They .are trying to drive a deep wedge down the cen tre of -the trade union move ment in Broken Hill", said one. A speaker called for a combined front of all the unions to fight this giant monopoly. An executive member of the Amalgamated Engineer i n g Union spelled out the situa tion when he told me that their union had to have 10 times more conferences with . the CRA group over dis puted questions than with other mine managements. An advertisement inserted by the CRA group in the press during the dispute said that tradesmen could work providing they took tools from storerooms usually manned by members of the Federated Engine Drivers who were in dispute. This was branded by the FEDFA executive "as an in vitation to scab, and they ad- visd the company not to try these tactics in Broken Hill." The CRA image wasn't 1 exactly helped by an ad- | viser they brought out from I one of their African mines 1 soon after they became es- | tablished in Australia. 1 "I'd shove it" J Seeing that the miners were a little slow in getting in to the cage to go below, he said: "I wish I had a pick — I'd get you in sooner!" "If you did", replied one of the j miners, "I'd shove it so far 1 down your throa,t it would 1 come out of your !" 1 And at Weipa, North Queensland, despite control of the largest deposit of grade bauxite in the world, CRA group insisted that the Government push the Abori gines off their tribal lands at Mapoon Mission in the area. They also attempted to get a clause inserted in an award for the area making it , possible to pay Abori gines less than other em ployees. This idea doubtless origin ates from their experiences of paying African employees in the Zambia mines far less than white miners. 