 I Two inhuman stories — Griffith and Dixie ABORIGINE DIES, MANACLED IN POLICE WAGON Tribune Staff Correspondent « (QR1FF1TH (NSW): Inhuman treatment ia linked with the death of a sick fa Aborigine who died, with his limbs manacled, in the back of a police j|| patrol waggon taking him to Goulburn on June 20. fg The man, Harold Hampton (36) , married with five children, left the Griffith Hospital on the Friday before his death after receiving attention for a recurring mental disorder from which he had suffered from the age of 18. He left the hospital of his own accord and this was immediately reported to the police by the hospital auth orities, but it was not until the Sunday that he was forcibly arrested by seven police and taken to the lockup, not to the hospital, with his hands and feet manacled. He was kept at the police station, without any medical attention, until late Sunday afternoon, when the unusual step was taken of bringing him before a magistrate on seven charges including resisting arrest, indecent lang uage and damaging a police uniform. He had to be carried into the court, where it became clear he had no grasp of the proceedings; y v The Magistrate (Mr. J. G. Rieidy) said that it was obvious from his . appearance and demeanor that he was not fit to enter a plea. He remanded him in custody until July 25 for psy chiatric treatment and refused bail. At no time during the proceedings was the Magistrate told that Hampton was in immediate need of a doctor. Early Monday morning he was placed, still manacled, in the rear of a police van, without an attendant, to be taken to Goulburn jail, 250 miles away. Scared to talk When the van stopped at Cootamundra for petrol the police found that Hampton had collapsed. They called a doctor who pronounced him dead. Aborigines we spoke to in Griffith were all too frightened to say much and almost without exception their request was "don't put my name in the paper". On occasions this was repeated several times during a conversation. Mr. A. J. Grassby, Labor MLA for Murrumbidgee, said last week that he was shocked to hear the story put to him by Tribune. Mr. Grassby said he would immediately contact the local Aborigine organisation to offer help and to see that the family had legal representation at the inquest. It is understood that the Cootamundra Coroner will conduct the inquiry into Hampton's death. Some of the questions being asked by people in Griffith that the inquiry should answer, are: — e Why did the police feel it necessary to send seven meh to arrest Hampton? A Was it because they already knew that he was violent during these attacks? 0 If so, why wasn't a doctor with the police when they went to make the arrest, or why wasn't he immediately returned to the hospital and put under sedation instead of being placed in a police cell? O Was he manacled hand and foot at the time? O From the time he was looked up until he was .taken away in the police wagon, was a doctor called at any time? O Had the police who were taking him to Goulburn been told of his condition? If not, why not? O Why was there no doctor with him in the wagon? Was he given a sedative before leaving Griffith? O Did .the wife ask to see the body? If so, was she refused? © Were police aware that Hampton had received psychiatric treatment at Morlsset and Orange institutions? If so, why wasn't he given the care and attention that would be normal procedure for any white person? Whaji had the Aborigines' Welfare Board done about the living conditions of this mentally-ill man, his wife and five children? m "'tBiliJiii ttli ABOVE: Typical arrest lg of a Negro demonstrator « in America's Deep South. Ill R I.G H T: Aborigines' a homes on the "Com- || mon", Griffith. Within 1 300 yards is the Griffith i garbage dump. : I 