 .W With Tribune's Industrial B Roundsman fl COME large unions are 1 pressing the ACTU I leaders to initiate action in I opposition, to the French nuclear tests in the Pacific. | The Fijian airport work- | ers, in a country with a I weak trade union move- 1 ment, have already given | a lead with their proposed J black ban on French air- | craft. H It was as far back as last I December that the . ACTU to- 1 gether with the New Zealand I Federation of Labor sponsored I a South Pacific unions' confer- 1 ence against the tests, but as | yet no lead has been given by I the A'CTU for positive action. | Time is running out! If some- 8 thing isn't done soon we'll miss out and be left with the fall-out. ? H"iHE Public Works Depart ment in NSW is at it again— sacking their building workers while good lucrative Government contracts are handed out to private enter prise. Just before Xmas we told of private tenders on some school building contracts in Sydney being almost double what the department could build them for. . i Building uni.on leaders' now say that on the Rydalmere Mental Hospital job, a builder who got a $1 million contract, sub-contracted it out to a sub- tractor who further sub-con tracted it out. This is how you skin a rabbit three times! , ? JENIS Warner, the Melbourne journalist who gets great slabs of space in wealthy newspapers for his "expert Opinions", has now taken to radio. B As a enest stieaker the other B night on the ABC he told us of the '.'distinguished" and "honourable" men now running Indonesia. That Sukarno is still allowed to remain is an indication they didn't live by the gun, he said. Warner is delighted with the policies of these men, despite the fact that they organised the slaugher of . somewhere near 600,000 people. fpHAT anti- working class (more right wing than Ming) group, the Democratic Labor Party debated last week end in Sydney whether or not to drop "Labor" from its name. Some joke, the labor move- mfinf ( norfinnlorlir fair rllnlritw trade unionists) have long ago dropped the DLP. 