 GOVT. JOLTED ON SWEDISH ARMS BAN By Our Parliamentary Roundsman CEDERAL Opposition Leader Calwell sparked a dull, flat Parliamentary sitting to life last Thursday when he brought into the open Sweden's decision to ban sales of arms and ammunition to Australia because of this country's participation in the Vietnam war. His question asking whether such a ban had been imposed, and, if so, whether this meant there would be no ammunition for a Swedish anti-tank gun supplied to Australian troops in Vietnam, threw the Govern ment into confusion. Sweden had only partly ful filled an Australian order for the supply of the Carl Gustaf anti-tank gun and ammunition, made before the Government had increased the number of Australian troops sent to Viet nam. Foreign Minister Hasluck, who had just been warned that such a question might be ask ed, was obviously worried when Army Minister Fraser, who had not been informed of the ban, rose to answer the question. Mr. Fraser added to the con fusion when he replied that he thought Mr. Calwell was refer ring to a "report in a morning paper which I have not seen". Mr. Calwell: "I think it will be in this afternoon's paper. I am just anticipating this." Mr. Fraser then played it safe by saying that there were ample supplies of ammunition for the gun and that the Army had many alternative weapons. Confirmed Mr. Calwell's information proved to be right on the ball, for on the same day the Swed ish Ambassador, Mr. Gostaaf Peterson, confirmed that his Government had withheld ex port licences for ammunition to Australia. "The Swedish Government does not grant export licences for arms when there is an acute conflict," he said. "You can take it that, the Vietnam war is an acute con flict." Sweden's ban on arms and ammunition to Australia will be a serious embarrassment to the Holt Government international ly, with its implied disapproval of Australia's role in the Viet nam war. WHOSE Australia ? 40 -PAGE supplement published in "Texas" magazine has confirmed what has been known around Canberra for some time — that there is a well- worn track between the Prime Minister's Lodge and the US Embassy. To prepare the supplement, entitled "Ed Clarke's Austra lia", the magazine's editors sent out Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Oscar Griffin. "During one seven-day per iod, for example, Harold Holt was entertained six times by the Clarkes," Griffin wrote. "Many ambassadors do not see the head of Government that many times during their entire tour at a foreign mis sion." . . This makes it clear that Har old Holt has not only gone all the way, but goes every day as well, 