 YYCuiiwuajr, i mutuary i u, &lt; ?t>b, I 1 " . ' rntm . _ J 3PjffiTS--f |7%e roller game — | | I where 's the dwnitu? I I By THE CHALLENGER ! || I Probably, only American promoters, whose main aim in pro- j 1 fessional sport is a fast buck, could take a bunch of young j I women and have them act up like a pack of raving Amazons on j 1 Z j a skating rink. j ; 1 ThaCs the only way we can describe the Roller Game that drew large j ! crowds to Sydney Stadium last weekend. j I I The roller game is des- S cribed in Roller Games | Gazette as "the fast moving (Roller Game is the only contact sport in which men I and girls play with the same rules. j "The roller skating sport I combines many elements found in other sports such as football, ice hockey and basketball ..." They forgot to include professional wrestling. I Every sport takes skill i and this goes for roller | skating of course. Parti- I cipants in the Roller Game | are not without skill . . . | when they're skating. I But about half their time | is taken up in sham brawl- ing that robs the sport of ! its spectacle and excite- I ment and the players of | their dignity. ! The I Lifesavers j Australians' in the j middle of another long S hot summer, particularly I those in nsw have the ad- ! vantage of suberb beaches where they can spend week- 1 ends and holidays. !In a letter to the Premier of NSW late last year, the I Cook's Hill branch of the j Communist Party wrote of what they described as the S "chronic poverty of the | highly efficient surf life | saving movement," and the 1 lack of "beachfront amen- I ities." I The letter says— | "If it were not for the constant patrolling of life- | savers our beaches would | exact a heavy toll of life 1 and limb. Shark attacks j would be more frequent. 1 Bathers, encountering un- I expected rips and currents, | would have little chance of | escaping. | "Over the last 50-odd ! years lifesavers have pull- | ed 140,000 people from al- I most certain death. About S two per cent of Austra- lians have been helped at | some time by members of 1 surf clubs. "Over the years the surf clubs have enlisted from the young manhood of Aus tralia a public spirit which is an example to the whole community. "Ironically, the surf life saver who plunges into the surf to risk his life to save another's, pays in cash for the privilege — and there is no prize for success and often no thanks. "While surf clubs and local government bodies struggle to provide facil ities at beaches and to pro tect surfers, the life assur ance companies, which . benefit greatly from this activity, considerably in creased their business and their assets in recent years. "The total of new sums insured written in 1964 by insurance companies jump ed 12 per cent compared with the previous calendar year. New insurance writ ten in 1964 totalled £760 million as against £674 mil lion in 1963. "The gross rate of inter est earned by life assur ance companies on their Australian assets improved from 4.05 per cent in 1953 to 6.14 per cent in 1963. The figures were released in the report of the In surance Commissioner. "Of the 42 companies operating in Australia under the Life Assurance Act, 26 companies are con trolled by overseas inter ests. "Section 84 of the Fire Brigades Act provides that three-quarters of the am ount to be spent by the Fire Brigades Board in each year shall be con tributed by the fire insur ance companies. "It is therefore in the public interest that we draw your attention to this state of affairs in order that more can be done to help the lifesavers in their public service of helping the community. "Perhaps it may be pos sible to have legislation passed enabling life assur ance companies to make a contribution to the surf j life saving movement in ! this State along similar I lines to that provided in j the Fire Brigades Act for fire insurance companies". In reply, the Under Sec retary to the Premier on November 4, said— "Mr. Askin wishes me to say that the views ex pressed in your letter will receive careful consider ation". j Apartheid in golf h| THE Durban-born Indian I golf star, Sewsunker I "Papwa" Sewgolum, teethe j latest victim to come under j Verwoerd's apartheid axe j in South Africa. I With Government per- I # mission he played in the £ - Professional Golfers' Asso- I $ ciation Tournament in | ".y Germiston,, near Johannes- j burg. | t He was the first non- I white to play in the tourna- j % ment. g t And as far as the Ver- j woerd Government is con- | cerned he will be the last. 2 Almost immediately after ! the match the Government | barred him from defend- j ing his Natal Open Title. i Sewgolum used a cara- I van while playing in South j Africa, because the apart- j fy heid laws forbid him from j & eating, bathing and chang- | ing in the all-white club- j 1 1 house. | p He won the Natal Open | p for the second time about j a year ago, defeating one « || of the world's greatest ' I golfers, Gary Player, of i vjj South Africa. g The big majority of the J | world's population is "col- j| £| oured" and one third is j jy Socialist. ! g Apartheidist states or I- zones like South Africa, i Southern Rhodesia and « || the U.S. Deep South are I. p out for international sports i | contest, and some Afro- j | Asian, Arab and Negro I f athletes have reservations j about White Australia and | riaimonw llfVlDPA HlS- i crimination in certain | forms is practised. | The President of the All- | Africa Boxing Association, g Colonel Ali Shafik, an Arab, j j; pointed out that the Inter- g \ national Amateur Boxing j I Association had done right j in choosing the German . Democratic Republic as j the venue for the recent I ; European Boxing Champ- I ionships, which brought 172 j boxers from 124 countries J to East Berlin, because no j discrimination laws ensur- j ed equality of all parti- j cipants. I "It would be good ; if this j. was the case in all Europ- ? ean countries," the Inter- | national Amateur Boxing | Association leader said j pointedly. ! BLONDE Shirley Hardman ' (centre), girl captain of | the Texas Outlaws, pre- j paring to defend herself « against ,the assault of a | T-Bird player. j 