 Unionists and pensioners protest FARE GO Mr. Askin! Sydney: The N.S.W. Labor Council tomorrow night (Thursday) is expected to take a strong stand against increased bus fares and high prices. MR- R. MARSH (assistant I secretary of Labor Coun cil) said the decision to in crease fares was not in 'keeping with Mr. Askin's (State Premier) policy speech prior to the last elections. "It was however in keeping with the general trend of in creased cost of living since the Government was elected on May 1 . The increase in bus fares which force unions to step up their cam paign for an increased basic wage and margins." Mr. Marsh said it was anticipated that when Council resumes on Thurs day unions will be urging strong action. The increases in bus fares which could add something like £H million in extra revenue is not an increase (according to the Government) but an "adjustment". These "adjustments" were also made out of "great consideration" for bus conductors. Bus union Mr. P. Ryan (NSW secretary of the Bus Employees' Union) said the Government's so-called "concern" for bus conductors was not evi dent when the unions were seeking decent wage increases. "Ways and means could have been found to solve the change-over to decimal currency without increasing fares", he said. "Our union opposes the increases because it increases the cost of liv ing for workers." "I believe public transport should be seen as a utility and as such the profit motive should not be the main consideration. "Increased fares will have the ef fect of driving more people away from public transport and so aggravate an already deteriorated situation." Mr. Ryan said. A protest telegram sent by the Sheet Metal Workers' Union to Mr. Askin against the increased fares re minded him of his election promises. "Past experience has shown that fares increases do not result in the additional revenue anticipated as this is offset by a decline in travelling and curtailment of services leading to further deterioration of public transport," the union said. Thimble and pea trick Much has been said about "con cessions" in fares for pensioners and school children. Mr. F. Powell (NSW secretary of the Old Aged and Invalid Pen- sioners' Association) described the "concessions" as a "thimble and pea trick". "Previously many of the 30,000 pensioners in the inner city areas walked to the shopping and welfare centres and paid 3d for their return fare. "Now it will cost them 6d." He said the additional expense to the Government of the extra 20,000 pensioners now given fares conces sions by abolishing the means test will be met by the pensioners them selves. "Many married pensioners are in censed that the miserable 8£d a day granted to married pensioners in the 1962 budget has been fleeced from them by this latest increase in bus fares," he said. School children pay double Mr. J. R. Williams (deputy gen eral secretary, NSW Teachers' Fed eration) said: "We are still a long way if not further removed from Mr. Askin's promised goal of free travel for all school children." Less than a year since that pro mise was made it has been whittled down to free school travel for coun try children with a promise to extend this concession to children in the metropolitan area "as soon as prac ticable" — "within the Government's first term of office." Mr. Williams said the new charges in fares show that metropolitan children, instead of gaining conces sions, have to pay exactly double what they were paying last year. Parents will now have to pay 5/- a week for each child travelling one or two sections to school. Term tickets for those parents who are able to raise 25/- for each child will constitute a saving as against those who nave to pay on a daily basis. "The parents who need free travel most will be those who find it most difficult to find this 25/- per child. "Once again a mountain has lab oured and brought forward a mouse," Mr. Williams said. Mr. R. Marsh 