 [?] De Gaulle in Moscow From Rupert Lockwood The visit of French Presi dent de Gaulle to the USSR is viewed as one of the most momentous diplomatic events of recent "years. Washington,' Whitehall arid Bonn tried hard to stop the visit , which they rated, as a blow- to the NATO bloc, to plans for nuclear armament of West Ger many, and intensified border provocations . against socialist countries and to renewed at tempts to isolate the Soviet Union. Correspondents have come to Moscow froin many countries to cover the de Gaulle visit in view of its international signi ficance. An official Soviet statement says that General de Gaulle is consistently pursuing a line "towards development of rela tions with the Soviet Union and other Socialist countries, the establishment of peaceful co operation between states of east and west on the European con tinent." General de Gaulle, the state ment adds, has more than once emphasised that the necessity for close co-operation between the USSR and France, "is be coming obvious at, each new turn of history." Death threat to Spanish patriot 'J1 HE Franco fascist Govern ment has arrested veteran republican fighter Silverio Ruiz Daimiel and is planning to frame and. execute . him. as it did Julian Grimau Garcia last year. Ruiz Daimiel fought in the Republican army against Fran co, then went to France Where he joined the underground resistance fighters against Hit: ler. ' Back in Spain in 1946 he was seized by Franco and jailed till 1961. Now arrested again, he is threatened with capital charges arising from his service with the Republicans in the civil war. Girls' part in WFDY QOFIA: A plenary meeting of the seventh assembly of the World Federation of Democratic Youth held here last week un animously adopted a resolution providing for broader participa tion of girls in the WFDY move ment. The assembly also approved a message to the youth of Am erica . calling for intensified struggle against US aggression in Vietnam. Chinese and Al banian representatives did not vote. Italian CP strength up The municipal elections held in Italy on June 12 and 13 show ed that the position of the Ital ian Communist Party has grown stronger since the, Parlia mentary elections of 1963, says an' Italian Communist ; Party staternent in "Uriita". The statement notes particul arly, "the unquestionable , and considerable, successes" achiev ed by Communists in such im portant centres as Genoa, Forli, Pisa and Florence. The Party statement appeals to all Communists to initiate movements for unity of all left wing forces. 