 The knives are out in shipping combines 9 brawl , but WHARFIES SAY: WE WANT NATIONAL SHIPPING LINE JYDNEY; The Waterside Workers' Federation last week again called on the Federal Government to break the monopoly grip of overseas shipowners on Australia's export and import trade by the establishment of an over seas national fleet. This was the only way their monopoly grip could be brok- en, ine reaerauon saiu. This long standing dep&nd of the Australian labor gov ernment is being renewed in the face of the present spate of press discussion which re flects the current power . struggle between the overseas shipping interests. The WWF rightly said it refuses to be the "meat in tile sandwich" in this struggle for the spoils of the lucrative Aus tralian trade. Stabbing The extent of this struggle is shown by the fact that some of the biggest companies of the shipping conference are "stabbing their mates in the. back" to get this trade for themselves. This is the background to the present row over the planned introduction of con- tainerisation of cargo. For the fcy/o consortiums already established for this purpose it will mean quicker and more efficient cargo hand ling and greater profits. On the other hand, other overseas shipping companies of the conference, who hitherto i shared in the monopolisation | of the Australian trade, will | be squeezed out. The first consortium, Over seas Container Ltd., is dom inated by the British giant F and O and the Orient Steam Navigation Co. Ltd., the latter being a wholly owned subsid iary of P and O. This giant also owns British India Steam Navigation Ltd., the Union Steam Ship Co. of New Zealand and Australian United Steam Navigation Ltd. Others in this consortium aro Alfred Holt and Co., Brit ish and Commonwealth Shipp ing Co. Ltd., and Furness Withy Ltd. This consortium has linked up with Associated Steam Ships Pty. Ltd., a jointly owned affair by Mcllraith McEacharo and the Adelaide Steam Ship Co. Ltd. which have already entered the interstate contain- i erised trade and handles its own stevedoring. Container berths for overseas shipping have been established in Melbourne and Freemantle and others are being developed in Sydney and Brisbane. As part of this changeover to container handling, P and O has also bought up a 20 per oent interest in the land transport firm of Mayne Nick- less. The other consortium, for med early this year, goes under the name of Associated Con tained Transportation Ltd. and includes the Cunard Steam ship Co. Ltd., the Ben Line, Blue Star Line, Ellerman Lines Ltd. and the Harrison Line. Cunard also own the Port Line ships and the Brockle- bank Lines and. tied up with Furness Withy (of the other consortium) which wholly owns Shaw Savill. Both consortiums . are now building special ships to carry container cargo and hope to start operating in Australia within two years. Threat Spokesmen for Australian stevedoring companies see this new development as a threat to their business interests. These companies employ waterfront labor and receive their profits from loading and unloading cargo. Once the big consortiums get established they will have their own berths and carry out their own stevedoring. For this reason the so-called Australian interests are lashing out against what they call the foreign interests and are now posing as the true champions of Australia. The fact is that most of the so-called independent or locally owned companies have links with and depend on the over seas shipowners for their work. For example the Austral stevedoring and Literage Co. Ltd. in Sydney depend on such shipowners as; Messageries Maritime (France), American Trading Co. (which owns a large share in Austral), the Bank Line (British) and some German Lines. These local stevedores have also opposed good conditions for Australian workers in the same way as the overseas in terests have. Now spokesmen for the stevedoring companies are say ing by implication that the WWF is making agreements with the overseas interests which is likely to force the locals out of business. Mr. N. Docker (WWF Indus trial Officer) said that the present All-in Conferences will not in themselves hinder or help the Australian steve doring interests. "These conferences are con cerned solely with negotiating wages and conditions of work for Australian workers." He said the revolutionary developments already being planned within the industry will ultimately force many small stevedores out of bus iness unless the Federal Gov ernment takes immediate steps to establish a national over seas shipping line to compete with the overseas shipowners "This would make work available for local stevedoring interests." Mr. Docker points out that the Australian National Line ships, Bass Trader and Em press of Tasmania are already carrying containerised cargo on interstate runs. The Government owned ANL has ships and special berths in every port for this trade so why could not the Govern ment enter the overseas trade? Shared In line with ..the rest of the trade union movement, the WWF hold that benefits of new technological processes should be shared by the wor kers in the form of increased living standards and more leisure time. "The WWF is determined to pursue this policy even to the point of agreeing, to drastic changes in the employment structure such as weekly hiring or permanancy, if appropriate conditions can be secured," he said. "'The future of Australian stevedoring companies lies not in attacking the wages and conditions of waterside wor kers but by insisting on Gov- i ernment action to break the monopoly grip of the overseas shipowners on the Australian trade. "If these companies are really concerned with the true national interests then they should unite with the labor movement in demanding a national overseas shipping line," Mr. Docker said. WWF SECRETARY FITZGIBBON No meat in the sandwich. INDUSTRIAL OFFICER DOCKER A share of the new technology. SLEEK-LINED LOCALLY-BUILT EMPRESS OF AUSTRALIA. Why not more like her? 