 Rupert Lockwood reports from Tashkent IS India— Pakistan peace talks! |HE outcome of peace talks in Tashkent this week between India, , Pakis tan and the Soviet Union will prorounaiy mnuence tne struggle for peace in Asia and the world. Soviet and Indian writers recog nise that if peace can be won round the conference table at Tashkent the anti-imperialist front will be greatly strengthened and the chances of end ing the war in Vietnam will be brighter. The Soviet Premier Kosygin has invited Pakistan President Ayub Khan and Indian Premier Shastri to Tashkent to try and iron out many of the differences. To help India and Pakistan build up their ailing economies and de cisively reduce dependence on im perialist powers it is understood that the Soviet Union is prepared to offer considerable economic as sistance. Economic experts are included in the Indian and Pakistan delega tions. Evidence of the vital importance which the Soviet Union attaches to the Tashkent conference is shown by the composition of the Soviet delegation. It is led by Kosygin and includes Foreign Minister Gromyko, Defence Minister Malinovsky, Marshal Soko- lovsky, Deputy Foreign Minister Firyubin and the Soviet Ambassadors to India and Pakistan. The Indian and Pakistan delega tions, led by Shastri, and Ayub Khan, include the Defence and Foreign Ministers. Ayub Khan and Shastri have pub licly expressed sincere gratitude to the Soviet Union for aiding their countries to find ways to settle the ||| dispute peacefully. h| Ayub Khan said the arms race in mf India and Pakistan would lead both g|| to economic collapse, ||| The Indian Ambassador to Mos- p cow, Mr. Triloki Nath Paul, called m a special conference on the eve of p the Tashkent talks. |1 He said: "If other States followed || the example of the Soviet Union, m if this road of talks and meetings 11 becomes a standard of international fie affairs, it will tlien T>e possible to ra solve without resort to violence H problems that seem difficult now. B War is no means of solving dis- H putes." H Over 70 foreign correspondents Efi including myself, are covering the n Tashkent talks. K The Soviet Union has provided n all possible facilities for the largest H force of international correspon- HE dents ever seen in Central Asia. 1 Mr. R. Lockwood 