 Threat to rights QONSCRIPTION for Vietnam — itself a major attack on democratic rights in Australia — is likely to be followed by other anti-democratic measures. Last week National Service Minister Bury fore- shadowed prosecutions against those spirited young men wh.o have expressed their protest by burning draft cards. Now the Defence Minister (Mr. Fairhall) has followed his grim promises of a greatly increased war budget this year with an implied threat to deal with those active in opposition to the Government's foreign policy, whom he sweepingly classed as "fifth columnists". Australian democracy has suffered setbacks under the present coalition government. The destruction of democracy is an inevitable concomitant of aggres sive war. Australians are now obliged to close ranks and rally to ths defence of their hard-won rights as they did, so successfully, in the 1951 referendum which, among other things, prevented the stifling of the very right to criticise the official foreign policy. . And why not everyone ? fJ1HE 10-monthsold Askin Government is about to carve up $250,000 a year of the public purse between 154 members of the NSW Parliament. It comes at a time when the Australian Council of Trade Unions is presenting its demand for wage and margin increases before the Arbitration Court, supported this week by stoppages of work spreading throughout Queensland. It comes at a time when nurses, not normally involved in mass industrial action, are- in revolt ancl have been marching Sydney's streets and massing in thousands demanding wage justice. The trade unions are asking a margin increase of $5.90 and a basic wage increase of $4.30. What proportion of this the workers will get will be decided after maybe months of legal argument. " NSW Premier Askin, one of the staunchest sup-, porters of arbitration, is now to receive increases that wili lift his .'yearly "take" to over $20,000 and it is recommended that he be supplied with a town house. Those superfluous gentlemen of the State Upper House will get $2000 more, Ministers $4000 more and MLAs $1700 more. - MLAs now reciive $5300 a year (plus $1300 to $2 1 00 electoral allowance),. f 11 we regard this as their "basic wage" then they have grabbed a "basic wage" rise of \ over $32 a .week.' ' The Ministers, at present on a "margin" of approximately $71 a week (they now get $8000 a year plus from $.1500 to $2 i 00 electoral allowance) will get a. "margin increase" of over $44 a week. If this is what they mean by arbitration, there should be more of it— but for everybody. Unfortunately, as Australian workers have learned by long experience, it doesn't work out that way for them. That is why they are going into action on their jobs, with petitions and at the Court itself, using the one proven,' reliable weapon— their own united strength. And they are expecting support from every section and level of the labor movement. Brisbane police last week- savagely arrest a demonstrator against conscription for Vietnam. 