 Tea without sympathy in New Guinea highlands By Jim Cooper The opening of the first privately owned tea factory by the Minister for Territories, Mr. Barnes, at Banz in the western highlands of New Guinea, is an event of more than passing interest. It is a clear indication that private interests are satisfied mat tea can De grown m ixew Guinea, as it is clear indication that administration policy is to make tea growing a European preserve. The Pacific Islands Monthly (June 1966) indicates that there are now eight European plant ers with holdings totalling near ly 13,000 acres and that two more of about 1000 acres are to be leased. The New Guineans have some 3000 acres with a further 3000 acres being sub-divided for their use. Each European lease has a minimum of 1000 acres and the blocks leased to New Guineans vary from a maximum of 20 acres to a minimum of 10 acres. Discriminatory How does the Discriminatory Pacific Ordinance apply here? The Europeans with holdings are: Mr. Ivon Manton, a Mel bourne business man who ob tained his lease of 1,328 acres in four blocks in 1964. Both blocks are only nine miles from Mt. Hagen. Land surrounding Mt. Hagen is among the richest in New Guinea. Mr. Ian Parsons, a former coffee planter who has gone over to tea. The report doesn't indicate the size of his planta tion, but states that he expects to have 150 acres under tea. Mr. John Colmian, a form er Patrol Officer, who has 455 acres about 10 miles from Mt. Hagen. W. R. Carpenter and Co. Ltd., which has three blocks totalling 5327 acres. The near est to Mt. Hagen is 45 miles by road, but new roads under construction will shorten this distance considerably. Kimel Plantations Ltd., a subsidiary of Koitaki Para Rub ber Estates Ltd., with two blocks totalling 1250 acres be tween Banz and Mt. Hagen. The Chairman of Kimel Plantations, Mr. R. J. Oatley is Chairman of the Anco Marketing Pty. Ltd. Australia-New Guinea Cor poration, which has a single block of 1400 acres five miles from Mont Hagen. The Corpor ation is a consortium of Aus tralian banks, insurance com panies and business men form ed in 1964 to invest in New Guinea. Kurumui Plantations Pty. Ltd., a subsidiary fo F. W. Wil liams Holdings Ltd. of Sydney, with three properties of a com bined area of about 2000 acres. When it was proposed some years ago that New Guineans should be trained at Gairana to take over tea growing the Ad ministration maintained that it was specialised industry and only people with wide experi ence could make a success of it. Manager It was after they secured their leaseholds that W- R. Car penter advertised for a man- | ager. J Leasing of the small holdings to the New Guineans is in keep ing with the colonial practice of having a tied labor force in close vicinity to the major plantation. When the New Guinean sets himself up, as a private farmer he has to leave his tribal lands and so he places himself out side tribal protection. He can no longer fall back on the tribe for help. Should he fail as a farmer, which is likely, he has no alternative but to be come a landless laborer. Train ed as a tea planter he would naturally gravitate to the big estate, to be employed when wanted.' The Administration is failing in its duty in this field. It should have used the Gairana Tea Experimental Station to I train New Guineans in tea I growing. Tea co-operatives I could have 7>een established on native land and a prosperous community would have flour- - ished. 