 Greed for profit before miners' health, lives Coal production up OLLONGONG: Miners at the Kemira Colliery on the NSW South Coast, have been on strike for about 40 days because they refuse to work among high concentrations of coal and dust rock that can spell broken health and even death. The mine is owned by Aus tralian Iron & Steel, a sub sidiary of Broken Hill Pty. htd&lt;|, Austataliafe biggest monopoly. The Miners' Federation at present is challenging a court order imposed by the Coal Tri bunal (Justice Gallagher) for a six months ban on strikes at this pit. The High Court last Monday week upheld Justice Gallagher's order. The matter at present is in the hands of the Common wealth Arbitration Court which is hearing an application from the company to make the no- strike order absolute. If this is granted the union can be fined for each day the men are on strike. Australian Iron & Steel had sought the order which was speedily granted by Justice Gallagher on July 11. This is the company which has just arbitrarily increased steel prices. It is the same company against which 13,000 steelwork- ers recently went on strike for suspending workers who re fused to work with non-union ists. "Hundreds of miners have died from the effects of dusted lungs in the past, and unless we stand and fight this issue we believe more of our mem bers will suffer the same fate," the miners say. The men are complaining against being forced to work on the dusty side of a machine which has been introduced into the mine. The present and earlier stop pages resulted when men were suspended by the company for refusing to work in dust caused by this machine. The present no-strike order was made in the face of a proposal by the Federation that by a modification of the machine it could be success fully operated without causing a dust hazard. , But the company was not even prepared to listen to the practical ideas and opinions of the miners! SYDNEY: Coal production in NSW for 1966 in creased by a million tons over last year's record out put . . . "each miner is now producing 2£ times as muck coal as ten years ago". These facts were recently disclosed by the NSW Joint Coal Board. Mr. W. Mahon, general sec retary of the Miners Federat ion, told Tribune that coal production in NSW has in creased by about 10 million tons since 1954 with 9,000 less coal miners. "Ten years ago 17,934 men produced 14,553,800 tons, while now 11,910 men have produced 24,993,700 tons. "Each man is now producing 2k times as much coal as ten years ago," he said. Mr. Mahon said that despite the record production and profits attacks are being made on the miners pension scheme. The combined mining unions have since 1956 demanded that the pension fund he financed and stabilised by an excise levy on coal production. 