 SCANDALOUS CASE OF GUNNER O'NEILL "J"HE acquittal of Major Peter Tedder on charges arising out of the ill- treatment of Gunner Peter O'Neill, a member of the Australian force in Vietnam, has raised some serious questions. Apparently nobody at all is to be punished, even by reprimand, for a piece of barbarism which shocked, Australia. ?t: r:-; Gunner O'Neill was shackled to a. stake in a weapon pit and, by night, handcuffed face, down to a stretcher, after he allegedly disobeyed an order. The military court accepted a defence counsel plea that, according to the Duke of Wel lington (in the early 19th cen- ,tury) an offence ' condoned by a competent higher military authority ceased to be an of fence. (This defence was rejected when it was put forward by nazis accused of war crimes before the Nuremberg tri bunal.).. ' ' The tribunal seems to have disregarded the evidence by the "competent authority" — Major Tedder's superior offi cer, Colonel McNamara — that he had told Tedder that "a mistake had been made". This implied that McNamara did not condone the offence. No blame? However, the general impres sion is that the military tri bunal held that the colonel was to blame — but it did not- suggest any action against tfye . colonel, nor has any other authority. ' Appar eh tly , then, nobody is to blame, though no one denies that the regulations were breached. In evidence, Major Tedder said he knew, when ordering O'Neill to be punished, that O'Neill was the author of a letter published in the Austra lian daily press and headed "It's a Sick War." In his letter, Gunner O'Neill dealt very frankly with some aspects of the Vietnam war. Where is he? While the officers concerned appear to have been success, fully whitewashed, both in the court and in the press, the un fortunate victim, Gunner O'Neill, has been incarcerated first in Bien Hoa, then' (after the fuss began) flown to a Singapore prison, then flown back under guard to Saigon and finally to Sydney on April 12. Where is Gunner O'Neill now? Only the Army authori ties know. So long as he re mains in Army custody he will be in danger of the kind of brutal ill-treatment tradition ally meted out in the "glass house" by military police sad ists to anyone who has "bucked the Army". 